
                               1 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants And Auto Licenses

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 167 words


To the Editor:

Re "Licenses for Illegal Immigrants" (editorial, Nov. 26):

You are correct to call upon the federal government to rationalize the entire
immigration issue.

We applaud your support of driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants.

Each state has the responsibility to ensure all of its residents' safety on the
roads and in their neighborhoods. Studies have found that unlicensed drivers are
a great danger to public safety, while police departments across the country
have supported the licensing of undocumented immigrants. Access to driver's
licenses for undocumented immigrants is one step on the way to ensuring safety
on our roads.

Access to identification, to fair treatment in the workplace without
exploitation, to freedom from detention and to lawful immigration status are
essential to uphold the human rights and values for which this country stands.

AMY GOTTLIEB
Newark, Nov. 26, 2003

The writer is program director, American Friends Service Committee Immigrant
Rights Program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 7, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Florida: Licenses For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 81 words


Gov. Jeb Bush endorsed a bill to allow illegal immigrants to get driver's
licenses. The bill he is backing, the governor said, has safeguards to ensure
that terrorists will not get licenses. Under the Florida bill, those seeking the
licenses would be fingerprinted and required to show identification.They would
also have to prove that they owned or were leasing a car. Consulates would have
to provide criminal background checks. Licenses would be valid for two years and
only in Florida.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation: A New Order;
Imagining Life Without Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


IMAGINE America without illegal immigrants, the people who flip the burgers,
clean the toilets, watch the kids and send their children to public schools.

Would the grass be greener?

The question got an answer of sorts last month in California, where about a
third of the country's estimated 8 million to 10 million illegal immigrants
live. Thousands of Latinos stayed home from school and work one Friday,
protesting the repeal of a contentious new law that would have allowed illegal
immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

The boycott was not nearly the success its organizers had hoped for.
Nonetheless, there were reports of fast-food counters closing and lawns going
uncut. A few shops in cities with big immigrant populations, like Fresno, did
not bother opening, and in Los Angeles, the second-largest school district in
the country, the absentee rate nearly tripled from the Friday before.

President Bush reopened the national debate about immigration last week with his
proposal to grant temporary visas to undocumented workers. As with those who
supported the repeal of the driver's license law in California, the Bush
initiative left many Americans wondering why elected officials would change the
rules for people who live in this country only by breaking them.

"I think it is hard to imagine a worse immigration reform proposal right now,"
said George J. Borjas, a professor of economics and social policy at Harvard who
has written extensively about the drawbacks of illegal immigration. "The one
good thing you could say about it is, it takes seriously the fact that the
United States is not going to deport 10 million people. We have to do something
about these people."

Most everyone would agree that mass deportation is unlikely. But imagining such
a chain of events is one way of understanding the economic backdrop to Mr.
Bush's initiative.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimated in 2001 that the unauthorized labor force in
the United States totaled 5.3 million workers, including 700,000 restaurant
workers, 250,000 household employees and 620,000 construction workers. In
addition, about 1.2 million of the 2.5 million wage-earning farm workers live
here illegally, according to a study by Philip L. Martin, a professor at the
University of California at Davis who studies immigration and farm labor.

That is a whole lot of cheap labor.

Without it, fruit and vegetables would rot in fields. Toddlers in Manhattan
would be without nannies. Towels at hotels in states like Florida, Texas and
California would go unlaundered. Commuters at airports from Miami to Newark
would be stranded as taxi cabs sat driverless. Home improvement projects across
the Sun Belt would grind to a halt. And bedpans and lunch trays at nursing homes
in Chicago, New York, Houston and Los Angeles would go uncollected.

"There would be a ripple effect across the economy," said Harry P. Pachon,
president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the University of Southern
California, a Latino research group.

But while the disruption would be real, Professor Borjas argues, it would not be
long lasting. As proof, he says, look no further than places like Iowa, where
foreign-born residents are relatively rare, but there are people working in
hotels, fast-food restaurants and all the rest.

Most illegal immigrants, in fact, are concentrated in a handful of states --
California, Texas, New York, Illinois and Florida -- leaving many parts of the
United States relatively untouched by the influx.

Estimates by the Immigration and Naturalization Service based on the 2000 census
show that 15 states accounted for all but 13 percent of illegal immigrants.

If there were no undocumented workers to tend to the gardening, Californians who
wanted a nice lawn would pay more for it, eventually drawing low-skilled workers
from other parts of the country, Professor Borjas said, adding that American
workers would be the better for it.

"The workers would be slightly wealthier and the employers would be slightly
poorer, but everything would get done," said Professor Borjas, who used to live
in California. "I moved to Boston and the lawn is still green."

Laura Hill, a research fellow at the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of
California, said there would be a spike in prices for lettuce, spinach and
strawberries, which are typically picked by undocumented workers. But farmers
and agricultural companies would eventually find cheaper ways to harvest the
crops. "Who knows, but maybe it would turn into new technology being developed,"
Ms. Hill said.

If not, Americans would look elsewhere, including other countries, for cheaper
substitutes.

"The nice thing about importing a good is that once you don't like it, you can
dispose of it," Professor Borjas said. "Immigration isn't like that."

Some immigration experts also suggest that American taxpayers would be better
off financially if the country's unauthorized residents returned home.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington group that favors greater restrictions on immigration, argues that if
Americans "eased our addiction to this illegal labor," there would be less
stress on the country's social welfare system, ranging from fewer children in
crowded urban schools to fewer welfare checks for the American-born families of
illegal immigrants.

"Immigrants over all use at least one major welfare program at a rate 50 percent
higher than natives," Mr. Krikorian said, referring to an analysis of 2001 data
by his center that found Medicaid use particularly high among immigrants. "That
is not because they are morally defective. It is because they are poor and don't
have any education and they end up inevitably stumbling and having needs for the
system."

But immigrant advocacy groups dispute the notion that illegal immigration is a
drag on America. Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Latino civil rights organization, said the economic impact of immigration plays
out differently at the local and national levels.

While hospitals and clinics in Los Angeles County, for example, bear huge health
care costs associated with uninsured illegal immigrants -- one study put the
total at $340 million in 2002 -- thefederal government enjoys a "bonanza" from
many of the same immigrants who pay federal taxes but receive no benefits in
return, Mr. Yzaguirre said.

Mr. Yzaguirre suggested that Social Security would go broke without the payments
of undocumented workers, many of whom, contrary to popular perception, do have
regular payroll taxes deducted from their paychecks by employers. (In some
instances, undocumented workers use false Social Security numbers, while others
have valid numbers from when they had worked legally.)

Mr. Yzaguirre also rejected suggestions that Americans would maintain their
standard of living without the low-wage contributions of those workers. He
agreed with Professor Borjas that some Americans would enjoy fatter paychecks,
but he said all Americans would be punished by having to pay more for everything
from a McDonald's hamburger to a new house.

In a 2002 study conducted with the cooperation of immigrant rights
organizations, researchers at the Center for Urban Economic Development at the
University of Illinois at Chicago concluded that the 300,000 or so illegal
immigrants in Chicago did not use government benefits at a substantial rate. The
study also estimated that 70 percent of the undocumented workers paid payroll
taxes, like Social Security and unemployment insurance. The researchers
calculated other economic benefits, finding that consumer spending by illegal
migrants generated more than 31,000 jobs and contributed $5.34 billion annually
to the gross regional product in Chicago.

Which side to believe? The problem with gathering data about illegal immigrants,
and the idea of an America without them, is that they tend to blend into the
vast tapestry of legal immigrants.

Someone living and working in the United States with a valid visa one year can
become illegal the next by overstaying the visa. A single household can have
legal and illegal residents, sometimes brothers and sisters. In that sense, the
Bush proposal to blur the distinction further between illegal and legal workers
includes "some degree of honesty," said Patricia Nelson Limerick, chairwoman of
the Center of the American West at the University of Colorado.

"The hope is that it would lead to some recognition that you don't solve
problems of illegal immigration by shutting down the border," she said, "but
reckoning with the problems in the home country."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush's proposal to grant temporary visas left many
wondering why officials would change the rules for people who live in this
country only by breaking them. (Photo by Alex Webb/Magnum Photos, from
"Crossings" by the Monacelli Press)(pg. 1); Without illegal workers, wages would
probably go up, but so would food prices. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New
York Times)(pg. 16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 1, 2003 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Out of the Shadows

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 314 words


With the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, immigration reform in America came
to a halt. The emphasis understandably shifted from inclusiveness to security
and the failures of the immigration service. For the estimated six million
illegal immigrants who are here to find work or a better life, any hope for a
guest worker program or an easier time for their children was stalled aswell.
Only now, two years later, is there some chance that Congress might focus on
needed immigration reform.

About 900 immigrant workers, some of them undocumented, have been crossing the
country by bus this past week to tell their stories. Calling their trek the
Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, they were motivated in part by the brutal deaths
of more than 145 migrants last year trying to cross the border. The workers also
need relief from employers who mistreat those in a shadow economy.

There are important new ideas in Congress about how to improve the system. One,
the "Ag Jobs" bill, would streamline the nation's failing program for bringing
in temporary farm workers. The other, known as "The Dream Act," would help
children of illegal aliens gain access to college and become legal.

The agricultural jobs bill is considered a model that could help offer ways to
bring in guest workers for other segments of the economy. The result of years of
negotiations and debate among unions, agricultural interests and workers' rights
advocates, this bill now has wide support. The Senate version is co-sponsored by
Senator Edward Kennedy, a liberal Democrat, and Senator Larry Craig, a
conservative Republican.

More comprehensive reform should be the goal for an inadequate system. But
change on such a scale requires far more debate. Meanwhile, Congress and the
White House should start with proposals for agricultural workers and immigrants'
children that already have strong bipartisan support.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 7, 2004 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH WOULD GIVE ILLEGAL WORKERS BROAD NEW RIGHTS

BYLINE:   By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6


President Bush will propose a sweeping overhaul of the nation's immigration laws
on Wednesday that could give legal status to millions of undocumented workers in
the United States, senior administration officials said Tuesday night.

Under Mr. Bush's proposal, which effectively amounts to an amnesty program for
illegal immigrants with jobs in the United States, an undocumented worker could
apply for temporary worker status here for an unspecified number of years, with
all the employee benefits, like minimum wage and due process, accorded to those
legally employed.

Workers who are approved would be permitted to travel freely between the United
States and their home countries, the officials said, and would also be permitted
to apply for a green card granting permanent residency in the United States.

Administration officials said that Mr. Bush would also propose increasing the
number of green cards issued each year, which is now about 140,000, but they did
not provide a specific number. The administration officials, who briefed
reporters in a conference call on Tuesday night, said only that Mr. Bush would
ask for a "reasonable increase."

Mr. Bush's proposal, one administration official said, would "match willing
workers with willing employers" and would "promote compassion" by fixing what
one called "a broken system." The officials declined to call it an amnesty
program.

Under the proposal, workers in other countries could also apply for guest worker
status in the United States, provided there was no American to take the job.

But the president's plans are expected to face a tough fight in Congress, where
conservative Republicans have said they consider programs like the one the
president is proposing nothing more than amnesty for people who have broken the
law.

The president's proposals were designed to appeal to Hispanic groups, a
constituency that the White House is focusing on as Mr. Bush seeks re-election
this year. The proposals are expected to be embraced by President Vicente Fox of
Mexico, who has been lobbying for them for the past three years.

Mr. Bush is to meet with Mr. Fox at an economic summit next week in Monterrey,
Mexico, where immigration will be a significant part of the agenda and Mr.
Bush's proposals are likely to become a major focus.

Mr. Bush's proposal is closely modeled on legislation introduced last summer by
Senator John McCain and Representatives Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, all
Republicans from Arizona. The issue of illegal workers has been an important one
there.

"We are ecstatic that they are addressing this," Mr. Flake said in a telephone
interview on Tuesday night. "We've maintained all along that you have to deal
with both sides of the issue -- those who want to come to the country, and those
who are here now. We're very happy to see a realistic approach. We deal with it
daily, and we have to have a rational policy."

Mr. Bush's proposal is in some ways more generous to illegal workers than is Mr.
Flake's bill. The legislation, for example, requires that a guest worker wait
three years before applying for a green card. Under Mr. Bush's proposal, a
worker could apply for a green card right away.

Mr. Bush's proposals apply to all illegal immigrants in the United States, which
officials estimate at 8 million to 14 million people. About 60 percent are
thought to be Mexican. No one is certain how many undocumented workers there are
among all illegal immigrants, but Mr. Fox has said that some 3.5 million of the
workers are Mexican.

Mr. Bush entered office with immigration reform at the top of his foreign policy
agenda, and in the late summer of 2001 various guest worker proposals were under
discussion by United States and Mexican officials. But the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks led to increased concerns about the safety of America's borders and
derailed the negotiations.

Under Mr. Bush's proposals, an undocumented worker and an employer would have to
apply for the guest worker program hand in hand, with the employer serving as
the sponsor for the worker. There would also be a fee to register for the
program, but officials would not say how much that would be.

The plan also includes incentives for workers to return to their countries, like
a promise of retirement benefits there based on income earned in the United
States.

Critics of Mr. Bush's proposal noted that unless the White House sought, and
obtained, a large increase in the number of green cards issued each year, many
of the undocumented workers who apply under the president's program could face
an extended wait for residency, 10 to 20 years, by some estimates.

Administration officials acknowledge that the wait for a green card could take
up to six years or longer, meaning that some guest workers who apply for green
cards but do not receive them before their guest worker status expires would
face the prospect of being forced to leave the United States. In that case,
critics of the proposal said Tuesday night, workers would be better off
remaining illegal and staying indefinitely in the United States, rather than
revealing themselves to immigration officials when they sign up for a program
that may, these critics assert, lead to their deportation.

"They're asking people to sign up for a program that is more likely to ensure
their departure than ensure their permanent residency," said Cecilia Munoz, a
vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy
organization.

Administration officials declined to say how long people could remain in the
guest worker program. But Ms. Munoz said congressional officials briefed on the
program told her they were led to believe that it could be no longer than six
years.

Groups opposed to increased immigration also criticized the president's
proposal. "It's an amnesty, no matter how much they dance around the fact," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center on Immigration Studies, a group
that seeks to limit immigration. "It's legalizing illegal immigrants."

Other critics say that the guest worker program could lead to the exploitation
of immigrant workers. "If you are dependent on an employer filing a petition on
your behalf, that employer has a tremendous club over you," one person briefed
on the president's proposal said.

But an administration official said that the plan would protect the rights of
undocumented workers, "who now live in the shadows, and are fearful of coming
out of the shadows."

A number of limited guest worker programs already exist in the United States,
but they are designed for skilled technology workers, who typically come from
India, China and Eastern Europe.

Mr. Bush will also argue, administration officials said, that his plan will make
the country safer by giving the authorities a better idea of who is in the
country and crossing its borders.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2004



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Wednesday about a proposal by President Bush
to overhaul immigration laws misstated the number of green cards issued per
year. It is 675,000 (140,000 is the number of employment-based visas). An
article yesterday about the proposal also included an incorrect total from the
Immigration Service. The article on Wednesday also referred imprecisely in some
copies to the amount of time Mr. Bush proposes that undocumented workers could
participate in a guest worker program. While the White House indeed did not
specify the time, it did offer workers the option of three years, plus a chance
to renew for three years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Discuss Details of Bush's Immigrant Worker Plan

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12


Government officials outlined details of the Bush administration's sweeping plan
to overhaul the nation's immigration laws on Thursday, saying that the proposed
guest worker program would grant legal status to illegal immigrants who were
living in the United States on Jan. 7.

The officials, from the Department of Homeland Security, said legal status would
also be granted to the families of immigrants participating in the program as
long as the workers earned enough to provide for their relatives.

Testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration,
the officials urged Congress to pass legislation that would allow illegal
immigrants who participate in the program to travel in and out of the United
States without restriction. Currently, immigrants who do not have proper
documents are barred from re-entering the country for several years.

The guest workers, who would be required to undergo security clearances along
with their relatives, would be granted temporary work permits for an initial
period of three years. The officials said that the permits could be renewed
several times and that the workers could apply for permanent residency without
leaving the United States.

Such a provision would provide an incentive for illegal immigrants with spouses
or children in the United States to participate in the program even if they have
no intention of returning to their home countries in the short term, the
officials said.

''The president has indicated that the initial temporary permit ought to be
three years, but he indicated it should have the option of renewal,'' Eduardo
Aguirre, director of immigration services for the Department of Homeland
Security, said. ''He did not have a cap on that.''

''I also don't think the president intends for individuals that are trying to
apply for green cards to force them to get out of the country to make that
application,'' Mr. Aguirre said. ''I think it's in your power to provide for a
feature for those who, as you indicated, have an interest in staying here, to
let them apply for a green card and get on a parallel track while they continue
to be a temporary worker.''

''The president is not interested in separating families,'' he said.

Mr. Aguirre was testifying along with Asa Hutchinson, an under secretary at the
Department of Homeland Security, and Steven Law, the deputy secretary in the
Labor Department.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Group to Sue State Over License Crackdown

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 844 words


A state crackdown that is projected to take away the driver's licenses of
hundreds of thousands of immigrant New Yorkers is unlawful because it usurps
federal responsibility for immigration, oversteps state law on issuing licenses
and ignores due process, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund
charged in a class-action lawsuit expected to be filed today.

The lawsuit, which names Gov. George E. Pataki and the motor vehicles
commissioner, Raymond P. Martinez, as defendants, is the first legal challenge
to a new policy that state officials have characterized as a means of ferreting
out fraud and foiling would-be terrorists. Immigrant advocates have denounced
the policy as discriminatory against noncitizens and dangerous to highway
safety.

The lawsuit, to be filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, is being brought
on behalf of all New Yorkers denied a driver's license or identity document for
lack of a verifiable Social Security number or an immigration document
satisfactory to the Department of Motor Vehicles. Among the seven plaintiffs are
a 60-year-old licensed asbestos remover who worked in the World Trade Center
cleanup, a teenage refugee from Albania and the Irish father of an American-born
infant who needs to be driven to medical treatment for her seizures.

Most are here without legal authorization, the court papers say, but two who are
in the United States legally also had their applications denied by motor
vehicles clerks without notice or chance for redress, the lawsuit said.

''Clearly New York State has no expertise in enforcing the immigration laws,''
said Cesar A. Perales, president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund and the state social services commissioner under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. ''It
makes no sense to me for New York State to have undertaken this new policy --
the federal government hasn't asked the governor and the commissioner of motor
vehicles to do this.''

State officials would not comment on the lawsuit. The governor's office referred
a call to the Department of Motor Vehicles, where Christine Burling, a
spokeswoman, said officials had not seen the legal papers.

But in recent interviews and at a public hearing last week, Mr. Martinez
vigorously defended as a public security measure his agency's move to revoke the
license of any driver unable to provide a verifiable Social Security number or
an immigration document granting a year's legal residence and expiring in no
less than six months.

He said New York was one of many states tightening the rules for obtaining a
driver's license since 9/11, in recognition that it has become the most widely
accepted form of identification in the nation.

New York is among a dozen states that by law do not limit driver's licenses to
legal residents. In the mid-1990's, to improve child support enforcement, New
York, like most states, added a requirement that license applicants provide a
Social Security number. But state regulations explicitly allow an alternative: a
letter from the Social Security Administration confirming that the applicant is
not eligible for a number.

But when a 45-year-old Queens taxi driver took such a letter to D.M.V. offices,
along with a foreign passport and other identity documents, he was not allowed
to renew his license because he did not have a valid visa as well, the lawsuit
said. Another plaintiff was unable to renew his certification as a professional
asbestos remover because the motor vehicles agency denied him a photo ID based
on his lack of legal immigration status.

Two other plaintiffs have a legal right to live and work in the United States,
but even their status was insufficient. Maria Cubas, 42, a Honduran factory
worker who lives in the Bronx, is allowed to stay and work in the United States
under temporary protected status granted after a hurricane. But Ms. Cubas was
denied a learner's permit because her work authorization's expiration date left
her two days short of the six months' validity the D.M.V. now requires -- even
though that document will be automatically renewed.

Another plaintiff, Eris Lumi, a 17-year-old Albanian who has unlimited political
asylum through his father, was not allowed to take his road test last week, the
lawsuit said, after a motor vehicles clerk wrongly accused him of being in the
country illegally.

''I felt upset cause I paid the money, and my money went away,'' the teenager
said, referring to $500 he spent on a driving course and $80 in application
fees. ''I want to drive to get a better job.'' Mr. Perales called national
security ''a smokescreen'' behind which state officials were overstepping their
statutory authority: to issue licenses on proof of identity, birth date and
driving ability.

''What we're concerned with are people who need driver's licenses to get to work
safely, to get their kids to the doctor,'' he said. ''I think everybody should
be opposed to this kind of discriminatory policy. This can only result in
thousands of people driving in this state without a driver's license, without
car insurance.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eris Lumi, 17, an Albanian refugee, was not allowed to take a
driving test after he was wrongly accused of being in the country illegally, a
suit says. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Linking Status of Aliens To Hospital Aid

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9


The federal government is offering $1 billion to hospitals that provide
emergency care to undocumented immigrants. But to get the money, hospitals would
have to ask patients about their immigration status, a prospect that alarms
hospitals and advocates for immigrants.

When Congress decided to provide the money last year, state officials and
hospital executives saw it as a breakthrough. For years, they had argued that
the federal government was responsible for immigration policy and should cover
the costs of medical care for illegal immigrants because it had created the
problem. These costs weigh heavily on border states like Texas, Arizona and
California and on states like New York and Illinois, with large numbers of such
immigrants.

The largest allocations are going to California, $72 million a year; Texas, $48
million; Arizona, $42 million; New York, $12 million; Illinois, $10 million; and
Florida, $9 million.

But federal health officials, under guidelines developed in the last couple of
weeks, said hospitals had to ask questions about immigration status to make sure
the money would be used as Congress intended, for ''emergency health services
furnished to undocumented aliens.''

Hospital executives and immigrant rights groups said the questioning would deter
undocumented immigrants from seeking hospital care when they need it, and some
hospitals said compliance might cost them more than they would receive in
federal aid.

Marcela G. Urrutia, an analyst at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights group, said: ''We are extremely concerned about this requirement.
It will deter Latino communities from seeking emergency care. That could lead to
serious public health problems, including the spread of communicable diseases.''

Janelle R. Howard, a spokeswoman for Carondelet Health Network, with hospitals
in Tucson and Nogales, Ariz., said: ''Our emergency rooms see a lot of
undocumented immigrants, including some picked up in the desert. But as a
Catholic institution, we have never asked about their immigration status. It's
our mission and philosophy to treat all without distinction.''

Under a 1986 federal law, a hospital has to provide a medical examination and
treatment to stabilize the condition of any patient who requests care in its
emergency room, regardless of the person's ability to pay. Hospitals often
absorb the costs when patients have no insurance or other source of payment.

The Department of Health and Human Services wants hospitals seeking
reimbursement to ask patients these questions, among others:

''Are you a United States citizen?''

''Are you a lawful permanent resident, an alien with a valid current employment
authorization card or other qualified alien?''

''Are you in the United States on a nonimmigrant visa'' of the type issued to
students, tourists and business travelers?

''Are you a foreign citizen who has been admitted to the United States with a
72-hour border crossing card?''

Hospital employees would have to sign forms certifying that the immigration
information for each patient was ''true and complete'' to the best of their
knowledge. Hospital administrators who knowingly submit false information to the
government would be subject to civil and criminal penalties.

Under the new guidelines, photocopies of passports, visas, border crossing cards
or other documents that establish the patient's status should, if available, be
included in the patient's file.

Patricia J. Wang, senior vice president of the Greater New York Hospital
Association, said: ''I don't think any hospital will be able to get that type of
information from immigrants. It's like ringing a bell in their face if you ask
directly, 'Are you a U.S. citizen, are you a lawful permanent resident?'''

Hospitals collect a variety of demographic and clinical information on patients,
including details of any insurance they might have. But hospitals say they
generally do not ask patients about their immigration status.

The new program, created under the 2003 Medicare law, presents a conundrum: To
get federal money, hospitals will have to document the citizenship status of an
undocumented population -- an inherently difficult task.

Immigration experts said the questions could befuddle immigrants and some
hospital employees. ''Those are some pretty technical questions to ask an
ailing, not highly educated person,'' said David A. Martin, former general
counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who is a law professor at
the University of Virginia.

Angela D. Hooton, a lawyer at the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, said, ''Undocumented immigrants fear that if they answer such questions,
the information might be used against them in deportation proceedings.''

Federal officials emphasized that data on individual patients would not
ordinarily have to be submitted to the government, but they also said that
hospitals must keep it on file so federal auditors could check the information.
The government said it had a legal obligation to prevent ''inappropriate,
excessive or fraudulent payments.''

Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said hospitals could ask the questions in ''an unobtrusive
way'' that would not discourage immigrants from seeking care.

But hospital executives said they would probably have to ask all uninsured
emergency patients about their citizenship or immigration status. The government
says hospitals must not single out people who ''look or sound foreign.''

Lawyers say such disparate treatment could violate the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in
programs that receive federal aid.

Hispanics are less likely to have health insurance than other racial and ethnic
groups. The Census Bureau says that 32 percent of Hispanics are uninsured,
compared with 20 percent of blacks and 11 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Among
Hispanic noncitizens, the proportion is even higher. About 55 percent are
uninsured, the bureau says.

Immigrants can significantly affect public health. The foreign-born population
accounts for a growing share of tuberculosis cases in the United States -- 53
percent of the 14,871 cases reported last year, according to the federal Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.

In many immigrant households, at least one parent is undocumented, but the
children, having been born in the United States, are citizens.

When such families hear about the questions asked by hospital employees, Ms.
Urrutia said, ''it's likely that the undocumented immigrant parents will be
terrified to seek care for their children, let alone themselves.''

Similar fears swirl around the census every 10 years. Immigration officials
sometimes cut back raids and other enforcement activities when census takers try
to count the population in neighborhoods with large numbers of immigrants.

The health care money will be made available in four annual installments of $250
million, for services provided on or after Oct. 1.

Hospitals say it may cost them more to comply with the new regulatory
requirements than they will receive in federal aid. ''We might spend more money
documenting the care we provide to immigrants than we get back to pay for it,''
said Jan Emerson, a spokeswoman for the California Healthcare Association, which
represents 450 hospitals.

Some public hospitals say the federal money will cover only 10 percent to 15
percent of the costs they incur providing emergency care to undocumented
immigrants.

Some hospital executives say that, instead of asking detailed questions, they
should be allowed to make reasonable inferences. For example, they say, a
hospital might conclude that a patient was an undocumented immigrant if the
person was born in another country and had a foreign driver's license, a foreign
address and an invalid Social Security number.

Other hospitals want to use a mathematical formula to estimate the costs that
qualify for reimbursement, without having to collect the immigration information
needed to submit a separate claim for each patient.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.N. Report Cites Harassment of Immigrants Who Sought Asylum at American
Airports

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1138 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12


A confidential report conducted by the United Nations in cooperation with the
Department of Homeland Security has found that airport inspectors with the power
to summarily deport illegal immigrants have sometimes intimidated and handcuffed
travelers fleeing persecution, discouraged some from seeking political asylum
and often lacked an understanding of asylum law.

Homeland Security officials say they have responded to the problems identified
in the report, which was completed late last year and obtained this week by The
New York Times. But the study highlights the challenges facing the department as
it grants Border Patrol agents sweeping new powers to deport illegal immigrants
from the borders with Mexico and Canada without providing them the opportunity
to make their case before an immigration judge.

Until now, Border Patrol agents typically delivered illegal immigrants to the
custody of the immigration courts, where judges determined whether they should
be deported or remain in the United States. Homeland Security officials, who
announced the policy shift this week, said border agents would be trained before
deporting illegal immigrants to ensure that asylum seekers and legitimate
travelers were not mistakenly sent home.

In its report, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees commended the
department for working to safeguard people fleeing persecution, noting that most
airport inspectors properly identified asylum seekers and correctly referred
them for further interviews to ensure that their cases would be heard by an
immigration judge. But the United Nations noted that problems remained at
American airports -- where summary deportations have occurred since 1997 -- even
after inspectors received training about the importance of protecting asylum
seekers.

The report found that inspectors at airports often failed to provide certified
translators for asylum seekers who did not speak English, improperly notified
consulates about the identity and detention of immigrants seeking asylum, and in
14 cases mistakenly concluded that travelers who expressed a credible fear of
persecution were not entitled to apply for asylum.

Joung-ah Ghedini, a spokeswoman for the United Nations high commissioner for
refugees, expressed concern about the expansion of summary deportations to the
nation's borders. Ms. Ghedini said the United Nations wanted to know more about
the training of border agents to ensure that asylum seekers were protected.

''What we're concerned about is that we don't know many of the details of what
will happen when the expansion of expedited removal is implemented at the
borders,'' said Ms. Ghedini, who declined to discuss the details of the report.

Commissioner Robert C. Bonner, who heads the customs and border protection unit
at the Department of Homeland Security, said the training for Border Patrol
agents would protect asylum seekers, who are entitled to have their cases
reviewed by an immigration judge if they express a credible fear of persecution.

Mr. Bonner said the training curriculum had been approved by the department's
civil rights office and would begin next week in Tucson and the following week
in Laredo, Tex., the first places along the border where summary deportations
are expected to begin. Supervisors will receive two days of training and Border
Patrol agents will each typically receive a one-day, eight-hour training session
over the next few weeks, officials said.

''We want to make sure we roll this out and do this right and appropriately,''
Mr. Bonner said in an interview. ''It's our responsibility to make sure that
there's adequate training, including any refresher training that might be
necessary, so that persons that do potentially have asylum claims are
appropriately referred. It's certainly something we take very seriously.''

In conducting its study, United Nations officials reviewed more than 300 case
files; interviewed dozens of inspectors, supervisors and asylum officers; and
sat in on more than 100 interviews with asylum seekers at airports in New York,
Newark, Miami and Los Angeles.

The Department of Homeland Security granted the United Nations access to
internal documents, staff members and asylum seekers on the condition that the
report not be released to the public after it was completed in late October. The
study was provided to The New York Times by a person unaffiliated with the
United Nations who was concerned about the government's plan to expand summary
deportations to the country's land borders.

In its report, the United Nations discovered that many inspectors held negative
views of asylum seekers, viewing them as frauds trying to enter the United
States under false pretenses. Such attitudes, the report concluded, resulted in
instances where inspectors intimidated asylum seekers or treated them with
derision.

At Kennedy International Airport in New York, asylum seekers were routinely
handcuffed and restrained with belly chains and leg restraints. In one instance
there, a Liberian asylum seeker was ordered to strip naked to determine whether
he had scars consistent with torture. The inspectors then allegedly ridiculed
him, using racial and sexual taunts.

''With regard to treatment of asylum-seekers, the overuse of restraints, such as
at J.F.K., and the frequency of negative, and at times hostile, attitudes
towards asylum-seekers is of significant concern,'' the report said.

The study also described two instances in which inspectors encouraged asylum
seekers not to pursue asylum claims. ''These incidents, even if isolated, are
extremely troubling given the risks of returning someone to a country of
possible persecution,'' it said.

Ms. Ghedini said Homeland Security officials had addressed some issues in the
report, including making efforts to improve training. ''Generally speaking, we
have seen positive cooperation and collaboration,'' she said. But she said some
problems remained and were the subject of continuing discussions. She said her
agency had also requested a meeting with the department to discuss the plan to
expand summary deportations -- a process known as expedited removal -- to the
land borders.

Under the new policy, border agents will summarily deport illegal immigrants
caught within 100 miles of the Mexican and Canadian borders who have spent up to
14 days within the United States.

Officials said the agents would not focus on deporting Mexicans and Canadians,
who will still, for the most part, have their cases heard in immigration court.
The agents will concentrate instead on immigrants from other countries. Senior
officials said they planned to evaluate the process in Tucson and Laredo before
expanding it to other sections of the border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 17, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices to Rule on Holding Illegal Immigrants Indefinitely

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16


The Supreme Court agreed on Friday to decide whether foreigners who never had a
legal right to enter the United States may be held indefinitely while
immigration officials try to arrange their deportations.

The case presents a question raised but not directly answered by a decision by
the court three years ago in a case concerning a German-born Lithuanian who
entered the country legally as a child and who then compiled a long criminal
record that made him deportable.

Neither Germany, Lithuania nor any other country would take the man, Kestutis
Zadvydas, who remained in custody for three years before a federal judge ordered
him released. The Supreme Court ruled in Mr. Zadvydas's favor, interpreting the
statute governing detention before deportation to contain an implicit limitation
of a "reasonable time," normally six months.

But the court observed that unlike Mr. Zadvydas, "aliens who have not yet gained
initial admission to this country would present a very different question."
Since then, the lower federal courts have divided over whether that different
question should have a different answer.

The Bush administration urged the court to resolve the dispute, which has "great
significance for the enforcement of the immigration laws, national security and
public safety," Solicitor General Theodore B. Olson said in the government
brief.

Mr. Olson told the court that there were more than 1,000 people in this
category, immigrants who were never lawfully admitted, had been found deportable
and have been in detention for more than six months. Most are Cubans who arrived
in the 1980 Mariel boatlift and whose return Cuba has refused to accept.

The case that the justices accepted is an appeal filed on behalf of one of the
Mariel Cubans, Daniel Benitez. Like some 125,000 other Cubans who were formally
denied entry at that time, Mr. Benitez was admitted a temporary parole that did
not convey the status of legal residency. While in the United States, he
compiled several criminal convictions that the old Immigration and
Naturalization Service determined made him ineligible for lawful permanent
residency. He was placed in immigration custody in October 2001.

As his detention approached six months, he filed a habeas corpus petition,
arguing that he was entitled to release under the reasoning of the Zadvydas
decision. Both the Federal District Court in Panama City, Fla., and the United
States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, held that the Zadvydas
ruling applied just to "resident aliens."

His appeal, Benitez v. Mata, No. 03-7434, argues that the statute that the court
interpreted in the Zadvydas case makes no distinction between resident aliens
and "excludable" ones like Mr. Benitez. Two other federal appeals courts, his
lawyers pointed out, have held that the statute "cannot be interpreted one way
for admitted aliens and another way for nonadmitted aliens."

In any event, the appeal maintains that "it is at least a serious question
whether the Constitution permits the government to lock a nonadmitted alien in
prison for the rest of his life because his home country will not take him
back." For that reason, it says, the court should interpret the statute as it
did in the Zadvydas case, to avoid what would otherwise be a substantial issue
of due process.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer's majority opinion in that case said open-ended
detention would pose a "serious constitutional threat" that the court should
avoid by interpreting the statute to have a reasonable time limit.

While agreeing in the new case that the question needed resolution, the
administration told the justices that the 11th Circuit limitation on the
Zadvydas decision was correct.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Different Approaches To Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 143 words


In his Soapbox essay "... and Citizenship for Latinos" Jan. 25 , the Rev. Allan
B. Ramirez asks for citizenship for every Latino immigrant.

I believe every legal immigrant, no matter what nationality, should be
encouraged to become a citizen.

However illegal immigrants, called undocumented workers by Mr. Ramirez, should
not be allowed to have amnesty or become citizens. These people have knowingly
broken the law by entering and staying in this country. Illegal immigrants take
away thousands of entry-level jobs that could otherwise go to unemployed
American citizens. Additionally, allowing illegal immigrants to stay makes those
who wait years to immigrate legally to this country look like fools.

Any country has to be able to control its borders. Allowing illegal immigrants
to enter and stay in this country is irrational.

Robert F. LaPorta
Dix Hills

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Harm of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 149 words



To the Editor:

In ''Ticket to Nowhere'' (June 20), you state that ''officials of several
districts, aware of the growing anti-immigrant sentiment on Long Island, said
they had a 'don't ask, don't tell' policy on students' immigration status.'' A
SUNY-Old Westbury professor is quoted: ''Every district has a policy of not
asking; that's a cop-out.''

I asked the Eastern Suffolk Board of Cooperative Educational Services Bilingual
Office if school officials are allowed to question students about their
immigration status. I was told that, according to the Supreme Court case of
Plyler v. Doe, schools are not permitted to ask students about their immigration
status. School officials on Long Island are complying with the law and the
direction of the New York State Department of Education. That is neither a
''cop-out'' nor does it result from ''growing anti-immigrant sentiment.''

ED FINN
Greenlawn

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Harm of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 178 words



To the Editor:

In ''Ticket to Nowhere'' (June 20), we hear about the ''broken dreams'' of
lawbreakers like Hulda Mazariegos, who received a full scholarship to college
but cannot attend because she's an illegal alien. But the article is really
about the broken dreams of Americans.

In 1986, our elected officials promised strict enforcement of immigration laws
after a ''one-time'' amnesty. Despite that, the Mazariegos family remains in the
country, undeported, for 10 years!

Activists oppose any and all amnesties, remembering how we were lied to and
betrayed in the past. Immigration lawyers have become the worst enemy of
Americans who want immigration laws enforced. School officials rank second with
their ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, all in the hope of increasing their
student count and district budgets.

Ms. Mazariegos has to work part-time in a deli because she has nowhere to go?
Where are the tears for legitimate American young people forced to similar jobs
(or no job at all) by increased numbers of illegal aliens like this girl?

SANDRA MILLER
Phoenix

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Residency and College For Valedictorian

BYLINE: By Julia C. Mead

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 334 words


Hulda Mazariegos, the 2003 valedictorian of Wyandanch Memorial High School who
was kept from attending college because she is an undocumented alien, was
granted legal residency on Wednesday by a federal immigration judge.

Ms. Mazariegos, 19, said she will register this week for the fall semester at
St. Joseph's College in Patchogue, which has renewed its offer of a full,
four-year scholarship.

Immediately following a hearing in Manhattan, Sandy Hom, a United States
immigration judge, ruled that Ms. Mazariegos and three of her eight siblings
could stay in the United States as legal residents. Of the four remaining
siblings, one was born in the United States and three were too old to be covered
under the petition. They had come to the United States from Guatemala when Ms.
Mazariegos was 7 years old.

The case was unusual because the federal Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which frequently plays an adversarial role, instead supported their
petition, citing in part Ms. Mazariegos's academic record and scholarship.

''The family was overjoyed,'' said their lawyer, David M. Sperling, of
Huntington. ''They left the courthouse waving their papers.''

Although at the top of her class, Ms. Mazariegos was barred from enrolling in
college last fall. Undocumented students are ineligible for government-backed
financial aid or student loans, and her scholarship was contingent on her
applying for the former.

Additionally, St. Joseph's, like many other colleges, has a policy against
admitting illegal aliens.

Some 65,000 high school students who graduated this year across the country are
finding themselves in a similar quandary, according to proponents of federal
legislation that would grant many of them legal residency. Known as the Dream
Act, the bill is stalled in committees in both the Senate and the House of
Representatives.

''Now every door is open to me,'' said Ms. Mazariegos, adding that she wants to
become a lawyer ''so I can help other kids like me.''   Julia C. Mead


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 18, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Widens Privacy Rights For Immigrants

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words


Under pressure from immigration groups and the City Council, Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg revised his immigration policy yesterday to make it much harder for
city agencies to report illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

Mr. Bloomberg had found himself in an increasingly difficult, even untenable,
political position since May when he sought to comply with a 1999 federal court
ruling that struck down the city's longstanding policy of prohibiting city
employees from passing on such immigration information.

Mr. Bloomberg, noting that the ruling made the "don't tell" policy illegal, had
instead replaced it with a "don't ask" policy that restricted most city
employees from asking about a person's immigration status. The order largely
exempted police officers, though the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly,
later tried to clarify the department's position to reassure immigrants.

Many City Council members and immigrant groups had criticized the mayor's policy
as a step backward and asserted that it would discourage illegal immigrants from
seeking medical assistance and other basic city services. Meanwhile, Mr.
Bloomberg's standing with Hispanic voters plummeted, even as he tried to win
their support in various ways, including visiting the Dominican Republic and
dancing the merengue.

But yesterday, he received a much different reception as many of these same
critics came to City Hall to praise his efforts to expand protections for
immigrants.

Using more than a dozen ceremonial pens that he passed out to representatives
ofthe very groups that had been criticizing him, the mayor signed a new
executive order on immigration. It established a broad new privacy policy that
would prohibit city workers in most cases from giving out information about not
just a person's immigration status, but also sexual orientation, income tax
records and welfare assistance, among other things. It also applies to law
enforcement officers, except in cases involving criminal activity and terrorism.

"It gives assurance to all law-abiding New Yorkers -- whether you're an
immigrant, a victim of domestic violence, or any taxpayer -- that the
confidential information you give to the city will stay with the city," the
mayor said, flanked by Mr. Kelly and Council Speaker Gifford Miller.

Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, said that by expanding the
privacy policy to cover other kinds of personal information, the new immigration
policy could still comply with the 1999 ruling.

"The court had said you can't have a policy just for immigration," he said. "And
if in fact you had an overall confidentiality policy -- not just for
immigration, but for domestic violence, for tax issues, for sexual assault --
that it would be a very different situation, and they did not rule that that
would be illegal. They left that question open."

Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell Law School, concurred
with several other legal experts that the federal court "hinted that it might
rule a different way" if the city were to adopt a broader policy that protected
confidential information generally.

"The mayor's new order appears to be an effort to do just that," he said. "It
remains to be seen whether the new order adequately protects immigrants and
others, and whether the federal government will challenge the new city order."

Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said that his agency's primary concern with the city's new policy was whether it
would affect their enforcement efforts. "If local law enforcement encounters
individuals who are in this country illegally, particularly if they are engaged
in criminal activity, it is important that they coordinate with us," he said.

Under the executive order, the "don't tell" provisions specifically do not apply
to people suspected of criminal or terrorist activities.

Immigrant advocates said yesterday that they had met repeatedly with the mayor's
staff to negotiate an immigration policy that they could all support. Mr. Miller
and 36 council members had even endorsed a competing bill, in case talks failed.

Councilman Hiram Monserrate, the bill's sponsor and one of the mayor's most
outspoken critics on this issue, said yesterday that while his bill had offered
broader protections for immigrants, the mayor's order had incorporated the most
important elements.

"I think that we are in a much better place," he said, "because in essence, this
policy has a "don't ask, don't tell" provision which has never existed in the
City of New York."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 29, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 126 words


To the Editor:

Advocates of amnesty for illegal immigrants (news article, Sept. 25) overlook
the effects of the most recent mass amnesty in 1986: increased illegal
immigration, as potential immigrants realized that the United States is not
serious about enforcing its immigration laws.

This has helped fuel large population growth and has put downward pressure on
wages of United States citizens and legal immigrants who compete with illegal
immigrants for jobs.

When will our country adopt an immigration policy that aims to promote
sustainable population growth rates and improve the socioeconomic situation of
poor United States citizens? Their needs are just as important as those of
illegal immigrants.

CHRISTOPHER S. EDWARDS
New York, Sept. 25, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 26, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Licenses for Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 509 words


America's whole immigration policy is currently such a mess that communities are
forced to try to regulate an irrational status quo. A perfect example is the
current controversy over whether an illegal immigrant should have a driver's
license. Obviously on one level it makes no sense for the government to be
issuing documents -- documents that are frequently used as identification cards
-- to people who should in theory be deported. But right now there are an
estimated seven million people in the country illegally. Our law enforcement
officials are not making any serious effort to find them, and our political
leaders are not making any serious effort to come up with a system that would
expand their ability to work here legally. So it is no wonder that many experts
support the driver's license idea as a simple matter of highway safety.

Right now, many illegal immigrants drive cars with neither licenses nor car
insurance. Everyone would be better off if they were encouraged to acquire the
driving skills necessary to get the licenses, and the protection of other
motorists that comes with insurance. The concept of expanding driving licenses
to illegal immigrants clearly has the broad bipartisan support, including an
array of law enforcement brass including Police Chief William Bratton in Los
Angeles, San Francisco's sheriff and many of California's firefighters. The Los
Angeles Chamber of Commerce backs a licensing law, as do most of the state's
insurance companies. Their argument is that some control over who drives is
better than none.

California and its governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, stand at the unsteady center
of this difficult issue. Mr. Schwarzenegger's predecessor, Gray Davis, had been
vehemently opposed to licensing illegal immigrants. But under pressure of the
recall movement, he switched and signed a fairly lenient bill that would have
allowed applicants to use a tax identification number to get a license. Rather
than appealing to Latino voters, that bit of pandering served only to infuriate
almost everybody. Now, responding to a request from Governor Schwarzenegger, the
California Legislature is poised to repeal the Davis law before conservative
Republicans ramp up a statewide campaign to recall the law just as they recalled
Mr. Davis.

Opponents of the licensing law may have been right to worry that it would make
it too easy for people with no legal ties to this country to get identification
that is used, among other things, as a way to wave passengers onto airplanes.
Mr. Schwarzenegger has won support from the Democratic Legislature by indicating
he would accept a new version with more background checks and other safeguards.

Once the Legislature has repealed the Davis law, Mr. Schwarzenegger needs to
produce and sell a reasonable compromise plan to start licensing the illegal
immigrants already driving in his state. Then he should join with other
governors and legislators from border and coastal states and demand that
Congress get serious about rationalizing the entire immigration issue.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 120 words


To the Editor:

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge's ambitious plan to grant the estimated 8
million to 10 million undocumented immigrants some sort of legal status ("New
Hope on Immigration," editorial, Dec. 15) is a necessary step forward in
preserving our national security and a new hope for undocumented immigrants who
live, work and pay taxes but suffer the humiliation of being the scapegoat every
time our nation finds itself in a political and economic crisis.

Let's hope that this plan becomes a bipartisan effort between members of
Congress and immigrant rights activists to develop a good immigration policy
that will safeguard our nation for decades to come.

JOHN MENDOZA
Pomona, Calif., Dec. 15, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 655 words


President Bush is said to be preparing a list of principles for overhauling the
nation's unworkable immigration policy. That is an excellent way to begin the
new year -- Washington has not made any serious attempt at reform since the
Reagan administration. But a presidential wish list announced during a campaign
season is not enough. The president has to convince some of his fellow
Republicans in Congress that the system isn't working. American officials cannot
keep pretending that 8 million to 10 million illegal immigrants do not exist.

A simple crackdown aimed at sending all illegal immigrants back where they came
from would not work. It would simply drive people without proper documentation
deeper into the shadows, where they would continue to be at the mercy of
unscrupulous employers and would be afraid to report crimes, send their children
to school or seek treatment when they had infectious diseases. Mr. Bush
apparently recognizes the need to give them the hope of gaining legal status,
undoubtedly by a slower route than is offered to those who have been following
the rules and waiting their turn to enter the country.

Four years ago, the president campaigned on immigration reform, an idea that
faded after Sept. 11 when immigration policy suddenly focused, understandably,
on security. But immigrants, who have continued breaching the borders by the
thousands, have posed a danger mainly to themselves: more than 490 died in 2003
trying to get here.

At a White House press conference last month, the president ruled out any
"blanket amnesty," a policy favored by many in Mexico, the homeland of almost
half of the illegal immigrants now hiding in this country. But there are hints
that Mr. Bush wants a system that would give illegal immigrants who work an
opportunity to get in line for legal status.

To win support in Congress, Mr. Bush is going to have to be specific enough to
let lawmakers know that he is willing to take some of the heat for concrete
steps that go beyond pious generalities. He might begin by looking at an
intriguing bill offered by Senator John McCain of Arizona and two of his
Republican colleagues.

It would create a Web site where employers could advertise jobs, and legal
American workers would have the first shot at them. Then the jobs would be open
to people trying to immigrate and to illegal immigrants already in the country.
The bill would also create a new kind of visa that would give illegal immigrants
the hope of changing their status by putting them in line behind those who have
applied legally for residence permits.

The McCain plan has its limits. The workers who would be willing to take
low-paying jobs might be the same ones who would have trouble consulting a Web
site. And the bill does not deal adequately with the problems of legal
immigrants' families. Many are stuck in limbo, waiting five years or more for
legal status.

It may be that a grand reform plan -- balancing security, cleaning up the
immigration backlog and luring illegals into the system -- will be too much to
tackle in an election year. That does not let Mr. Bush and his Congressional
leaders off the hook. They can easily make a good-faith start at immigration
reform by enacting two excellent bills that already have broad bipartisan
support.

One, called the AgJobs bill, would help 500,000 agriculture workers already in
America earn a form of legal status. This bill has a blue-ribbon list of
supporters: business and labor, Republicans and Democrats. The other, called the
Dream Act, would allow illegal immigrants' children who have grown up in this
country to pay in-state college tuition rates and earn a path to citizenship.
This bill also has strong backing by members of both parties.

Presidential support would almost guarantee the bills' passage. It would also
send a signal that the White House really understands the need to start
untangling and repairing immigration policy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plan May Lure More to Enter U.S. Illegally, Experts Say

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 654 words


When President Ronald Reagan signed into law the last great shake-up in
immigration policy, his goal was to stop the flow of illegal immigrants. The
flow increased instead, and that may be the response to President Bush's guest
worker plan, if Congress enacts it, various experts say.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 offered amnesty and legal status
to illegal immigrants already in the United States, or most of them. Having
cleared the decks with this provision, the law sought to discourage future
illegal entry by imposing penalties on employers who knowingly hired illegal
immigrants.

But foreigners saw in the 1986 act an invitation, not a deterrent, said Stephen
Trejo, a labor economist and immigration expert at the University of Texas. "The
biggest long-term impact of the 1986 law was the idea that maybe there will be
periodic amnesties, and even if I come to the United States illegally, there is
a good chance I'll be able to legalize my status while I am there," Mr. Trejo
said.

The 1986 law offered green cards to illegal immigrants who had entered the
country before 1982. Over the next four years, 2.7 million green cards went to
illegal immigrants already in the country and in some cases to spouses and
children still abroad, according to data from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

But the chief deterrents, employer penalties and stepped-up border patrol,
failed to stem illegal immigration, and today illegal immigrants number 7
million or more, according to most estimates. By 1990, the proportion of
foreign-born adults in the work force, legal and illegal, had risen to 9.3
percent from 7 percent in 1980 and by 2000, this group represented 12.3 percent
of the nation's workers, the Labor Department reports.

The employer penalties were hard to enforce. Employers could be fined up to
$10,000 for multiple offenses, and even imprisoned. But to avoid punishment, an
employer needed only to check a job candidate's documents, not the authenticity
of the documents. Soon, on the streets of Chicago, for example, a forged Social
Security card could be purchased for less than $100.

"The employer sanctions, introduced for the first time in that bill, were a
joke," said George Borjas, an economist and immigration expert at the Kennedy
School of Government at Harvard University.

What helped to doom the Reagan approach in 1986 was the failure to create a
legal avenue for unskilled immigrants to enter the United States and take
low-wage jobs. Various visa programs brought in skilled workers, but not the
unskilled, despite strong demand to fill openings at hotels and restaurants, in
nursing homes and home health care, and in landscaping, child care, housekeeping
and light manufacturing.

The plan proposed by President Bush on Wednesday would open such an avenue, said
Theresa Brown, director of immigration policy for the United States Chamber of
Commerce. "If I am a worker in Mexico and I want to come to the United States
and there is a legal visa available for me to do that, why would I not choose
that route," she said.

But would potential applicants in Mexico and in Central and South America, the
sources of most illegal immigration, take this newly opened legal avenue, and
apply to enter the United States as guest workers? That depends on the program's
design as the Bush proposal works its way through Congress, Ms. Brown said.

But Mr. Borjas said he was doubtful that illegal immigration would be curtailed
substantially. Some will shun registering because of the risk of deportation
once their guest worker status expires, he said, and many others will feel
compelled to come to the United States, job or no job.

"Being without work here is still far better for most people than being employed
in Central America," Mr. Borjas said, adding, "There is nothing in this proposal
that will prevent us from having to revisit the issue once again 10 years from
now."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

88 Air Travelers at Newark Are Held in Immigration Case

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 623 words


Federal agents at Newark Liberty International Airport have detained 88
passengers, close to half of those arriving on a domestic Continental Airlines
flight from Los Angeles early Thursday morning, acting on a tip that many
illegal immigrants were on board the plane.

Homeland Security officials said 53 of those detained after the 6 a.m. flight
were from Mexico, 16 from Ecuador, 16 from Guatemala, 2 from El Salvador and one
from Honduras. Among them were five juveniles -- one girl and four boys -- as
well as 63 men and 20 women.

All are being held in detention centers or jails in northern New Jersey pending
deportation proceedings in immigration court, according to Janet Rapaport, a
spokeswoman for the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, part of the
Department of Homeland Security.

It was unclear how the unusually large number arrested as illegal immigrants had
been sorted from the rest of the 222 passengers on Continental Flight 1803,
Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for the airline, said yesterday. He noted that
passengers on domestic flights are not required to carry a passport or show
immigration documents.

Ms. Rapaport said she could provide no details about the nature of the tip that
led to the arrests, how passengers were screened, or how many on the flight had
been questioned.

But even with those facts unknown, the case highlighted the tension between
efforts to stem the smuggling of illegal immigrants and concerns about profiling
and the erosion of civil liberties.

Civil liberties lawyers and advocates for immigrants said the operation raised
many questions, including whether there had been a mass detention and screening
of passengers. They said that within 25 miles of a border, people can be legally
questioned about their status, but inside the country, the government has the
burden of establishing probable cause that someone is a noncitizen before an
agent can approach that person and ask for proof of legal status.

''I don't think they could ask everyone for documents at a domestic airport,''
said Muzaffar Chishti, a senior policy analyst at the Migration Policy
Institute, a research and advocacy group. ''You cannot use race, ethnicity,
language or dress as a proxy for being an alien. It has to be some behavioral
tendency or real knowledge.''

''Did they ask only people who looked Latino?'' he asked. ''How did they pick
the people they apprehended? Who did they let go?''

Other advocates said such a mass detention was not a common occurrence. ''We
haven't heard anything like this before,'' said Lisa Navarrete, a spokeswoman
for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group. ''It's alarming
and disturbing because we don't know how they got to those 88 people.''

Some, she said, may have been working in the United States for years, and
perhaps were just traveling East to visit relatives for Easter. At the same
time, Mr. Chishti said, it is well known that human smuggling operations often
use domestic night flights to distribute their charges throughout the country,
sometimes after stashing large numbers in ''safe houses'' near an airport hub
like Phoenix or Los Angeles.

Brett Dreyer, an investigator at the Newark airport for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, another arm of Homeland Security, said that for at least some of
the detainees, the flight was thought to be the last leg of an illegal overland
journey into the United States. He said he did not know whether others had been
living in the United States for some time. ''They've all entered the country at
some point,'' he said. ''Certainly some of them entered recently.'' He added
that so far, the agents had found no evidence of criminal smuggling or other
criminal violations by the detainees.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Local Officers Join Search For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1217 words

DATELINE: MONTGOMERY, Ala., April 9


Every workday morning, before the sun creeps above the trees, State Trooper
Anthony Birmingham goes on patrol with his new law enforcement bible, the
''Immigration Law Handbook,'' in his Ford Crown Victoria.

For seven and a half years, he has watched sleepy state roads and bustling
highways for speeding commuters and careless drivers. Now he also serves as a
foot soldier in the domestic war on terrorism, one of a small but growing number
of police officers empowered by the Department of Homeland Security to arrest
and detain illegal immigrants.

Over the past six months, Trooper Birmingham and 20 others on the state force
have arrested 106 illegal immigrants, including a Mexican man driving 90 miles
per hour and a Mexican mother of two who presented invalid documents while
applying for a driver's license. In the past, such immigrants were often given
traffic tickets or warnings and sent on their way. These days, they might be
arrested by the state police -- even if they have not broken a state law -- and
handed over to federal authorities for deportation.

''Before, the only thing we could do was issue a traffic citation and let them
go,'' Trooper Birmingham said as he cruised along State Road 9. ''It's different
now.''

Alabama is the epicenter of a widening effort by the Department of Homeland
Security to encourage states and localities to help enforce immigration laws in
the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks.

Colorado, Idaho and Virginia are considering following the examples of Alabama,
which began its partnership with the Department of Homeland Security in
September, and Florida, which signed an agreement with federal officials in
2002. In Los Angeles County, the sheriff's office is close to an agreement to
allow booking officers to identify illegal immigrants in county jails for
deportation.

These and other efforts to involve law enforcement agencies in immigration
matters have stirred a furor among both advocates for immigrants and police
chiefs in Boston, Houston, several communities in California and around the
country. They warn that these arrangements may make immigrants wary of
cooperating with the police or reporting crime and could lead to racial
profiling, at the expense even of people in the country legally.

Many immigration violations, like overstaying a visa, are civil infractions, not
criminal offenses typically handled by the police. At least 30 jurisdictions bar
their officers from enforcing immigration laws, Congressional researchers say,
but others are joining in.

Homeland Security officials, understaffed and eager for assistance, are making
it easier for police officers to help by adding to an F.B.I. crime database the
names of immigrants who have evaded deportation orders, including 112,000 with
criminal records and 28,000 without them. The database is used by 80,000
agencies to track felons and fugitives. In December, immigrants' lawyers sued to
stop the expansion of the database, saying the police should not enforce civil
immigration laws outside of formal partnerships like those in Alabama and
Florida.

Officials are also improving the efficiency of the Department of Homeland
Security's Law Enforcement Support Center, which holds more detailed immigration
records than the F.B.I. database. In March, police officers who called the
center helped federal agents locate more than 2,000 illegal immigrants,
officials say.

Some Republicans in Congress say such efforts need to be stepped up. About 5,500
agents are assigned to immigration enforcement, but over eight million
immigrants are estimated to be in the country illegally. More than 100 members
of Congress are now backing legislation that would require the nation's 600,000
state and local police officers to help enforce the immigration laws.

Homeland Security officials say the cooperative efforts in place, while small in
scope, represent an unusual degree of collaboration between federal officials
and local police officials, who were overwhelmingly reluctant to assume any
federal immigration enforcement duties before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

''I see the future of this being very positive,'' said Michael J. Garcia, the
homeland security under secretary for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which promotes cooperation with the local police on a range of
issues, including identifying and deporting gang members who are illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Garcia emphasized that states were not required to participate in the formal
partnerships and noted that local police officers involved in such arrangements
receive several weeks of intensive training and strict warnings against racial
profiling.

State officials in Alabama, as well as immigrant advocates here, say so far
there have been no complaints from immigrants about the federal-local
partnership.

Senior police officials here said they were eager to join the national
experiment after grappling in recent years with concerns about terrorism and
complaints from residents and local police officers that the number of illegal
immigrants involved in traffic accidents had surged.

So last year, the officials issued a directive against racial profiling, to
allay concerns of advocacy groups, and assigned specially trained officers -- 14
to the highway patrol and 7 to driver's license bureaus.

Col. W. M. Coppage, director of the Alabama Department of Public Safety, said
his officers are reactive, not proactive. They do not conduct raids, and only
question immigrants and run background checks on those stopped for traffic
violations or applying for driver's licenses, he said.

''It's got to be a legitimate, probable-cause-type stop,'' Colonel Coppage said.
''You can't just say hey, 'There's somebody that may be Hispanic,'' and stop
them or say, 'There's somebody from the Middle East,' and stop them.''

Trooper Ronni Fetty, who works at a driver's license bureau, described several
arrests in which illegal immigrants were charged with presenting fraudulent
documents. Trooper Birmingham recounted the arrest of a speeder who turned out
to be carrying 50 pounds of marijuana.

Statistics indicate that most of the immigrants caught so far have been arrested
for violating federal immigration laws, not for state crimes.

Of the 106 illegal immigrants arrested Oct. 14 to April 1, 84 were charged with
overstaying visas, entering the country illegally or evading a deportation
order, officials here said. Sixteen of them also had criminal convictions. It is
unclear whether any have yet been deported.

Officials from the American Civil Liberties Union here and the Hispanic Interest
Coalition of Alabama, who oppose the initiative, say they fear that some
immigrants have already been deported and that others have been driven
underground.

In June, the groups hope to start posting fliers to urge immigrants to tell them
about their experiences with the police. In the meantime, advocates are telling
clients not to attract attention on state roads by speeding or driving cars with
broken taillights or missing license plates.

''Just because nothing has happened in these first six months doesn't make me
breathe any more easily,'' said Isabel Rubio, executive director of the Hispanic
Interest Coalition. ''We feel like this is definitely something we still have to
watch.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trooper Anthony Birmingham, in Wetumka, Ala., questions drivers
stopped for speeding or other reasons about their immigration status. (Photo by
Gary Tramontina for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  New England: Maine: Limit To Questions On Citizenship

BYLINE: By Katie Zezima (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 122 words


Gov. John Baldacci has signed an executive order limiting the circumstances in
which state employees can ask about the immigration status of residents seeking
services. The order allows employees to ask about the status only in specific
situations: when such disclosure is required by law, for example, or when the
resident is suspected of unlawful activity other than being in the country
illegally. Mr. Baldacci, a Democrat, signed the order after meetings with social
service, civil rights and community organizations. The sessions were held to
help ease relations between the groups and state officials after Border Patrol
agents swept through stores, restaurants and a homeless shelter in Portland in
January.   Katie Zezima (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 25, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Teenage African Immigrant Is Freed After 3 Years in Detention

BYLINE:  By CATE DOTY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24


A teenage immigrant from Guinea, who had been held in detention centers for
three years during a legal struggle for his release and permanent asylum, has
been freed, his lawyers announced on Wednesday.

The youth, Malik Jarno, now 18, was released by Asa Hutchinson, under secretary
of the Department of Homeland Security.

Mr. Jarno, described by his lawyers as mentally retarded, had been held in an
adult correctional facility in York, Pa., that also houses other illegal
immigrants. He and his case became a symbol for the thousands of child
immigrants who arrive alone in the United States and are then detained by
immigration services.

His case prompted a number of members of Congress and human rights groups to
pressure Mr. Hutchinson to release the teenager. In a letter to Mr. Hutchinson
in August, members of Congress contended that Mr. Jarno was a victim of
"reprehensible mistreatment" by federal immigration officials.

Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
that because Mr. Jarno was not a security threat, Mr. Hutchinson had decided to
release him to the International Friendship House, a refugee shelter in York,
while he seeks permanent asylum in the United States.

Kathleen Lucas, executive director of the Coalition of Immigrants' Rights on a
Community Level, which helps to oversee Friendship House, said Mr. Jarno arrived
Tuesday night. He will be enrolled in a local school and will take English
classes, she said.

"We're just delighted that he's out," she said. "Now is when the lion's share of
our work begins."

A lawyer who represents Mr. Jarno, Christopher Nugent, said Wednesday that the
teenager had suffered every conceivable problem that a child could be subjected
to in the immigration system. "The system has treated child detainees as
detainees first and children as an afterthought," he said.

In 2000, Mr. Jarno fled to France from Guinea, in West Africa, after his father,
a Muslim cleric and political activist, was killed by government forces. His
legal odyssey began in 2001, when, as a 15-year-old, he was detained by
immigration officials at Dulles International Airport as he tried to enter the
country with a fake French passport.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Mr. Jarno was not a minor,
despite a birth certificate to the contrary.

He was held for eight months in adult jails before seeing an immigration judge
to apply for asylum, and later sued Piedmont Jail in central Virginia, claiming
he was severely beaten by guards and assaulted with pepper spray. He lost the
civil suit.

Responsibility for detained immigrant children -- about 500 remain in detention
-- fell to the Department of Health and Human Services after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was absorbed by the Homeland Security Department last
year. Legislation focusing on the children's treatment is before Congress.

Susan Benesch, a spokeswoman for Amnesty International U.S.A. in Washington,
said: "We are delighted that Malik is finally out of detention, but of course
remain concerned about any juveniles who are needlessly spending months and even
years in detention. I hope that people will remember that while his case is
especially heart-rending, there are so many others."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Vital Immigration Debate

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 495 words


President Bush has now waded into one of the most turbulent and emotional issues
of our day: immigration reform. He had barely thrown out the first hints of a
new guest worker program yesterday when it came under a noisy assault from both
conservatives and advocates for immigrants. For simply reopening what has always
been a torturous debate in this country, the president deserves applause. He has
recognized that the nation's immigration system is, as he put it, "broken."

At first glance, it is not clear exactly how the Bush plan would clear up a
border policy that has become steadily less rational, humane and secure, as the
number of illegal immigrants here grows by 350,000 each year. But the president
started at the right place by addressing one of the basic conflicts in America's
immigration policy, that persistent tug of war between keeping the borders
secure and enticing needed low-paid workers to sneak past the immigration
agents. Essentially, the White House wants to create a guest worker program,
this one mostly for lower-skilled jobs. Yet for this proposal to be anything
more than a bow to Hispanic voters or a convenient prelude to meetings with the
Mexican government, Mr. Bush and his party have a lot of work to do.

The president says he wants to set up a job registry to list positions that no
American will take. Employers could hire immigrant workers for these posts --
either from abroad or from among those already working illegally in this
country. The workers accepting these new visas would have them for only a few
years. How many workers would be allowed into the program and what would happen
to them when the visas expired loom as large unanswered questions in this
proposal.

Despite the lack of details, the president's guidelines clearly do not
constitute a sweeping amnesty, as some anti-immigrant groups are labeling it. It
is a long way from that. In fact, there is reason to worry that if participants
in this guest program have no hope of eventually qualifying for permanent legal
residence, they may well slip back into the shadows when the visas come to an
end.

The president's outline seems to mirror a bill offered by three Arizona
Republicans: Senator John McCain and Representatives Jeff Flake and Jim Kolbe.
But that bill has the advantage of offering a real, if slower, path to a green
card for those among the nation's 8 million to 10 million illegal immigrants who
come forward to join the new visa system.

The president spoke emotionally and well about the nation's long dependency on
immigration, and he recalled the many hard-working immigrants he knew in Texas.
But he made it clear that his top priority was not ensuring the welfare of
illegal immigrants, but securing the nation's borders and meeting the economic
needs of this country. Even with that conservative pitch, any real improvement
in the immigration quagmire will still be a hard sell on Capitol Hill. Still,
Mr. Bush has begun the selling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Immigrants, Stories Of Scrutiny, and Struggle

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 818 words


As a Muslim immigrant growing up in New York, Navila Ali, 20, felt safe and
almost American until Sept. 11, 2001, she said yesterday, speaking out at an
unusual public hearing led by the bishop of Brooklyn to highlight the impact of
enforcement crackdowns on the city's immigrants.

Ms. Ali's father, a bookseller, was required to register with the government
simply because he was from Bangladesh. He dutifully reported to immigration
authorities, she said, and like thousands of other Muslim or Arab men, he was
detained and deported last year. His family stayed behind.

''I'm the oldest of three children, so everything is on me,'' said Ms. Ali, a
college student, breaking down at the microphone as she faced the bishop,
Nicholas DiMarzio, and a phalanx of community organizations. ''I've been here 12
years, and I always thought in my soul and heart, I'm American. I thought this
was the best place for protection. But I don't feel that way anymore.''

Such sentiments are sweeping immigrant communities in New York, Bishop DiMarzio
said, and not only among Muslims, who have borne the brunt of antiterrorism
measures. A wide spectrum of foreign-born residents feel the ripple effects,
from ballooning immigration application backlogs to the denial of driver's
licenses for longtime immigrant workers who cannot prove that they are working
legally.

''Things are worse than they've ever been, and I've been involved in immigration
for 30 years,'' the bishop said in an interview before the three-hour forum, at
St. Francis College in downtown Brooklyn. The forum was co-sponsored by the New
York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group and advocacy voice for more than
200 organizations that work with newcomers and support more lenient immigration
laws.

''The human impact is the issue -- people are suffering,'' the bishop said.
''Some of it is the unintended consequences of 9/11, but we have to do something
about it. It's immoral. It's just wrong.''

The forum underscored that the post-9/11 crackdown on immigrants is forging
unusual alliances between left-leaning civil liberties groups and religious
conservatives. Bishop DiMarzio headed the United States Bishops' Office of
Migration and Refugee Services and served as bishop in Camden, N.J., a heavily
immigrant city, before taking over the Brooklyn Diocese last year.

But he has drawn fire from liberals recently for praising the movie ''The
Passion of the Christ'' and for condemning same-sex marriage by likening it to
marriage ''between people and pets.''

One speaker at the forum, Artemio Guerra, executive director of the Fifth Avenue
Committee, a South Brooklyn advocacy group, stressed that it was the Clinton
administration that enacted a stringent 1996 immigration law authorizing more
detention and deportation and less due process.

''What we're seeing is 1996 on steroids,'' Mr. Guerra said.

Among several immigrants whose testimony was showcased yesterday was a Hispanic
street vendor who said she had become fearful of seeking police help, a
Pakistani father of two fighting deportation and the chairman of a Sikh temple
in Queens who said he was cursed and assaulted by a fellow passenger on a
Greyhound bus because of his turban.

The Sikh man, Gurdayal Singh, 41, a United States citizen, said his experience
last summer was unintentionally set in motion by an immigration agent who
boarded his New York-bound bus in Syracuse and publicly questioned his
immigration status. Later in the journey, the man sitting next to Mr. Singh
began to curse him as ''bin Laden'' and hit him. The bus driver tried to put
both him and his assailant off the bus in the middle of rural Pennsylvania, Mr.
Singh said, calling police only when he himself was punched by the other
passenger.

Mr. Singh said he took some comfort in the words of an elderly African-American
woman who urged that he stay on the bus. ''She told me: 'We went through this
problem. History repeats itself.'''

The experience of the Pakistani father, Arif Mahmoud, underlines how seemingly
separate issues are converging to divide families, advocates said.

As Mr. Mahmoud told it, he was in New York on a tourist visa when he fell in
love with a Pakistani woman of a different caste who became his wife.

She was a permanent United States resident who has since applied for American
citizenship, and he was not afraid to report for ''special registration,'' he
said, because his tourist visa had still been valid when she applied for an
immigrant visa on his behalf. But instead of waiting out its own application
backlog, he said, the government automatically moved to deport him.

He begged the audience to help him fight deportation, which would separate him
from his New York-born daughter, 2, and from his wife, now eight months pregnant
and in the hospital. ''It would be very difficult for my family to live in
Pakistan,'' he said. ''We have made America our home.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gurdayal Singh and Navila Ali were among those who spoke
yesterday at St. Francis College, in Brooklyn, about their troubles since 9/11.
(Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congress Looks to Grant Legal Status to Immigrants

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 971 words


Eighteen-year-old Yuliana Huicochea moved to the United States at age 4, but now
faces deportation because immigration officials stopped her on a school trip to
a science fair.

Ms. Huicochea's troubles began last year when she and other members of her high
school science team traveled from Phoenix to Buffalo to enter their 15-foot
solar-powered boat in the fair and decided to take a side trip to the Canadian
side of Niagara Falls. Immigration officials stopped Ms. Huicochea and three
teammates and told them they faced deportation because they were illegal
immigrants.

"I'm scared," said Ms. Huicochea (WEE-coe-CHAY-uh), now a sophomore at Phoenix
College, who declined to say what country she immigrated from. "I don't know any
other place. My whole family is here. This is where my education is, my dreams,
my goals. I don't know what I would do anywhere else."

Hispanic groups and immigrant advocates have embraced her cause, insisting that
it is wrong to expel teenagers who immigrated as toddlers. And now, with many
members of Congress thinking about next year's elections and paying increasing
attention to the concerns of Hispanics, the issue is gaining bipartisan interest
on Capitol Hill.

Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, is sponsoring a bill that would grant legal status to Ms. Huicochea
and tens of thousands of other high school students or graduates who are illegal
immigrants. His bill -- the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors
(or Dream) Act, has 36 sponsors, one-third of them Republican. His aides say
they expect the Judiciary Committee to approve the bill this week.

The bill is part of a wave of immigration legislation that has gathered
bipartisan momentum in recent weeks. One bill would grant accelerated
citizenship to immigrants who serve in the armed forces. Another would grant
legal status to 500,000 farm workers if they commit themselves to doing
agricultural work for several more years. That bill's main sponsors in the
Senate are Larry Craig, Republican of Idaho, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts. They say it has the support of the Senate leadership,
conservatives, liberals, agricultural employers, the nation's largest farm
workers' union, the Chamber of Commerce and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

"On the farm workers' bill," said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the
National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group, "you're talking about an
alliance of strange bedfellows who have agreed on a major policy that's in the
interests of the industry and the workers."

Sharon Hughes, executive vice president of the National Council of Agricultural
Employers, said, "For the first time, we have a large constituency for the
reforms."

Several lawmakers say their strategy is to use the farm workers' bill as a wedge
to advance other legislation that would grant legal status to other groups of
illegal immigrants, like the hundreds of thousands working in restaurants and
hotels.

"We think we have an excellent chance of getting the agricultural workers' bill
passed," Senator Kennedy said. "I'm drawing up follow-up legislation for other
industries. There's been a dramatic shift in the atmosphere on all this."

Republican backers in the House and Senate say the White House has signaled that
President Bush will sign the farm workers' bill if it reaches his desk.

Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said, "We are reviewing this
legislation and look forward to working with Congress."

Two years ago a push to grant legal status to millions of illegal immigrants was
gaining momentum as President Vicente Fox of Mexico pressed President Bush to
give a fairer deal to immigrant laborers. But the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, derailed those efforts, because the Bush administration began
concentrating on securing borders rather than helping immigrants.

"We are farther away from the horrors of Sept. 11, and we've had a chance to
digest it," said John F. Gay, co-chairman of the Essential Worker Immigration
Coalition, a business group that supports granting legal status to millions of
illegal immigrants. "People inside and outside of Congress are beginning to
understand that immigration reform makes you more secure."

Under the Craig-Kennedy bill, immigrants who want legal status must show that
they did farm work for 100 days over the past 18 months. They will then receive
temporary resident status, but if they fail to do 360 days of farm work over the
next six years, they will revert to illegal status. The bill would also reduce
many bureaucratic barriers that make it hard for farmers to bring in seasonal
guest workers from abroad.

"This is not an amnesty program," said Representative Howard L. Berman, a
California Democrat who is co-sponsoring the House bill with Christopher P.
Cannon, a Utah Republican. "This is an earned legalization program."

Opponents of helping illegal immigrants have vowed to fight the new bills. "It's
never time to reward people for breaking the law," said Representative Tom
Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who is one of Congress's most outspoken foes of
easing immigration rules. "That's the worst kind of public policy."

Mr. Hatch's legislation would grant legal status to teenagers like Ms. Huicochea
who have been in the United States at least five years, have graduated from high
school and have no criminal record. The bill would also lift a restriction that
discourages state universities from charging the lower in-state tuition rate to
illegal immigrants.

"We've gone to high school at taxpayers' expense, and now we can't give back to
the community because we face deportation," said Ms. Huicochea, who hopes to
become a lawyer. "The Dream Act is not only for our benefit, but for everybody.
We would be able to start giving back to the community."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yuliana Huicochea, 18, who has lived in the United States since
she was 4, says she is scared to be facing deportation as an illegal immigrant.
(Photo by Erik Guzowski for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Children

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 129 words


To the Editor:

Your moving report about undocumented children crossing the border into the
United States (front page, Nov. 3) serves as a reminder of the human cost of
current immigration policies.

Adding resources to border interception singles out certain kinds of immigrants
(those coming from Mexico and as far south as Ecuador), causes them to take
increasing risks in crossing through the desert, and has generally failed to
stem a flow of workers who respond to economic reasons rather than law
enforcement.

The result is hundreds of deaths a year, and children separated from their
families. Meanwhile, the United States economy continues to depend on low-wage
undocumented labor, andlonely children keep trying to cross north.

PABLO PICCATO
New York, Nov. 6, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 17, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Crime Database Misused For Civil Issues, Suit Says

BYLINE:   By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1056 words


The Departments of Justice and Homeland Security are unlawfully using a national
crime database to get local police departments to enforce civil immigration
laws, lawyers who have assembled a federal class-action lawsuit against the
practice said yesterday.

The lawsuit, which they plan to file today in Federal District Court in
Brooklyn, is the first to challenge the addition of civil information about
thousands of noncitizens to the National Criminal Information Center database,
which the F.B.I. uses to notify law enforcement agencies about people wanted for
crimes.

Immigration violations, like staying in the country after a visa has expired,
can lead to deportation but are not criminal matters and have traditionally been
the responsibility of federal agents.

Congress has neither authorized nor required local police agencies to routinely
arrest people for such violations, and a bill that would do so has drawn
unexpectedly strong opposition from many police departments, including those in
New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Houston, Denver, Boston and Chicago. Advocates for
immigrants argue that it would undermine local crime-fighting by making
immigrants even more fearful of reporting crimes or helping with police
investigations.

The plaintiffs in the lawsuit -- the National Council of La Raza, the New York
Immigration Coalition, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the
Latin American Workers Project and Unite -- contend that Attorney General John
Ashcroft, Homeland Security and the F.B.I. are misusing the database.

"Ashcroft is not waiting on Congress, not waiting for the courts, but seizing
power for himself under the guise of the war on terror," said Michael Wishnie, a
lawyer for the plaintiffs and an associate professor at the New York University
School of Law. "It will work a sea change in the relations between police and
immigration communities across the nation, to the detriment of us all."

Mr. Wishnie said he knew of at least one citizen who was mistakenly arrested in
New York and held for weeks because of inaccurate information in the database.
He said many people at risk of arrest by the local police because of immigration
violations were workers with no criminal records.

Government officials declined to answer questions about the lawsuit's claims,
but Jorge Martinez, a Justice Department spokesman, said the department always
cooperated with Homeland Security to make the crime database "the most effective
tool it can be in our effort to protect the American people."

The national crime database had its beginnings as a federal clearinghouse during
Prohibition, but because of concerns about overzealous agents it has been
restricted mainly to criminal justice records like rap sheets, criminal warrants
and stolen property records, the plaintiffs said. It does not include civil
records for matters like tax evasion or failure to pay child support, they
noted.

The only civil matters included in the database were specifically added by
Congress, like orders of protection against domestic violence and stalking,
added in 1994 as part of the Violence Against Women Act. Congress has resisted
involving local police officials in immigration law, although a 1996 law allowed
them to enter special agreements to do so with training and supervision. Only
Florida and Alabama signed up for the program.

Thousands of local, state, federal and tribal law enforcement agencies consult
the powerful database, at a rate of 3.7 million times a day, with an average
response time of 0.12 seconds. It is often consulted during routine traffic
stops or patrols.

Officials say a unit of the Department of Homeland Security in Burlington, Vt.,
adds the immigration violator records and checks them for accuracy. But the
plaintiffs say the poor quality of immigration records and the complexity of
immigration law make mistakes inevitable.

Last year, Mr. Ashcroft announced that the Justice Department's Office of Legal
Counsel had concluded that state and local police officials have "inherent
authority" to arrest and detain people who are in violation of immigration laws.
He has refused to make public the legal documents used in the decision.

When lawyers at the Migration Policy Institute, an advocacy and research
organization, questioned the legal basis for the change, Alberto R. Gonzales,
counsel to President Bush, replied in a June 2002 letter that "only high-risk
aliens who fit a terrorist profile" would be placed in the crime database. "The
administration is taking these measuresin its effort to strengthen homeland
security and combat terrorism," Mr. Gonzales added.

In practice, a senior immigration official said, more than 300,000 names of
noncitizens subject to deportation orders have been added since June 2002. Some
are felons, but many are noncitizens who had been ordered deported, usually
because they failed to leave the country when their visas expired.

Government officials have also announced their intention to add a category of
civil immigration records to the database: foreign students who have not
maintained enough credits, earned minimum grades or otherwise violated a
condition of a student visa, according to university records.

Since the change, local police departments have been making immigration arrests
when a routine check of the database confirms that someone is named as a
violator. As of late this year, 5,092 noncitizens with immigration violations
had been arrested by local police departments through routine computer checks.
The city with the most such arrests was Boston, with 631 since June, followed by
Los Angeles with 456, San Diego with 403, San Francisco with 347 and New York
with 317.

Some of the sharpest criticism of the practice has come from police officials.
Chris Ferrell, deputy director of the Houston Police Department, said his
department was "completely opposed" to including noncriminal information in the
database. "You're going to cut down the ability to solve a lot of crimes," Mr.
Ferrell said. "We need to be dealing with criminal law -- that's what we do
best."

If someone is deemed a national security risk, he added, immigration law
violations can be charged as crimes. He added: "With 10 million illegals in this
country, hopefully we don't have 10 million who are going to be security risks
or we are in a lot of trouble."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2003



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about a lawsuit challenging the inclusion of
civil immigration violations in the database of the F.B.I.'s National Crime
Information Center misstated the given name of the Houston Police Department
deputy director who criticized the practice. He is Craig Ferrell Jr., not Chris.
The article also misstated the title of Michael Wishnie, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, at New York University. He is a full professor, not an associate
professor.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Banker Linked to Jailed Russian Fighting to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 970 words


A week before Christmas, a green BMW rolled up to the Canadian border near
Buffalo. As the driver, Alexandre Konanykhine, a Russian seeking political
asylum in Canada, paid a bridge toll to leave the United States about a dozen
armed federal agents surrounded his car and arrested him, Mr. Konanykhine said.

American authorities then whisked him to a local airport and on to the Russian
Embassy in Washington, Mr. Konanykhine said, where they unsuccessfully attempted
to enforce a federal order that he be deported to Russia. Mr. Konanykhine, an
ex-banker, now sits in an Arlington, Va., jail awaiting a federal court hearing
next week.

Although Mr. Konanykhine is wanted in Russia on embezzlement charges filed
several years ago, he cites another reason for his predicament. A former partner
of imprisoned Russian tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, Mr. Konanykhine claims
that the only reason American officials are sending him home now is that Russian
prosecutors want to interrogate him about Mr. Khodorkovsky's business dealings.

"I am sure that I will be tortured in order to produce, from my own mouth,
evidence which I know is not true, but which will lead to Mr. Khodorkovsky's
illegal conviction and death," Mr. Konanykhine asserted in an affidavit he filed
in federal court in Alexandria in late December.

Federal immigration authorities, who work for the Department of Homeland
Security, declined to comment on Mr. Konanykhine's case.

Mr. Konanykhine has been hounded for more than a decade by questions about
possible financial improprieties or crimes, as well as his own proclamations
about uncomfortable encounters with Russian organized crime and corrupt former
KGB agents. All of this has complicated his efforts to seek political asylum in
America, and suggests possible directions that Russian prosecutors may be
following in their controversial case against Mr. Khodorkovsky.

Mr. Konanykhine first crossed paths with Mr. Khodorkovsky more than a decade
ago, when both men were starting banks in Russia. In late 1992, after he said he
was forced out of his bank, Mr. Konanykhine joined Mr. Khodorkovsky's bank,
Menatep, as vice president for international development. Mr. Konanykhine, in a
telephone interview this week, said that while most Russian banks at the time
were infiltrated by organized crime, his first bank and Menatep were not.

In 1994, Mr. Khodorkovsky briefly served as a director of the European Union
Bank, an Internet bank Mr. Konanykhine opened above a bar and restaurant on the
Caribbean island of Antigua. At the time, law enforcement officials regarded
Antigua as a haven for money laundering and other illicit banking activities,
and European Union Bank later collapsed amid accusations from various regulators
and auditors that it was a fraud. Mr. Khodorkovsky has said that he was a
director for just one week in 1994 and had no further involvement with it.
Neither he nor Mr. Konanykhine were ever charged with wrongdoing in connection
with the bank, and Mr. Konanykhine said this week that the bank's only purpose
was to provide off-shore tax shelters for clients.

Mr. Konanykhine left Menatep in 1994, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
notified him a year later that Russian organized crime figures had paid to have
him killed, according to court documents filed in conjunction with his
immigration case. Mr. Konanykhine said the contract on his life was arranged by
the KGB, which he said had a vendetta against him for exposing how former agents
and the mafia used banks to steal money from Russia.

American officials arrested Mr. Konanykhine on visa violation charges in 1996,
and Russian authorities accused him of embezzling at least $3 million from a
Moscow bank, a charge he denies. After a year in jail and tangled court
proceedings in the United States, he was granted asylum here in 1999.

In the meantime, Menatep, the European Union Bank and Antiguan banking
transactions were closely scrutinized by federal and European law enforcement
officials in the sprawling Bank of New York money laundering investigation of
the late 1990's. In the end, no banks were charged in the case, and only two
people pleaded guilty to money laundering.

A senior American law enforcement official involved in the investigation said it
stalled because Western authorities received inadequate cooperation from their
Russian counterparts, who, the official said, may have been intimidated by the
case's possible ties to senior Kremlin officials.

That all occurred under the Russian president, Boris Yeltsin, and the official
said that President Vladimir V. Putin might be more willing to help the
investigation. Mr. Konanykhine said he was never questioned in the Bank of New
York investigation, and Mr. Khodorkovsky has also denied any involvement. While
Mr. Khodorkovsky has said he believed that criminal funds moved from Russia
through the Bank of New York, he said he thought they were controlled by
government officials.

Mr. Konanykhine's current troubles began last November when immigration
officials revoked his asylum and ordered him returned to Russia, just a few
weeks after Mr. Khodorkovsky was jailed in Moscow. Immigration officials accused
Mr. Konanykhine of violating residency requirements, a charge he and his lawyers
dispute.

The federal judge hearing Mr. Konanykhine's case has already voiced concerns
about how American officials have handled the matter, suggesting that larger
political forces are involved. For his part, Mr. Konanykhine said he has nothing
but respect for Mr. Khodorkovsky and suspects him of no wrongdoing.

"Some people may have conspiracy theories about me and Menatep Bank and the
European Union Bank, but I'm prepared to be examined by anybody in a court," Mr.
Konanykhine said in a telephone interview. "Just not in Russia under torture."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 19, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old Deportation Orders Leading To Many Injustices, Critics Say

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words


Handcuffed, shackled, interrogated for nine hours and then locked up for two
days, Prof. Anatoly Bogudlov, a retired astrophysicist, kept expecting
Department of Homeland Security agents to realize they had made a mistake when
they arrested him at Kennedy Airport last week as he returned from a trip to
Moscow.

But though his arrest was based on bureaucratic errors buried for years in
immigration files, it was not exactly a mistake. Professor Bogudlov, 65, a
permanent resident of the United States who has visited Moscow 10 times in the
last eight years, has become one of 400,000 aliens caught up in a new Homeland
Security program to track people with old deportation orders against them.

The crackdown began in 2002 against immigrants from predominantly Muslim
countries and last June turned to those convicted of crimes, but in recent
months it has shifted to those from any country who have violated civilian
immigration rules. Many of those immigrants, like Professor Bogudlov, have no
idea there was an order of removal against them, because two-thirds of such
orders were issued in absentia when the immigrant failed to show up for a
hearing, according to the government's own study of the issue.

In some cases, the immigrant deliberately fled. But years of backlog, wrong
addresses and other faulty data so plague old Immigration and Naturalization
Service files, the 2002 Department of Justice study found, that the agency had a
chronic problem notifying immigrants of hearings and of removal orders.

Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the operation was an overdue enforcement of existing laws.
Immigrants with a final order of removal on file are not entitled to a hearing
or to bond, he said, because they have already exhausted their due process
rights. Nevertheless, Professor Bogudlov, who has a heart ailment, was released
Friday evening shortly after a reporter asked Mr. Courtney and other officials
about his detention.

In the astrophysicist's case, long after he legally obtained a green card that
was mailed to him in New York in 1996, his 1992 application for political asylum
as a Soviet Jew mistakenly remained on file, resulting in a 1999 hearing in
Denver, officials later confirmed. Notification was sent to the wrong address,
and when the professor did not show up, the case was automatically referred to
an immigration judge who issued a ''final order of removal'' in absentia against
him.

Compared with other cases, Professor Bogudlov, who still faces summary
deportation at a hearing March 5, can count himself lucky.

Yok Meng Chew, a former sushi chef with his own Brooklyn construction business,
a green card and three American children, was arrested in his home, held in a
New Jersey prison for nearly five months and almost deported to Malaysia in 2002
before he was able to prove that he had never received notice of a hearing on a
decade-old asylum application.

And a 44-year-old Indonesian woman living near Tampa , Fla., was deported to
Jakarta in August though she left behind 9-year-old American twin sons, a new
American husband and a daughter serving in the United States Army in
Afghanistan.

''I talked to the chaplain every week, asking why did they do this to my mother
when I am over here risking my life?'' the daughter, Pvt. Lewina Walters, 22,
asked in a Feb. 6 letter to Ellen Gorman, the lawyer representing her mother,
Elizabeth Sewiaten Navarro. ''I finally had a nervous breakdown.''

Family ties, usually a strong factor in immigration decisions, apparently carry
no weight in the current enforcement of old removal orders. Howard Facey, a
38-year-old construction worker and Jamaican immigrant whose ailing wife,
Georgiana, and three children are all United States citizens, was deported last
summer with no chance for a goodbye.

''I need my husband back,'' said Mrs. Facey, who is failing in her struggle to
support the children as a clerk in a midtown Duane Reade drugstore, commuting an
hour and a half from Canarsie in Brooklyn. ''He didn't commit a crime. I don't
see why they couldn't just give him a chance.''

The crackdown, called the Alien Absconder Apprehension Initiative, was intended
to improve the immigration agency's track record of deporting only 13 percent of
those who were not detained when they were ordered removed. But immigration
lawyers say it is leaving little room for even common-sense corrections of
bureaucratic errors.

''They don't want to create the appearance that they are soft on aliens in this
country and around the world,'' said Jonathan E. Avirom, a past president of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, who represented Mr. Chew. In Mr.
Chew's case, the problem stemmed from an application for a work permit that he,
like many others, filed through a travel agency in Chinatown in the early 1990's
by signing a blank form, the lawyer said.

The agency filed an asylum application on his behalf, using its own address, but
soon closed down. Years later, a notice of a hearing was sent to Mr. Chew at the
defunct travel agency. Though the notice was returned undeliverable, records
show, an immigration judge issued an in absentia deportation order against him.

Meanwhile, Mr. Chew obtained a green card through Mr. Avirom in 1999. But early
one morning in May 2002, armed immigration agents arrested him at his home and
jailed him in a Middlesex, N.J., prison. Even after a judge ordered Mr. Chew's
deportation stayed while the matter was sorted out, deportation agents put him
on an airplane to Malaysia, he said. Cellmates alerted his wife, who reached Mr.
Avirom just in time to halt the deportation.

Yet now, nine months after a judge ordered his permanent residency reinstated,
he still has no green card and is unable to travel. As he recalled how his
children saw him brought to court in an orange prison jumpsuit and shackles, Mr.
Chew's voice shook. ''Believe me, this you're going to remember forever,'' he
said.

No one was more surprised by the system they encountered than Professor
Bogudlov, who has worked on telescopes for NASA, and his relatives. When his
daughter visited him in detention, her effort to give him a paperback book by
Isaac Asimov was rejected. Rules require books to be mailed, she was told.

''All my life I thought I might be put in a Soviet prison,'' the professor told
his son-in-law, Julian H. Lowenfeld, an American and an immigration lawyer who
had been trying for two days to win his release. ''I always wondered what it
would be like. Unfortunately, I feel I know now. ''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prof. Anatoly Bogudlov, left, was arrested on the basis of
errors in immigration files. Yok Meng Chew was imprisoned and almost deported.
(Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can America Grow and Stay Green?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 177 words



To the Editor:

It is interesting that the debate over immigration policies is still being
fought in terms of diversity (''Bitter Division for Sierra Club on
Immigration,'' front page, March 16). The continuing status of the United States
as the world's most diverse society -- racially, ethnically and culturally -- is
already assured by current demographics.

The question for our time is not where our immigrants should come from but -- in
the interest of environmental justice and social justice for workers, both
citizens and immigrants -- how many there should be each year.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, we are now accepting
one million legal immigrants every year, and through lax enforcement of Social
Security registration regulations and other humane laws designed to help citizen
and legal immigrant workers, we encourage one million illegal immigrants to join
them.

Surely it is in everyone's shared interest, no matter what race, creed or
country of origin, to ask: Is this sustainable?

HILARY HINZMANN
New York, March 16, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Let Immigrants Vote?

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 122 words



To the Editor:

Extending voting rights to noncitizens (''Push Is On to Give Legal Immigrants a
Vote in the City,'' front page, April 8) is one of the most absurd political
ideas I have ever heard.

Everyone pays taxes and everyone consumes the services those tax revenues pay
for. It does not follow that paying taxes also confers the right to vote.

If legal immigrants want to live here and take advantage of what the United
States has to offer, fine. If they want to vote here and have a say in policy,
they should become citizens.

Perhaps we should consider extending voting rights to individuals who have
started the citizenship process, but not to those who have no interest in
joining us.

SETH SCHLUSBERG
Brooklyn, April 8, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2004 Tuesday
                                National Edition

Crosses on the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 490 words


Almost five months ago, President Bush announced that America's immigration
policy was ''broken'' and that he was ready to mend it. Instantly, the
anti-immigration forces in Mr. Bush's own party began venting their outrage
about anything that might impose a measure of rationality on the system,
especially if it eased the plight of the nation's millions of illegal
immigrants. The White House has barely mentioned the issue since.

Sadly, this brief story in Washington has turned into an ongoing tragedy in
places like the Sonoran Desert area in southern Arizona. American border agents
working that unforgiving terrain have reported a spike in immigrant deaths as
more people from Mexico try to navigate the deadly passage north. Many of them
come with the mistaken impression that America's president has now made it
possible for them to work in America legally. The plight of more immigrants
running what one minister in Arizona calls ''the gantlet of death'' should send
the latest and most urgent reminder to Washington. Mr. Bush and Congress need to
start dealing seriously with comprehensive immigration reform.

An overhaul of immigration policies that is humane and addresses both America's
economic and security needs will be a painstaking affair. But that is no
argument for waiting until after this year's elections to get started. In fact,
more delays by the Bush White House will raise suspicions that the president's
immigration policy was less a call for change than an appeal for Hispanic votes.
At the same time, immigrants suffer at the borders, America's black market for
labor thrives, and some 10 million immigrants live in an underground society
that hardly enhances the nation's security.

Two bills with strong bipartisan support in Congress could be passed swiftly
with the president's support. One, the ''AgJobs'' bill, would help give legal
status to half a million agricultural workers already laboring in this country.
Another, the Dream Act, would allow the illegal immigrants' children who have
grown up in this country to pay in-state tuition for college and eventually earn
a path to citizenship.

The groundwork has also been laid on Capitol Hill for a more comprehensive
reform. The president's vague proposal in January tracks a bill offered by
Senator John McCain of Arizona and two of his Republican colleagues, while
Democrats, including Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representative
Robert Menendez of New Jersey, offer a more attractive alternative. It's a shame
Mr. Bush refuses to prod these legislators to work on a compromise.

Mr. Bush early on identified the need for an ambitious immigration reform, but
he has failed to exert himself on its behalf. In the meantime, the death toll in
the desert keeps rising. The United States government has bought ads in Mexico
pleading for ''no mas cruces en la frontera.'' Maybe it's time to buy some of
those ads in Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 30, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cleared of Terror, Pakistani Faces Deportation on Felony

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 409 words


A former pizza deliveryman who raised suspicions after the Sept. 11 terror
attack by photographing a scenic vista in Hudson, N.Y., near a local
water-treatment plant, was told yesterday that he must leave the country.

The decision by the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement means that
arrangements to deport the deliveryman, Ansar Mahmood, 27, a legal immigrant
from Pakistan, will begin immediately.

Mr. Mahmood was cleared of any ties to terrorism, including tampering with the
water supply. But investigators charged him with harboring illegal aliens, a
felony, after uncovering evidence that he had helped some Pakistanis with
expired visas obtain housing and a car, according to immigration officials.

Mr. Mahmood pleaded guilty to the charge in early 2002 and faced deportation as
a result. He has been held in a federal detention center outside Buffalo, where
he has continued to challenge his deportation, aided by a group of peace
advocates in Columbia County, where he lived and worked.

After withdrawing his final appeal, Mr. Mahmood sought to have his deportation
deferred, a rarely used discretionary action by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement that places a lower priority on an alien's removal from the country.
The practical result is that the individual is allowed to stay.

But in turning down his request, the agency contended that Mr. Mahmood ''chose
to break the immigration laws which allowed him to immigrate to this country''
in the first place, said Michael W. Gilhooly, an agency spokesman. (Mr. Mahmood
had won a green card through a lottery in Pakistan.)

Mr. Gilhooly said the decision showed that the agency was ''committed to
returning the integrity to this country's immigration system.''

Mr. Mahmood's supporters criticized the action. Senator Charles E. Schumer, who
had written on Mr. Mahmood's behalf along with six other United States senators,
said in a phone interview that the decision demonstrated the ''brutal
unfairness'' of the agency's ''zero tolerance policy.''

The peace advocates who rallied to Mr. Mahmood's support faulted the federal
government for prosecuting Mr. Mahmood while ignoring the many American citizens
who harbor illegal aliens by employing nannies and other household help.

Mr. Mahmood, one of nine children, had told a number of journalists who covered
his case that he wanted to stay in the United States so he could continue to
support his impoverished family in Pakistan.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ansar Mahmood was denied a deferral of the deportation order,
which would have effectively allowed him to stay in the United States. (Photo by
Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 164 words



To the Editor:

In ''Ticket to Nowhere'' (June 20), you referred to the Federation for American
Immigration Reform as an ''anti-immigration'' organization.

FAIR works for the adoption of measures to combat illegal immigration and to
restore legal immigration to more moderate national levels. We see the current
admission level of more than one million new immigrants every year as
immoderately large and harmful to both society and the environment.

In our efforts, we know that we represent the views of a majority of the
American public; in a November 2003 national poll by the Pew Research Center,
more than three-quarters of Americans said they feel ''we should restrict and
control people coming into our country to live more than we do now.''

Just as it would be irresponsible to characterize a majority of the American
people as ''anti-immigration,'' it is also wrong to use that label for FAIR.

Dan Stein
Executive Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform
Washington

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wrongly Held: It Can Happen Here

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 166 words



To the Editor:

Your report on the detention of Purna Raj Bajracharya -- who in the guise of
immigration enforcement was locked up in solitary confinement in the aftermath
of Sept. 11, traumatized and mistreated for three months -- shows the enormous
human costs as well as the serious policy failures of the vast, secretive system
of immigration detention in the United States.

On June 28, the Supreme Court held that an American citizen designated as an
''enemy combatant'' must be afforded the opportunity to challenge the factual
and legal basis of his incarceration before a neutral adjudicator. This core
principle of due process should also extend to noncitizens who are locked up by
immigration authorities. Two years ago the Supreme Court ruled otherwise;
perhaps it is now wiser to the enormous risks inherent when the political
branches claim unreviewable authority to detain.

MARGARET TAYLOR
Winston-Salem, N.C., June 30, 2004

The writer is a professor at Wake Forest University School of Law.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Looking Back and Looking Ahead, Panel Assesses the Opportunities for Prevention

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES:
RESPONSIBILITIES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 433 words



Immigration Controls

   With thousands of agents patrolling the borders and scrutinizing foreign
visitors, the nation's immigration service could have helped deter the attacks,
the commission said. But it said that time and time again, the dysfunctional and
poorly resourced agency failed to detect the hijackers as they presented
fraudulent passports at airports, lied to border agents and violated immigration
laws in the months before the attacks.

Efforts have been made to strengthen the nation's border controls and
immigration enforcement since the attacks, but the system remains inadequate to
prevent terrorists from entering the United States and hiding here, the
commission said.

The report criticizes a program started this year to improve the screening of
foreign visitors by fingerprinting and photographing them at the nation's
busiest airports. The program, called U.S. Visit, screens travelers who need
visas to visit the United States and will expand in September to include
travelers from 27 industrialized nations, including European countries, who do
not need visas now.

The commission said those visitors constitute only about 12 percent of the
noncitizens who regularly cross the borders. It recommended that Mexicans and
Canadians, who make up the bulk of foreign travelers to the United States and
remain exempt from the program, should be required to carry passports that
enable them to be identified using face recognition, fingerprinting or other
technology.

The report also notes that data on foreigners who enter the country is still not
fully automated and that U.S. Visit still does not uniformly collect departure
data on visitors.

The report recommends that the Department of Homeland Security ''properly
supported by Congress,'' institute a broader ''entry-exit screening system'' as
soon as possible. It also calls for federal standards governing the issuance of
driver's licenses and birth certificates; several of the hijackers obtained
driver's licenses in the United States. It also recommends sharing more
information with allied governments.

At the time of the attacks, the commission reported, immigration inspectors did
not believe their role was to focus on terrorists and often lacked the
information needed to determine admissibility. The commission said 15 of the 19
hijackers were potentially vulnerable to interception by border officials.

Consequently, the commission urged the government to combine terrorist travel
intelligence, operations and law enforcement to prevent terrorists from entering
the United States.   RACHEL L. SWARNS

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Steps Put in Place To Aid Border Security

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC
SECURITY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 982 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25


Immigration officials said they had already started taking some of the urgent
steps recommended last week by the Sept. 11 commission to enhance border
security, but with intelligence reports describing the threat of a new attack as
extraordinarily high, the effort remains far from complete.

The Department of Homeland Security, created after the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001, has collected digital fingerprints and photographs from more
than six million foreign visitors since January, the first move toward creating
a comprehensive system to screen travelers as they arrive and depart. State
Department officials, who were criticized for issuing visas to the hijackers,
started collecting similar data in December as foreigners applied for visas in
174 of 211 visa-issuing embassies and consulates around the world.

Over the past six months, officials said, the two departments have turned away
hundreds of criminals, travelers with fraudulent passports and fake documents
and others barred from entry to the United States after immigration workers
screening visitors in airports and State Department officials interviewing visa
applicants in embassies compared their names, fingerprints and photographs to
those in available security databases.

Significant loopholes remain, however. There is no plan yet to screen
systematically millions of visitors from Mexico and Canada, a problem cited in
the commission's report. Most travelers from those countries, who make up the
bulk of foreign visitors here, enter and leave the United States without any
automated analysis of their photographs or fingerprints.

The system intended to track the departures of foreign visitors with digital
technology -- a security measure set up to ensure that travelers do not vanish
into the shadows after their arrival in the country -- might take several years
longer than expected to implement at land crossings.

''It is not clear the system can be installed before 2010, but even this
timetable may be too slow, given the possible security dangers,'' the commission
said of efforts to expand the entry-exit screening system.

Meanwhile, the Bush administration is still working to integrate its terrorist
watch lists so that border agents screening travelers have that data at their
fingertips. And the United States has yet to develop federal standards for
issuing driver's licenses and birth certificates, a problem highlighted by the
ease with which the Sept. 11 hijackers were able to obtain such documents.

The Sept. 11 commission called for such national standards, but proposed
legislation governing them has yet to pass Congress while individual states have
adopted an array of competing regulations for issuing driver's licenses.

Barry Steinhardt of the American Civil Liberties Association said civil
libertarians would closely monitor efforts to develop national standards for
identification and file lawsuits to block any legislation that infringes on
privacy rights.

Civil libertarians have also raised concerns about the State Department's plan
to begin issuing American passports embedded with facial recognition technology
and other detailed biographic data next year. The commission said American
citizens should be required to carry such passports, which are much harder to
counterfeit.

''The reality is that it's not going to happen overnight,'' said David Z.
Plavin, president of the Airports Council International of North America,
reflecting on the various security measures under way and under consideration.
The council represents the operators of about 150 airports in the United States.

''I think a lot of this stuff is appropriately set with a target date, but we're
going to have to accept the reality that the final implementation dates may very
well slip,'' said Mr. Plavin, pointing to the difficulties involved in
developing a system to track departing visitors. ''It's not because people
aren't working on it. It's because it's really complicated.''

Asa Hutchinson, the under secretary in charge of border security at the
Department of Homeland Security, said his department was moving as swiftly as
possible to protect the nation's borders. Officials noted that the department
began using digital technology to fingerprint and photograph travelers in
airports as part of the entry-exit screening program, called U.S.-Visit, about
10 months ahead of schedule.

Homeland security officials also noted that a pilot program to track travelers'
departure data will begin at O'Hare Airport in Chicago in August and expand to
12 additional airports in September.

''This initiative has added to security substantially by reducing a tool of
terrorists, and that is fraudulent passports,'' Mr. Hutchinson said of the
U.S.-Visit program.

Members of Congress have been urging the government to expand the use of
biometric technology, which captures digital fingerprints and photographs of
travelers and compares them to fingerprints and photographs in security
databases. At a hearing last month, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah,
urged the department to move speedily to implement the new technology.

''Every day that biometric identifiers are not utilized, our country and its
citizens are more vulnerable to terrorist attacks,'' Mr. Hatch, the chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement.

Mr. Hutchinson, who hailed the Sept. 11 commission's report as ''very
constructive'' and ''thoughtful,'' acknowledged that gaps remained. He said he
hoped the report would lend urgency to his efforts to expand U.S.-Visit and help
the agency garner additional financing from Congress, which has allocated less
to the program than President Bush requested.

''It's obvious that the program needs to be expanded,'' Mr. Hutchinson said.
''The report will help generate support for having that funded and for an
aggressive time line for its implementation.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Asia: Japan: Bobby Fischer Loses Appeal

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 124 words


Immigration officials have rejected an appeal by Bobby Fischer, the former world
chess champion, against their decision to deport him to the United States for
trying to travel on an invalid American passport. The decision was made Tuesday
at the end of a closed two-day hearing, according to John Bosnitch, a Canadian
journalist who acted as an adviser to Mr. Fischer in the proceedings. Mr.
Fischer, 61, who considers his detention ''a kidnapping,'' is wanted in the
United States for playing a rematch against Boris Spassky in the former
Yugoslavia in 1992 in defiance of international sanctions. He won and took away
$3 million in prize money, and has remained abroad since. Immigration officials
refused to comment on the details of the case.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

PUBLIC LIVES;
A Political Bulldog Who Does a Mean Merengue

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words


IT'S not enough that Councilman Hiram Monserrate sparred for months with Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg over the city's immigration policy, fomenting opposition
among council members and advocacy groups that led to a compromise last week.

He doesn't like the mayor's dancing, either.

Mr. Monserrate, the son of Puerto Rican immigrants who perfected his merengue
and mambo in the barrios of Queens, said he was underwhelmed by the mayor's much
ballyhooed meringue turn in the Dominican Republic last month.

"I dance much better than the mayor," Mr. Monserrate said with a laugh. "I hope
you quote me on that. When I go to events, I always dance, and, you know, I
dance pretty good. Sometimes, I get called the dancing councilman."

Mr. Monserrate, a stocky, soft-spoken man, has lately set himself apart from a
crowd of ambitious council members by taking on the role of the mayor's chief
critic on a particularly sensitive issue. And no, it's not the dancing.

Mr. Bloomberg had sought to comply with a federal court ruling that struck down
the city's longstanding policy prohibiting city employees from reporting illegal
immigrants to the federal authorities. In May, the mayor replaced the "don't
tell" policy with one of "don't ask."

But critics argued that the mayor's policy offered too few protections for
immigrants, and Mr. Monserrate, a Democrat, pounded away at it through the
summer. Mr. Bloomberg's standing with Hispanic voters, a crucial voting block in
any citywide election, plummeted even as he tried to cultivate closer ties by
dancing and marching in parades.

When Mr. Bloomberg moved to restore the "don't tell" provisions, he singled out
Mr. Monserrate during a ceremony to sign the new order. As Mr. Monserrate
beamed, the mayor joked that the councilman had been spending more time at the
mayor's end of City Hall than his own.

At 36, Mr. Monserrate, a policeman turned politician, has made a career of
challenging the authority of powerful city institutions as an outsider on the
inside. He grew up in Jamaica, Queens, the youngest of three children of a
maintenance worker and a home health aide who put in long, hard hours.

"The greatest inspiration in all my life were my parents," he said. "A lot of
things can be said about me, but I am an extremely hard worker and no one will
outwork me. And I'm determined."

After high school, Mr. Monserrate followed his brother, Joel, and his friends
into the Marine Corps reserves. "Everyone wanted to be with the Marines because
they were the coolest, the toughest and the sharpest-looking, and Rambo was
popular that year," he explained.

He joined the Police Department two years later, at age 20, and was dispatched
to patrol Queens streets in the evenings. (He spent his mornings taking
political science classes at Queens College, graduating with honors in 1998.)

Mr. Monserrate was soon fighting more than just crime. He helped found the
Latino Officers Association, and later filed a series of lawsuits against the
department, alleging discrimination, free speech violations and other civil
rights abuses. He left the force in 2000.

"I wouldn't say I was asking for trouble," he said. "I would say that the issues
I've been involved with have helped me to find out who I really am, and what it
is I really want to do."

That turned out to be the hard-scrabble world of local politics. After testing
the waters during a brief stint as a Democratic Party district leader, Mr.
Monserrate plunged right in by becoming the first Hispanic councilman elected
from Queens. His district encompasses Corona, Elmhurst, East Elmhurst and
Jackson Heights.

His inauguration in 2000 drew so many supporters that it was held in a converted
airplane hangar.

Earlier this month, Mr. Monserrate was re-elected for another two-year term by
defeating his Democratic opponent in the primaries with 75 percent of the vote.
(There is no Republican candidate.)

He serves as co-chairman of the Council's Black, Latino and Asian Caucus, which
has 24 members, and has taken the lead on several minority and labor issues. Mr.
Monserrate and his wife, Janet, have a 7-year-old son with autism, so he has
also sponsored a bill that would require the city to install air-conditioning on
school buses that transport disabled children.

BUT his biggest splash yet has been over the city's immigration policy. He says
he was galvanized by the Justice Department's crackdown on illegal immigrants
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, and then by Mr. Bloomberg's first
immigration order.

"Muy mala," he says, shaking his head. "The executive order was a disaster, and
we had to take it on."

Mr. Monserrate, a self-described workaholic, is known in Council as someone to
have on your side because he can be a relentless, even merciless, opponent. He
has been variously likened to a bull, a bulldog, even a pit bull. "I've heard
that," Mr. Monserrate concedes. "But I think I'm a little better looking than a
bulldog."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Hiram Monserrate

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: HIRAM MONSERRATE (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York
Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Rally in City, Seeking Rights

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1156 words


Tens of thousands of immigrants rallied in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in
Queens yesterday with the hope of promoting an immigrants' rights movement that
will capture the nation's conscience the way the 1960's civil rights movement
did.

Coming from Mexico, China, Haiti and many other countries, the immigrants are
seeking to persuade lawmakers in Washington to, among other things, grant legal
status to more than 8 million immigrants.

"America is a land of immigrants; it was built by immigrants," said Roger
Toussaint, an immigrant from Trinidad who is president of New York City's
Transport Workers Union. "The justice that was extended to the immigrants of the
past should be extended to the immigrants of today."

Organizers estimated that about 100,000 immigrants and their supporters crowded
into the park, where they rallied alongside the giant steel globe, known as the
Unisphere, that was the symbol of the 1964-65 New York World's Fair.

Cardinal Edward M. Egan, the archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New
York, was welcomed with heavy applause and spoke for 10 minutes in Spanish
before turning to English.

"We cannot go on simply ignoring and tolerating the plight of our brothers and
sisters," Cardinal Egan said. "Families are being damaged by cruel separation
and in all too many instances shameful advantage is being taken of men and women
in the work force who do not have proper papers."

The rally was the final effort in a two-week campaign known as the Immigrant
Workers Freedom Ride, in which 18 buses carrying 900 immigrants and their
supporters traveled from Los Angeles, Seattle and eight other cities to
Washington and New York to press their case for immigrants' rights. The effort
was inspired by the 1961 Freedom Rides, in which blacks and their allies boarded
buses to help end segregation in bus terminals in the South. White vigilantes
severely beat some of those freedom riders and firebombed one of their buses.

"Forty-two years later, the freedom riders of 2003, you, are going to win,"
Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia and an organizer of the 1961
freedom rides, told the crowd. "We are one people, we are one family, we are one
house, and we are not going to let anybody turn us around. We've come too far."

The rally was in many ways a multicultural festival, with salsa and reggae
music, signs in Creole and Spanish, and wafting smells of tortillas and jerk
chicken.

The demonstrators called for granting legal status to illegal immigrants, for
creating more family reunification visas and for increased workplace protections
for immigrants because they are often exploited on the job. In addition, the
demonstrators called for an end to civil liberty violations against immigrants,
complaining that many law-abiding immigrants have faced harassment and
detentions since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

In 2001, the immigrants' rights movement was gathering steam as the Mexican
government worked with immigrants' groups and labor unions to persuade Congress
and President Bush to grant legal status to many illegal immigrants. But the
Sept. 11 attacks derailed that push because the government's focus turned to
border security.

Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio of the Diocese of Brooklyn said that the way immigrants
have been treated was a blot on the nation's conscience. "They are often
ridiculed, exploited and abused," he said to loud cheers. "This must stop, and
this immoral system must be changed."

Church groups, labor unions and immigrants groups sent hundreds of buses to the
rally, while many demonstrators arrived by subway and car. Chartered buses
brought students from Brown, Columbia, Wesleyan, Yale and other schools.

Organizers chose Queens for the rally largely because it has so many immigrants
from so many different countries and is widely seen as one of the nation's most
diverse counties. At the rally, flags from Colombia, Haiti, El Salvador and
other countries waved in the light drizzle.

Marian Thom, who works as a paraprofessional at a middle school in Chinatown,
said she came to the rally because, "We need to do more to reunify families. And
we need better jobs because immigrants have the lowest-paying jobs."

Organized labor was the rally's chief financial sponsor because unions are
hoping to improve relations with immigrants, secure better working conditions
and persuade many to join unions.

"The struggle of immigrant workers is our struggle," said the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s
president, John J. Sweeney, whose father was an Irish immigrant. "We believe, as
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. believed, that injustice anywhere is a threat to
justice everywhere."

Critics questioned the effectiveness of the freedom ride and Flushing Meadows
rally. Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
a research group that favors stronger restrictions on immigration, said, "The
people who would need to be persuaded to support an amnesty for illegal
immigrants are Republicans, and busloads of illegal immigrants hijacking the
vocabulary of the civil rights movement is not a recipe for currying favor with
Republican congressmen."

Many employers, including hotels, restaurants and agricultural growers, support
the immigrant rights movements, believing that granting legal status to illegal
immigrants would spare employers the risk of illegally employing illegal
workers. But critics of eased immigration rules warn that granting legal status
to illegal immigrants will merely spur new waves of illegal immigration.

The rally's sponsors have not detailed what legislation they would like to grant
legal status to illegal immigrants. But in a rally in Washington on Thursday,
the sponsors voiced support for a bill that would grant legal status to more
than 500,000 farm workers and to illegal immigrants who have lived in the United
States for five years and have graduated from American high schools.

The crowd appeared as a sea of colorful signs and shirts, that said, "No Human
is Illegal," "Justicia, Amnestia, Libertad," and "Building Immigrants' Voices
and Votes,"

Speaker after speaker said the rally should be the beginning and not the end of
an effort, with immigrants stepping up their campaign for expanded rights and
protections.

As the bus riders crossed the country, they held rallies in Tucson; Memphis;
Birmingham, Ala.; Boise, Idaho; New Haven and 100 other cities.

Outside El Paso, Tex., immigration officials stopped two buses traveling from
Los Angeles and threatened riders with arrest and deportation. The riders
refused to show their documents, and after a three-hour stalemate, they were
released, but only after union presidents, members of Congress and bishops
called the Bush administration to ask that the buses be let go.

"People do want to see change in this country that gives everyone a fair break,"
said Maria Elena Durazo, the chairwoman of the rally. "I think it's a new day
for the immigrant community."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of a group that came by bus from Los Angeles were among
thousands taking part yesterday in an immigrants' rights rally in Queens. (Photo
by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 35)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH ON IMMIGRATION;
Excerpts From Bush's Address on Allowing Immigrants to Fill Some Jobs

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 950 words


Following are excerpts from President Bush's address at the White House on
Wednesday about immigration changes, as recorded by The New York Times:

As a nation that values immigration and depends on immigration, we should have
immigration laws that work and make us proud. Yet today we do not. Instead we
see many employers turning to the illegal labor market. We see millions of
hard-working men and women condemned to fear and insecurity in a massive
undocumented economy. Illegal entry across our borders makes more difficult the
urgent task of securing the homeland. The system is not working.

Our nation needs an immigration system that serves the American economy and
reflects the American dream.

Reform must begin by confronting a basic fact of life and economics. Some of the
jobs being generated in America's growing economy are jobs American citizens are
not filling. Yet these jobs represent a tremendous opportunity for workers from
abroad who want to work and to fulfill their duties as a husband or wife, a son
or a daughter. Their search for a better life is one of the most basic desires
of human beings.

Out of common sense and fairness our laws should allow willing workers to enter
our country and fill jobs that Americans are not filling. We must make our
immigration laws more rational and more humane. And I believe we can do so
without jeopardizing the livelihoods of American citizens.

Our reforms should be guided by a few basic principles. First, America must
control its borders. Following the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, this duty of the
federal government has become even more urgent. And we are fulfilling that duty.
. . .

Second, new immigration laws should serve the economic needs of our country. If
an American employer is offering a job that American citizens are not willing to
take, we ought to welcome into our country a person who will fill that job.

Third, we should not give unfair rewards to illegal immigrants in the
citizenship process or disadvantage those who came here lawfully or hope to do
so.

Fourth, new laws should provide incentives for temporary foreign workers to
return permanently to their home countries after their period of work in the
United States has expired.

Today I ask the Congress to join me in passing new immigration laws that reflect
these principles, that meet America's economic needs and live up to our highest
ideals.

I propose a new temporary worker program that will match willing foreign workers
with willing American employers when no Americans can be found to fill the jobs.
This program will offer legal status as temporary workers to the millions of
undocumented men and women now employed in the United States and to those in
foreign countries who seek to participate in the program and have been offered
employment here. This new system should be clear and efficient so employers are
able to find workers quickly and simply.

All who participate in the temporary worker program must have a job or, if not
living in the United States, a job offer. The legal status granted by this
program will last three years and will be renewable, but it will have an end.
Participants who do not remain employed, who do not follow the rules of the
program or who break the law will not be eligible for continued participation
and will be required to return to their home.

Under my proposal, employers have key responsibilities. Employers who extend job
offers must first make every reasonable effort to find an American worker for
the job at hand. Our government will develop a quick and simple system for
employers to search for American workers. Employers must not hire undocumented
aliens or temporary workers whose legal status has expired. They must report to
the government the temporary workers they hire and who leave their employ so
that we can keep track of people in the program and better enforce our
immigration laws. There must be strong workplace enforcement with tough
penalties for anyone, for any employer violating these laws.

Undocumented workers now here will be required to pay a one-time fee to register
for the temporary worker program. Those who seek to join the program from aboard
and have complied with our immigration laws will not have to pay any fee.

All participants will be issued a temporary worker card that will allow them to
travel back and forth between their home and the United States without fear of
being denied re-entry into our country.

This program expects temporary workers to return permanently to their home
countries after their period of work in the United States has expired. And there
should be financial incentives for them to do so. I will work with foreign
governments on a plan to give temporary workers credit when they enter their own
nation's retirement system for the time they have worked in America. I also
support making it easier for temporary workers to contribute a portion of their
earnings to tax-preferred savings accounts, money they can collect as they
return to their native countries. After all, in many of these countries a small
nest egg is what is necessary to start their own business or buy some land for
their family.

Some temporary workers will make the decision to pursue American citizenship.
Those who make this choice will be allowed to apply in the normal way. They will
not be given unfair advantage over people who have followed legal procedures
from the start. I oppose amnesty, placing undocumented workers on the automatic
path to citizenship. Granting amnesty encourages the violation of our laws and
perpetuates illegal immigration. America's a welcoming country, but citizenship
must not be the automatic reward for violating the laws of America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Agree to Hear Two Deportation Cases

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23


An immigrant who has been deported to Haiti and another facing imminent
deportation to Somalia persuaded the Supreme Court on Monday to hear their
appeals, each raising a separate and disputed question of current immigration
law.

The issue in the first case is whether a conviction for drunken driving that
causes injury can be considered an ''aggravated felony,'' which makes a lawful
permanent resident subject to deportation. In 2002, the government deported
Josue Leocal, a Haitian-born resident of Miami, after he served a two-year state
prison sentence for causing ''serious bodily injury'' while driving under the
influence of alcohol.

Under Florida law, that offense is a ''crime of violence,'' which in turn is
part of the definition of ''aggravated felony'' under federal immigration law.
The lower federal courts have disagreed on whether drunken driving can
appropriately be placed in that category. Mr. Leocal had no previous arrests
during his 19 years in the country.

The question in the second case is whether natives of Somalia, many who came
here as refugees, can be sent back without the consent of the Somali government.

A Somali man, Keyse G. Jama, who entered the United States as a 17-year-old
refugee in 1996, is arguing that federal law requires the consent of the
receiving country before someone can be deported there. He was convicted of
assault in Minnesota after a fight with another Somali man.

Somalia has no central government, and the United States has no diplomatic
relations with the country. Nor does Somalia issue passports. Before a federal
district judge in Minneapolis granted Mr. Jama's petition for a writ of habeas
corpus, federal immigration officials had planned to take him to Dubai and put
him on a flight from there to Somalia.

At that point, his lawyers say, he would have become ''a stateless person with
no travel documents or identity papers in a war-torn region with no central
government.'' He is represented by Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights and
without charge by Briggs & Morgan, a Minneapolis law firm.

An analysis of Somali deportations that was prepared by the Justice Department's
Office of Legal Counsel in 2002 concluded that ''there exist extraordinary and
temporary conditions in Somalia'' that prevent the safe return of Somali
citizens.

In both cases, the Bush administration urged the Supreme Court to reject the
appeals.

In the Somali case, Jama v. Immigration and Naturalization Service, No. 03-674,
the administration said the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, in St. Louis, had correctly interpreted immigration law not to require
the consent of the receiving country. The appeals court overturned the district
court's grant of habeas corpus, but delayed issuing its opinion until the
Supreme Court could review the case.

If consent were required, the administration told the justices, ''foreign
governments could prevent the United States from repatriating their nationals
merely be failing to indicate acceptance of the repatriation.''

The United States has deported 200 Somalis since 1997. In a separate case last
year, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, based
in San Francisco, issued an injunction barring further deportations to Somalia.
The administration is seeking a rehearing by the full appeals court.

In the drunken driving case, Leocal v. Ashcroft, No. 03-583, the administration
told the court that the case was inappropriate for review for procedural
reasons. The relationship between drunken driving felony convictions and federal
immigration law presents ''difficult questions,'' the administration said.

The federal appeals courts are divided on the issue, with most ruling that
drunken driving offenses, even those involving injury or death, cannot be
considered crimes of violence without proof of some degree of criminal intent.
In the Leocal case, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in
Atlanta, held that it lacked jurisdiction to consider Mr. Leocal's appeal from
an order of the Board of Immigration Appeals. Mr. Leocal is being represented
without charge by the King & Spalding law firm here.

In a separate development, the Sierra Club formally asked Justice Antonin Scalia
to recuse himself from hearing Vice President Dick Cheney's appeal before the
Supreme Court on whether he is legally entitled to keep secret the proceedings
of his energy task force.

The Sierra Club, which sued for release of the information, is arguing that
after Justice Scalia's duck-hunting trip with the vice president last month, his
impartiality is open to reasonable question -- a test for a judge's
disqualification under federal law -- and notes that in fact it has been widely
questioned in news accounts and editorials around the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2004 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Bitter Division For Sierra Club On Immigration

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words


The leadership of the Sierra Club, the landmark environmental organization, is
enmeshed in a bitter struggle over whether to advocate tough immigration
restrictions as a way to control environmental damage that has been associated
with rapid population growth.

The debate is unusual in its intensity, even for an organization whose fractious
disputes are legendary. It focuses on efforts by several outsiders and
grass-roots members of the club to win seats on the board of directors. The
dissident group is led by Richard D. Lamm, the former Democratic governor of
Colorado, who has argued for 20 years that national policies leave the country
open to unsustainable immigration.

At stake is the leadership of an organization of 750,000 members that has a
112-year history of pushing conservation and pollution issues into the national
consciousness and federal law.

For weeks, both camps have issued charges and countercharges and the dissidents
have filed two lawsuits, neither of which is active.

For starters, the executive director of the club, Carl Pope, said that Mr.
Lamm's supporters were ''in bed with racists.'' An internal group supporting the
mainstream candidates further contends that Mr. Lamm and his fellow candidates
are unwitting blocking backs for a stealthy network of nativist groups that
wants to take control of the organization, which was founded by a Scottish
immigrant, John Muir.

In response, those who support immigration controls of some sort argue that the
club's leadership must confront the roots of future environmental crises. Mr.
Lamm defended his position, saying charges of indirect connections to racist
groups are ''right out of Joe McCarthy.''

In a telephone interview, Mr. Lamm said: ''I have been monomaniacal in some ways
about how America is ducking this issue. I have a grandchild in utero. If that
child is long-lived, she might see a billion Americans.''

Mr. Lamm freely acknowledges that he has not been a member of the Sierra Club
for years, but said he wanted to become an active participant to push the
immigration issue. Over the past several decades, he has shown a penchant for
divisive issues, saying at one point that the terminally ill had a ''duty to
die.''

Because the board already includes several members who have challenged their
fellow directors on immigration and development issues, the election of more
directors from outside the club leadership could put majority power in the hands
of the challengers and alter the group's positions on everything from
immigration to regional and local development.

Immigration is the flashpoint issue. About 39 percent of the United States'
population gain over the past decade is a result of direct immigration, Census
Bureau statistics show; the most recent annual figure is 45 percent. Of that, an
estimated 288,000, or 20 percent of the total, have settled in California, the
Sierra Club's home base.

Twice in the last eight years, the club has become embroiled in sharp debates
over the approach to take on population and immigration issues. Mr. Lamm says he
wants to put immigration back on the agenda, where it was until 1996 when the
club's board decided to take a neutral stance on the issue. Two years later, the
membership voted by a 3-to-2 ratio to maintain that stance.

Since then, at least five people who were not endorsed by the board's leadership
have been elected to the 15-member board by the members. Under the club's
rotation system, directors serve for three years; five are elected each year.

The Sierra Club, invigorated in the 1950's and 1960's by David Brower, has an
annual budget of $83 million. The board election began this month; ballots are
to be counted April 21.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. Pope, the executive director, said there were two
essential reasons for the rancorous dispute. One is the outside candidates' lack
of active involvement in the club. The second is their choice of a centerpiece
issue. During a similar debate some years ago, Mr. Pope said, he decided that
''this issue is so deeply charged with a lot of issues, including xenophobia and
racism, that you can't get into it and have a clean debate and therefore you
just couldn't try.''

Also, he said, ''People who are good people get sucked up with people I think
are not good people.''

The leaders of the antiestablishment faction argue that the debate has been
manipulated to bring up the electric issue of race because the leadership is
desperately trying to keep control and block independent-minded people from the
board.

Among the dissidents on the board is Paul Watson, a Canadian who was a
co-founder of Greenpeace and who has bitterly opposed the board majority on a
number of issues. Mr. Watson, whose passion for marine life has led him to ram
boats he deems to be fishing illegally, left Greenpeace to found a group called
the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society.

Mr. Watson, who describes himself as ''antitrapping and antihunting,'' but
rejects the label of animal rights supporter, nonetheless told an animal rights
convention last fall, ''One of the reasons that I'm on the Sierra Club board of
directors right now is to try and change it -- we're only three directors away
from controlling that board.''

He said, ''once we get three more directors elected, the Sierra Club will no
longer be pro-hunting and pro-trapping and we can use the resources of the
$95-million-a-year budget to address some of these issues.''

Among the dissident candidates are Mr. Lamm; David Pimentel, a Cornell
entomologist; and Frank Morris, the former executive director of the
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. Mr. Pope and Larry Fahn, the board
president, contend that members of the internal faction supporting those
candidates have ties to racist groups or Web sites -- a claim first made by a
staff member at the Southern Poverty Law Center, a liberal Alabama group.

While Mr. Pope is critical of the internal backers of Mr. Lamm, Mr. Pimentel and
Mr. Morris, he says he does not believe they are racists. But, he added, ''if
somebody who isn't a Nazi is put on the ballot by the American Nazi party'' it
can be difficult to disentangle the candidate's views from those of the backers.

Other opponents of the outside slate of directors argue that strong support of
immigration controls could alienate donors and dilute the club's political
clout.

The faction within the club that has been agitating for an emphasis on the
immigration issue includes a dissident director, Ben Zuckerman, a professor of
physics and astronomy at U.C.L.A.

Mr. Zuckerman has referred admiringly to the writings of both well-known and
obscure advocates of immigration controls. One, John Tanton, a former Sierra
Club official who later founded the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
has drawn national attention and received financial backing from conservative
foundations. Another, Brenda Walker, a Sierra Club member, recently urged
readers of the anti-immigrant Web site www.vdare.com to join the club and vote
for the outside candidates.

In a column about Hmong immigrants on that site, she wrote, ''So will thousands
of drug-addicted polygamists be welcomed into America in another escalation of
multiculturalism against American values?''

Mr. Zuckerman said Monday, ''I wouldn't make that statement myself, but I think
it's cultural,'' adding, ''I don't think that's a question of race.''

Mr. Pope and his supporters are trying to frame the election in terms of Mr.
Watson's boast about taking over the board and the views of Ms. Wilson and Mr.
Tanton, not in terms of the views of the dissenting candidates. In fact, one
dissenter, Mr. Pimentel, said in an interview that he backed the club's neutral
position on immigration.

The charge that his supporters are racist leaves Mr. Lamm livid. ''I hurt,'' he
said in an interview Friday. ''Because nobody has ever, ever brought a stain on
my reputation like this small clique of people in the Sierra Club. Not in my
worst campaign.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2004



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Tuesday about elections for the board of the
Sierra Club included an erroneous quotation from remarks made in 1984 by Richard
D. Lamm, former Democratic governor of Colorado, who is leading a group of
challengers for seats. In the 1984 speech, Mr. Lamm said, ''We've got a duty to
die and get out of the way with all of our machines and artificial hearts and
everything else like that and let the other society, our kids, build a
reasonable life.'' As The Times acknowledged in a 1993 editors' note, he did not
say the terminally ill had a ''duty to die.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl Pope, left, the executive director of the Sierra Club,
said supporters of dissident candidates for the club's board like Richard D.
Lamm, right, the former Democratic governor of Colorado, were ''in bed with
racists.'' (Photo by Steven R. Nickerson/The Rocky Mountain News)
 (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. A23)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 26, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; Editors' Note

LENGTH: 183 words


A front-page article on March 16 about board elections for the Sierra Club
described dissident candidates who favor restrictions on immigration. Club
officials characterized supporters of the dissidents as having ties to racist
groups or Web sites and as unwitting blocking backs for nativist groups.

A response from one candidate, Frank L. Morris, a retired professor and former
executive director of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, should have
been obtained along with those of other candidates.

Mr. Morris disputes those characterizations, saying his support for limiting
immigration reflects concerns among African-Americans and others that unchecked
immigration had hurt their economic opportunities. ''To have this considered a
position as a front for racists and Nazis is beyond the pale,'' he wrote in an
e-mail message. In addition, he listed other campaign positions critical of the
organization's leadership and agenda, contending that the immigration platform
was not a ''centerpiece'' of his candidacy as club officials contended.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editors' Note

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Push Is On to Give Legal Immigrants A Vote in the City

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words


At first glance, it may seem a long shot in an era of orange alerts and
stepped-up border patrols. But quietly and carefully, elected officials, labor
unions and community groups are starting to push the notion of allowing legal
immigrants who are not United States citizens to vote in New York City
elections.

Supporters say it is not an outlandish proposition. They point out that even
without citizenship, legal immigrants pay taxes, send their children to public
schools and serve in the military. Noncitizens in many states were allowed to
vote in local, state and even Congressional elections as recently as the 1920's.
Until New York City moved to abolish its school boards two years ago, all
residents had the right to vote for and serve on them. And although a proposal
to open city elections to immigrants was raised 10 years ago without success,
some people believe that the time may now be right.

In the last decade, five towns in Maryland have allowed noncitizens, even
illegal immigrants, to vote in local elections. Campaigns for immigrant voting
rights are under way in several cities, including Hartford; Cambridge, Mass.;
and Washington, where Mayor Anthony Williams has said he supports giving legal
immigrants the vote in District of Columbia elections.

Those initiatives may be taken more seriously in a campaign season when
politicians in both major parties are making overtures to immigrants, as
President Bush has with his proposal to grant temporary legal status to millions
now living here illegally.

For the moment, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has declined to express an opinion on
the subject, and Gifford Miller, the speaker of the City Council, said this week
that he was still studying the legal issues. Several union locals have quietly
indicated their support, though only one has formally joined the coalition that
is promoting the idea.

At a minimum, it is an intriguing prospect in a city with about a million legal
immigrants of voting age who are not citizens -- equivalent to more than a fifth
of the total number of current voters. Granting those people, most of them
Hispanic or Asian, the right to vote could change the electoral calculus in a
number of arenas, from the races for mayor and the five borough presidents to
ballot questions on city borrowing and building projects.

The new voters would be more likely to elect minority candidates, political
analysts say, and could force politicians to become more responsive to issues
like deportation policy and immigrant access to health care. If voting rights
were extended to the state level -- truly a long shot at this point -- the
effects would be even greater, forcing redistricting that could affect the
balance of power in Congress. Although all residents are counted when district
lines are redrawn, normally only eligible voters are included when the new
districts are challenged in court under the Voting Rights Act.

''This would be seismic in its impact,'' said Roberto Ramirez, a political
consultant and lawyer who has served as a state assemblyman and chairman of the
Bronx Democratic Party. ''Both parties would have to develop a different mindset
to address policy issues for those residents who have historically not been part
of the political process.''

Nationally, there are more than 10 million legal immigrants who are not
citizens, according to estimates based on census figures. Some are waiting to
become citizens, a process that often takes as long as 10 years with the current
backlog of applications. Others are not eligible for citizenship because they
are here on temporary visas, or have simply not applied.

In New York City, the latest proposals are still being drafted by two council
members, Bill Perkins and John C. Liu. Supporters all agree that whatever
measure surfaces, it should extend the vote to legal immigrants who are eligible
to become citizens. Some would prefer a broader law to include anyone who pays
taxes, regardless of immigration status.

There will certainly be opponents. Critics say that giving newcomers the right
to vote would undermine the very idea of citizenship.

''Extending voting rights to noncitizens eliminates the last distinction between
people who have accepted permanent membership in the American people and those
who have not,'' said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington group that favors greater restrictions on
immigration. ''That distinction is important to maintain.''

The political landscape affecting the proposal has changed in recent years. When
the idea was first broached in New York and Washington in the early 1990's, some
black community leaders opposed it, seeing immigrants as political and economic
competitors. That is no longer true, at least in New York, where a number of
black leaders and elected officials say they see the effort as an extension of
the civil rights movement. Mr. Perkins, one of the councilmen drafting
legislation, is African-American.

A stumbling block was removed this year when lawyers for the City Council
reviewed state election law and decided that the city could alter its voting
statutes without the approval of the State Legislature, where noncitizen voting
measures were introduced without success three times during the 1990's. Nothing
in New York State's Constitution forbids voting by noncitizens.

A dozen New York organizations have formally joined a coalition that is actively
promoting the cause; they have organized community meetings and held a
conference last month at City College in Manhattan. Half are immigrant-based
groups like the Asian-American Legal Defense and Education Fund and New
Immigrant Community Empowerment, and some others have links to organized labor.
Immigrant sponsors have a clear self-interest: their politicians would
presumably get new votes, and their communities would get more influence.

Seven or eight other organizations, including three union locals with strong
immigrant membersips and some nonprofit political and legal groups like Common
Cause, say they support the idea as well.

The groups say their optimism is based in part on the Bloomberg administration's
general receptiveness to immigrant concerns.

''In the past two years New York has passed strong laws that protect immigrants
and give them better access to government, and we are confident New Yorkers will
support voting rights once they fully understand the issue,'' said Bryan
Pu-Folkes, the executive director of New Immigrant Community Empowerment, based
in Queens.

Noncitizen voting is sometimes dismissed as a left-wing hobbyhorse that can
succeed only in overwhelmingly Democratic places, like the towns in Maryland
where such laws have passed.

Still, it is not at all clear that the new voters would favor one party over the
other, said John Mollenkopf, the director of the Center for Urban Research at
the City University of New York. In their last elections, Mr. Bloomberg and Gov.
George E. Pataki each drew more than a third of the Hispanic vote in New York
City, Mr. Mollenkopf estimated, a strong showing for Republican candidates.
Asian voters are even more likely than Hispanic voters to lean Republican, he
said.

Whatever the political fallout, some opponents argue that noncitizen voting is
bad policy and would remove an incentive to becoming a full United States
citizen. The idea's proponents counter that getting the right to vote could help
provide a political education for new immigrants and give them an appetite for
voting in presidential elections, which is restricted to citizens by federal
law.

''In many ways, this prepares people,'' said Gouri Sadhwani, the executive
director of the New York Civic Participation Project, one of the groups pressing
the issue. ''They start local, and then they become citizens and vote in
national elections.''

All of these arguments have long histories. From the founding of the nation
until the early 20th century, immigrants had a civic voice that many citizens,
including blacks and women, did not. At various times, they voted in 22 states
and federal territories (though New York moved early, in 1804, to restrict
voting to citizens).

The practice known as ''alien suffrage'' was less common in the South than other
parts of the country, largely because new immigrants tended to be hostile toward
slavery. The first article in the Confederate Constitution banned noncitizen
voting, said Jamin Raskin, a law professor at American University and a leader
of the modern movement to give immigrants the vote.

State legislatures began narrowing their suffrage laws in the late 19th and
early 20th centuries, as huge waves of immigration from southern and eastern
Europe led to greater suspicion about political radicalism among the newcomers.
By 1928, voting at every level had been restricted to United States citizens.

That remained true until 1992, when the town of Takoma Park, Md., passed a
measure allowing noncitizens to vote in local elections. Since then, four other
towns in Maryland have followed suit. Two communities in Massachusetts,
Cambridge and Amherst, have passed similar measures, but have been blocked from
implementing them by the absence of enabling state legislation.

Giving immigrants the right to vote will not be an easy sell, even in New York.
Some proponents say they will be content for the moment if they can force people
to rethink a fundamental issue.

''Whether or not we pass this law in the next year, this is an idea whose time
has come,'' said Bertha Lewis, the executive director of Acorn, an advocacy
group for low-income families that is planning rallies to support the move.
''You cannot put this genie back in the bottle.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Inwood, Manhattan, a Republican State Committee office
announces its name in Spanish. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York
Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amish Man's U.S. Stay Hangs on a Photo

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 662 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21


For nearly two years, Daniel Zehr, an Amish man from Canada who wants to become
an American citizen, has resisted what to others might seem a simple
requirement: that he submit his photograph to immigration officials. Doing that,
Mr. Zehr argues in a lawsuit, would violate his religious belief that the Bible
prohibits posing for photographs.

On Wednesday, a federal judge in Pittsburgh, Alan Bloch, dealt a serious setback
to Mr. Zehr's case, ruling that he could be deported at any time, including
before his lawsuit is resolved. Mr. Zehr has been living in an Old Order Amish
enclave in northwestern Pennsylvania with his wife, an American citizen, and
their daughter.

Mark Knapp, one of Mr. Zehr's lawyers, said he would appeal the ruling to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit on Thursday. The Justice
Department has indicated that it would give Mr. Zehr at least 24 hours to file
the appeal before removing him from the country, Mr. Knapp said. He said he was
unable to reach Mr. Zehr about the ruling on Wednesday night because he does not
have a telephone.

The case presents a potentially compelling challenge to tough immigration
policies instituted after the terrorist attacks of 2001.

Under those policies, federal authorities are increasingly refusing to grant
exemptions to requirements that photographs be submitted with immigration
applications.

The Old Order Amish believe that posing for photographs is a form of arrogance
bordering on idolatry that violates Biblical prohibitions against graven images.
But Mr. Zehr's lawyers said that he is willing to submit to other forms of
identification, like fingerprinting or retinal scans.

But Mary Beth Buchanan, the United States attorney for the western district of
Pennsylvania, said in an interview that such solutions would impose a
significant burden on the government. Immigration officials need photographs to
conduct background investigation of applicants, Ms. Buchanan said. She argued
that every entry point into the United States could not be outfitted with
technology to read fingerprints or retinal scans.

''If an exception were made in this case,'' she said, ''that would require
exceptions in many other cases as well.''

Mr. Zehr, 29, is from an Amish community in southern Ontario. He married in June
2001, and he and his wife, Ruth Ann, moved to rural Clarion County, Pa., to live
near her family.

In February 2002, the couple filed papers with the federal government to obtain
permanent resident status for Mr. Zehr. But their applications were denied
because both had refused to submit photographs.

Last fall, the Department of Homeland Security began deportation proceedings
against Mr. Zehr. Despite those proceedings, he returned to Canada last December
to visit his father, who had suffered a heart attack. Mr. Zehr was told by
immigration officials that he could not return to the United States because he
did not have photo identification.

But on April 1, he was granted temporary ''parole'' into the country. That
status has expired.

In the lawsuit, Mr. Zehr's lawyers argues that the government was violating his
First Amendment right to freedom of religion by requiring him to submit a
photograph. But Ms. Buchanan asserted that Mr. Zehr does not have First
Amendment rights because he was never officially ''admitted'' into the country,
only paroled, which is a more provisional status.

Mr. Zehr's decision to sue the government stirred deep debate within his
traditional community. The Amish oppose using force of any means, and they view
litigation as a type of force.

''They are reluctant to file lawsuits or take aggressive legal action that
would, to them, be out of character with the suffering nature of Jesus,''said
Donald B. Kraybill, senior fellow at the Young Center for Anabaptist Studies at
Elizabethtown College, Pa., and the author of several books on the Amish.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Coram: Family Charged With Smuggling Immigrants

BYLINE: By Patrick Healy (NYT); Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 106 words


Three members of a Long Island family were charged with smuggling dozens of
Peruvians into the United States since December 2000 and forcing them to live in
cramped, squalid homes once they arrived, the United States attorney for the
Eastern District of New York, Roslynn R. Mauskopf, said yesterday. The three
family members, Mariluz Zavala, 42; her husband, Jorge Ibanez, 41; and the
couple's daughter, Evelyn Ibanez, 20, all of Coram, garnished the salaries of
the immigrants they smuggled into the country and controlled them with threats
and intimidation, according to a statement from the United States attorney.
   Patrick Healy (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

4 Killed; Smugglers' Rift Is Cited

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 265 words

DATELINE: CASA GRANDE, Ariz., Nov. 4


Four people were found shot to death on a highway on Tuesday and four others
were wounded in a dispute that apparently involved smugglers of illegal
immigrants, officials said. Four suspects were arrested in the desert.

The matter was first reported to the highway patrol as an accident on Interstate
10 outside Casa Grande, about 50 miles south of Phoenix. When officers arrived,
they found four people shot to death.

Sheriff Roger Vanderpool of Pinal County said the occupants of a van opened fire
on a pickup truck and a sport utility vehicle that were believed to be
transporting illegal immigrants.

The driver and three men in the truck were killed. Two other people were
injured. Two people were wounded in the S.U.V., the authorities said.

Nine others who had been in the pickup were found unharmed north of the scene.

The gunfire also caused a wreck involving three other vehicles that seriously
injured one person.

Several hours later, the authorities arrested a man they suspected of being the
gunman. He had abandoned the van and fled into the desert near Chandler, a
Border Patrol spokesman said. Three firearms were recovered.

A federal official said that one group of smugglers was probably trying to
hijack a load of immigrants from another smuggling group.

"This phenomenon is not something new where we see a group being essentially
ripped off by another group," said Russell Ahr, spokesman for the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Arizona is one of the busiest illegal entry points on the United States-Mexico
border for those engaged in immigrant smuggling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After the Crossing, Danger to Migrants Isn't Over

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 10


A new Spanish word has entered the American lexicon: bajadero.

Human smugglers along the Mexican border are known as polleros -- chicken
ranchers. People they smuggle into the United States are called pollos, a
reference to the barnyard treatment they receive at the hands of their herders.

Since the black market abhors a vacuum, it was perhaps inevitable that the
border would see the rise of the bajadero -- loosely translated, a
chicken-stealing member of the underworld, who makes money kidnapping illegal
immigrants from their smugglers, holding them for ransom and in the worst case
killing them if not paid promptly.

Law-enforcement officials along the border say the bajaderos are behind a wave
of violence and death in southern Arizona that is reminiscent of the drug wars
of years past. Just last week, four people were killed in a high-speed highway
shootout south of Phoenix between smugglers and a rival gang from whom they had
kidnapped a group of Mexicans.

Border authorities attribute the surge of violence to the law of supply and
demand. With increased border patrols since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks,
the price charged to take Mexican immigrants over the border to Phoenix has
tripled, to more than $1,500, officials say. The price charged to Central and
South Americans has climbed to as much as $4,000 and for Eastern Europeans the
bill can top $10,000.

Prices like these make the smuggling of people almost as profitable as smuggling
drugs, officials say, and the penalty for getting caught is a matter of months
in prison rather than years. And gangs are figuring out that they do not need to
smuggle to make money. It is easier to steal people once someone has done the
hard work of getting them here.

"Human smuggling organizations are targeting one another with innocent civilians
caught in the crossfire and paying a very high price," said Michael J. Garcia,
assistant secretary of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency. "With the rise of this organized criminal enterprise here in Phoenix
we've seen an incredible rise in violence."

The smuggling arrangement is supposed to work on a cash-on-delivery basis. For
example, the hopeful migrant arrives by bus at a Mexican border town like Agua
Prieta near the southeastern corner of this state and is hidden until the
appointed hour. He is then driven out into the desert, where he embarks with
others who follow a pollero across the mountains and needled bush.

The trip is an arduous three-day journey, usually by night, with the migrant
carrying little more than a plastic bag to keep the dew off, a plastic jug of
water and perhaps a tin of sardines. The migrant risks death by rattlesnake,
scorpion, dehydration, exposure, abandonment and broken bones.

Once in the United States, the migrant walks to an appointed spot, usually some
barren patch at the edge of a town where a van or truck takes him to a city like
Phoenix. Once in town, the immigrant is locked in a house where he is held until
a friend comes to buy his freedom.

The system breaks down when the immigrants are stolen at the appointed place of
pickup.

In Phoenix alone, law enforcement officials blame warfare between rival
smuggling cartels for the 45 percent rise in killings over the past year.
Violent crimes like kidnapping, home invasions and extortion are up more than
400 percent, and authorities attribute most of that crime to rival bajaderos and
polleros as well.

"Killers, rapists, kidnappers," are the words Paul Charlton, the United States
attorney here, uses to describe the smuggling cartels. "The standards that only
applied to narco-trafficking now apply to human trafficking. We now know we have
to focus on these individuals because it's not just a border problem anymore."

To that effect, the authorities announced on Monday that a multiagency task
force in Arizona would work to combat the smuggling problem on the ground, in
the courts and through bank accounts. The immigration service will station 50
more agents in Arizona along with financial crimes experts in order to dismantle
the cartels. The federal authorities will work closely with regional police and
prosecutors, Mr. Garcia said. Military hardware like helicopters will also be
dispatched to patrol the border.

After crackdowns in California and Texas, the 261 miles of devilish desert
border along Arizona has become the nation's busiest area for illegal crossing
over the past five years, officials said, describing it as the bottleneck of
human smuggling in the Western Hemisphere.

The early morning kidnapping of a group of migrants last Tuesday and the
subsequent shootout that left four dead and a man clutching his severed toe on
the side of Interstate 10, showed that the ability to smuggle people across the
border is an increasingly lucrative proposition.

"I believe it's drug smugglers dabbling in another business, seeing if they can
expand their markets," said State Senator Peter Rios. "They've been in crime so
long they think they can get away with it. It's arrogance."

The highway shootout was not an isolated incident. For instance, in Phoenix last
month, a smuggling organization threatened to sever the hand of a 9-year-old
girl if they did not receive a ransom. In Red Rock last October, a group of a
dozen immigrants were fired upon by two men wearing camouflage. The police later
found two corpses riddled with bullets, one witness, and no sign of the other
immigrants, who authorities believe were loaded into vehicles and spirited away.

In Maricopa County last year, eight men were found dead in the desert west of
Phoenix gagged and bound. Seven had been shot in the head; the eighth was
stabbed.

Last month, three men were kidnapped and held for $15,000 ransom. They were
found alive by authorities, bound from head to toe in duct tape.

"These alien smugglers are the lowest form of life," said Victor M. Manjarrez
Jr., the agent in charge of the Douglas sector of the Border Patrol. "They are
rapists and glue sniffers and they have no regard for human life. They sell
someone a dream and quite often they steal it."

On Tuesday, a group of immigrants who had made the trek from Mexico were waiting
in a field south of Phoenix for a van to take them to a safe house. Mike Minter,
a spokesman for the Pinal County sheriff's office, said the immigrants had
apparently got into the vehicle of a rival group of smugglers; it is not clear
whether they did so unwittingly or by the barrel of a gun. Mr. Minter said the
original group of smugglers then began chasing their rivals along I-10 and
shooting at the vehicle with semiautomatic weapons.

Officials say they believe the four victims were smugglers. Twenty-four other
people were arrested, including the four who opened fire.

Despite the growing violence, Mexicans say they will keep coming for a better
life even if it means losing their lives on the chance.

Take Jose G. Pina and his entourage, who were standing in Agua Prieta having
just been deported by the Americans and waiting for their wives to be released.
These peasant farmers fled Guanajuato, a state in central Mexico, when it became
apparent that the spring floods had destroyed their land.

Early Wednesday morning, in the bright light of the moon, these seven men and
five women struck out on their own across the mountains. An hour into the walk,
two bandits with pistols stepped out from the bush and robbed them of
everything: $3,000.

"At least they didn't touch the women," said Mr. Pina, an erect and regal man in
an oily cap.

Word of the highway gun battle reached him while he spent the evening in a
detention cell, where he said, he was treated well and with respect by the
American authorities.

The trip used to be so easy, Mr. Pina said. He has made it at least 30 times.
"It's so much more difficult now," he said. "There are 100 percent more bandits
and criminals out there. It's a new profession. They rape women and take
children."

He took a drag on an American cigarette as he considered the totality of his
existence, and waited for his wife so that they could try the journey again.

"It's a sad thing," he said. "It's hard enough, this life."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: There has been a surge of violence at Arizona's border with
Mexico. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Three men in
custody last Tuesday south of Phoenix after the kidnapping of a group of
migrants and a subsequent shootout that left four dead. The sheriff's office
said it was a battle between rival smugglers. (Photo by Russell Gates/The
Arizona Republic, via Associated Press); Water bottles in the desert where
illegal immigrants enter Arizona. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York
Times)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Mexico: Government Employees Held In Smuggling Ring

BYLINE: By Antonio Betancourt (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 69 words


The police arrested 42 current and former government employees and charged them
with aiding a large network of migrant smugglers. Among those arrested were 26
members of the federal immigration agency and 10 present and former police
officers. The ring smuggled Central Americans, South Americans, Cubans and
Asians into the United States, demanding up to $6,000 a person, officials said.
Antonio Betancourt (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON THE CONTRARY;
Illegal Immigration: So Harmful and So Beneficial

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business
wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 694 words


IF you've just landed from Mars and want to understand some of the biggest
issues in American society today, read up on some of the recent lawsuits filed
against Wal-Mart.

In October, federal agents raided 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states to round up
more than 250 illegal immigrants who were janitors for contractors for the
retailer.

Since the raids, one group of immigrants has sued Wal-Mart accusing it of
discrimination, failure to pay overtime and other violations. A second suit,
which seeks to be designated a class action, accuses the company of conspiring
to cheat the janitors out of wages, failing to pay workers' compensation and
Social Security taxes and a host of other sins. One of these stands out: illegal
immigrants have accused Wal-Mart of harboring illegal immigrants.

What do these suits say about us? First, they highlight a profound ambivalence
about immigration. Visitors from Mars -- especially if they are here on tourist
visas -- will be surprised to learn that while hiring illegal immigrants is
against the law, dismissing them can be, too. That is because they are covered
by federal employment discrimination statutes.

So an employer could break the law by hiring and firing the same illegal worker.
And although illegal immigrants risk roundups, which are relatively rare,
experience teaches that they can also expect periodic amnesties. So, do we want
these illegal workers or not?

Then there is the matter of Wal-Mart, which has denied wrongdoing in the cases.
On the one hand, most of us shop there for value and convenience. On the other,
many are uneasy with its size, its tendency to bleed the life from older central
business districts and the way it treats some workers. One way Wal-Mart keeps
prices down is by keeping unions out. The relatively low wages it pays, and its
high profile and large profits, have made it into a lightning rod for the
frustrations of low-wage and low-skill workers, whose fortunes have eroded badly
in the last 30 years.

The larger issue, of course, is our apparently hypocritical approach not just to
immigration, but to workplace legislation and our obligations to one another. An
inexhaustible supply of low-skilled immigrants has helped drive down low-end
wages. Since enforcement against hiring illegal workers is lax -- we don't give
employers a good way to distinguish who is legal and who is not anyway -- the
competitive pressure of these newcomers is a gift to employers everywhere.

Aside from the immigrants themselves, the affluent are the major beneficiaries
of this arrangement. Their stocks are buoyed by all that cheap labor and their
children are cared for affordably and off the books. It's no coincidence that,
as low-end incomes have fallen, high-end incomes have risen.

Low-wage workers in our society, meanwhile, walk a financial tightrope with
almost no social safety net. And while there is much talk about the hard lot of
the working poor, the government is far more concerned with prescription drug
benefits for the elderly -- a relatively affluent segment of society -- than
health insurance or wage supplements for younger workers. Some lawmakers have
proposed raising the minimum wage -- a dubious nostrum at best -- but hardly
anyone suggests propping up wages by holding back the tide of unskilled
newcomers.

Finally, the Wal-Mart cases illustrate our unfortunate tendency to abandon
difficult questions to the judicial system, a tendency made plain by such issues
as abortion and gay marriage. (This may be why judicial appointments generate
more and more controversy.) We leave a lot of business regulation to the courts
as well; tort lawyers rather than legislators cracked down on the tobacco
companies, and shareholder lawsuits are common. Plaintiffs' lawyers seem to have
the food industry in their sights next.

We really need to ask ourselves some tough questions. What do we want our
immigration policy to be? What do we want from our employers? What do we owe
those who work for a living? And last but very far from least, who should pay?

As things stand, few ask and even fewer answer. It's enough to make you wonder
how they do it on Mars.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legalizing Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

What David Brooks describes in "Workers in the Shadows" (column, Jan. 10) is
certainly "not all good news."

What the mythical Sam, an undocumented worker portrayed in the column, faces
under the Bush plan is nothing short of indentured servitude.

The plan as currently configured would be a frightening first step in creating a
permanent underclass here in the United States to perform labor that Americans
have traditionally shunned.

If President Bush and the Democratic presidential candidates really want to help
Sam, they will provide the same opportunity to him that is shared by people in
all free societies: a chance to better himself and his family by having
employment flexibility and the ability to negotiate for a better future by
removing the residency cap.

ROGER RATHMAN
Brooklyn, Jan. 10, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 21, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Too Many Black Men Out of Work

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

One of the major causes of unemployment for black men, I believe, is that their
jobs are being outsourced, figuratively speaking.

Companies that cannot send jobs to other countries often encourage third-world
workers to immigrate to the United States. These workers, used to earning as
little as one-tenth the wages of American blue-collar workers, will work for
wages that no American should have to accept.

There are millions of legal and illegal foreign workers in the United States.
With that kind of competition, no wonder so many black men are out of work.

The United States needs to crack down on companies that hire illegal immigrants
and reduce the flow of legal immigrants. Only then will the most deprived
American citizens have a chance to get back to work.

David C. Holzman
Wellfleet, Mass., July 19, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rally in Queens Will Seek Legalization of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words


Immigrants' groups and labor unions are planning a huge rally in Flushing
Meadows tomorrow to cap a nationwide effort to win greater rights for immigrant
workers.

The rally's organizers say they expect to attract more than 100,000 immigrants
and their supporters, who will call for granting legal status to the nation's
more than eight million illegal immigrants.

The rally is the end point of a two-week immigrant-rights campaign called the
Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride in which 18 buses carrying 900 immigrants and
their allies traveled from 10 cities across the nation, first to Washington and
then to New York.

"We're holding this rally because such a large share of the work force in urban
America and all across America is foreign-born," said Brian McLaughlin,
president of the New York City Central Labor Council. "We need to show them our
support because such a large share of immigrants earn wages that place them at
or below the poverty line. Something needs to be done."

Speakers at the rally will include Cardinal Edward M. Egan, the Roman Catholic
archbishop of New York; John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; and
Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat who helped organize the 1961
freedom rides to integrate bus terminals in the South.

This week's bus caravan aims to copy the 1961 rides by drawing attention to a
group at the bottom that often faces discrimination.

Tomorrow's rally will be held at Flushing Meadows-Corona Park from 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. In addition to the speakers, the rally will have several prominent
musicians, including Wyclef Jean, Bronco, the Mighty Sparrow and El Prodigio.

"This rally will be huge," Mr. McLaughlin said. Some of the city's largest
unions, including 1199/S.E.I.U., the health care workers union; the Transport
Workers Union; and Unite, the apparel workers' union, say they plan to send
thousands of workers to the rally. Church groups as well as groups of Hispanic,
Haitian and Chinese immigrants also plan to send large contingents.

To maximize turnout, the Central Labor Council has set up special offices in
Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. The new freedom riders also want fewer civil
liberties violations against immigrants and more labor protections for immigrant
workers as well as more family-reunification visas from Congress.

The 18 buses of the freedom ride are scheduled to go today to Liberty State Park
in Jersey City for a large rally. That rally, scheduled for 1:30 p.m., will
feature Gov. James E. McGreevey, Senator Jon Corzine, Mr. Sweeney and several
union presidents.

The nation's labor unions have been the main sponsors of the freedom ride. Union
leaders say they hope the effort will attract more immigrants to unions, help
improve conditions for immigrant workers and demonstrate to immigrants that
unions can help improve their wages and working conditions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Oppose New Job Hall For Migrants In Freehold

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: FREEHOLD, N.J., Jan. 2


About 145 immigrant laborers turned out Friday on the first workday since their
gathering place was moved to a church hall, amid lingering opposition from local
residents.

"If you hire illegal aliens, you are breaking the law and will be reported,"
read a sign in the window of one opponent's sport utility vehicle.

Until Thursday, the laborers had been using an open-air site next to the
railroad tracks on Throckmorton Street as a place to wait for landscapers and
others in need of laborers to put them to work. Borough officials ordered the
site closed, and beginning Thursday the hiring was being run from the Second
Baptist Church.

Some residents want the practice moved out of town, saying that illegal
immigrants burden taxpayers and community resources.

"We have severe overcrowding in our school system, severe overcrowding in our
housing, and it's a problem," said Vanessa Minenna, a member of People, a group
whose name stands for Pressing Elected Officials to Protect Our Living
Environment.

"By ignoring its own laws, our government has allowed illegal immigration to
threaten both our safety and our quality of life," the group said in a statement
on its Web site. "In coming here, they have created an underground economy,
fueled by greed, which disregards law, fails to share taxpayer burden and
disrespects quality of life."

Borough officials were named last week in a federal lawsuit alleging harassment
of the workers, many of whom come from Peru, Ecuador, Guatemala and Mexico.

Calling the suit frivolous, Mayor Michael Wilson said Friday that the borough
would defend itself vigorously.

"Instead of choosing a path of race-baiting and personal destruction," he said,
"the plaintiffs would have better served the interests of their clients had they
pursued viable solutions to effectively deal with the plight of day laborers."

The laborers say they want work, not confrontation. "There's a lot of
opposition, but the way we're going to show the community is to show we're
valuable people, a good work force for the community," said Mahonrry Hidalgo, a
spokesman for the Committee of Workers for Progress, a group representing the
workers. "We want to be a solution."

Only about 6 of the 143 workers who turned out Friday were hired, he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH ON IMMIGRATION: THE PRESIDENT;
Plan for Illegal Immigrant Workers Draws Fire From Two Sides

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1267 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7


President Bush urged Congress on Wednesday to pass his plan to give illegal
immigrant workers temporary legal status. The proposal drew criticism from some
groups involved in the issue for not going far enough to help immigrants and
from others for rewarding people who had entered the country illegally.

The proposal would let millions of illegal immigrants obtain work visas for
three years, renewable for an unspecified period, if they can show that they
have jobs and if their employers certify that no Americans can be found to
perform the work. The plan would also let employers import new workers on the
same temporary basis to work at jobs that they cannot fill with Americans.

Announcing the plan in a ceremony in the East Room of the White House, Mr. Bush
said it made economic sense to allow employers to find willing workers for jobs
that Americans did not want. He cast the proposal as part of a tradition of
welcoming immigration. The United States has an estimated eight million or more
illegal immigrants.

"Reform must begin by confronting a basic fact of life and economics -- some of
the jobs being generated in America's growing economy are jobs American citizens
are not filling," Mr. Bush said to cheers from an audience that included cabinet
members and representatives of Hispanic groups. "Out of common sense and
fairness, our laws should allow willing workers to enter our country and fill
jobs that Americans are not filling. We must make our immigration laws more
rational and more humane, and I believe we can do so without jeopardizing the
livelihoods of American citizens."

Mr. Bush said he was not offering amnesty to illegal immigrants already here. He
emphasized that the status for workers who entered without visas or work
authorizations would be temporary and would end with most of them leaving.

"This program expects temporary workers to return permanently to their home
countries after their period of work in the United States has expired, and there
should be financial incentives for them to do so," Mr. Bush said.

He was alluding to his proposal that workers in the program be allowed to
benefit, after returning home, from their payments to Social Security and
individual retirement programs that could be set up for them while here.

Mr. Bush announced the plan on Wednesday so he could present it to President
Vicente Fox of Mexico when the two leaders meet next week in Mexico. Mr. Bush
had been working on a similar package soon after taking office three years ago,
but delayed it after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The announcement represented his first big election year policy initiative, one
intended in part to appeal to Hispanics, a particularly fast-growing sector of
the electorate. It also sought to satisfy a longstanding demand by employers
that Washington make it easier to hire foreign workers for jobs in hotels, on
farms, in construction and in other generally low-wage unskilled positions that
Americans have reportedly been reluctant to take, even in the economic downturn.

The plan drew criticism from Democrats for hurting American workers and not
doing enough to help immigrants.

"The president's proposal will help big corporations who currently employ
undocumented workers," Howard Dean, the Democratic presidential hopeful, said in
a statement. "But it does nothing to place hard-working immigrants on a path to
citizenship and would create a permanent underclass of service workers with
second-class status."

John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the plan deepened "the
potential for abuse and exploitation of these workers while undermining wages
and labor protections for all workers."

The view that the proposal would hurt American workers was shared by one of the
leading groups that want to keep strict limits on immigration, the Federation
for American Immigration Reform.

"With nine million unemployed Americans and the nation in the midst of a jobless
recovery," a spokesman for the federation, David Ray, said, "we need a foreign
guest worker program like we need a hole in the head. It's going to have a huge
downward pressure on wages and working conditions. It will basically allow
employers unfettered access to cheap exploitable workers. If they claim they
can't fill a job with an American, they can fill it with a foreign worker."

Business groups said the plan would help the economy by ensuring employers
access to needed workers.

"We're extremely pleased that the president has gotten engaged in the
immigration debate strongly now, because this will move the issue forward,
generally and on Capitol Hill," said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor,
immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce,
which has been pushing for a temporary-worker program. "We are supportive of the
proposal but also recognize that there are many details that have to be worked
out."

In political terms, Mr. Bush is walking a thin line between offering a program
generous enough to immigrants that it can win Democrats' backing in Congress
while avoiding anything that looks like an amnesty, an approach that many
conservatives oppose. As a result, the White House was vague about many details,
saying it would work with Congress to fill in the blanks.

Mr. Bush said he would support increasing the number of people who can obtain
permanent residency status and start on a path toward citizenship. He said that
increase would not be reserved for people in the temporary-worker program and
that workers in the program would receive no special consideration for permanent
residency.

"They will not be given unfair advantage over people who have followed legal
procedures from the start," he said.

Some critics said the plan would not work because most workers would not want to
risk being deported after their temporary legal status expired. White House
officials said they would negotiate with Congress to determine how long renewals
should be.

"If the offer is a temporary visa with uncertain prospects for renewal and no
path to permanent residency, you won't have a lot of takers from the
undocumenteds here," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum, which seeks to liberalize immigration. "And you'll probably
have a lot of people who come into the country to participate in the temporary
program and then jump the program."

Mr. Bush said the program should be accompanied by an increase in the number of
people granted permanent residency and, eventually, citizenship.

"America's a welcoming country, but citizenship must not be the automatic reward
for violating the laws of America," Mr. Bush said. "The citizenship line,
however, is too long. And our current limits on legal immigration are too low.
My administration will work with Congress to increase the annual number of green
cards that can lead to citizenship."

He did not provide details. Critics said the plan would have to include an
extremely large increase in green cards to allow even a fraction of the millions
of people eligible for the temporary-worker program to have a chance at
permanent residency and citizenship.

A spokesman for the Citizenship and Immigration Services, Chris Bentley, said
the United States issued 475,000 new greencards a year, with 144,000 going to
people being admitted specifically to work.

The United States also admits many people on temporary work visas without
permanent residency rights. In 2002, nearly 1.3 million people were admitted on
temporary visas, including 102,000 for nonskilled agricultural and
nonagricultural posts, the immigration agency says.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at the immigration ceremony with, from left,
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans,
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. (Photo by
Doug Mills/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Illegal Immigrants in the United
States"A report released last year by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
estimated that there were 7 million illegal immigrants living in the United
States in 2000. Current estimates by other organizations reach as high as 14
million. Map of the United States shows unauthorized residents, as a percentage
of the state population. AN INCREASING POPULATION DURING THE 1990'sThe illegal
immigrant population grew by several hundred thousand each year, as more
unauthorized residents entered the United States than left. Chart shows the
number of new unauthorized residents and the number leaving the unauthorized
resident population since 1990+. *Individual data was not available for eight
states that each had fewer than 2,500 unauthorized residents in 1990 and
2000.+Includes those who left the United States, died or became legal residents.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH ON IMMIGRATION: MEXICO;
Mexico Hopes Cautiously After Proposal On Migrants

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 7


For three years, President Vicente Fox has been pushing President Bush to
recognize Mexicans working illegally in the United States and living in the
shadows.

So a small measure of elation resounded Wednesday in Mexico, flowing from the
hope that millions of illegal immigrants might someday win some legal status
from Washington.

The hope was abridged, though. Officials from Mr. Fox down, while applauding the
spirit of Mr. Bush's proposal, said they would wait to see the letter of the law
as enacted by Congress, which decides how many people will have the right to
live and work legally in the United States.

The future of millions is in the balance. As many as 10 million Mexicans work in
the United States, and perhaps three million to five million are illegal
residents, although no one knows the true number. Each year, hundreds die
crossing the border in search of better work and a new life. Wednesday's
proposal holds the possibility for some of the immigrants to live and work
within the law.

"It is a very interesting program," Mr. Fox said. "We are going to wait for
details."

The proposal was a personal triumph for Mr. Fox, who will meet with Mr. Bush in
Monterrey, Mexico, on Monday. He has ceaselessly tried to persuade Mr. Bush to
make the case for immigrants and the value of their labor in the United States.

The two presidents spoke by telephone for about 15 minutes on Wednesday morning,
Mr. Fox said. It was, by several accounts, their warmest conversation in more
than two years.

Mr. Fox said the American president voiced "clear recognition for the value of
these Mexicans working in the United States."

Those workers, Mr. Fox said, should have "the rights that any worker in that
country has, even though they are not American citizens," including "labor
rights, and all their human rights," and the right "to come and go to Mexico."

This may prove a sticking point. Mr. Bush's proposal, if enacted, would not let
labor flow as freely as money does across the border between Mexico and the
United States.

Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Ernesto Derbez, said the proposal was not all
Mexico sought, but a welcome beginning. Mr. Derbez said his nation would
"continue working for, searching for, a complete program, a whole one, which
covers all those who seek temporary work, and those already in the United
States."

The proposal left many details unresolved, and "the devil is in the details,"
said Jorge Castaneda, foreign minister from December 2000 to January 2003.

"How many people are involved?" Mr. Castaneda said. "How many people does this
really affect, of the three to four million undocumented Mexicans in the U.S.?"

When the temporary work permits proposed by Mr. Bush expire after three years,
he asked, must the workers leave the United States?

"If they have to come home, they won't enroll in the program," Mr. Castaneda
said. "It won't work if you insist on that."

Wednesday's proposal grew from a back-of-a-napkin idea sketched by Mr.
Castaneda, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the national security adviser,
Condoleezza Rice, at a dinner during Mr. Fox's state visit to Washington in
September 2001, Mr. Castaneda said.

A week after that dinner came the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The immigration
discussion froze in the cold light of security fears. Now, in an election year,
with millions of Hispanic votes at stake in states like California, Texas and
Florida, a thaw has come.

"This is the best news we have received since 9/11: the impasse in the migration
agenda might come to an end," said Rafael Fernandez de Castro, chairman of the
international relations department at the Autonomous Technological Institute of
Mexico, a leading university here.

"This is Bush's effort to please the Latino electorate in the U.S., but also to
please Mexico," Mr. Fernandez de Castro said. "There have been more controls at
the border. That has made it hard to cross, and has led to many Mexican deaths.
And now they are going across to stay, and not coming back."

"For the five million undocumented Mexicans living in the U.S., it is hell," he
said. "They could be subject to deportation at any time, and they are living in
a lot of uncertainty."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox of Mexico greeted Senator Bill Frist
yesterday at a meeting at Mr. Fox's official residence in Mexico City. (Photo by
Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Economic Scene;
The Bush proposal on illegal immigrants is a tentative but important first step.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and
he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His new book is "Why
Economies Grow," from Basic Books and the Century Foundation. E-mail:
challenge@mesharpe.com.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1039 words


PRESIDENT BUSH'S recent proposal to grant temporary legal status to illegal
immigrants is not yet fleshed out enough to judge how effective it will be. Six
million to eight million illegal workers would qualify, as would future
immigrants hired by companies that could show that Americans were not willing to
take the jobs.

One especially serious concern is that immigrant workers will be tied
indefinitely to the company that sponsors them. Teresa Ghilarducci, an economist
at Notre Dame, warns that this would give the company undue power over wages and
other worker rights, and a result could be a permanent class of low-wage
employees.

But if the Bush plan raises more questions than it answers, it is still an
encouraging first step that focuses needed attention on an issue that will
become more urgent in coming years.

For one thing, there will probably be no stopping the steady march of unskilled
and skilled labor across borders. The United States has been unable to stanch
flows of illegal immigrants from Mexico, for example.

But economists of varying political views also say that the limited migration of
skilled and unskilled workers, if properly harnessed, can be a vital source of
economic growth in developed and developing nations.

"This is the last unexplored frontier of globalization," says Dani Rodrik, an
economist at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. "We have to start
taking labor mobility seriously."

In fact, theoretically, the bigger the differences in wages for similar work
across the world, the greater the potential rise in incomes to the receiving and
sending nations. It is analogous to the benefits from international trade when
goods are cheaper in one country than another.

A team of British economists led by L. Alan Winters of the University of Sussex
has developed a traditional model to estimate such gains. In general, the model
assumes that developed nations generate higher profits and more investment as
labor costs are saved. They also generate higher government revenues as the new
immigrants pay payroll and income taxes, as well as sales taxes. As for
developing nations, their migrant workers now make far more money and send a
large part of it home.

Mr. Winters and his colleagues have found that if the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development nations increase by 3 percent their quotas of
migrant labor, both skilled and unskilled, world income would rise by a
considerable $156 billion a year, or 0.6 percent of total world income today.

But if the theory is convincing, the practical issues are considerable.
Absorbing lower-wage workers in host nations means that domestic wages are at
least somewhat undermined. More immigrants will also put pressure on already
overburdened social programs. As for the sending nations, they in turn may not
receive a fair share of the economic benefits if workers leave and never return.

A temporary limited migration program similar in principle but different in
important details to what the Bush administration seems to have in mind can
minimize such problems. By providing migrant workers legal status, including
eligibility for domestic social programs, businesses could not easily pay wages
below the going rate or ignore their payroll taxes and other benefits, as they
now can for illegal immigrants. For these reasons, some labor unions are
beginning to support such legalization.

With legal status, the immigrants will also be paying more taxes, including
payroll taxes, to support social programs. In fact, the migration of young
workers to Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development nations could
be an ideal way to pay part of the rising costs of public pensions, including
Social Security in the United States, as populations age.

As for benefits to developing nations, preliminary results of an incomplete
survey by Mark Rosenzweig of the Kennedy School and his colleagues show that
earnings increases for migrants over what they made in their home countries are
steep. To give an idea, the average increase in annual wages for unskilled labor
in 1996 was $7,400, and it was much higher for skilled labor.

Also, one fourth of the workers sent ample sums home.

What is critical to the equitable distribution of benefits, however, is that
workers return home after a few years. Cycling workers would allow more poor
workers from a wider range of nations to migrate. Further, says Jagdish N.
Bhagwati of Columbia University, these workers are often agents of change when
they return, even if they are unskilled, because they bring back new attitudes,
financial resources and knowledge.

But simply requiring workers to return home is not enough. Attractive incentives
must be provided as well, and those in the Bush plan are inadequate. Devesh
Kapur, a professor of government at Harvard, who with his colleagues has done
comprehensive research in the field, suggests that one possibility is to have
the United States retain part of the wages paid to new legal migrant workers in
an investment account that is given back to the workers only when they return to
their home countries.

As for the power of businesses over their recruits in the Bush plan, Mr. Kapur
says that employees should be required to work for their sponsoring company for
only a limited time, and then be allowed to look for other jobs.

For all its benefits, however, greater labor mobility is no panacea in itself.
In the United States, for example, a Bush-style immigration program would work
best, in my view, in tandem with a reasonable increase in the minimum wage. As
for sending nations, Mr. Rosenzweig points out that returning money in the form
of remittances is most productive when the economy can adequately channel them
to useful investment and social programs.

Moreover, some older policies work at cross purposes. Mr. Kapur notes that one
reason so many Mexicans flee to the United States is that the North American
Free Trade Agreement subjected them to low-price American agricultural
competition that is subsidized by the government.

More labor mobility, then, is an exciting potential source of growth for all,
but it will work only in conjunction with proper safeguards and fair and
productive social policies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Workload"The percentage of U.S. jobs held by foreign-born
workers. Graph tracks the percentage of U.S. jobs held by foreign-born workers
from 1994-2003. 2003: 14.1% (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 4, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grown Cautious, Fox Expects Delay on U.S. Action on Migrants

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 3


In an interview to discuss his scheduled visit to Texas this weekend, President
Vicente Fox of Mexico said this week that he did not expect the United States to
adopt sweeping reforms that would give legal status to millions of undocumented
workers until well after the presidential election this fall.

Mr. Fox reiterated support for a proposal by President Bush to give temporary
work permits to an estimated eight million illegal immigrants. He described the
plan, which could benefit as many as four million Mexicans, as ''an excellent
starting point'' and later as ''great progress.'' And he praised Mr. Bush for
having the ''courage'' to present the reforms despite opposition in the
Republican Party.

Mr. Fox, who challenged the United States to open its borders to a greater flow
of Mexican workers at the start of his presidency three years ago, made clear he
had not abandoned his campaign. However, Mexico's first opposition president,
whose rise to power ended seven decades of authoritarian rule, departed Tuesday
evening from his unrelenting optimism and accepted that long-awaited migration
reforms would have to wait some more.

''We understand clearly that we are in an election year,'' Mr. Fox said. ''We do
not expect any kind of final decision this year. But starting next year, yes,
after the election of the next president.''

Political observers said the remarks reflected a changed and seasoned head of
state.

''President Fox has become more realistic about what he can accomplish and
when,'' said Jorge Chabat, a political analyst. ''He does not want to keep
raising expectations and then fail to deliver what he promised.''

Mr. Fox is scheduled to travel Friday to Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas, to
discuss migration, trade and border security. The meetings come at a time when
Mr. Fox, battered by rising unemployment and a stagnant economy, hopes to show
that his most important foreign policy initiatives are back on track. Meanwhile
Mr. Bush, facing what may be a close election race, strives for support among
America's Latino population.

Officials in both governments said they did not expect any important agreements
to be made during Mr. Fox's visit to Texas. What is important, political
observers said, is that the two men agreed to meet at all.

Three years ago, Mr. Bush visited Mr. Fox's family ranch in the northern state
of Guanajuato and proclaimed that America had no greater friend than Mexico.
Several months later, Mr. Fox became the first state visitor to the Bush White
House.

But the warm personal relationship between the two was severely strained after
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, when the Bush
administration abandoned its promises to work on a migration accord with Mexico
and Mexico voted against war with Iraq at the United Nations. Since then, Mr.
Fox and Mr. Bush have had have had little more than stiff and fleeting
encounters.

The chill began to thaw in January when Mr. Bush announced his plans for the
most comprehensive overhaul of American immigration policy in recent years. Most
Mexicans praised the proposal for giving undocumented immigrants opportunities
to work legally in the United States and be reunited with their families.
Others, however, said it would allow the United States to enjoy the economic
benefits of low-cost immigrant labor without offering workers the protections
that come with permanent residency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

About Independence

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words


People too often get the impression that the only people who use the nation's
civil liberties protections are lawbreakers who were not quite guilty of the
exact felony they were charged with. Perhaps we should thank the Bush
administration for providing so many situations that demonstrate how an
unfettered law enforcement system, even one pursuing worthy ends, can destroy
the lives of the innocent out of hubris or carelessness.

There was, for instance, Purna Raj Bajracharya, who was videotaping the sights
of New York City for his family back in Nepal when he inadvertently included an
office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He was taken into custody, where
officials found he had overstayed his tourist visa, a violation punishable by
deportation. Instead, Mr. Bajracharya wound up in solitary confinement in a
federal detention center for three months, weeping constantly, in a 6-by-9 cell
where the lights were never turned off. As a recent article by Nina Bernstein in
The Times recounted, Mr. Bajracharya, who speaks little English, might have been
in there much longer if an F.B.I. agent had not finally taken it upon himself to
summon legal help.

Mr. Bajracharya ran afoul of a Justice Department ruling after the 2001
terrorist attacks that ordered immigration judges to hold secret hearings in
closed courtrooms for immigration cases of ''special interest.'' The subjects of
these hearings could be kept in custody until the F.B.I. made sure they were not
terrorists. That rule might have seemed prudent after the horror of 9/11. But
since it is almost always impossible to prove a negative, any decision to let a
person once suspected of terrorism free constitutes at least a political risk.
If officials have no particular prod for action, they will generally prefer to
play it safe and do nothing. The unfortunate Nepalese was finally released only
because of James Wynne, the F.B.I. agent who originally sent him to detention.
Mr. Wynne's investigation quickly cleared Mr. Bajracharya of suspicion, but no
one approved the paperwork necessary to get him out of prison. Eventually, Mr.
Wynne called Legal Aid, which otherwise would have had no way of knowing he was
even in custody.

When law enforcement officials make mistakes, there is an all-too-human
temptation to press on rather than admit an error. Brandon Mayfield, a lawyer in
Oregon, was arrested in connection with the bombing of commuter trains in
Madrid, even though he had never been to Spain. Spanish authorities had taken a
fingerprint from a plastic bag discovered at the scene and F.B.I. officials
thought it matched Mr. Mayfield's prints, which were among the many from
discharged soldiers in the enormous federal database.

The American investigators must have felt they hit pay dirt when they discovered
that Mr. Mayfield was a convert to Islam, that his wife had been born in Egypt
and that he had once represented a terrorism defendant in a child custody case.
The fact that there was no indication he had been out of the country in a decade
did not sway them. Neither did the fact that Spanish authorities were telling
them that the fingerprints did not actually match. Mr. Mayfield was held for two
weeks, even though the only other connections between him and terrorism were
things like the fact, as the F.B.I. pointed out, that his law firm advertised in
a ''Muslim yellow page directory'' whose publisher had once had a business
relationship with Osama bin Laden's former personal secretary.

When the Spaniards linked the fingerprint to an Algerian man in May, Mr.
Mayfield's case was dismissed and the F.B.I. did apologize. But the ordeal could
have dragged on much longer if the investigation had not involved another
nation, whose police were not invested in the idea that the Oregon lawyer was
the culprit. And it could have been endless if Mr. Mayfield had been an
undocumented worker being held in post-9/11 secrecy, or if he had been picked up
in Afghanistan as a suspected Taliban fighter and held incommunicado at
Guantanamo.

For more than two years now, about 600 men have been kept in American custody in
Cuba, and the odds are that some -- perhaps most -- were merely hapless Afghan
foot soldiers or bystanders swept up in the confusion of the American invasion.
But it took the Supreme Court to tell the Bush administration they could not be
kept there forever without giving them a chance to contest their imprisonment.

Anyone who needs another demonstration of how difficult it is for law
enforcement authorities to acknowledge error can always look to the case of
Capt. James Yee. A Muslim convert, Captain Yee was a chaplain at Guantanamo
until he was taken into custody on suspicion of espionage. He was held in
solitary confinement for nearly three months, during which time authorities
realized that the case against him was nonexistent. Rather than simply let him
go, they charged him with mishandling classified material. The charges seemed to
have much less to do with security concerns than official face-saving. And to
repay Captain Yee for its self-inflicted embarrassment, the military went at
great lengths in court to prove he was having an affair with a female officer.
While that had nothing to do with security either, it did humiliate the
defendant in public, as well as his wife and child, who were present at the
trial.

Virtually every time the Bush administration feels cornered, it falls back on
the argument that the president and his officials are honorable men and women.
This is an invitation to turn what should be a debate about policy into a
referendum on the hearts of the people making it. But this nation was organized
under a rule of law, not a dictatorship of the virtuous. The founding fathers
wrote the Bill of Rights specifically because they did not believe that
honorable men always do the right thing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chess's Lost Soul, Bobby Fischer, Is Held in Tokyo

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER and TODD ZAUN; Bruce Weber reported from Washington for
this article and Todd Zaun from Tokyo. Dylan McClain contributed reporting from
New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words


After two decades of living in secrecy, semi-isolation and increasingly
distressed obscurity, Bobby Fischer, the former world chess champion, was
arrested Friday by Japanese immigration authorities in Tokyo and accused of
trying to leave the country without a valid passport.

An American Embassy official in Tokyo confirmed that Mr. Fischer was detained at
Narita Airport. Japanese news reports said Mr. Fischer, 61, probably would be
deported to the United States, where he faces charges for violating economic
sanctions against the former Yugoslavia by playing an exhibition match there in
1992. But Mr. Fischer's immediate future remains unclear.

Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said it was not yet
determined whether the United States would ask that Mr. Fischer be turned over
to the American authorities. He said only that Mr. Fischer, who has expressed
virulently anti-American views since the warrant was issued for his arrest on
Dec. 15, 1992, had been visited by an American consular officer.

''Questions about extradition or charges would have to be answered by the
Department of Justice and the appropriate courts,'' Mr. Boucher said. The
Justice Department had no comment, but an official said it was looking at the
case to determine its legal options, including possible extradition. The
official added that it was too soon to predict how the case might turn out. The
detention of Mr. Fischer came the day before another longtime American fugitive
-- Charles Jenkins, 64, who is accused of deserting the Army in 1965, when he
entered North Korea -- was scheduled to arrive in Japan, and who is also
expected to be the subject of an American extradition request.

It was unclear why Mr. Fischer was in Japan, though it is possible he was living
there. In a radio interview broadcast from Manila in June 2003, he told the host
that he was in Japan at the time. And chess publications that have long been
obsessed with tracking the movements of the mysterious former champion have
reported that Mr. Fischer travels frequently between Tokyo and Manila.

The episode is just the latest wrinkle in the strange international saga of Mr.
Fischer -- indisputably the greatest American chess player in history and some
say the greatest ever in the world -- whose life has spiraled weirdly and
precipitously downward since his greatest glory.

Born in Chicago but reared in Brooklyn, he first drew attention as an adolescent
prodigy, able to hold his own with the strongest American players at the
Marshall and Manhattan Chess Clubs in Manhattan. A national champion at 14 and a
grandmaster at 15, he became an international celebrity in 1972 when, at the
height of the cold war, he unseated the Russian world champion, Boris Spassky,
in a match in Reykjavik, Iceland. That, however, was to be the last of Mr.
Fischer's triumphs. A petulant, demanding man with a cruel unpredictable streak,
by the time he became world champion he was already known for his outlandishly
self-aggrandizing behavior. It was part of what made him a legend.

In ''Searching for Bobby Fischer,'' the 1988 book about the chess world that is
partly about Mr. Fischer's status as an icon, the author, Fred Waitzkin, summed
up Mr. Fischer's behavior in Reykjavik this way: ''He drove the organizers of
the tournament to despair. He argued about the choice of chess table, about his
hotel room, about the noise in the auditorium, about the proximity of the
audience to the players and about the lighting. He demanded that the organizers
lend him a Mercedes with an automatic transmission and arrange for the private
use of a swimming pool. He came late to each game and kept threatening to pull
out of the match if his demands weren't met.''

It was a harsh eccentricity that soon grew self-destructive. Mr. Fischer's
sanity seemed to frazzle in the limelight, and he sank into a contrary isolation
that seems to characterize him to this day.

After the Spassky match, he refused offers to play chess for titanic sums of
money, and he lost his title after three years because he refused to defend it
against Anatoly Karpov of the Soviet Union. His time was evidently consumed by
lawsuits, one brought against him by Chester Fox, who had held the film rights
to the Spassky match, but which became worthless because Mr. Fischer had refused
to play before the cameras, which he said he could hear whirring. Mr. Fischer
unsuccessfully sued a biographer, Brad Darrach, and the Time-Life Corporation,
for invasion of privacy. Another suit, against a student group that he claimed
published, without permission, remarks he made about his affiliation with a
fringe church, also failed and reportedly left him bankrupt.

A virulent anti-Semite in spite of his own Jewish ancestry (his mother was a
Jew), he has claimed that his belongings were stolen by a Jewish conspiracy from
a warehouse in Southern California, where he lived during the 1980's. The
federal indictment against him after the match in Yugoslavia seemed to ignite an
equally virulent anti-American fire in him. Over the past five years, his
occasional rants to radio stations in Iceland and Hungary, as well as the
Philippines, have been full of hate against Jews and the United States.

On Sept. 11, 2001, he told a radio talk-show host in Baguio, the Philippines,
that the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were
''wonderful news,'' adding he was wishing for a scenario ''where the country
will be taken over by the military, they'll close down all the synagogues,
arrest all the Jews and secure hundreds of thousands of Jewish ringleaders.''

Mr. Fischer lived for a time in Pasadena, Calif., and it has been reported that
from 1975 to 1992, he lived in cheap rooms around Los Angeles. Over the past
decade, however, he is known to have lived in Budapest, and reportedly has also
lived in the Philippines and Switzerland.

For two decades, Mr. Fischer was a specter that haunted the chess world; its
greatest genius had vanished with almost no trace. The few people he kept in
touch with were under threat that he would never speak to them again if they
discussed him -- which was why it was colossal news in 1992 when he was lured
out of hiding for a rematch against Mr. Spassky in Yugoslavia.

Just before the match, however, the United Nations imposed sanctions against
Yugoslavia for supporting Serbian aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
United States banned its citizens from doing business there. Mr. Fischer ignored
a formal warning from the government against playing the match, and at a news
conference spat on the letter. He won the match, collecting $3.3 million, and
has been in exile from the United States ever since.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bobby Fischer in 1992, before his match against Boris Spassky.
(Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Venezuelans Asking the U.S. To Extradite 2

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Jan. 28


Venezuela's government said Wednesday that it was seeking the extradition of two
former military officers who fled to Miami after being accused of orchestrating
bombings in the Venezuelan capital as part of an attempt to oust President Hugo
Chavez.

The government said the two men -- Lt. Jose Antonio Colina and Lt. German
Varela, both former officers in the country's National Guard -- intended to
cause panic with the bombs in Caracas, and that they are members of a group of
military officers who want Mr. Chavez out.

"These are people sought for acts that are obviously terrorist," Bernardo
Alvarez, the Venezuelan ambassador in Washington, said in a phone interview on
Wednesday afternoon.

Citing an extradition treaty between the two countries, Mr. Alvarez said his
government had formally requested that the United States detain the two men, the
first step in a formal extradition request. The two are seeking political asylum
in the United States and are currently in the custody of immigration authorities
in Miami.

Without speaking about the case specifically, a State Department official said
the United States "would certainly entertain" a Venezuelan request.

The extradition request could put Washington in a thorny spot. The Bush
administration wants to appear tough on terrorists, but it has also been
critical of Mr. Chavez's government, suggesting that it gives tacit support to
Colombian guerrillas.

In the latest exchange in the war of words, Cofer Black, the State Department
coordinator for counterterrorism, told reporters last Friday that Venezuela was
not doing enough in the global campaign against terrorism. On Saturday,
Venezuela's vice president, Jose Vicente Rangel, reacted strongly, saying, "We
share the concern over the fight against terrorism, but we demand reciprocity."

Mr. Rangel said the Venezuelan government had been "asking for more cooperation
from the United States to bring to justice those who have committed terrorist
acts in Venezuela."

The attorney general's office in Venezuela says Mr. Colina and Mr. Varela
carried out bombings last February in Caracas at the Spanish Embassy and at
Colombian consulates, injuring several people.

Both were among the dozens of military officers who took over a plaza in Caracas
in 2002 and called for Mr. Chavez's ouster.

The two men, after being accused of the bombings late last year, fled to Miami,
where they were taken into custody by immigration authorities.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bipartisan Agreement Is Reached On Gun Bill

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25


In an unlikely alliance of politicians often at odds on gun issues, leading
Republicans and Democrats in Congress announced a deal today on legislation that
would provide more than $1.1 billion to help prevent felons, illegal immigrants
and others from buying guns.

The legislation appears headed for passage in both houses of Congress, a rare
achievement in the hot-button area of gun legislation. Backers said the measure,
if passed, would represent the most significant gun safety initiative to be
approved by Congress in seven years.

The measure is supported by a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers who at first
blush appear to be "strange bedfellows," acknowledged Representative John D.
Dingell, a Michigan Democrat who has been an ardent foe of past gun control
bills.

But in a rare area of agreement, gun rights backers like Mr. Dingell and gun
control advocates believe that the F.B.I.'s system for conducting background
checks on some seven million would-be gun buyers each year is badly broken.

Gun groups complain that despite recent improvements in the process of checks,
it still takes too long for many purchases to be approved. And gun control
groups assert that thousands of felons, spouse abusers, illegal immigrants,
people with a history of mental illness and others banned by federal law from
buying guns continue to slip through the cracks.

The proposal announced today seeks to repair the system by providing state
agencies and courts with $375 million a year for the next three years to upgrade
their databases on criminals and other types of banned people. It would also
penalize states that fail to meet certain performance markers by cutting their
federal grant money.

The aim, said Senator Larry E. Craig, Republican of Idaho, was to create "an
effective, accurate, speedy background check" and to keep guns from people who
are prohibited from owning them.

Mr. Craig, a board member of the National Rifle Association, and Mr. Dingell, a
past board member, have sparred with gun control advocates like Senator Charles
E. Schumer and Representative Carolyn McCarthy, both Democrats of New York. Mr.
Craig and Mr. Schumer, for instance, remain on opposite sides of the current
debate over bills protecting gun makers from legal liability and reauthorizing a
ban on certain types of assault weapons.

But all four lawmakers appeared at a news conference today to support the
background-check legislation. And by securing the backing of Senator Orrin G.
Hatch, the influential Utah Republican, backers predicted swift passage by both
houses of Congress.

Mr. Hatch helped to stall similar legislation in the Senate last year after it
had passed the House, but he has now pledged his support after stiffer penalties
were included as a "stick" against states that fail to upgrade their databases.

Even the N.R.A., which has worked to derail many past gun control measures, said
today that it supported the plan.

"We think this is a step in the right direction," said Andrew Arulanandam, a
spokesman for the N.R.A., "and with Larry Craig and John Dingell as co-sponsors,
we're confident that this legislation will help bring about the promise of an
instant gun check for Americans."

Some mental health advocates have objected to the proposal because they said it
could further stigmatize the mentally ill and violate their privacy rights by
putting more medical information into a national database. But backers said that
they had been careful to include safeguards in the legislation that they
believed would protect the privacy rights of the mentally ill while preventing
them from buying guns.

Backers said the measure, if approved, would represent the first substantial
piece of federal gun legislation since at least 1996, when Congress expanded the
list of banned gun buyers to include domestic abusers.

"The significant thing about this legislation," said Jim Kessler, policy
director for Americans for Gun Safety, which worked with lawmakers in developing
the bill, "is that it explodes the myth that nothing can be achieved on guns in
Congress."

In a study last year, Mr. Kessler's group found that flawed record keeping had
allowed nearly 10,000 people who fell into a banned category to pass background
checks and buy guns in a 30-month period. The group gave failing grades to 22
states "for having grossly inadequate criminal, domestic violence and mental
disability records."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2004 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Desert Proves Deadly For Mexicans

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

DATELINE: COVERED WELLS, Ariz., May 20


At the bottleneck of human smuggling here in the Sonoran Desert, illegal
immigrants are dying in record numbers as they try to cross from Mexico into the
United States in the wake of a new Bush administration amnesty proposal that is
being perceived by some migrants as a magnet to cross.

''The season of death,'' as Robert C. Bonner, the commissioner in charge of the
Border Patrol, calls the hot months, has only just begun, and already 61 people
have died in the Arizona border region since last Oct. 1, according to the
Mexican Interior Ministry -- triple the pace of the previous year.

The Border Patrol, which counts only bodies that it processes, says 43 people
have died near the Arizona border since the start of its fiscal year on Oct. 1,
more than in any other year in the same period.

Leon Stroud, a Border Patrol agent who is part of a squad that has the dual job
of arresting illegal immigrants and trying to save their lives, said he had seen
34 bodies in the last year. In Border Patrol parlance, a dead car and a dead
migrant are the same thing -- a ''10-7'' -- but Mr. Stroud said he had never
gotten used to the loss of life.

''The hardest thing was, I sat with this 15-year-old kid next to the body of his
dad,'' said Mr. Stroud, a Texan who speaks fluent Spanish. ''His dad had been a
cook. He was too fat to be trying to cross this border. We built a fire and I
tried to console him. It was tough.''

If the pace keeps up, even with new initiatives to limit border crossings by
using unmanned drones and Blackhawk helicopters in the air and beefed-up patrols
on the ground, this will be the deadliest year ever to cross the nation's
busiest smuggling corridor. The 154 deaths in the Border Patrol's Tucson and
Yuma sectors last year set a record.

''This is unprecedented,'' said the Rev. John Fife, a Presbyterian minister in
Tucson who is active in border humanitarian efforts. ''Ten years ago there were
almost no deaths on the southern Arizona border. What they've done is created
this gantlet of death. It's Darwinian -- only the strongest survive.''

For years, deaths of people trying to cross the border usually occurred at night
on highways near urban areas, killed by cars. But now, because urban entries in
places like San Diego and El Paso have been nearly sealed by fences, technology
and agents, illegal immigrants have been forced to try to cross here in southern
Arizona, one of the most inhospitable places on earth.

They die from the sun, baking on the prickled floor of the Sonoran Desert, where
ground temperatures reach 130 degrees before the first day of summer. They die
freezing, higher up in the cold rocks of the Baboquivari Mountains on moonless
nights. They die from bandits who prey on them, in cars that break down on them,
and from hearts that give out on them at a young age.

The mountainous Sonoran Desert, between Yuma in the west and Nogales in the
east, is the top smuggling entry point along the entire 1,951-mile line with
Mexico, the Border Patrol says. Through the middle of May, apprehensions of
crossers in the desert south of Tucson had jumped 60 percent over the previous
year. Nearly 300,000 people were caught trying to enter the United States
through the desert border since last Oct. 1.

After a four-year drop, apprehensions -- which the Border Patrol uses to measure
human smuggling -- are up 30 percent over last year along the entire southern
border, with 660,390 people detained from Oct. 1 through the end of April,
federal officials said.

The crossing here, over a simple barbed-wire fence, is followed by a walk of two
or three days, up to 50 miles on ancient trails through a desert wilderness, to
reach the nearest road, on the Tohono O'odham Nation Indian Reservation, a wedge
of desert the size of Connecticut that is overrun with illegal immigrants, or on
adjacent federal park or wildlife land. Most people start off with no more than
two gallons of water, weighing almost 17 pounds, in plastic jugs. In recent
days, with daytime temperatures over 100 degrees in the desert, a person needed
a gallon of water just to survive walking five miles.

The desert is littered with garbage -- empty plastic jugs, discarded clothes,
toilet paper.

''My feet hurt and I'm thirsty, but I will try again after a rest,'' said
Edmundo Saenz Garcia, 28, who was apprehended on the reservation one morning
near the end of his journey. His toes were swollen and blistered. He walked in
cowboy boots. After being fingerprinted for security, he will be sent back to
Mexico, agents said.

Mr. Garcia said he had heard that the new Bush immigration plan, which would
grant work visas to millions of illegal immigrants inside the United States and
to others who can prove they have a job, was ''amnesty,'' and he wondered why he
was arrested. He said he would try to cross again in a few days.

''It's like catch-and-release fishing,'' Mr. Stroud, the Border Patrol agent,
said with a shrug after helping Mr. Garcia with his blisters. ''One week, I
arrested the same guy three times. If I dwell on it, it can be frustrating.''

Agents and groups opposed to open borders say the spike in crossings and deaths
are the fault of the Bush proposal, which is stalled in Congress and unlikely to
be acted on this year. But it has created a stir in Mexico, they say.

''They've dangled this carrot, and as a result apprehensions in Arizona are just
spiking beyond belief,'' said T. J. Bonner, president of the National Border
Patrol Council, which represents about 9,000 agents. ''The average field agent
is just mystified by the administration's throwing in the towel on this.''

Mr. Bonner, who is not related to the border commissioner, said the people were
crossing in huge numbers, even at the high risk of dying in the desert, because
''they're trying to get in line for the big lottery we've offered them.''

With an estimated 8 million to 12 million immigrants in this country illegally
-- and only a handful of prosecutions of employers who hire them -- the southern
border is more broken now than at any time in recent history, said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research
group opposed to increased immigration.

''We've created an incentive to take foolish risks,'' Mr. Krikorian said. ''In
effect, we're saying if you run this gantlet and can get over here, you're home
free.''

Bush administration officials say there is only anecdotal evidence, from field
agents, that their proposal has caused the spike in crossings. They point to a
new $10 million border initiative and indications in recent weeks that
apprehensions have leveled off as evidence that they are getting the upper hand
on the Arizona border. It is the last uncontrolled part of the line between
Mexico and the United States, they said.

''Unfortunately, there have always been deaths on the border,'' said Mario
Villareal, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Washington.

It was three years ago this month that 14 people died trying to walk cross the
desert near this small tribal hamlet, dying of heat-related stress in what the
poet Luis Alberto Urrea called ''the largest death event in border history.''
Mr. Urrea is the author of ''The Devil's Highway'' (Little, Brown and Company),
an account of the crossing and border policy.

He wrote that the Sonoran Desert here ''is known as the most terrible place on
earth,'' where people die ''of heat, thirst and misadventure.''

To curb deaths, the American government has been running an advertising campaign
in Mexico, warning people of the horrors.

''The message is, 'No mas cruces en la frontera,' no more crosses on the
border,' '' Commissioner Bonner said in unveiling the new plan earlier this
month in Texas. He said 80 percent of the deaths in a given year happen between
May and August.

The government has also increased staffing of Border Patrol Search Trauma and
Rescue Units, called Borstar, which deploys emergency medical technicians like
Mr. Stroud, to assist people found in desperate condition in the desert.

The publicity campaign seems to have had little effect, say border agents and
illegal immigrants.

Raminez Bermudez, 26, walked for four days in 100-degree heat, and said he knew
full well what he was getting into. He had been caught four times before his
apprehension this week, he said.

Though he has a 25-acre farm in southern Mexico, Mr. Bermudez said he could earn
up to $200 a day picking cherries in California. He was distressed, though, at
getting caught and at the failure to meet a coyote, or smuggler, who had agreed
to pick him up and members of his group for $1,200 each.

Mr. Stroud has developed a ritual to cope with the increased number of bodies he
has seen among the mesquite bushes and barrel cactus of the Sonoran. He has seen
children as young as 10, their bodies bloated after decomposing in the heat, and
mothers wailing next to them.

''I say a little prayer for every body,'' he said. ''You try not to let it get
to you. But every one of these bodies is somebody's son or daughter, somebody's
mother or father.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2004



CORRECTION: An article on May 23 about deaths among illegal immigrants who
crossed from Mexico into Arizona included an erroneous report from the Border
Patrol about the timing of an advertising campaign to discourage the crossings.
The Border Patrol said it plans to run the ads soon; they have not begun
appearing.

 A reader's e-mail message early this month, pointing out the error, was
misrouted at The Times.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Raminez Bermudez, right, said he had been caught four times
before being picked up last week by Leon Stroud, center, a border agent.
When Edmundo Saenz Garcia was caught, he was suffering blistered feet after
walking almost 50 miles across the border into Arizona.
 The heat of the Sonoran Desert is taking the lives of a growing number of
illegal immigrants, who also die of the cold, at night, in the mountains.
(Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 22)Chart: ''Deaths
within the Border Patrol's Tucson sector''Graph tracks the deaths within the
Border Patrol's Tucson sector since 2000. (Oct. 1 to May 18 each year)(Source by
U.S. Border Patrol)(pg. 22)Map of Arizona highlighting Phoenix, Tucson and
Nogales. (pg. 22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 1, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Behind Top Student's Heartbreak, Illegal Immigrants' Nightmare

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman.

E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1117 words


ANGELA PEREZ looked up from her desk at International High School in Queens one
morning last April to behold a most uncommon sight. Her best friend, Lydia, the
one who shuffled into homeroom late every day, had scampered in ahead of the
bell. ''Guess what?'' she called to Angela, and from her backpack she pulled a
thick envelope. It held the letter admitting her to Tufts University.

How could Angela feel anything but joy? She and Lydia had been close since they
entered International High in the fall of 2000 as immigrants new to America and
English; together they grew to love reading and talking about the same books,
like Alice Walker's novel ''The Color Purple.'' They whispered their aspirations
to one another like prayers: Lydia hoped to become a physicist; Angela, a
political journalist.

Still, Angela's vicarious celebration left a bitter aftertaste. The
fourth-ranking student in a senior class of 150, the possessor of a 3.8
grade-point average, the girl voted ''most intelligent'' in the yearbook poll,
she had not even applied to college. Unlike Lydia, her soul mate in so many
other ways, Angela is an undocumented immigrant, and under federal law, state
university systems have been financially pressured not to provide affordable
resident tuition to such applicants. In addition, under separate federal rules,
they cannot receive federal grants, loans or work-study jobs from any college,
public or private. Nor, for that matter, can they legally work.

''It feels awful,'' Angela had written of the dilemma in an essay during her
sophomore year. ''I feel frustrated. I try hard until I accomplish something and
I do not want all my accomplishments to be a waste of time. I want them to be
valuable. I want to be able to pay my parents back after all their support and
the difficulties they have lived in order to bring me here.''

The legal ceiling holds down an estimated 65,000 high school graduates each year
-- undocumented immigrants who have spent most of the educational lives in
American schools and yet are effectively denied in-state tuition at their
respective public colleges. A provision of the Illegal Immigration and
Responsibility Act of 1996 required state universities that gave in-state
tuition to undocumented immigrants to do the same for all comparable students
from other states -- creating a punitive cost few of those institutions chose to
bear.

Only eight states, New York among them, subsequently passed laws that attempted
in various ways to preserve in-state tuition for most state residents,
regardless of immigration status. And even in those states, immigrant students,
educators and advocates often were ignorant of the loophole or assumed the
federal law overrode it. Others feared exposing themselves or their families to
deportation by admitting their illegal residence in the college-application
process.

Now a bipartisan coalition of legislators has recognized that students like
Angela are, in fact, among the most responsible of Americans, those who carry
the burden of parents' sacrifices and who seize upon public education as their
route to productive citizenship. In both the Senate and the House of
Representatives, lawmakers have introduced bills to permit these immigrant
students to regain resident status in their home states and, even more
important, to earn citizenship in part by graduating from college, allowing them
to enter the workforce legally.

Yet nearly a year after the Senate Judiciary Committee approved the bill, by a
16-3 vote, and amid a Republican convention that intends to highlight President
Bush's credentials as a ''compassionate conservative,'' the measure,
colloquially known as the ''Dream Act,'' has yet to be brought to a floor vote
by the majority party.

It has fallen victim to the Republicans' internal split on immigration, which
pits cultural nativists against free-marketeers, as well as the overall shift in
federal immigration policy toward border control and internal surveillance since
Sept. 11 attacks. Trent Duffy, a deputy press secretary to the president, said
yesterday that ''certain parts'' of the Dream Act deserve ''serious
consideration'' as part of a ''better, more humane, and open immigration
system.''

What unites the coalition supporting the Dream Act is a belief that American
economic and intellectual might both suffer when the brainpower of immigrants is
left untapped. Thus the legislation has brought together as sponsors three
Democrats from states with large immigrant populations (Senator Richard Durbin
of Illinois and Representatives Howard Berman and Lucille Roybal-Allard, both of
California) and two Utah Republicans (Senator Orrin Hatch and Representative
Chris Cannon) whose globalism reflects the Mormon tradition of missionary work
overseas.

''Immigration is one of the great sources of strength to our economy,'' said Mr.
Cannon in a telephone interview. ''You get people who come here with the right
ambition, the right motivation, the desire to give their children education. If
those children are locked out of the chance for higher education, that's
destructive.''

Angela Perez's family fled their native Colombia in early 1999 using tourist
visas after several relatives had been murdered by left-wing guerillas. Her
father, an industrial engineer, found work in New York in a factory making
printing equipment, and so impressed his boss that the company petitioned the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to have him classified as a legal
resident. A few months later, Al Qaeda attacked, and the application remains in
limbo.

TO Senator Durbin, such a situation points to the necessity of moving
immigration policy beyond the border checks, detentions and deportations
undertaken in the name of homeland security. ''In the aftermath of 9/11, it is
vitally important that we fix our immigration system, which is fundamentally
broken,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''It harms our national security and
our economy and it treats hard-working immigrants, especially immigrant
children, unfairly. We have to distinguish between those who would do us harm
and those who came to our country to pursue the American dream and are
contributing members of our society.''

Meanwhile, as the college semester begins, Angela Perez watches her former
classmates head off to campuses -- Lydia to Tufts, others to Columbia and New
York University. In her family's apartment, in Queens, she keeps a loose-leaf
binder filled with academic awards and a stack of framed certificates for
scholarship and community service. And she has her high school yearbook, with an
aphorism from Gandhi: ''Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you
were to live forever.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 16, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Testified to Try to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; A Visa Case With a Twist: 9/11;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words


Last winter, lawyers for a group of illegal immigrants who were bereaved or
injured by the World Trade Center attack approached a federal prosecutor with an
unusual proposition.

The lawyers knew the prosecutor was looking for compelling testimony from
survivors to persuade a jury to choose the death penalty for Zacarias Moussaoui,
the only defendant awaiting trial in an American court in connection with the
attacks. And they were hoping for something in return for the immigrants: the
prosecutor's certification that they were being helpful, the first legal step
toward a little-known temporary U-visa for crime victims that could let them
stay and work lawfully in the United States.

The prosecutor, assistant United States Attorney David Novak of the Eastern
District of Virginia, made no promises but arranged to conduct two days of
interviews with 14 immigrants at a suite in a Midtown Manhattan hotel.

Admitting to a federal official that they were here illegally was a difficult
decision for the immigrants, some bereaved, like the three Mexican men who spoke
of losing their youngest brother and roommate, a 22-year-old assistant cook at
Windows on the World. Others were ailing workers who had escaped the towers'
collapse, like a 50-year-old chef from Trinidad who told of being trampled in
the stairs, choking on toxic ash and suffering health problems and mental
anguish ever since.

But the lawyers' bold move may have backfired. In the end, the prosecutor named
only 3 of the 14 as helpful. The others will not be able to apply for the
special visa, and having exposed their illegal status to a federal official,
fear deportation. And now advocates for battered women, who championed the
special visa, worry that the episode could undermine it.

The prosecutor's actions have thrown new light on a little-known aspect of
federal immigration law, enacted before 9/11 to protect immigrant victims of
crime and to aid law enforcement. The law, passed by Congress in 2000, allows up
to 10,000 three-year U-visas to be issued annually to victims of crimes in the
United States like domestic violence, rape, sexual exploitation, involuntary
servitude, murder, attempted murder and felonious assault.

But the law has never been carried out with regulations, and only recently have
530 of 868 visa applicants even gotten past the first stage of approval, winning
interim relief from deportation. Now lawyers for the Trade Center survivors, who
thought their case would help advance the special visa process, charge that the
prosecutor acted arbitrarily in deciding which of the 14 immigrants had suffered
enough, undermining the law's purpose.

The lawyers, who work for the Urban Justice Center in Manhattan, contend that in
withholding the certification needed to apply, Mr. Novak exceeded his authority
and cherry-picked the witnesses who best suited his prosecution, contrary to the
law's intent. ''Under the law, being helpful is to come forward and give
information to law enforcement -- it doesn't have to be the perfect information
for the prosecutor's needs,'' said Andrew Kashyap, one of the Urban Justice
Center lawyers.

Through a spokesman, Mr. Novak and the Justice Department said that there was a
never a promise of a ''quid pro quo'' as a result of the interviews and that
only a few of the immigrants qualified.

''The remaining claims did not meet the criteria set forth in the Victims of
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act,'' said Richard Shults, the Justice
Department spokesman, in a written statement, referring to the U-visa law. After
consulting with the Homeland Security Department, Mr. Novak took on the
responsibility of deciding whether the applicants satisfied all the criteria
listed in an October 2003 department memo, the statement says.

That memo gave the job of evaluating applications to specially trained agents in
its Citizenship and Immigration Services unit in Vermont. Besides certification
that a crime victim ''has been helpful, is being helpful or is likely to be
helpful'' to an official investigating or prosecuting the crime, applicants must
show that the crime caused them to suffer ''substantial physical or mental
abuse,'' and felons are not eligible.

Leslye Orloff, an expert on immigrant victims of domestic violence who spent
years working on the law with its bipartisan Senate sponsors, said judging
whether the physical or mental abuse from the crime was substantial enough for a
U-visa should be up to immigration authorities in the Vermont unit, not a
federal prosecutor. In New York, local prosecutors and the police have used
certification to encourage victims of domestic violence to come forward, leaving
further evaluation to trained gatekeepers at Citizenship and Immigration, she
said.

''What troubles me about this is having this prosecutor say he's supposed to
decide the whole question,'' Ms. Orloff said. ''If all the prosecutors take this
position, lots of victims won't get helped, and lots of perpetrators won't get
prosecuted.''

Mr. Novak granted certification to Kumar and Amish Sattaluri, the ailing husband
and traumatized 10-year-old son of a computer systems analyst from India who
died on the 99th floor of the north tower. But he denied it to the Trinidadian
chef, who fled from a breakfast room on the seventh floor and who says the
lasting effects have left him unable to work to support his three children.

The prosecutor certified Hadidjatou Karamoko Traore, the widow of a chef from
Ivory Coast, who breaks down when she repeats her 5-year-old son's question,
''Why did the bad guys kill my daddy?'' But he denied certification to Gonzalo
M., who chokes up when he describes his frantic rush to the burning tower where
Martin, his youngest brother, had reported for work that morning.

''We feel like we lost part of us in this country,'' said Mr. M., the oldest of
the three surviving brothers working in New York, who spoke on condition that
his last name not be published. ''If we leave from this country, we are never
going to feel O.K.''

Mr. Sattaluri echoed the sentiment. ''If I go back, I feel like I'm leaving my
wife here alone,'' he said. ''My personal opinion is everybody affected by the
tragedy is the same. I think a legal status should be given to everyone.''

Among the displaced workers denied certification by Mr. Novak were several whose
stories would probably be less compelling to a jury weighing the death penalty
than that of a widowed father and little boy. They included a Peruvian cashier
who has received a diagnosis of depression since her terrified flight from the
basement of the south tower, and a traumatized Mexican deliveryman who saw the
first plane hit as he emerged from the trade center, and suffered back injuries
when a mob escaping the debris pushed into the deli where he worked.

But Veronica Gimenez, a coordinator at the Restaurant Opportunities Center, an
immigrant labor organizing group that gathered the survivors and sought legal
help, said such distinctions were wrong.

''It isn't fair for him to use his own definition of victims,'' she said, ''or
to feel that someone who has a traumatized disorder isn't as much of a victim as
someone who lost his arm, say.''

Ms. Orloff, who directs the Immigrant Women Project of Legal Momentum, said the
law's intent was to help bring to justice those who victimized illegal
immigrants and silenced them with threats of deportation.

''There are a lot of good people in the Department of Homeland Security who are
working on this and understand the issues,'' she said. ''I'm concerned that this
one case could reframe the regulation discussion in a way that could harm other
victims -- the victims the law was first designed to help.''

Ms. Orloff blamed the reorganization of immigration under Homeland Security as
well as the anti-immigrant political climate after 9/11 for the delay in issuing
U-visa regulations. But she said the special unit handling interim relief was
doing a good job in the meantime.

The Vermont immigration unit has not been a rubber stamp. It rejects about 25
percent of certified applications for interim relief, Ms. Orloff estimated. At
the same time, given the high profile of a 9/11 prosecution, she added, she
understands why the Moussaoui prosecutor might have assumed more responsibility
than the law intended for vetting the 14 would-be applicants up front.

Perhaps the most skeptical view of the jockeying by and for victims is that of
Frank W. Dunham Jr., the chief federal defender in eastern Virginia, who
represents Mr. Moussaoui.

''The judge who is the gatekeeper on this kind of stuff is not going to let
every victim on the face of God's green's earth testify in this case, even if
they wanted to,'' Mr. Dunham said. ''The prosecutors have spent a fortune, a
king's ransom, in an effort to determine which would be the most effective.''

Yet whether any victim will get to testify in the Moussaoui case remains
uncertain. Such testimony could only be used in the sentencing phase of a death
penalty trial, Mr. Dunham said. No trial date has been set because of
conflicting court rulings on whether the government would be allowed to seek the
death penalty while barring the defense from questioning witnesses who have been
determined to be illegal combatants against the United States.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hadidjatou Karamoko Traore, whose husband died on Sept. 11, at
home in the Bronx with two of her children, Souleymane, left, and Siaka Hassan.
She has taken the first legal step toward a special visa to let her stay in the
country. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Kumar Sattaluri, who lost his wife, Deepika, a computer systems analyst with
Marsh McLennan who died in the north tower, with his son, Amish. (Photo by Dith
Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Irks Senators By Inaction On Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23


Republican and Democratic senators accused the Bush administration on Tuesday of
doing too little to transform President Bush's sweeping immigration plan into
legislation that might be voted into law this year.

Mr. Bush made headlines in January with his proposal to grant temporary legal
status to millions of illegal immigrants. But administration officials have yet
to propose any specific legislation, and Republicans in Congress, who are deeply
divided over the proposal, say it is unlikely that a major immigration bill will
pass in this election year.

Administration officials told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee at a
hearing on Tuesday that the president was unlikely to back any other immigration
bills pending in Congress, including bipartisan legislation intended to provide
legal status to some illegal farm workers and certain groups of students.

Among those expressing frustration at the lack of progress were Senators Chuck
Hagel of Nebraska, John McCain of Arizona and Larry E. Craig of Idaho, all
Republicans, and Senators Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, Richard J. Durbin
of Illinois and Barbara Boxer of California, all Democrats. They warned that the
session would probably end without the passage of any significant immigration
legislation unless prompt action was taken.

''This is an immense task for us, and it is going to require intense
presidential leadership,'' Mr. Hagel told Bush administration officials at the
hearing. ''My question would be: What is the administration doing? What will the
administration do to push this issue since you do not have your own proposal up
here?''

''The president deserves credit for stepping forward, as I have said many times
publicly, but that only takes us 5 percent of the way,'' said Mr. Hagel.
Mentioning it is good, but that doesn't move the ball.''

Eduardo Aguirre, director of immigration services for the Department of Homeland
Security, said the White House remained committed to its plan, but he
acknowledged that the administration had yet to provide specific legislative
guidance to Congress. Mr. Aguirre also said the White House was not ready to
back other existing immigration bills.

''I don't think any one of those proposals meets exactly the president's
initiative,'' Mr. Aguirre said of the various immigration plans proposed by Mr.
Hagel and others. ''But we're happy to engage and find common points of
convergence.''

''I certainly expect that action will be taken,'' Mr. Aguirre said. ''Whether or
not it's going to pass the Senate and the House, I'll leave it to you.''

Mr. Bush hopes to revamp an immigration system widely viewed as broken and to
re-establish his credentials as a compassionate conservative, particularly with
Hispanic and swing voters. But his plan has been criticized by conservative
Republicans, who have condemned it as an amnesty for lawbreakers.

At the hearing on Tuesday, several Republican senators who have expressed
support for the president's immigration plan emphasized the need for prompt
action. Mr. McCain cited the mounting deaths of illegal immigrants crossing the
Mexican border into Arizona ''to emphasize the urgency of this situation.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nine Immigrants Arrested in Raid File Lawsuit Against Wal-Mart

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 489 words


Nine Mexican immigrants who worked as janitors at Wal-Marts in New Jersey sued
the company on Wednesday, accusing Wal-Mart and its cleaning contractors of
failing to pay overtime, withhold taxes and make required workers' compensation
contributions.

The plaintiffs, who face deportation for being in the country illegally, also
accuse Wal-Mart and its contractors of discriminating against them by giving
them lower wages and fewer benefits than other workers because of their national
origin.

The nine Mexicans were among 250 people arrested in an Oct. 23 federal
immigration raid on 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states.

The lawsuit, the first filed by immigrants arrested in the raid, said Wal-Mart
should be held accountable for its contractors' wage and hour violations.

The plaintiffs have asked Wal-Mart and its contractors to pay more than $200,000
in back pay they say they are owed for overtime. The nine say they worked seven
days a week, at least 56 hours a week, and were not paid time and a half for
overtime hours, those over 40 a week. The immigrants say they were paid $350 to
$500 a week.

The lawsuit said that Wal-Mart, "knowingly and with the intention to defraud the
United States government and the plaintiffs and in order to save money on
cleaning service contract contractors," employed certain cleaning contractors,
"with full knowledge" that these contractors would pay the illegal immigrants
far less than they would have paid legal workers.

"Wal-Mart must have known about these violations," said Gilberto Garcia, the
immigrants' lawyer, who filed the lawsuit on Wednesday in Monmouth County
Superior Court in Freehold, N.J. "If these people are going to work at
Wal-Marts, then Wal-Mart and its contractors should abide by the labor laws."

Mona Williams, vice president of Wal-Mart for communications, said on Wednesday
that Wal-Mart did not know its contractors and subcontractors used illegal
immigrants. She also said Wal-Mart did not know about the overtime and other
labor violations of which the cleaning contractors are accused.

"Clearly, hungry lawyers are converging on these illegal immigrants as if they
were accident victims," Ms. Williams said. "We have seen absolutely no evidence
showing that Wal-Mart did anything wrong."

On Tuesday, Ms. Williams acknowledged that federal prosecutors had sent Wal-Mart
a letter warning that it faced a grand jury investigation about illegal
immigrants employed in its stores.

Ms. Williams said Wal-Mart was not liable for the misdeeds alleged against its
contractors, noting that Wal-Mart has long insisted that its contractors obey
the law. "If you are scrambling to make a buck at someone else's expense, who
would you sue, an unknown cleaning contractor or the country's largest
corporation?" she asked.

The lawsuit says the managers at two Wal-Marts where the plaintiffs worked, in
Old Bridge and Piscataway, N.J., knew that the workers were illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 13, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Marriage Scheme Guilty Plea

BYLINE:  By Susan Saulny (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 131 words


A woman who the authorities said married more than two dozen illegal immigrants
for a fee so that they could obtain green cards and other benefits pleaded
guilty yesterday and is to be sentenced to six months in jail. The woman,
Dezerrie Cortes, 40, of the Bronx, had applied for 27 marriage licenses,
officials in the Manhattan district attorney's office said.

But Ms. Cortes never bothered to divorce any of her husbands, who came from
Pakistan, India, Peru, Ecuador and other countries. Ms. Cortes pleaded guilty in
State Supreme Court in Manhattan to offering a false instrument for filing,
among other things. Justice Micki A. Scherer is expected to sentence Ms. Cortes
to five months of probation in addition to jail time when she is sentenced on
Jan. 7.   Susan Saulny (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 14, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Paterson: Legal Services For Detainees

BYLINE:  By Ian Urbina (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


Starting this week, prisoners in the Passaic County Jail who have been accused
of immigration violations will be able to dial a toll-free number, (877)
818-4845, to get help obtaining a lawyer. Since the Sept. 11 terror attacks,
thousands of people have been questioned about their immigration status and
hundreds have been detained, sometimes for long periods.

But advocacy groups for the immigrants say that low-income detainees have
difficulty getting lawyers because phone calls from jail are costly and
toll-free numbers are generally unavailable. The New Jersey Civil Rights Defense
Committee and the state chapter of the Council on American Islamic Relations
helped start the toll-free service in Passaic and hope to get Hudson, Bergen and
Middlesex County jails to allow it. Along with helping callers to obtain a
lawyer, volunteers for the service will also relay direct information from the
detainees to family members.   Ian Urbina (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Arizona Killings Are Linked to 9 Others

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 212 words


Three men, believed to have been illegal immigrants from Mexico, were found
slain execution-style in the Arizona desert over the weekend, the Maricopa
County sheriff said on Monday.

The sheriff, Joe Arpaio, said the men had been kidnapped, tied up and shot.

There have been nine similar killings in the county since March 2002.

All 12 bodies were found within 25 to 30 miles of remote, rural desert areas
surrounding Phoenix. "We think they throw them right off the roadway to send a
message," Sheriff Arpaio said.

Theories for the killings include that smugglers are killing immigrants who do
not pay the smuggling fee once they cross the border or that they concern
drug-traffic rivalries.

In the latest killings, the three bodies were found on Sunday morning by a
bicyclist along a dirt road on the Gila Indian Reservation. Two of the victims
appeared to have been in their 20's and the third in his 40's. Autopsies are
being conducted.

There are no suspects in any of the 12 killings. The earlier nine victims were
immigrants from Mexico. Local authorities are investigating the killings with a
federal task force.

Sheriff Arpaio said he did not see any connections between these deaths and the
shooting deaths of four people that occurred on Interstate 10 this month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants And Auto Licenses

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 146 words


To the Editor:

In "Licenses for Illegal Immigrants" (editorial, Nov. 26), you opine that
issuing state identification and driving permits to lawbreaking aliens is a
"difficult issue."

It is not. Either we are a nation of laws or we aren't.

The government's refusal to deal with exploding immigration is creating an
untenable situation where citizens are required to obey the law and illegal
aliens are not. Our increasingly balkanized society needs the unifying belief in
a fair and equal system of justice now more than ever. Otherwise, the nation
could fly apart in unpredictable and violent ways.

America has the most generous system of legal immigration in the world. It is
therefore not onerous to insist that would-be immigrants wait their turn. And
foreigners living here unlawfully should be repatriated to their true homes.

BRENDA WALKER
Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 26, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ridge Favors a Status Short of Citizenship for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge has called for millions of illegal
immigrants in the United States to be given some sort of legal status short of
citizenship, a proposal suggesting that the Bush administration might revive an
ambitious legalization plan that was sidetracked after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

In comments on Tuesday at a town hall meeting in Miami, Mr. Ridge said, "The
bottom line is, as a country, we have to come to grips with the presence of 8 to
12 million illegals, afford them some kind of legal status some way."

Mr. Ridge, who became the government's chief spokesman on immigration issues
after his new department took control over immigration policy this year, said
the government might consider legalizing the status of illegal immigrants
already in the country on a one-time basis.

Do "Then, as a country, you make a decision that from this day forward, this is
the process of entry, and if you violate that process of entry, we have
resources to cope with it," he said in response to a question from the audience
at Miami-Dade Community College about his support for changes in immigration
policy.

Aides to Mr. Ridge said that his comments were not scripted and not formally
approved by the White House but that they reflected a growing view in the Bush
administration that the federal government needed to find a way to register
illegal immigrants, if only for reasons of national security.

Brian J. Roehrkasse, Mr. Ridge's spokesman, said, "The secretary acknowledges
that we have several million people here illegally, and he understands that for
homeland security reasons, at some point in time, there needs to be a better way
to identify those who may be a threat to our country."

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, the administration had appeared eager to reach
agreement with the government of President Vicente Fox in Mexico on a plan to
provide legal status to millions of Mexicans illegally in the United States, a
proposal advocated largely on economic and humanitarian grounds.

The administration's enthusiasm for the proposal evaporated after Sept. 11, when
the attention of law enforcement and intelligence agencies turned to blocking
illegal immigrants from entering the United States and finding -- and often
deporting -- those who were here.

In his comments in Florida, Mr. Ridge said that the issue of legalization needed
to be revived and that the government would need to find a way to provide some
sort of legal protection to people who entered the United States illegally. He
insisted, however, that the protections would not included citizenship.

"I'm not saying make them citizens, because they violated the law to get here,"
he said. "So you don't reward that type of conduct by turning over a citizenship
certificate."

He offered no details on what sort of legal status might be offered to the
immigrants, although administration officials have previously suggested that
illegal immigrants might be granted work permits and provided with drivers'
licenses.

Mr. Ridge's comments were welcomed by immigrant-rights groups. Jeanne
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said his remarks were "a good step forward," adding "It's a signal that we can
come back to the table and talk about what is realistic."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 17, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Social Costs

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 107 words


To the Editor:

Re "Ridge Favors a Status Short of Citizenship for Illegal Immigrants" (news
article, Dec. 11):

If the federal government is considering granting some form of legal status to
the millions of illegal immigrants, it should also accept the responsibility of
fully reimbursing those border states that have borne a disproportionate share
of the rapidly rising social costs that these immigrants incur.

Schools, hospitals and prisons are increasingly overwhelmed by such costs, which
are now being borne by local taxpayers. Failure to do so will further fuel
tensions on this issue.

LAWRENCE R. FOSTER
San Ramon, Calif., Dec. 11, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: PRISONS;
Detainees' Abuse Is Detailed

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 374 words


A report released yesterday by the Department of Justice's inspector general
concluded that at one federal prison in Brooklyn, some staff members physically
abused many illegal immigrants arrested after the Sept. 11 attacks, taunted them
and illegally taped their meetings with lawyers.

Hundreds of illegal immigrants in the New York area were detained after the
attacks. Almost all were found to have no tangible connection to terrorism; many
have been deported or have left the country, officials said.

The report drew its conclusions from interviews with more than 30 detainees,
dozens of prison officers and supervisors, and hundreds of videotapes.

The videotapes, which investigators found after they were told by prison
employees that the tapes no longer existed, showed staff members slamming
chained detainees into walls and twisting their elbows, often while the
detainees were in chains, handcuffs or otherwise not resisting orders, the
report said.

The report said there were accusations that guards smashed a detainee's face
into a T-shirt taped to a wall. The shirt had an American flag and the words
"These colors don't run!"

In other cases, the report said, prison officials illegally taped detainees'
conversations with their lawyers. In a few cases, after talking with their
lawyers through a solid partition and in the presence of prison staff members,
some male detainees were needlessly stripped naked and searched in front of
female employees, the report said.

The report recommended that the federal Bureau of Prisons, which runs the
Brooklyn detention center, discipline 10 employees whom it identified and
several others whom it did not.

A spokeswoman for the Bureau of Prisons did not respond to three calls for
comment.

A Justice Department spokesman, Mark Corallo, said the department's civil rights
division and the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York
would review the report to decide whether to prosecute.

Nancy Chang, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, which filed a
federal lawsuit against the Justice Department last year on behalf of several
detainees, praised the report and called on prosecutors to use the videotapes to
prosecute prison employees who abused detainees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Workers In the Shadows

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 703 words


Imagine a person 10 times as determined as you are. Picture a guy who will wade
across rivers, brave 120-degree boxcars and face vicious smugglers and murderous
vigilantes -- all to geta job picking fruit for 10 hours a day. That person is
the illegal immigrant. Let's call him Sam. This whole immigration debate is
about him, the choices he faces and the way he responds.

One thing we know about Sam: he will get here. Between 1986 and 1998, Congress
increased the Border Patrol's budget sixfold. Over that time the number of
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. doubled, to eight million. Getting across
that border is Sam's shot at a decent future. Maybe his whole family depends
upon him. He will not be herded away like a lamb.

At the moment, Sam lives in the shadows of society. But this week, President
Bush proposed an immigration reform plan that would offer him a new set of
choices.

Under the Bush plan, Sam could become a visible member of society with legal
documentation. He could get a driver's license. He could benefit from worker
protection laws, and possibly see his wages rise. He could open a bank account,
which would let him ship money back home without having to pay huge fees. As Dan
Griswold of the Cato Institute has shown, he would be much more likely to invest
in himself through worker training.

More important, he could go home and see his family. He wouldn't have to live
with the constant fear of detection. He wouldn't have to drive on back roads to
avoid being pulled over and asked for his license by the police.

But Sam would have to think hard about the Bush proposal, because it is not all
good news. In the first place, it would tie him to a single employer. He would
have to have a job waiting to get in, and he'd have to keep it once he was here.
Instead of trying to sell his labor on the open market, or jumping at
opportunities, he'd be tied down. If he lost that job, he would have a short but
terrifying window of time to find another.

More seriously, his stay in the U.S. would be limited. For up to six years, Sam
would be legal, but at the end of that time, he would probably face deportation.
Then what would his family do for money?

Sam might decide, all things considered, that it was better not to be in the
Bush system, and to remain, as he is now, in the shadows. Or he might decide to
enroll in the Bush system for a few years, then return to the shadows.

If Sam is going to cooperate, if the U.S. is going to have the labor force it
needs to prosper, if the cloud of gangsterism and exploitation is to be finally
removed from the lives of immigrants, then Congress is going to have to take the
Bush plan and add a component that addresses the immigrants' long-term dreams.

There are several ways to do this. Some have proposed a point system. Sam could
earn a point every time he did something that would make him a better citizen. A
point for learning English. A point for a high school equivalency degree. With
enough points he could earn a green card. He would be on a rigorous path to
citizenship, which would still be longer than the one legal immigrants would
take.

The Bush plan also needs that long-term component to have any chance of passage
in the House of Representatives. There are about 70 Republicans who will never
vote for any immigration reform but prohibition. To get a majority, the
administration has to take the rest of the Republicans and win over a big chunk
of Democrats.

The Democrats' present position is that Sam has to get full legalization --
which is politically impossible -- or he gets nothing. This week, most
Democrats, led by Howard Dean, dismissed the president's plan contemptuously.

But if Democrats were offered a reasonable way to regularize Sam's life and give
himhope for the future, I can't believe that they would really be so hardhearted
that they would turn that down.

Bush has moved the Republicans a long way on this issue, and he will probably
have to move a little more. The Democrats haven't budged, but if they do, then
we will finally be able to see Sam emerge into the sunlight, and we'll be able
to take advantage of all the work and drive and creativity that he and millions
like him bring to this country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

URBAN TACTICS;
Look Homeward, Anxiously

BYLINE:  By TARA BAHRAMPOUR

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words


PAINTED on a mirror below a strand of tiny white lights at Toucan Tommy's bar, a
blue-eyed Santa raised a mug of Guinness. On a small television screen, brightly
colored rally cars raced down impossibly narrow Irish country roads as the bar's
patrons nursed drinks and played darts.

It was Christmas night, but the seasonal touches there and at Sean Og's, the
Cuckoo's Nest and other bars like them in Woodside, Queens, felt like a mockery
to some of the young Irish patrons. Immigration restrictions have become so
stringent in recent years that the illegal immigrants among these customers were
too afraid to travel home to Ireland for the holidays.

"The spuds don't taste the same here," said a 23-year-old carpenter with a thick
brogue.

"Happy Christmas," he said, lurching off his stool as he held out his hand to
greet a stranger. "I'd rather be at home."

One might think that these taverns would be full of smiles now, given the
proposal announced on Jan. 7 by President Bush to give work visas to illegal
immigrants. Although limited to three years, such visas would offer job
protections and the right to travel back and forth between the United States and
home countries.

But reaction to the Bush proposal has been mixed. Some people hope it would
broaden their options, but others say that the plan is too incomplete to assess,
or that it would put workers on the government's radar screen and make it easier
to deport them down the line.

And so Irish illegal immigrants continue in the same grim limbo they have
inhabited since Sept. 11, 2001, a world marked by separation from family, even
on holidays like Christmas, and a terror of deportation that led many of those
interviewed to insist on anonymity. For many illegal immigrants, that grimness
has long been par for the course, but as educated, English-speaking Europeans,
the Irish had had relative advantages. For them, living in the United States
became harder when enforcement of immigration laws tightened after 9/11.

In heavily Irish neighborhoods like Woodside and Woodlawn, in the Bronx, the
bars began to buzz with horror stories. An elderly woman from County Cork trying
to visit her daughter here for Christmas was deported after it was discovered
that she had once overstayed a visa by a few days. A bartender in Yonkers who
used to travel home regularly was stopped upon his return; immigration officials
stamped a 10-year-ban onto his passport and sent him back to Ireland.
Undeterred, he flew to Canada, hoping to drive over the border, but he was
caught, fined $1,200 and sent back again.

While such stories are nothing new for immigrants from many other parts of the
world, they are shocking among the Irish. Cut-rate tickets from New York to
Dublin run as low as $250 round-trip and, for years, even Irish illegal workers
flew home for weddings and funerals with little fear of trouble upon their
return.

"I don't want to say it was 100 percent comfortable, but people could travel
back and forth freely," said Siobhan Dennehy, executive director of the Emerald
Isle Immigration Center, which has offices in Woodside and Woodlawn. "Now we're
saying to people, 'Are you ready to give up everything you've worked for here
for that chance football game or social event?' We're getting people, especially
at Christmastime, saying, 'Well, what should I do?' Your heart wants to tell
them one thing, but your brain tells them another."

Irish men and women flocked to Ms. Dennehy's center last month for one bright
spot amid the bleakness: an annual lottery in which the State Department
randomly selects to receive green cards 110,000 people from nations that have
sent relatively few people to the United States. One applicant, a 34-year-old
Dubliner, said that her waitress earnings in New York were several times what
they would be in Ireland, and that she and her Irish boyfriend were desperate to
get green cards.

"We would pay anything to get one," she said. "It's like being in jail. My
mother's sick, and I can't go home."

Although this woman has no desire to move back to Ireland, staying here
illegally has not been easy. She was deported once, when traveling, and she
would not say how she got back, noting that many people still use that route.
However unwillingly, she said, among illegal immigrants, "there is a secret
criminal world you get to know."

SHE played down some of the criticisms of the Bush proposal. If she signed on as
an "official" illegal immigrant, she said, but still had no green card after
three years, she did not think it would be difficult to avoid deportation. "Ah,
you just move," she said, explaining that she would simply switch apartments and
go back under the radar.

Others are more wary. In Woodlawn, a 27-year-old bartender with a strong brow
and a confident, affable grin said he would love to travel home without fear.
But even presenting his passport as identification for a recent flight to
Florida made him nervous.

"Now it's bar codes," he said as he pulled drafts of Guinness for customers.
"They have your retina scanned; they can swipe your passport and see your entire
history -- when you came, when you left."

Under the Bush proposal, he could get a driver's license and travel home openly
for the first time in two years. But for those who want to stay in America long
term, he thinks the plan could create problems. "The most dangerous thing is
leaving a paper trail," he explained. "You're telling them everything, which is
a very scary thought. You have to think about how far can you trust these
people."

Whatever the fate of the proposal, the difficulties with being an illegal
resident have convinced him that America is not a place to stay, much as he'd
like to. "If I could fly home," he said, "I'd stay here for the next 50 years,
no question about it."

If the proposal does go through, he said, he might participate and then resign
himself to returning to Ireland after three years. Going home is something that
many people in his position have been doing since 9/11, shaving their romantic
American dreams down to something closer to a shotgun marriage and quickie
divorce.

But if Irish illegal immigrants in New York are thinking about going home,
people in Ireland are eager to replace them and have been deluging the Emerald
Isle center with calls about the new proposal.

Ms. Dennehy is urging caution. "We're telling them, 'No, stay put,"' she said.
"We're telling them to be wary until we figure out how it might translate to
helping the Irish."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Irish want to visit home but fear they will be unable to
re-enter this country. "What should I do?" they ask Siobhan Dennehy, below, who
counsels immigrants. (Photos by above, Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times;
below, Mia Aigotti)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Change of Scene?

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1945 words


JEAN-RIGARD LEESSE is a Haitian immigrant who has worked as a maintenance man at
St. Anne's Roman Catholic Church in Garden City for two years.

Officially he is a candidate for political asylum, which allows him to work
legally in the United States, and he hopes to become a legal resident later this
month after an immigration hearing. But before advocates at Catholic Charities,
an agency of the Diocese of Rockville Centre, helped put his asylum case in
motion, he lived nearly a year as an undocumented immigrant. He had strong
praise for the immigration proposal presented by President Bush this month.

"It's a humane action," Mr. Leesse (pronounced lay-ESS) said last week as he
waited to meet with his counselor at Catholic Charities' offices in Amityville.
"America is a good country, but when you live as an illegal here, it is very
hard. It's difficult to get a job or do something to even get an I.D. card or a
driver's license."

The president's plan would offer legal status to millions of illegal workers. He
has stressed that it is not an amnesty program because immigrants would be
required to have a job with a sponsoring employer and would be expected to
return to their home countries after their work periods expired.

Many immigrant advocates have criticized the program for not going far enough,
noting that it only provides temporary worker status for renewable three-year
periods. But Mr. Leesse said: "It's still a good thing. It's better than
nothing, because otherwise you're illegal with no hope at all."

The president's proposal has drawn mixed reviews on Long Island. Immigrants and
their advocates praise it for finally recognizing the need to grant undocumented
immigrants some form of legal status. Employers say they hope it will make it
easier to fill jobs with legal workers. Advocates and employers say it might
reduce the crowds of unemployed immigrant workers at informal streetcorner
gathering places around the Island, where they wait for contractors to pull up
and offer them a day's work.

But opponents of illegal immigration harshly criticize the president's plan and
warn that it will only encourage more illegal immigration and leave less work
for American citizens. The number of workers clamoring for day jobs in major
"shape up" sites in Farmingville, Farmingdale and Freeport will just increase,
they say, and the immigrants' overcrowded living conditions will continue to vex
neighbors and ruin property values. Labor leaders add that they fear that the
program would officially create a class of lower-paid workers that would depress
wages for everyone.

Steve Levy, the new county executive in Suffolk County, which has been home to
acts of anti-immigrant violence that have drawn national attention in recent
years, gave it qualified praise. "I believe that we should be seeking immigrants
through proper legal channels," he said, adding that the program could help
"mitigate the exploitation of workers and put those businesses that are playing
by the rules on a fairer playing field."

But he also criticized the president's proposal as an amnesty program and said,
"I don't think preference should be given to those who have broken the law and
wound up here on Long Island."

Even before he was elected county executive Mr. Levy said he wanted the county
to go after contractors who hire illegal day workers and he opposed creating a
hiring hall for undocumented workers in Farmingville, where protesters still
march six days a week, carrying signs that read: "Deport Illegal Aliens."

Last week, Mr. Levy said he planned to gather interested parties from throughout
the county to develop a plan for dealing with undocumented workers. Within a few
months' time and probably long before the debate over Mr. Bush's proposal
concludes, Mr. Levy said he hoped to have Suffolk County police officers
conducting sting operations "against those employers who are cheating on sales
tax, unemployment and workers compensation." When employers do business off the
books, he said, "Our coffers suffer as aresult because taxes don't get paid and
employers who do play by the rules are undercut and can't compete."

Robert Wieboldt, the executive director of the Long Island Builders Association,
said that requiring employers to establish the credentials of their workers
would be a tremendous burden. "The average contractor is not competent to
determine if a green card is real or not," he said. "But if the president's
proposal makes it easier to get certified workers and to establish legality,
that's a good thing."

The construction industry on Long Island has long acknowledged that some
contractors use undocumented workers, he said, adding that the president's
program would finally recognize the fact that "there are legitimate labor
shortages that cannot be filled with our local work force."

Mitchell H. Pally, the vice president for government affairs at the Long Island
Association, said the broader business community would probably welcome the
program. "Obviously we have a large number of immigrants who are here doing
productive work for the people of Long Island, and I think any method in which
they can become legal would be welcomed because it would ensure their continued
employment." He said most employers would probably be willing to step forward
and sponsor their undocumented workers as long as there was no penalty.

But local opponents of illegal immigration have already started contacting
members of Congress to campaign against the president's plan. Sachem Quality of
Life, a Farmingville group that has been outspoken against illegal immigration,
has been riven by internal disputes, but the two factions of the group are
united in their opposition to Mr. Bush's program.

"He says it would bring in workers as needed, but it's just going to enable
corporations to fire American workers and replace them with foreign workers,"
said Ed Person, leader of one Sachem faction. "President Bush is encouraging
lawbreaking, because illegal aliens will see that they're rewarded for breaking
the law."

Ray Wysolmierski, a leader of the other faction, agreed that the proposed
program would bring more illegal immigrants to the United States.

"Everybody knows what's going to happen," he said. "After three years, they
won't go back and the liberals will all say these people have been paying taxes
and contributing to the economy so it would be a terrible thing to make them go
back, and they'll wind up staying here."

Jack Kennedy, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of
Nassau and Suffolk Counties, said he feared that the program would "open up the
floodgates to immigration, and as far as I'm concerned and middle-class workers
are concerned, that's a real heavy threat to middle America." He said that small
employers who already operate in the underground economy of undocumented workers
would probably not participate in the program, but he feared that large
employers would, giving potential union jobs held by American citizens to guest
workers from abroad.

Still, Mr. Kennedy said, "I don't think we're going to be able to stop it, so I
think the next move for us is to take a real hard, serious look and try to
organize these people, because if not, we're going to see a spiraling down of
what we consider a livable wage." Immigrants may be happy to work for $7 or $10
an hour, he said, but middle-class Long Islanders simply can't afford to make
that little.

Advocates for immigrants stressed that the vast majority of undocumented workers
already have regular jobs and that the president's program would finally
recognize them, put them on official payrolls, collect taxes from them and
provide some job security for them.

Ed Hernandez, a spokesman for the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, a coalition of
24 service and advocacy groups, said that in Farmingville, where the number of
undocumented workers is estimated at 900 to 1,500, only about 200 workers can be
found on any given day rushing up to contractors' trucks looking for a days'
work. "That means that most of them are steadily and gainfully employed," he
said. "The streetcorners are really the unemployment line for undocumented
workers."

Many of these people have come to Long Island because their fellow villagers
have come here, Mr. Hernandez said, but if companies elsewhere in the country
were encouraged to participate in the guest worker program, "maybe it will
reroute some of the folks who are coming up here." He added, "it wouldn't
eliminate all the issues around illegal hiring and labor practices, but it would
certainly reduce them."

Mr. Hernandez and other immigrant advocates said, however, that there were
aspects of the president's plan that needed refinement. They argued that an
adequate grace period should be included for those workers who lose their jobs
to remain in the country while looking for another job, and that safeguards
should be included to prevent unscrupulous employers from using the threat of
deportation as a way to intimidate their workers.

Carmen Maquilon, director of immigrant services for Catholic Charities, said she
applauded President Bush for finally grappling with the issue of undocumented
workers, but added, "His remedy is not good enough because it doesn't lead to
any permanent status and it doesn't address the need for family unity." Once a
person has been in this country for a few years and has established roots, she
said, "if they proved they are taxpayers and good for the country, they should
be allowed to get some type of permanent status and it should include their
families."

Men are most likely to participate in a guest worker program, thus leading to
the creation of de facto immigrant bachelor societies, she said. "A person who's
here trying to make money only sees tomorrow, not next week or next year," she
said. "So he will be happy to just have some type of legal status, but this
program will keep families apart."

One much-sought-after service at Ms. Maquilon's offices is help navigating the
system when an undocumented immigrant marries an American citizen and can then
apply for legal status. Ms. Maquilon said she and her staff screen couples to
make sure their unions aren't simply marriages of convenience.

Elizabeth, a 34-year-old immigrant from Bolivia who was meeting with a Catholic
Charities counselor but declined to give her last name, said she would have
welcomed President Bush's program when she first came to Long Island four years
ago.

She said she worked two jobs when she first arrived, one making $5.15 an hour
packing food for a lunch wagon and another making $7 an hour at a bakery. But
first she had to buy a fake Social Security card that allowed her to work on the
books, and every day she lived in fear of being discovered.

"Even if this is just temporary, at least you can renew the status and you can
go home and visit," she said. "Otherwise you can't even go back if your parents
die."

Her husband, Mike, is an American citizen. They met three years ago while he was
working as a volunteer at an outreach program in Bay Shore and she stopped by in
search of a donated couch. "I think it's fantastic if people who want to work
here can do it legally and not have to lie about what they are anymore," he
said. "The ideal for immigrants is living with their families in a nice house,
not hiding and living in basements."

Elizabeth said that life in America has been much more difficult than she
imagined. "It's totally different from what they say before you come," she said.
"Only the hardest work is left for us and you have to be always afraid."

Then she turned to her husband, took his hand and said, "I told him, he is my
angel."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: DAY LABORERS, foreground, and placard-toting protesters have
become a familiar tableau in Farmingville; here's how it looked on Monday.
Government officials, business and labor leaders, immigrant advocates and their
critics disagree about whether President Bush's immigration proposal will make
this scene go away. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1);
Carmen Maquilon, director of immigrant services at Catholic Charities in
Amityville.; Jean-Rigard Leesse, an immigrant from Haiti, supports President
Bush's immigration proposal, saying it's better than illegal status.
(Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: White Plains: Sex Offender Sweep

BYLINE:  By Lisa W. Foderaro (NYT); Compiled by Karin Roberts

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 104 words


Federal agents arrested 29 illegal immigrants with sex crime convictions
throughout Westchester County yesterday as part of a federal crackdown on sex
offenders.

The arrests came after months of planning between the United States Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agency and the Westchester County Department of
Probation. Sex offenders who are illegal immigrants or legal permanent residents
can be deported if convicted of a felony. Those arrested included a Mexican
citizen who had abused his 4- and 7-year-old nieces and a Peruvian citizen who
had raped a 14-year-old girl, officials said.   Lisa W. Foderaro (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Prison For Immigration Ex-Officers

BYLINE:  By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 117 words


Three former Immigration and Naturalization Service officers were fined and
sentenced to prison terms ranging from 33 to 78 months for failing to obtain
medical care for an illegal immigrant who died of injuries received during a
raid they helped conduct in 2001.

The officers -- Richard H. Gonzales and Louis R. Gomez, both 37, and Carlos
Reyna, 43 -- were convicted in June in Federal District Court at San Antonio.
The immigrant, Serafin Olvera-Carrera, received medical attention seven hours
after the raid. He was paralyzed after suffering a broken neck and died 11
months later. Mr. Olvera-Carrera's family received $2.2 million in a settlement
with the federal government.   Steve Barnes (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Economic Policies Force Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 218 words


When the United States government gives more than $10 billion in subsidies to
corn growers, it encourages them to produce a surplus that is then dumped onto
world markets at artificially low prices. This has enormous consequences on the
domestic economies of third-world nations.

In Mexico, the price of corn has dropped 70 percent while production costs have
risen. Mexico, where corn occupies half of the total land used for growing
crops, has lost most of its farms over the last 10 years, bringing havoc to the
rural economy, forcing mass migration to the cities, bringing ruin and
unemployment. And it has spurred the mass migration of campesinos to El Norte.

In small town and large, in every community across America these economic
refugees from American corporate greed stand on street corners to try to get a
day's pay doing work that no one else will do. They are resented in many
communities. People see the downsizing, the unemployment, the foreclosures, the
homelessness and bankruptcy as not so very far from them and blame these
immigrants.

This is the social and economic context of Farmingville, a community of ordinary
middle class and working Americans reeling from the larger forces of
international trade rigged to the advantage of the privileged and the wealthy.

MICHAEL O'NEILL
Wainscott

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Children Alone and Scared, Fighting Deportation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1963 words


Once a month, in a windowless courtroom at 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan,
children are summoned before a judge who can decide whether they will be removed
from the United States. One afternoon, there is a Haitian girl of 17 who escaped
her father's killers; another time, a 15-year-old Ecuadoran who came 3,000 miles
to earn money for his ailing mother. There is even a disabled boy of 5 from
Morocco who lacks the visa needed to stay here with his parents.

Some fled here for their lives, while others were simply stranded. All have
stumbled into a complex intersection of government interests after the attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001, as a crackdown to protect national security collides with a
long tradition of protecting juveniles.

Immigration authorities have sought to deport many of the 5,000 unaccompanied
minors apprehended each year, and others separated from their families, arguing
for strict enforcement of rules to secure the nation's borders from illegal
entrants. Every day, about 500 such children are in detention, awaiting a
decision. Supporters of the policy say it discourages parents in other countries
from sending their children to the United States, and officials at the
Department of Homeland Security say they cannot treat a case differently because
the subject is a child.

''Because of the events of Sept. 11th, the way that we deal with administering
immigration benefits and services has changed,'' said a spokesman for the
department's Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Christopher
Bentley. ''Everything we do is aimed at national security.''

But child welfare lawyers want to keep the minors safe, just as if they were
American children alone or abandoned. Many children at issue, in fact, are
growing up in foster care as New Yorkers, facing deportation if their petitions
for special status are not granted before they turn 21.

Even for those lucky enough to get a lawyer, however, the results are often
arbitrary, because no clear-cut system is in place either at Homeland Security
or in the child welfare system.

''These are kids with very few resources, at the mercy of two overwhelmed
bureaucracies,'' said Amy Meselson, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who organized
volunteers from corporate law firms to represent foster children with
immigration cases, and pushed for the creation of the special monthly docket for
juveniles at immigration court last August.

The same tension is playing out around the country. While Homeland Security
makes no allowances for age, Star Pacitto, the court administrator in New York,
said immigration courts in Miami, Phoenix, San Francisco and Harlingen, Tex.,
have tried to make their proceedings more friendly to unaccompanied minors,
especially juveniles being held in a dozen government detention centers.

And as judges around the country are learning of New York's special docket, Ms.
Pacitto added, they are turning to it as a resource. The Ecuadoran youth, for
example, had been detained in Phoenix for seven months, but his case was
transferred so he could be paroled to a relative in Brooklyn. Ms. Meselson
described his case on the condition that his name not be published.

Juveniles do not have a right to court-appointed counsel in immigration matters,
and the legal volunteers are stretched thin. Only those youngsters considered
most likely to benefit from legal help get a lawyer.

The Haitian girl, for example, lacked one as she walked to the defense table at
the February hearing, a slim 17-year-old in turtleneck and blue jeans, her spine
stiff with fear. Her father, a businessman, had been killed by men who sought to
kill her, too -- but not, from what Ms. Meselson could glean, for political
reasons that could bolster an asylum bid. The girl's mother, in desperation, had
put her on a plane with a stranger, paying him a small fortune to deliver the
girl to the United States. Instead, the stranger had held her in the South
American country of Suriname for seven months, demanding more money.

When the girl finally arrived at the Miami airport last April, she was promptly
arrested. After three months' detention in Florida, she was paroled to a cousin
in Brooklyn to await the workings of the government machinery designed to eject
her. Now she faced a judge who could send her all the way back.

Judge Douglas Schoppert adjourned the case, giving the girl more time to find a
lawyer. She asked that her name not be used because she feared for her life.

And after another interview, Ms. Meselson found legal merit in her case: she
might qualify for special immigrant juvenile status -- a green card that
Congress created especially for neglected or abandoned children in need of
long-term foster care.

But the first step in the daunting application was in Family Court, which
accepts jurisdiction only in cases of minors under 18. There was no time to
lose: the Haitian girl was four weeks from her 18th birthday.

These days, even with a lawyer on the case, applications for special immigrant
juvenile status can take years, and sometimes they fail just because time has
run out.

A lawyer for the New York Association for New Americans, Michelle Caldera, cited
the case of her client Bintou Bouboutou, a girl from Ivory Coast who was
stranded in New York at 16 and sent to the foster care system by emergency room
doctors treating her for asthma. While her application for a juvenile green card
languished at 26 Federal Plaza, Bintou graduated from Thomas Jefferson High
School in East New York, worked summers as a counselor for the Fresh Air Fund
and won an engineering scholarship to the Rochester Institute of Technology.

Immigration authorities lost her application at least three times, Ms. Caldera
said, citing a federal complaint that she filed last year to try to force
Homeland Security to resolve the case. Immigration officials did not dispute the
written account of error and delay.

Finally, days before Ms. Bouboutou's 21st birthday on Aug. 28, officials
summoned her for fingerprinting and a green card interview -- only to rule that
it had been too late. Though she had passed F.B.I. security checks, officials
said, one by the C.I.A. was not done before she turned 21. Instantly, she was an
illegal immigrant adult subject to deportation to Ivory Coast, a war-torn
country where she no longer has a family.

The city has let her stay on in her foster boarding home in Brooklyn Heights
while her lawyer hunts for a legal institution willing to mount an appeal, but
she had to interrupt her engineering studies, cannot work legally, and
constantly fears arrest.

''If I got mad about everything that happened to me, I'd be in the loony bin,''
Ms. Bouboutou said. After speaking of her dreams of building bridges and sending
water to deserts, she added, ''Sometimes, I wake up crying.''

Ms. Caldera contends that delay has become another form of rejection. ''It's
just a culture of 'no' there,'' she said of immigration services under Homeland
Security. ''At one point I was told by a supervisor she wouldn't want anybody to
take the risk of approving one of these and risk getting fired.''

Advocates of restricting immigration argue that compelling cases
notwithstanding, special juvenile status is bad policy. ''An improved chance to
stay here easily for abandoned kids creates a motivation for people to send
their kids here, to put them at risk,'' said Mark Krikorian of the Center for
Immigration Studies.

Others disagree. ''Special juvenile status or not, parents are going to put kids
on a plane to escape danger,'' said Colleen Samuels, who represented a young boy
from Guinea arrested for selling bootleg CD's on the street.

Mr. Bentley, the spokesman for the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services in Washington, said employees were simply being diligent. ''Where there
is an age-out, we have no discretion,'' Mr. Bentley said, referring to cases in
which applicants are rejected when they turn 21. ''Is it unfortunate that some
people are indeed caught up in that process? Yes. We empathize. At the same
time, we can't apologize for that process.''

But last week, he called back with an update: a special counsel's office in
Washington would review Ms. Bouboutou's case.

Mr. Bentley said 36 cases were pending in the New York office, six of them at
risk of ''age-out'' this year. Lawyers, however, counted at least 60 and worried
that some were lost. The city's Administration for Children's Services estimates
another 200 children are in the pipeline, and it has stepped up efforts to
identify others and link them to legal help. Applications are easily derailed or
forgotten as foster children move through a changing roster of caseworkers,
agencies and group homes.

The outlook is discouraging for those just starting to apply, like Timarley
Richards, 18, who was a ninth grader at Martin Luther King High School in
Manhattan in 2000 when immigration authorities deported his mother to Jamaica --
so quickly that he was overlooked.

As Timarley told the story, he was staying with a friend when his mother was
arrested, and he never saw her again. He managed for four months, earning $10 a
day lugging garbage for the superintendent of a building next door, and holding
parties for friends. It was sometimes lonely, he said, ''going to sleep all by
myself in the big dark house.''

Then lights and cable were shut off, and an eviction notice appeared. Timarley,
whose father was shot and killed in Brooklyn when he was an infant living in
Jamaica, asked to stay with a neighbor, and at 15, he entered foster care. By
then, his half sister, Nicolette Edwards, who had been in foster care herself,
was searching for him everywhere.

When Ms. Edwards, 25, finally located Timarley, she took classes to qualify as
his foster mother. ''I really don't want him to feel that he doesn't have
anybody,'' she said recently as she stewed chicken in their Flatbush apartment,
before her 3-to-11 p.m. shift as a supermarket cashier in Park Slope. ''He's
really the only sensible family that I have left.''

But unless a volunteer lawyer can win him a juvenile green card, Timarley, now a
high school junior, will be deported.

Caught between the laws of the land and the rules of survival, many children
come to light only when they are in trouble, Ms. Samuels said. The Catch-22, she
added, is that any legal violation is now a hindrance to legal immigrant status.
The congressional trend has been to add new but complicated waivers. One, for
example, covers victims of sex trafficking willing to help prosecute their
captors; another proposal is for teenagers brought here as children who serve in
the United States military.

Those categories did not apply to the children who appeared recently in
immigration court. The youth from Ecuador was ordered deported. The case of the
5-year-old from Morocco, Zouhair Sbaiti, is still pending. Homeland Security
found him inadmissible at Kennedy Airport after his mother, who has her green
card, tried to bring him back from Morocco, where he had been in his
grandmother's care.

But in Family Court, the Haitian girl came before Judge Louise Gruner Gans, who
happened to know what it was like to be a young person fleeing death.

Judge Gans, 70, was a 10-year-old in the Krakow ghetto in Poland when her own
mother tried to save the family from the Nazis with citizenship papers from
Honduras.

Late last month, after extensive testimony, Judge Gans found the girl neglected,
and ruled that it was not in her best interest to return to Haiti. The girl is
now eligible to apply for the special juvenile green card, which comes with a
1997 provision to curb abuses: the recipient is barred from ever sponsoring a
parent.

''I was thinking,'' the judge said later, ''how desperate these families must
be.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Timarley Richards, in Brooklyn, is trying to get a juvenile
green card. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Above, Timarley Richards, 18, with his half sister, Nicolette Edwards, stayed
behind when his mother was deported to Jamaica four years ago. He faces
deportation unless he gets a green card. At left, Chadia Demmouche with her son,
Zouhair Sbaiti, 5. The boy was declared inadmissible at Kennedy Airport when his
mother, who has her green card, tried to bring him back from Morocco, where he
had been in his grandmother's care.
 Bintou Bouboutou, from Ivory Coast, was stranded in New York five years ago.
Immigration authorities lost her application for a juvenile green card on three
occasions. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 35)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Convicted for Providing Fake ID's and Driver Licenses

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 348 words


A federal jury convicted a Manhattan man yesterday on charges of bribery,
identification fraud and the transport of illegal immigrants in a two-year
scheme that prosecutors said involved the purchase of more than 900 fake
drivers' licenses.

After a two-week jury trial in United States Court for the Southern District of
New York, the man, Mustafa Ozsusamlar, 60, was found guilty of bribing a public
official -- a window clerk at a Washington motor vehicles office -- and of
transporting illegal immigrants by van from New York City to Washington, where
he provided them, for a fee, with false licenses.

Mr. Ozsusamlar made at least 70 trips to Washington from the New York area as
part of the operation, officials said, and charged $1,500 to $2,000 in cash for
the trip and a license. Most of the immigrants were of Middle Eastern, Russian
or Southern Asian descent. It was unclear yesterday what if any penalties or
charges they face.

''Many of those obtaining the Washington, D.C., drivers' licenses were illegal
aliens, and approximately 75 of the individuals later exchanged their
fraudulently obtained Washington, D.C., drivers' licenses for New York drivers'
licenses,'' according to a statement that prosecutors released yesterday.

Mr. Ozsusamlar used fictitious Washington addresses in filling out applications
and always went to the window of the clerk he was bribing with cash, Gwendolyn
Dean. She processed the applications despite the absence of proof of name, birth
date and Social Security number, officials said.

Ms. Dean, 49, was charged as a co-conspirator. She pleaded guilty to two counts
of identification document fraud and was sentenced in October to four years and
nine months in prison.

Another co-conspirator, Rafet Ozoglu, 42, solicited the immigrants who wanted to
obtain new identification and helped transport them, officials said. Mr. Ozoglu,
of Brooklyn, pleaded guilty in January to six counts of bribery, theft and the
transport of illegal aliens. A sentencing date has not been set.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman, 26, Pleads Guilty In Deadly Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 801 words


A 26-year-old Honduran immigrant pleaded guilty Monday to being the ringleader
of the nation's deadliest smuggling case, which left 19 immigrants dead after
being jammed without air or water in a tractor-trailer that was abandoned in
South Texas last spring.

The woman, Karla Chavez, was arrested exactly a year ago after fleeing to her
childhood home in Honduras on May 14, 2003, the day the bodies were discovered.
The driver she hired had heard the immigrants screaming for help soon after
crossing a border checkpoint, then, discovering some dead, fled to a Houston
emergency room overcome with panic and told the police what had happened.

Prosecutors said that Ms. Chavez, who was herself smuggled into this country at
the age of 15 and later worked at a Levi's factory, admitted in a videotaped
statement after her arrest to her role in the smuggling case and to smuggling
immigrants in four similar trips. She has agreed to cooperate with the United
States attorney's office in Houston in prosecuting five remaining defendants in
the case, and faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without parole.

''In contemporary history, we haven't seen anything worse, so this is a
significant guilty plea,'' said Daniel C. Rodriguez, the assistant United States
attorney prosecuting the case in the Southern District of Texas. ''We hope she
will be capable of providing assistance to find out what other individuals were
involved and to ensure that the individuals who have already been indicted are
found guilty, and that everything that was done is disclosed.''

In her plea, Ms. Chavez admitted that she had hired five smugglers, or coyotes,
to bring the immigrants to South Texas from Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador,
the Dominican Republic, and Mexico.

The smugglers brought the immigrants by foot and by truck, or helped them cross
in inner tubes across border rivers, then stowed them in safe houses in South
Texas.

Ms. Chavez instructed the smugglers by cellphone to meet her in a field near the
border city of Harlingen, then, she and two men ferried the immigrants by sport
utility vehicle to the waiting truck.

Relatives in the United States had paid Ms. Chavez from $1,500 to $1,900,
prosecutors said, to ensure that the immigrants arrived in Houston safely. Ms.
Chavez's two associates had promised the truck driver, Tyrone M. Williams,
$5,000.

Near midnight on May 13, at least 74 people were loaded onto the truck for a
325-mile journey in scorching desert heat. The trailer had neither air
conditioning nor water, and the immigrants soon began banging on the walls and
trying to poke holes for air. Mr. Williams, prosecutors said, heard the screams
and panicked, then stopped the truck at a gas station near Victoria, Tex., where
he was seen on a videotape purchasing gallon jugs of water.

When he opened the trailer doors to give the immigrants the water, he discovered
17 of them dead. One was a 5-year-old boy. Two other people died later. Most of
the survivors fled into the surrounding fields, and the authorities said some of
the immigrants had body temperatures of 105 degrees when they were found.

Three other of Ms. Chavez's associates were charged separately after they tried
to demand additional payment from relatives to deliver a 3-year-old boy whose
mother had been smuggled aboard the truck.

One of the smugglers Ms. Chavez had hired, who owned a Mexican restaurant in a
strip mall in North Houston, later identified Ms. Chavez as the ringleader in a
tape-recorded conversation with an undercover agent. Several survivors of the
journey had also identified her as the woman who demanded payment, and loaded
them on the truck.

Police tracked Ms. Chavez to Honduras, where she had fled with her children,
then arrested her as she tried to enter Guatemala on June 14.

Ms. Chavez, who told a judge last spring that she spoke no English, had
apparently gotten into smuggling after the man she called her husband --
prosecutors say he was her boyfriend -- was sentenced to 70 months in prison on
smuggling charges himself. The man, Heriberto Flores Rebollar, had been deported
to his native Mexico several times on previous smuggling violations, but
returned. He was sent to prison after being discovered by Border Patrol agents
on a random sweep of the Cameron County Jail in Brownsville in October 2002.

The couple had three children together, and owned a small home in Combes, Tex.,
a suburb of Harlingen.

Fourteen people have been charged in connection with the smuggling case. Several
of them, including one of the two men Ms. Chavez hired to recruit truck drivers,
have already pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate in the trials of the others.

When she was arrested last June, prosecutors said Ms. Chavez could face the
death penalty. She is to be sentenced on Sept. 13.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Karla Chavez, top, said she hired Tyrone Williams to drive an
airless trailer filled with immigrants. (Photographs by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raids, Far From Border, Draw Criticism

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: POMONA, Calif., June 14


Southern California Latino communities far from the Mexican border have been
roiled in recent days by a series of sweeps by United States Border Patrol
agents that have led to scores of arrests.

Fanned by rumors and dire reports in Spanish-language news media, fear has
spread through neighborhoods in areas more than 100 miles from the border and
has prompted many people to stay home from work and avoid ethnic markets. Some
parents are keeping their children out of school and skipping church services
after hearing reports that Border Patrol agents are staking out schoolyards,
residential areas and church parking lots.

Latino community and church leaders say the inland raids are sowing fear and
anger among Latinos, who they say appear to be singled out because of the color
of their skin.

A spokesman for the Border Patrol said the arrests were part of an operation
that began 10 days ago with sweeps in the Southern California cities of Ontario
and Corona, during which nearly 160 people suspected of being illegal immigrants
were arrested, most of them Mexicans, but also a few from Guatemala and El
Salvador. Patrols last week in Escondido, in northern San Diego County, brought
in 150 more, he said.

The Rev. Arnoldo Abelardo of La Placita Church in Los Angeles said immigration
officers were randomly stopping Latinos on the street in their neighborhoods in
suburbs east and south of Los Angeles and demanding their immigration papers.

''This is a very big surprise. They haven't done this in years,'' Father
Abelardo said. ''They're going to Laundromats and schools and shops, stopping
people when they get off the bus. They're not doing this in places that are
non-Latino.''

He added: ''The community is being exploited by fears of immigration raids. It
is evil.''

Representative Linda T. Sanchez, a Democrat whose district in southern Los
Angeles County is roughly 60 percent Latino, called the raids ''a blatant abuse
of power'' aimed at all Latinos in Southern California.

Ms. Sanchez said her office had received dozens of phone calls. She said the
agency's actions were diverting resources from ''real threats'' to American
security, like terrorists.

Border Patrol officials said the agency had always had the authority to conduct
roving patrols anywhere in the country, although most had been carried out at
border crossings and checkpoints.

The Border Patrol, part of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, has
received substantial increases in personnel and money as part of the new
Department of Homeland Security, allowing more aggressive patrolling, said Steve
McPartland, a senior patrol agent in the San Diego regional office.

Mr. Partland said that he was aware of the concern but that it had been fed by
rumors and false reports.

''There has been an incredible amount of misinformation,'' Mr. McPartland said.
''We're not targeting schools and churches and hospitals.'' He said similar
operations had been conducted for months throughout the southwestern United
States.

He added that law-abiding citizens had nothing to fear.

''The operation is intelligence-driven,'' Mr. McPartland said. ''We don't just
go willy-nilly down the street looking for people.''

Yet anxiety is rampant. Patricia Raygoza of Pomona said that despite official
assurances that schools and churches were not being singled out, she had seen
Border Patrol agents parked two blocks away from them scanning the crowds. She
said a co-worker was picked up last week and held until he could prove he had
legitimate work papers.

Mrs. Raygoza took her two young children to Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church
in Pomona on Monday morning for a news briefing by members of the clergy and
community leaders on the arrests. ''There is fear everywhere,'' she said. ''A
lot of people don't show up for work, and the rest of us have to make up for
them.''

Border Patrol officials have tried to calm fears by explaining the enforcement
program to Spanish-languagenews organization and trying to bat away rumors.
''There are reports we're picking up people in Las Vegas and Santa Barbara and
Van Nuys, and it's just not true,'' Mr. McPartland said. ''We try to tell people
that it's routine patrols. It's just that we're in areas where they're not used
to seeing us.''

Mexicans who are picked up may either return home immediately or face an
immigration judge. People of other nationalities are sent to deportation
hearings.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Canadian Gate Where Illegal Immigrants Knock

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1564 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, June 14


Nine people trying to sneak into the United States illegally by way of a moonlit
raft ride might not be out of the ordinary if the raft were floating off the
coast of Florida or crossing the Rio Grande.

But it was on the shores of the Niagara River, little more than a mile from the
world-famous falls, that a small, inflatable, motor-powered raft was captured
earlier this month, along with six adults and two children from India and
Pakistan and the man accused of trying to smuggle them into this country.

While this locale is definitely not Miami or South Texas, the number of illegal
immigrants trying to enter the United States here, by traversing the waterways
and railroad bridges that separate much of New York from Canada, is actually
growing.

This latest group failed largely because of security enhancements put in place
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, elevating from afterthought to priority
the patrolling of a border long considered friendly.

''We treat everybody as a potential terrorist,'' said Edward Duda, deputy chief
of the Buffalo sector of the United States Border Patrol. ''Anyone that crosses
the border illegally, we treat them all equally.''

According to records in federal court in Buffalo, at about 4:15 a.m. on June 5,
two Border Patrol agents, James P. Amorelli and Manuel Marquez, were patrolling
on foot near a marina on Grand Island, above the falls, when they saw a small
raft filled with people land.

The agents captured the driver of the small craft, Nathanael J. Richardson, as
he crawled up an embankment, the records show. Hiding in the bushes near where
the raft had come ashore, the agents found five adults -- one of the women six
months pregnant -- and two children. Another man was captured an hour later on a
Grand Island roadway, his pants wet from the knees down.

The raft also contained two car batteries, as well as the passengers' luggage,
meaning that its load was roughly twice the 660 pounds that the raft was meant
to carry, the Border Patrol said.

The raft was powered by a small motor, but it contained no oars, anchor or
lifejackets. And it landed less than a mile upstream of buoys that mark the spot
past which boating is prohibited because of the danger of the churning falls.

''Had that motor quit, the raft would have been pulled out in the main channel
and right over the falls,'' said Stuart C. Woodside, assistant chief of the
Border Patrol's Buffalo sector.

According to the court records, the driver of the raft, Mr. Richardson, a
Canadian citizen, told the Border Patrol agents, ''I have no allegiance to those
people and I'll tell you everything.''

Explaining how he had wound up on the shores of Grand Island, Mr. Richardson
said that the night before, while at a party in Canada, a man he knew only as
''Chris'' had offered him $300 in United States currency to drive the raft
across a narrow channel separating Canada from Grand Island, the records say.
Once there, he was to place a rock on a parkway that runs along the river as a
signal. After a car arrived to pick up his passengers, he was to guide the raft
back to Canada, where he was to be paid.

All nine people from the raft were detained in federal custody. It was later
determined that one of the children was an American citizen.

Smuggling humans is a lucrative business, with passage from India or Pakistan
into the United States costing as much as $40,000 for each adult, Mr. Woodside
said.

''There are very few people who cross on their own,'' he said. ''There's always
someone helping them get in the raft or on the train and somebody here waiting
for them on the other side.''

The narrow widths of the Niagara River between Buffalo and Niagara Falls, and
between the falls and Lake Ontario, made the area a prime spot for bootleggers
to sneak alcohol into the United States during Prohibition. Today, the same
geography entices smugglers of people and drugs.

With security tightened at the three bridges in the area that are open to
vehicular traffic, people trying to sneak into the United States and the people
helping them have focused on the river and the region's two railroad bridges.

Already this year in the Buffalo sector, agents of the Border Patrol -- which
became part of the federal Department of Homeland Security after the 2001
terrorist attacks -- have charged 65 people with trying to enter the country
illegally. Forty-three were found hiding in trains crossing the bridges, and 22
were caught in boats, rafts or the river itself.

That is setting a pace well ahead of last year. For all of 2003, agents caught
98 people, just 14 of them on trains.

Last month, agents arrested six Costa Ricans trying to cross in a small boat
below the falls.

In April, an agent on nighttime patrol along the river in Lewiston, below the
cataracts, heard a man shouting for help in Spanish while bobbing in icy water.
After he was rescued, the man told the authorities that he had tried to back out
of his planned deal with two smugglers, Mr. Woodside said.

''They said, 'We're going to keep your money, whether you're going in or you're
not,''' Mr. Woodside recounted. ''The smugglers handed him a rope and said
they'd pull him back in if he got into any trouble, but as soon as he got out
there, they threw the rope in the water and took off. He got flipped out of the
raft because of the currents and rapids.''

The man was hospitalized for hypothermia before being deported to Peru, Mr.
Woodside said.

The Border Patrol's numbers do not include those who don't make it across the
river. In one case, the body of a Canadian citizen who had been unable to enter
the United States legally because he was a convicted criminal was found frozen
on the shore of Lake Ontario in April by a woman taking her dog for a morning
walk. His boat may have capsized while he was trying to cross the river and
washed out into the lake.

The attempted influx comes despite a buildup in resources aimed at preventing
it. Three years ago, only 35 agents were guarding more than 450 miles of border
between Erie, Pa., and Watertown, N.Y. That number has more than tripled,
although the Department of Homeland Security no longer releases exact figures,
Mr. Duda said.

Those increased numbers, along with coordination with the United States Coast
Guard, allow more thorough patrols along the shoreline near particularly
inviting crossing points, like the one that led to the arrests on June 5.

The equipment has also improved as the agency has shifted to year-round patrols
of the rivers and lakes separating the United States and Canada.

''We were lucky if we logged a couple of weeks, mostly during the summer,'' one
agent, Alan Marshall, said of his days piloting an antiquated whaling boat on
very infrequent cruises. ''We just didn't have the manpower. We were lucky if we
had a canvas top on the boat. We had no dry suits, no heating system.''

Today, Mr. Marshall pilots a year-old 24-foot patrol boat that rarely leaves the
water, his route coordinated with Coast Guard vessels to maximize coverage. He
also gets help from above.

''We never had air support,'' Mr. Duda said of the days before Sept. 11. ''Now
we not only have a helicopter, we have a fixed-wing aircraft and three pilots.
We can cover large areas faster and we can see stuff on the shore that we
couldn't before.''

Mr. Woodside said the heightened, and highly visible, patrols along the waterway
might have persuaded smugglers to devote their efforts to trains earlier this
year. The border patrol, though, countered with a gamma-ray machine to inspect
trains coming into the United States, making such passage riskier than ever.

''When a train approaches the border, all personnel have to go into the head
engine,'' Mr. Woodside said. ''If someone is trying to hide behind an automobile
being carried on the train, you can actually see through the motor block. If we
see something that doesn't look normal in the cargo, we check it out. You can't
beat the machine.''

That may force more illegal immigrants yearning to set foot on American soil
into the river's rough waters, which Mr. Woodside said are too cold to maintain
human life for more than 20 minutes throughout much of the year.

Those willing to risk the elements, and their lives, come from around the world
-- Asia, Africa and, increasingly, South America -- in part because Canada's
laws governing immigrant visitor visas are less strict than those of the United
States. Though most immigrants are with their families or are trying to join
them, agents are particularly vigilant that some may harbor more sinister
motives.

''Smugglers don't discriminate,'' Mr. Woodside said. ''They'll take money from
people of any nationality, and with any motive, who is willing to pay to get
into the states. There's always that fear that terrorists could be brought in
with the other groups.''

For many who wind up in the custody of the Border Patrol, though, capture is the
closest they have come to sympathy since they left home.

''Most of them have been through a hellacious experience,'' Mr. Woodside said.
''They've been abused, robbed, in some cases even raped.

''The vast majority of people we deal with -- 95 percent -- are good, honest
people who just want a better way of life,'' he said. ''We don't think of them
as criminals. By entering illegally, they're committing a criminal act, but it's
not like a heinous felony.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A United States Border Patrol agent watching a freight train
crossing the International Bridge, which connects Buffalo and Fort Erie,
Ontario.
 A seaman with binoculars at Fort Niagara, near a Coast Guard station that is
about 300 yards from Canada. (Photographs by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 23, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Cardinal Seeks Meeting With Border Patrol

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 93 words


Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, left,
has urged the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection commissioner, Robert
Bonner, to meet with him and the state's United States senators within 10 days
to discuss recent enforcement tactics against illegal immigrants that he said
had ''generated fear, confusion and anger'' among Hispanics. A new Border Patrol
unit has been roving through Hispanic neighborhoods well north of the Mexican
border since June 1 to arrest more than 420 people suspected of being illegal
immigrants.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Harm of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 183 words



To the Editor:

In Aaron W. Godfrey's June 13 Soapbox essay, ''Island's Necessary, Invisible
People,'' he tells us that many immigrants, whom he euphemistically calls
undocumented but who are in reality illegal immigrants, ''do the work that we
will no longer do.'' That is nonsense.

If every illegal immigrant were gone, the jobs would still exist. Employers
would be forced to pay more to have them done. But the savings to the American
public in the costs of the education, medical care and welfare we give to
illegal immigrants would be dramatic.

For example, a recent report by the Federation for American Immigration Reform
shows that New York alone spends $756 million a year to educate the children of
illegal immigrants. This is money that should be helping educate American
children.

Higher wages would encourage American citizens now on welfare to work, saving us
even more. Allowing illegal immigrants to work rewards two classes of people,
the illegal immigrants and the employers who illegally hire them. One group of
people is harmed: the American public.

ROBERT F. LAPORTA
Dix Hills

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Illegal Immigrants Can Stay

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by Steve Bell

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 133 words


Testimony needed from some illegal immigrants arrested last year in a sweep of
Wal-Mart stores will keep them in the country for now, according to a published
report. Five Wal-Mart janitors who worked in New Jersey have already received
permits allowing them to stay in the state, and four other immigrants have met
with immigration officials and hope to receive the documents, Gilberto Garcia, a
lawyer for several workers, told The Sunday Star-Ledger of Newark. The New
Jersey immigrants were among 250 people arrested in an Oct. 23 raid on 60
Wal-Mart stores in 21 states. The nine immigrants have sued Wal-Mart in federal
court, alleging that the company conspired with contractors in a criminal
enterprise that violated the civil rights and wage protections of immigrants who
cleaned its stores.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Are Indicted in Swindling Of Immigrants Seeking Visas

BYLINE: By EDDY RAMIREZ; Oren Yaniv contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 588 words


A Brooklyn minister and a Harlem businessman were indicted yesterday on charges
of stealing thousands of dollars from illegal immigrants who were led to believe
that they could become legal residents as long as they performed missionary
work.

The minister, Ereline Simmons, 61, and the businessman, Christopher Pendarvis,
64, promised green cards to as many as 50 immigrants, most of them Caribbean
natives and congregants, but never filed any immigration paperwork, the
Manhattan district attorney said yesterday.

In announcing the indictments, the district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau,
urged other victims of the scheme to come forward, saying those who did so would
not be referred to immigration authorities for deportation.

''We want to put these people out of business,'' the district attorney said.
''And we want to put the word out there that people who prey on immigrants will
be prosecuted.''

Prosecutors said that during 2000, Ms. Simmons, who was known as ''Mother
Bishop'' to her congregants at St. Barbara of Sardis, a nondenominational church
in Brooklyn, charged as much as $500 to sponsor a congregation member seeking a
green card. She then referred congregants to Mr. Pendarvis, who, for a fee
ranging from several hundred dollars to as much as $8,000, promised to file the
necessary paperwork for the visas, the complaint said.

The members of Ms. Simmons's church, which she ran out of her home, were falsely
told that they were eligible for permanent resident visas under exemptions that
exist for religious workers abroad. Most of the victims were from Guyana,
Jamaica, Belize, St. Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago.

Ms. Simmons pleaded not guilty yesterday at her arraignment in Manhattan
Criminal Court. Her lawyer, Emmanuel Roy, acknowledged in an interview that she
had introduced Mr. Pendarvis to members of her congregation but denied that she
was helping him sell the green cards.

''She wasn't running the scheme,'' Mr. Roy said. ''She would never, never be
involved in such a thing.''

Mr. Perdarvis's lawyers could not be reached for comment. He remained in custody
yesterday after his lawyers failed to appear for his bail hearing.

The two were charged with grand larceny in connection with the three victims who
have come forward so far, and with scheming to defraud at least seven other
people. If convicted, they could each face up to seven years in prison.

Uncovering and prosecuting green card fraud is often difficult, immigration
experts say, because the victims have typically overstayed tourist visas and are
afraid to complain to the police or to testify in court. In this case, the
authorities became aware of the scheme after one victim came forward with
accusations that Mr. Pendarvis and Ms. Simmons had reneged on their promise to
secure green cards for him and other church members.

Authorities were able to track down the place where Mr. Pendarvis had cashed the
victim's check or money order. The authorities subpoenaed the owner of the
check-cashing business, which the district attorney's office said was under
investigation in a separate money-laundering case. A search of the store's
records revealed that Mr. Pendarvis had cashed dozens of other checks and money
orders written by other members of the same congregation.

A spokesman for the district attorney's office left open the possibility that
victims of the immigration fraud might get compensation, but said that
prosecutors could not grant them legal status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 5, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wal-Mart Is Said to Be in Talks to Settle Illegal-Immigrant Case

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 692 words


Seeking to forestall an indictment, Wal-Mart Stores is in settlement talks with
federal prosecutors who are investigating whether company officials knew that
its janitorial contractors were using illegal immigrants to clean its stores,
lawyers close to the case said yesterday.

The settlement talks come nine months after federal prosecutors in Pennsylvania
sent Wal-Mart a letter informing it that it was the target of a grand jury
investigation into the use of illegal immigrants at its stores. Last Oct. 23,
federal officials rounded up 250 illegal immigrants at 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21
states.

The talks were reported yesterday in The Wall Street Journal. Lawyers close to
the case said a settlement could cost several million dollars.

James L. Linsey, a lawyer who has sued Wal-Mart on behalf of immigrant janitors,
estimates that Wal-Mart used thousands of illegal immigrants to clean more than
1,000 of its stores. Under federal law, Wal-Mart faces a fine of up to $10,000
for each illegal immigrant hired.

Wal-Mart officials continued to maintain yesterday that senior executives did
not know until last October's raids that cleaning contractors were employing
illegal immigrants.

Gus Whitcomb, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the company was cooperating with
prosecutors. ''We reiterate, as we have from day one, that our senior management
team knew nothing about the employment practices of the contractors until the
government contacted us seeking our cooperation.''

But that idea was challenged by lawyers suing Wal-Mart, by a cleaner's affidavit
and by several individuals who said they had contacted Wal-Mart's headquarters
to complain about the treatment of illegal immigrant janitors.

Mr. Linsey yesterday sent a federal judge a letter that he said was mailed to
Wal-Mart's chief executive, Lee Scott, by a businessman who complained that his
company had lost contracts at several Wal-Marts in the South to contractors who
used illegal immigrants.

In the letter, dated June 27, 2002, the businessman, Raymond Drude, a vice
president at Jani-King, one of the nation's largest cleaning companies, urged
Mr. Scott to investigate why Wal-Mart was ''choosing non-tax paying illegal
aliens over local janitorial companies and their employees.'' Mr. Drude wrote
Mr. Scott that Jani-King had lost business in 10 stores because a Wal-Mart
district manager had given the contracts to illegal immigrants from Eastern
Europe.

Mr. Whitcomb said Wal-Mart officials could find no record of the letter at its
home office. He added that the letter contained no confirmation showing it was
received. Mr. Whitcomb said that in a lawsuit that Jani-King brought against
Wal-Mart, charging breach of contract, Jani-King had failed to produce the
letter and Mr. Drude had said in a sworn deposition that he had not communicated
with anyone at Wal-Mart.

Greta McCaughrin, a professor of Russian at Washington and Lee University in
Lexington, Va., said she sent a letter in 1999 to David Glass, the company's
chief executive at the time, complaining that immigrant janitors from Russia
were being mistreated at a nearby Wal-Mart.

''If Wal-Mart were a good neighbor to our community, it would not turn a blind
eye to the plight of poor illegal immigrants,'' she wrote. ''Your manager cannot
be oblivious to the fact that they work in his store for seven days a week, 364
days a year.''

In an affidavit in the cleaners' lawsuit, Teresa Jaros, a native of Poland who
cleaned Wal-Marts in Connecticut, Michigan and Georgia, said a coworker had
asked a Wal-Mart regional vice president last year to sponsor him for a green
card to end his illegal status.

The Patriot-News of Harrisburg, Pa., reported on Tuesday that the United States
attorney there, Thomas A. Marino, said in an interview that unless new evidence
surfaced it was unlikely that any top Wal-Mart officials would be charged.
Officials at Mr. Marino's office declined to comment yesterday.

Mr. Whitcomb said several lower-level Wal-Mart managers had long been
cooperating with federal prosecutors in Chicago and knew about the immigrant
cleaners before last October's raid.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 11, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Is Held After Police Seize Tapes of Buildings and a Dam

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU; Oren Yaniv contributed reporting from New York for
this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: INTELLIGENCE;
Pg. 12

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10


The federal authorities, on heightened alert over the prospect of another Al
Qaeda attack, are conducting a terrorism investigation into an illegal immigrant
from Pakistan found with videotapes of downtown buildings and transit systems in
four Southern states and of a dam in Texas, officials said on Tuesday.

Officials acknowledged that they had no direct evidence linking the suspect, a
former Queens resident named Kamran Shaikh, to terrorism. But they said they
remained keenly interested in determining why he made the extensive videos,
which included narratives in Arabic.

''These were not your normal tourist videos,'' said a senior law enforcement
official in Washington who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the investigation. ''This could turn out to be something
legitimate and innocent, but it's raised our suspicions, and we think there's
something else going on here. We don't like the look of it.''

The arrest underscored the increasing nervousness among federal counterterrorism
officials about the possibility of a terrorist attack in the near future,
perhaps before the November election. Ten days ago, the Department of Homeland
Security declared a high risk of a terrorist attack against financial
institutions in Washington, New York and Newark after receiving information from
Pakistan about detailed reconnaissance missions conducted at possible targets
three or four years ago.

Officials said on Tuesday that they were still uncertain whether any active
plots were under way, but they continued to search for information on anyone who
may have been involved in collecting what they described as alarmingly detailed
information on the financial sites.

In recent weeks, there have been more than 30 arrests in Pakistan and England of
suspected Qaeda associates who American authorities say may be part of an influx
of new mid-level operatives from the terrorist group. American law enforcement
officials are also pursuing a number of leads within the United States,
including the case of a Muslim woman with a South African passport who was
jailed last month in Texas, but no clear terrorist links have emerged.

Mr. Shaikh, 35, who officials said was also known as Kamran Akhtar and listed a
Queens address, was arrested three weeks ago on immigration charges in
Charlotte, N.C., after local police officers questioned him about where he was
going and why he was videotaping the downtown area. He agreed to speak with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation but gave false statements about his immigration
status and his history, officials said.

A search showed video footage of the Bank of America and Wachovia buildings in
Charlotte's busy financial center, which officials said caused particular
concern in light of the recent intelligence about the financial institutions in
Washington and New York.

Eloise Hale, a spokeswoman for Bank of America in Charlotte, said Tuesday that
the company was taking ''all necessary security measures'' and working with
local and federal authorities to monitor the situation. ''The security of our
associates and our customers is our top priority,'' Ms. Hale said.

Other videos in Mr. Shaikh's possession showed buildings and transit systems in
Atlanta, New Orleans, Dallas, Houston and Austin, Tex., as well as what appeared
to be Mansfield Dam in Austin, according to an affidavit from an Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agent. It was not clear when the other videos were taken.

The tapes included audio of someone speaking in Arabic, but investigators said
they were awaiting a translation from the F.B.I. Officials could not explain the
apparent delay, which comes at a time when the bureau has faced sharp
questioning from lawmakers about its ability to provide quick and accurate
translations in terrorism cases.

Mr. Shaikh, who appeared in federal court in Charlotte on Tuesday and was
ordered detained, was charged with being in the United States illegally and with
making false statements to the authorities about his immigration status. He has
not been charged with any terrorism-related offenses. Associates of Mr. Shaikh
are also being questioned by federal counterterrorism officials.

A second law enforcement official said that beyond the information in the court
papers, the investigation turned up other details about Mr. Shaikh's activities
that were considered suspicious, but the official refused to detail that
information.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, federal officials have questioned and detained a
number of people whose videotaping of buildings in New York City and elsewhere
was initially thought to be suspicious but turned out to be benign.
Arab-American leaders charge that Muslims and people of Middle Eastern descent
have been unfairly singled out for such scrutiny, a charge that law enforcement
officials deny.

Officials said Mr. Shaikh's last known address was in the Elmhurst section of
Queens. The apartment where he lived sits on the top floor of a brick building
in a quiet residential neighborhood. The name ''K. Shaikh'' still appears on the
door, but a superintendent at the building said Tuesday that he did not think
Mr. Shaikh or his wife and young son had lived there for about eight or ten
months.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kamran Shaikh was ordered detained yesterday after appearing in
federal court in Charlotte, N.C. (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 11, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Give Border Patrol Agents The Power to Deport Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10


Citing concerns about terrorists crossing the nation's borders, the Department
of Homeland Security said on Tuesday that it planned to give border patrol
agents sweeping new powers to deport illegal aliens from the frontiers with
Mexico and Canada without providing them the opportunity to make their case
before an immigration judge.

The move, which will take effect this month, represents a broad expansion of the
authority of the thousands of law enforcement agents who patrol the nation's
borders. Until now, border patrol agents typically delivered undocumented
immigrants to the custody of the immigration courts, where judges determined
whether they should be deported or remain in the United States.

Domestic security officials described the deportation process in immigration
courts -- which hear asylum claims and other appeals to remain in the country --
as sluggish and cumbersome, saying illegal immigrants often wait for more than a
year before being deported while straining the capacity of detention centers and
draining critical resources. Under the new system, immigrants will typically be
deported within eight days of their apprehension, officials said.

The Illegal Immigration and Reform Responsibility Act of 1996 authorized the
agency to deport certain groups of illegal immigrants without judicial
oversight, but until now it had permitted only officials at airports and
seaports to do so.

The new rule will apply to illegal immigrants caught within 100 miles of the
Mexican and Canadian borders who have spent up to 14 days within the United
States. Officials said the border agents would not focus on deporting Mexicans
and Canadians, who will still, for the most part, have their cases heard in
immigration court. The agents will concentrate instead on immigrants from other
countries. In fiscal year 2003, about 37,000 immigrants from countries other
than Mexico and Canada -- primarily from Central America -- were arrested along
the Southwest border.

Officials said that the new plan would help deter illegal immigration, speed
deportations and address issues of border security.

''There is a concern that as we tighten the security of our ports of entry
through our biometric checks that there will be more opportunity or more effort
made by terrorists to enter our country through our vast land borders,'' Asa
Hutchinson, the undersecretary for border security at the Department of Homeland
Security, said at a news conference.

The decision was hailed by officials who have long complained that the nation's
porous borders represent a serious threat to national security. But it prompted
a flurry of criticism from advocates for immigrants who feared that the new
system lacked adequate safeguards to ensure that people fleeing persecution,
Americans lacking paperwork or other travelers with legitimate grounds to be in
the United States would not be improperly deported.

Mr. Hutchinson said that border agents would be trained in asylum law and that
immigrants who showed a credible fear of persecution would be provided hearings
before immigration judges, not returned to hostile governments. ''That right,''
he said of the right to apply for asylum, ''is very important.''

Homeland security officials said that the training would last for several days
and that agents would begin their new duties in Tucson and Laredo, Tex.

Advocates for immigrants said they feared mistakes would be made when hastily
trained border agents decide who should be deported and who should not.
Complaints about improper deportations have already been reported at some
airports and seaports.

''We're very concerned that we may see the mistaken deportations of refugees,
citizens and other legitimate visitors,'' said Eleanor Acer, director of the
asylum program of Human Rights First, an advocacy group. ''For refugees, it
could be a life or death sentence.''

The officials also announced plans on Tuesday to allow the roughly seven million
Mexicans who carry border crossing cards -- which let them visit the United
States for three consecutive days -- to visit for up to 30 days at a time using
the same card.

Mr. Hutchinson said the announcements were part of a two-pronged strategy. ''We
want to send a clear message that those individuals who follow legal immigration
rules will benefit, while those who choose to break our nation's immigration
laws will be promptly removed from the U.S.,'' he said.

Evelyn Nazro, a spokeswoman for the Alliance for Security and Trade, a coalition
that represents public officials and business leaders in Texas, described the
shift as ''a step in the right direction.''

But Ms. Nazro said that many business executives and public officials would like
Mexican visitors to be allowed to stay for six months, as Canadian visitors are.
''It's long been a real issue that Mexicans had such limitations on their
visas,'' she said.

Discussions about accelerating deportations along the nation's borders have been
held for some time. Tuesday's announcement is the second time that the
government has expanded the ''expedited removal'' process since the Sept. 11
attacks.

In November 2002, the government said it was extending the process of
deportations without judicial review for undocumented immigrants at airports to
those at seaports.

Officials said that Mexicans were not the focus of the new deportation efforts
because most undocumented Mexicans choose to return after being caught. But Mr.
Hutchinson said that Mexicans who smuggle immigrants and who repeatedly violate
immigration laws would also be subject to the speedy deportations.

In fiscal year 2003, about 43,000 immigrants were swiftly deported without
scrutiny from immigration judges. The new rules could nearly double that figure,
homeland security statistics suggest.Officials said they would observe Tucson
and Laredo, where roughly 3,050 agents will assume their new duties, before
applying the process to other border regions. ''After we get it going, we'll
begin discussions about expanding it,'' a spokeswoman for the Department of
Homeland Security said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Strains and New Rules for Agents Along Mexican Border

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1295 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 11


The thick scrub along the Rio Grande in McAllen, Tex., within shouting distance
of Reynosa, Mexico, is strewn with discarded bits of clothing and black trash
bags used as flotation devices, remnants of countless trips across the river by
illegal immigrants.

Sometimes the evidence is fresher -- like a damp-haired Candida Mercedes
Melendez Castillo, 28, from Chinandega, Nicaragua, who popped out of the brush
the other day at noon just as the United States Border Patrol was passing
through with a reporter in tow.

''I am not a bad person,'' Ms. Castillo said in a quavering voice, claiming that
her trip to find work had taken her seven days and that she had crossed the
river alone, with no help.

She was promptly taken into custody by a surprised information officer, Eddie
Flores, an 18-year veteran agent, and run through fingerprint and other security
checks, emerging clean to await deportation proceedings that could take weeks.

Such procedures are about to change under new Department of Homeland Security
rules announced Tuesday that would give border officers broad authority in many
cases to bypass immigration courts and quickly deport illegal immigrants other
than Mexicans or Canadians. While it may initially add to the paperwork of
border agents, Mr. Flores said, ''it will speed things up.''

Clearly, as recent interviews in McAllen and the latest deadly smuggling
incident show, the nation's southern border is under siege. Monday evening,
eight illegal immigrants and their smuggler died when their car plunged into an
irrigation ditch in McAllen, three miles from the Rio Grande. The day before, 79
illegal immigrants were found huddled inside a tractor-trailer stopped outside
Fort Worth.

On any given day, close to 300 illegal immigrants are apprehended by the 1,500
Border Patrol officers in the busy McAllen sector while an unknown number of
others make it through. With 284 miles of open river to guard, along with 19
South Texas counties from Wharton County, below Houston near the Gulf of Mexico,
to the Falcon Dam on the Mexican border below Laredo, the nine stations of the
sector are stretched thin in the best of times. Tied with El Paso, more or less,
in the apprehension of illegal immigrants from Mexico, the McAllen sector
arrests two out of every three illegal non-Mexican immigrants entering the
United States and leads in the seizure of marijuana and cocaine shipments,
border officials say.

Now, in addition to tracking illegal immigrants and drug smugglers, using
weapons as varied as night-vision cameras and horseback patrols, the agents are
particularly on terrorism watch, a high-stakes mission, officials say, given the
huge traffic -- legal and illegal -- from Mexico.

The task was highlighted July 19 when Border Patrol agents at McAllen-Miller
International Airport stopped a New York-bound woman, Farida Goolam Mahomed
Ahmed, 48, whose South African passport with no visa or United States entry
stamp was found to have three pages torn out. Her bags held a pair of wet jeans.
She later admitted sneaking in from Mexico and tearing out the record of her
travels, the F.B.I. said, and is being held pending further investigation. The
South African Embassy in Washington said Wednesday that Ms. Ahmed is Pakistani,
although a family member denies she is.

Intelligence officials say that Ms. Ahmed was not on a watch list and is not
known to be tied to extremist groups but that checks of flight manifests appear
to show her taking 200 overseas flights through the Persian Gulf and elsewhere
in the last few years.

The small McAllen airport, serving only Continental, American and Northwest
Airlines, is one area of enhanced antiterrorism enforcement with Border Patrol
agents scrutinizing all non-American passengers.

''We're getting real familiar with the documents,'' said Jesus I. Solis, an
agent on duty one recent afternoon, who voiced confidence that he could detect
alterations and forgeries.

Two of Mr. Solis's fellow agents detained Ms. Ahmed, although the missing
passport pages were only noticed by the F.B.I. days later.

Illegal immigrants often give themselves away at the airport, Mr. Solis said.
Some are led in by the human smugglers called coyotes. ''You can tell,'' Mr.
Flores said. ''They look like a child with the parent.''

Others he said, ''hide in the rest room until the last minute.'' The nervous
look of many gives them away, he added.

Apprehended Central and South Americans often try to pass themselves off as
Mexicans because the repatriation is more lenient, Mr. Flores said. Mexicans
with no record of previous violations are granted voluntary return, sent back
across the border after their fingerprints are taken and a record made. Others
with no prior record of illegal entry are sent to detention centers pending
immigration hearings until their home countries can provide travel documents, a
process that could take weeks under the old rules.

Two Texas congressmen heading the House Border Caucus, Solomon P. Ortiz, a
Democrat, and Henry Bonilla, a Republican, complained in a letter to President
Bush on Monday that a shortage of bed space was leading to the release of
detainees into communities along the border.

Now, however, under the new domestic security procedures, to be tried out first
in Tucson and Laredo, illegal immigrants who are not Mexican or Canadian and who
are caught within 100 miles of the border and within 14 days of their arrival,
could be expelled by the border agents without court hearings.

Ms. Castillo, the woman who stepped out of the bushes, was versed enough in
immigration law to assert that she was Mexican, a claim that Agent Flores
dismissed with one look at the passport he fished out of her duffel. ''Anything
that comes out of their mouths is generally not the truth,'' he said. ''You
can't hardly believe what they say.''

But later he voiced sympathy, saying: ''You feel for them, but you got to do
what you got to do. They may be involved in criminal activity. You can't take
anything at face value.''

At the Border Patrol's office in McAllen, Ms. Castillo's fingerprints were sent
through the new F.B.I. Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System,
which almost instantaneously ran them through a database of millions on file and
reported no matches. Under the existing rules, she was held for a hearing.

The McAllen station was already strengthened in 1997 as part of Operation Rio
Grande to curtail illegal crossings and drug smuggling. Now, the underbrush
along the river is seeded with hidden sensors and the sandy paths threading the
woods are routinely swept clean to record footprints that agents can follow
using old-fashioned Indian tracking skills called sign cutting.

Tall light poles illuminate the river bank and cameras keep the area under
surveillance. Far inland, hastily erected checkpoints known as Functional
Equivalents of the Border and carrying court-sanctioned search authority use
traffic cones to funnel vehicles into single lanes for easier surveillance.

Agents patrol with helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft, river boats, all-terrain
vehicles, bicycles and distinctive white-and-green sport utility vehicles. In
addition, the Border Patrol here, as elsewhere, has reactivated horseback
patrols. ''It's quiet, that's one advantage,'' said a mounted agent, Marco Ponce
de Leon, as he rode with three colleagues. ''And you're high up, you can see a
lot.''

Nearby, another agent, William Wasser sat parked within sight of Reynosa's
business district across the river. Hours earlier, a dozen Brazilians walked out
of the woods and, seeing him, calmly surrendered.

''It may not seem too interesting,'' Mr. Wasser said of his stationary duty,
''but if we're not here, it would be just impossible.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A common sight along the United States-Mexico border: an
unidentified man waited and watched on the Mexican side of the Rio Grande as a
Border Patrol boat passed.
About 1,500 Border Patrol officers, some on horseback, guard the McAllen sector,
where 300 illegal immigrants are caught on any given day.
 Agent Domingo Jaramillo, held an M-4 rifle, as his partner Homar Jasso steered
a Border Patrol boat along the Rio Grande. (Photographs by Brad Doherty for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 19, 2004 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Face Loss of Licenses in ID Crackdown

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Anthony Ramirez contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words


Legislatures across the country have been wrestling publicly with a hot-button
issue: whether to make it harder or easier for illegal immigrants to be licensed
as drivers. The struggle to reconcile public security, road safety and the
reality of millions of illegal immigrant workers has led to fierce disagreement
and widely different laws -- even as the 9/11 commission has urged the adoption
of national standards.

In New York, home to an estimated 500,000 of the nation's 10 million illegal
immigrants, there has been little public debate. But behind the scenes,
officials at the State Department of Motor Vehicles have begun a crackdown on
license fraud that will take away the driver's licenses of as many as 200,000
immigrants who cannot prove that they are here legally.

There was scant reaction in January when the state started mailing out the first
of a half-million letters threatening to suspend the licenses of drivers whose
Social Security numbers did not match federal records. Fear and protest spread
in places like Westchester County and Staten Island as the letters reached
longtime immigrant drivers who depend on their cars to work as landscapers,
construction workers or housecleaners.

And the outcry grew as immigrant advocates learned of cases in which bewildered
immigrants who responded in person to motor vehicle offices had their licenses
confiscated on the spot for lack of a Social Security number.

Today the protests, and explanations by the crackdown's authors, will be
presented in Manhattan at the first public hearing on the policy, by the State
Assembly's Transportation Committee.

It is late in the process: though only about 600 licenses have been suspended so
far, state officials said that in November, a second wave of notices would begin
suspending the licenses of those who have not responded, at the rate of 4,000 a
day.

State officials say 250,000 licenses are in line to be suspended, and immigrant
advocates estimate that 200,000 of these are held by immigrants unable to
satisfy the state's requirement.

State officials say they are not aiming the effort at immigrants, just seizing
on new technology to enforce an old law -- a 1995 requirement that the state
collect the Social Security numbers of all driver's license applicants. That
measure was added in many states to improve child-support enforcement, as part
of the nation's welfare overhaul. But New York is the only state where motor
vehicle officials are using enhanced computer abilities to verify all the Social
Security numbers collected over the years.

The results have been eye-opening, Raymond P. Martinez, the state motor vehicles
commissioner, said in an interview. ''

The public is going to be shocked when they find out how many people's Social
Security numbers were used by other people unbeknownst to them,'' he said,
putting the figure at more than 100,000, including one number that was used by
57 people.

Among those whose licenses have already been suspended are United States
citizens who were hiding criminal driving records behind multiple identities, he
said. And in an era of terror alerts, when driver's licenses are used to enter
buildings, he added, ''We now have the ability to verify who is who.''

But critics say the enforcement will fall mainly on illegal immigrants who are
hard-working members of society -- and to local D.M.V. clerks with no
understanding of complicated immigration laws.

''Nobody has considered the bureaucratic nightmare that they're creating,'' said
Margaret Stock, an associate professor of national security law at the United
States Military Academy at West Point, who is writing a paper on the driver's
license issue. ''It's actually harmful to national security to deny licenses to
people on the basis of immigration status.''

Ms. Stock, who is also a lieutenant colonel in the military police of the Army
Reserves, said there was a better chance of tracking a terrorist with a driver's
license than one without. Moreover, she said, ''immigration status is a moving
target -- someone legal today can be illegal tomorrow and someone illegal today
can be legal tomorrow,'' so motor vehicle offices can end up issuing and denying
licenses to the wrong people.

Yet thousands of illegal immigrants denied driver's licenses will continue to
drive, she said, and probably add to the number of hit-and-run accidents and
uninsured drivers already on the road.

The real problem, she said, is that since 9/11, officials have been trying to
turn the driver's license into ''a backdoor national identity card.'' But, she
added, ''driver's licenses are really about road safety.''

Because of the heightened fear of detention or deportation these days, it
remains uncertain whether illegal immigrants will come forward to testify at
today's hearing at 250 Broadway, said Gouri Sadwhani, executive director of the
New York Civic Participation Project, an immigrant and labor organizing group.
But two people whose licenses were abruptly seized by a motor vehicle clerk
shared their accounts with a reporter on the condition that only their first
names be published.

Luis, 34, a construction worker who has long been employed by a Connecticut
subcontractor building multimillion-dollar homes in places like Greenwich, said
he was so alarmed by the letter he received in January that he drove from his
home in Port Chester, N.Y., to D.M.V. headquarters in Albany.

Trying to prove his identity, he presented his taxpayer ID number, credit card,
rent receipts, utility bills and car insurance. But he said a clerk who demanded
a Social Security number took his license and refused to return it. "I started
pleading,'' he recalled. ''I said I need my license -- I need my license to
work, I need my license to support my family and I need my license to live," he
recalled.

But after threatening him with detention for putting the wrong number on his
application years ago -- probably his tax ID number, he said -- the clerk walked
away. State motor vehicle officials said that they could not discuss the case
without Luis's full name.

''It's like the D.M.V. has cut off my arms and legs,'' he said last week in the
immaculate apartment that he, his wife and their 3-year-old son shared with
three other immigrants from Ecuador. His earnings, which must support two
children left with grandparents in Ecuador, as well as his family here,
typically ran $20,000 to $25,000 a year, he said. But they have dwindled since
his boss learned that he had lost his license.

Still, Luis said, there is no going back. In Ecuador, he and his wife were so
desperate for work to support their children that they left them behind and
walked much of the way to the United States.

And he is still driving. He carefully steered his old minivan past the flashing
lights of a parked police car on a rain-slicked street in Port Chester on Friday
evening, as he worried aloud that his insurance would soon be canceled.

But Gloria, a Colombian woman who has lived in Queens since 1991, said she had
not driven since the January day when her license was confiscated at the
Whitestone motor vehicle office. She had been a licensed driver for 11 years,
she said, selling Mary Kay cosmetics from her car to help support her daughter,
an American citizen by birth, while working weekends as a baby-sitter for a
family of lawyers living on Sutton Place in Manhattan.

''I feel humiliated because I think there's no reason to take it from me,'' she
said. ''I was a good driver; I never got a ticket for a red light or passed a
stop sign. I always had insurance.''

Like many immigrants in what some call a gray zone of legality, she has a
petition for a green card pending, sponsored by her 76-year-old mother, now a
lawful permanent resident. But under present immigration rules and backlogs,
family sponsorship can take many years to bridge the gap between citizens and
unlawful immigrants in the same family. Meanwhile, Gloria has no way to fulfill
the state's requirements to get back her license.

The hardest part has not only been the loss of earnings -- about $1,000 a month
in cosmetic sales -- but the effect on her mother and her daughter, now 12, she
said. Only last week, her mother, who is frail and speaks no English, begged her
to accompany her on a flight to Florida to visit relatives. But without a
driver's license as a photo ID, it was too risky.

''My daughter was crying and saying please don't go,'' Gloria said. ''She feels
so afraid about what happened to me now.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Aug. 19 about a crackdown in New York State against
the issuing of driver's licenses to illegal immigrants referred incompletely to
the occupation of Margaret Stock, an associate professor of national security
law who said the crackdown was harmful to national security because it was
easier to track terrorists if they had licenses. Professor Stock, who teaches at
the United States Military Academy and is a military police lieutenant colonel
in the Army Reserve, is also an immigration lawyer. A reader noted the omission
in an e-mail message last week.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis, an illegal immigrant who needs a car to work, said a motor
vehicle clerk seized his license because he had no Social Security number. He
works for a Connecticut subcontractor who is building multimillion-dollar homes,
and is currently driving without a license. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York
Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Increasing Surveillance of Canadian Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: BELLINGHAM, Wash., Aug. 20


As part of a plan to increase surveillance of the Canadian border, federal
officials on Friday opened the first of five planned bases for regular flights
to look for drug runners and others crossing illegally by air or land.

The base of operations, called the Bellingham Air Marine Branch, is to have a
staff of nearly 70, two helicopters, an airplane and a high-speed boat by year's
end.

Similar bases have policed the Mexican border for three decades, but the
facility here is the first on the Canadian border.

The five new bases, which will dot the border from Washington to upstate New
York, are a response to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as well as
smuggling of illegal immigrants and drugs, including British Columbia's potent
strains of marijuana.

''Smuggling is a two-way street,'' said Michael Milne, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland
Security. ''We've got cocaine and money going north,'' and marijuana and people
coming south.

A station in Plattsburgh, N.Y., is scheduled by the end of the year, Mr. Milne
said, followed by ones near Detroit; Grand Forks, N.D.; and Great Falls, Mont.

The Bellingham base will initially operate flights only about eight hours a day.

''Our greatest asset right now is they don't know when we're going to be
operating,'' said Mitch Pribble, a pilot and associate field director for the
office.

The aircraft will allow agents to track suspicious flights in which the pilot
does not report to customs or talk on the radio. Federal pilots will follow such
aircraft or direct agents on the ground.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

California Vote Favors Licenses For Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Aug. 28


In the face of a certain veto from Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the State
Legislature voted Friday to let an estimated two million illegal immigrant
adults apply for California driver's licenses.

Mr. Schwarzenegger immediately renewed his pledge to veto the bill, calling it a
national security issue.

''The way it was passed it has no distinguishing characteristic and the governor
has been consistent, saying the No.1 issue we have to worry about is national
security,'' said a Schwarzenegger spokeswoman, Margita Thompson.

The Senate's 21-14 vote and a 42-35 vote in the Assembly comes nine months after
both voted to repeal a similar law signed by Gov. Gray Davis in the face of
polls showing widespread opposition, just weeks before Mr. Davis's recall last
fall.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, who campaigned last year against licenses for illegal
immigrants and then pushed lawmakers to repeal the law in his first weeks in
office, vowed repeatedly to reject any license legislation that did not identify
immigrant drivers as different from citizens.

Lawmakers used a parliamentary maneuver on Friday to vote on the bill without
all the usual committee hearings, and rushed it to Senate and Assembly floors
just hours before they adjourned a two-year session.

''We will strengthen highway safety,'' said the bill's author, Senator Gil
Cedillo, Democrat of Los Angeles.

''We will make sure that every motorist is tested, licensed and insured.'' All
year Mr. Cedillo has prodded lawmakers to ''do what is right even if it's not
popular'' and pass a bill before adjourning their session. He has endorsements
from police chiefs including William Bratton of Los Angeles, numerous cities
including Santa Monica and Pomona and 14 newspapers.

But opponents came within one vote of defeating the measure in the Senate and
supporters had just a single vote to spare in the Assembly.

''This will render as useless the driver's licenses held by millions of
Californians that are proof of legal residency,'' said Senator Tom McClintock,
Republican of Northridge.

The bill requires applicants who cannot prove legal residency in California to
be fingerprinted, undergo background checks and get adult sponsors. Applicants
would pay $141 for a license to cover the extra costs of the security checks.
They would also have to provide a federal taxpayer identification card or an ID
card from their consulates. The bill does not apply to commercial licenses.

California allowed illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses for 65 years
until 1993 when lawmakers voted to change the law. Nationally, nearly 40 states
and the District of Columbia require drivers to prove their legal residency
before getting licensed, according to the National Immigration Law Center based
in Los Angeles. But most of California's neighbors, including Oregon,
Washington, Utah and Hawaii, do not have the requirement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Illegal Immigrants Found On Yacht

BYLINE: By Charlie LeDuff (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 73 words


Two men were charged with trying to smuggle 50 Mexicans into Los Angeles Harbor
on a rented yacht, the authorities said. The boat was intercepted by the Coast
Guard on Monday night near the entrance to the harbor. Among the human cargo was
a 3-year-old boy and a woman in the final month of her pregnancy. The daylong
cruise began in Ensenada, Mexico, and each passenger had paid $3,000,
immigration authorities said.   Charlie LeDuff (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Are Wary in Danbury

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1272 words


AT the condominium complex on Hospital Avenue in Danbury, there are few words
more frightening than ''immigration.'' Many immigrants live in the complex, so
when two men knocked on the doors of apartments there late last month,
representing themselves as immigration officials, residents said, some panicked.
There are about 20,000 illegal immigrants in the city, Danbury police said, and
there are predators who know how to get what they want.

Marzo Frois, 33, a Brazilian construction worker, lives in the Hospital Avenue
complex with his brother and a small-mouth bass that sits in a massive tank
above his television. In an interview last week, translated by Elizabeth
Bacelar, a freelance reporter and advocate for local Brazilians, Mr. Frois
recounted the ordeal that began when two men knocked on his door on Aug. 30.

He was cleaning the fish tank when he heard the knock. After he opened the door,
two white men entered his apartment and identified themselves as immigration
officials, quickly holding up a badge he didn't recognize, he said. They also
held up handcuffs and threatened him with arrest if he did not cooperate, he
said. They said they were looking for another man, also a Brazilian immigrant,
who Mr. Frois said had moved out seven months ago. But he didn't know where the
man was.

'''Now you are the one in trouble,''' one of the men said, according to Mr.
Frois. The men asked him for documents and told him to turn his pockets inside
out, Mr. Frois said. In his pockets he had $1,300 in cash, which his boss had
given him to buy supplies for work from Home Depot, he said. He put the money on
a chair. He went to the bedroom to show one of the men he wasn't hiding
anything. The other man stayed in the living room. When the men left, Mr. Frois
noticed the cash was not on the chair. He now must pay back his employer.

''I totally forgot about the cash because I was so frightened,'' he said. ''All
I could think about was the handcuffs. I was scared of being arrested for I
don't know what.''

The two men told him he was under arrest and that he should stay in the house
until they returned in one hour. They drove off in a blue Ford van and did not
return, he said.

Ms. Bacelar said she spoke to about six other people in the condominium complex
who said they had been approached, but not robbed, by the men. She also helped
Mr. Frois report the incident to the police and helped write an article about it
for The News-Times in Danbury.

Danbury police said they are investigating whether the men misrepresented
themselves as immigration agents. The detective working on the case, Dan
Trompetta, would not comment on the case. Neither would the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services. The two men had been reported at the
complex looking for the same man three times in the last four months, said Capt.
Arthur Sullo, public information officer for the Danbury Police Department.
Captain Sullo said he could not corroborate a previous report in The News-Times
of Danbury that police suspected the two men were bounty hunters looking for a
fugitive. Though bounty hunters are allowed to ask questions, they cannot
represent themselves as law enforcement officers, Captain Sullo said.

''The detectives are concerned if they did in fact make any statements of
'You're under arrest,''' Captain Sullo said.

Whether or not the two men had a legitimate reason for being at the complex,
their presence has created a wave of fear, said Mr. Frois, who would not comment
on his immigration status. Some of his neighbors were upset that he had
publicized the incident, he added, because they don't want undue attention.

Fear of deportation is all-consuming, immigrant advocates in Danbury said. And
it has created a new class of easy victims in this Fairfield County city, where
legal and illegal immigration has skyrocketed over the past decade.

The Brazilian population in Danbury, for instance, increased from 592 in 1990 to
4,158 in the 2000 census. In the same decade, Ecuadorians increased from 206 to
2,777.

Of course, illegal immigrants are often missed in Census figures. Mr. Sullo
estimated that between 15,000 and 20,000 of the immigrants in the Danbury area
are undocumented. Fred Tetreault, a deacon at St. Peter's Parish, which serves
1,200 people, most of them Brazilians, said he suspected most of the Brazilian
immigrants in the area have overstayed their visas or are in the country
illegally. That creates tension in the community, he said.

''They're always looking over their shoulders, thinking they're going to be
deported by the immigration department,'' Mr. Tetreault said.

Rosa Lopes, who helps recent immigrants find jobs through the Hispanic Center of
Greater Danbury, a nonprofit social service agency, said she had devoted more
time lately to dealing with complaints about employers not paying their workers.

''The biggest problem I have is they go to work and they don't get paid,'' she
said. ''Many times what these employers say is 'Get lost or I'll call
immigration.' And they get lost.''

It wasn't always like this, Ms. Lopes said.

''Seven years ago, when I began in this job, maybe I had one case in two
months,'' she said. ''Then it started to be two or three a month. Now it's six
or eight a week.''

Immigrants often work for employers who show up at a small park in the city
looking for temporary laborers to do landscaping, painting or construction work.
Immigrant advocates said that those employers, who were more willing to hire
people without documents, sometimes take advantage of the workers, paying them
less than minimum wage or not paying them at all. Putting together complaints
for the State Department of Labor, as well as filing lawsuits, is difficult
because the immigrants may only know their employer's first name, Ms. Lopes
said.

''And if we are lucky, if we manage to get the company, we hear, 'I didn't hire
him. It was a contractor,''' said Maria-Cinta Lowe, executive director of the
Hispanic Center.

Many undocumented immigrants carry their money around with them because they
don't have bank accounts and fear that their money will be stolen from their
homes. That leaves them vulnerable to robbery, Ms. Lowe said.

''Immigrants, especially undocumented immigrants are subjected to abuses by
employers and by people like these ones'' who approached Mr. Frois, Ms. Lowe
said.

The Danbury Police Department employs a handful of officers who speak Spanish or
Portuguese, the language spoken in Brazil, and those officers have developed
close contacts in the immigrant community, said Mr. Tetreault, who works with
police in his role as an advocate for immigrants. Officers are encouraged to
learn foreign languages and carry phrase books to communicate with immigrants,
Captain Sullo said.

Immigrants will sometimes have trouble with traffic violations when officers
refuse to recognize their international driver's licenses, but otherwise local
officers have gained a rapport with the Danbury's emerging immigrant
communities, Mr. Tetreault said.

Mr. Frois said some immigrants would rather be silent victims than go to the
police.

''The easier thing to do is to keep your mouth shut and keep living your life,
with fear,'' he said.

Mr. Frois said he had worried that the two men who confronted him were connected
to the police, so he didn't initially want to report the robbery. But Mr. Frois
said he felt better after telling his story to the police.

Still, explaining it again brings tears to Mr. Frois's eyes.

''When I talk about it, my eyes get watery,'' he said. ''What can you do? People
come inside your home and you don't even know why.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marzo Frois said he was missing $1,300 after two men who said
they were immigration officials visited him. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 9, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TWO YEARS LATER: THE DETAINEES;
Plans for Terror Inquiries Still Fall Short, Report Says

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


The Justice Department, criticized for its treatment of hundreds of illegal
immigrants jailed after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, has not done
enough to avoid a repeat by spelling out clear criteria for determining who is
considered a terrorist suspect, an internal report concluded today.

In its report, the Justice Department inspector general's office said federal
authorities had not developed adequate plans for classifying illegal immigrants
arrested in terror investigations to ensure that those with no ties to terrorism
would be cleared quickly and adequate F.B.I. resources would be devoted to such
investigations.

The inspector general's report offered a mixed verdict on the progress the
authorities had made in avoiding the pitfalls surrounding the arrests of more
than 700 illegal immigrants after the 9/11 attacks.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary
Committee, said the inspector general had "properly given both the Justice
Department and the Department of Homeland Security an 'incomplete' " in meeting
their pledges to fix the systematic problems surrounding the Sept. 11
detentions.

"Both agencies need to address these constructive recommendations without
further delay," Mr. Leahy said. "They need to develop policies and practices
that will prevent a recurrence of the haphazard way in which the 9/11 detainees
were treated."

An earlier investigation by the inspector general into the handling of 9/11
detainees, concluded in June, triggered outrage and calls for changes from
members of Congress and civil rights groups.

That investigation found that hundreds of illegal immigrants with no clear ties
to terrorism were allowed to languish in custody after the 9/11 attacks because
the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other federal officials did little to
establish whether they had legitimate links to terrorism. Investigators found
that some of the illegal immigrants jailed in Brooklyn faced a pattern of
physical and verbal abuse from their jailers and were confined in unduly harsh
conditions.

Attorney General John Ashcroft and other Justice Department officials have said
they made "no apologies" for using every legal means in their arsenal to protect
Americans from another terrorist attack. Nonetheless, officials have pledged to
find ways of working out kinks in the system, including the establishment of
clear criteria for determining who should be considered a possible suspect in a
terrorism investigation.

The inspector general's assessment released today found that officials at the
Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security had indeed taken
steps to try to correct the problems identified in the June investigation.

"I'm pleased that both departments appear to be taking these problems
seriously," Glenn A. Fine, the inspector general, said in an interview. "I don't
think this is just lip service."

But the report found that those changes had often been too slow and too ill
defined to ensure that abuses were not repeated.

For instance, Homeland Security officials told the inspector general that they
had developed "a clear chainof command" in the past several months to allow
field offices to review cases in which inmates were held more than 90 days past
their scheduled release date. The new system is intended to avoid problems that
arose after the 9/11 attacks when many illegal immigrants were held long past
their release dates while immigration officials waited for the F.B.I. to
determine whether they had terrorist ties, officials said.

But the inspector general said that the new plan was too vague to ensure the
policy was consistently followed, and requested that Homeland Security officials
provide a detailed plan by October.

Similarly, the inspector general said the Justice Department had not
specifically addressed problems that slowed previous investigations of illegal
immigrants, including F.B.I. delays in sending requests to the Central
Intelligence Agency for information, computer problems and other communication
breakdowns.

Barbara Comstock, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said, "We've been
aggressively responding to the inspector general's recommendations, and we're
pleased that the inspector general recognized that we're taking this issue
seriously." As for charges that those steps have been slow and ill defined, she
said, "It's an ongoing process, and this is a priority for us."

But the Justice Department took issue with some of the inspector general's
recommendations.

It rejected the idea, for instance, that it needed to develop a process for
reassessing policy decisions made in crisis situations, like the one that gave
the F.B.I. the power in 2001 to hold illegal immigrants in indefinite custody
until they had been cleared of any possible terrorist ties.

Justice Department officials said that "there are already ample processes in
place for the department to reassess its practices and policies."

Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said
he was encouraged to learn that officials appeared to be taking serious steps to
eliminate abuses.

"I would hope that we've learned from the past and we realize that a wholesale
roundup of individuals based largely on their race, religion or national origin
is counterproductive to national security and goes against our basic values of
due process," Mr. Hooper said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 11, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Council Chief Backs Change In City Policy on Immigrants

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words


City Council Speaker Gifford Miller waded into the politically charged issue of
what the city should do about illegal immigrants yesterday, throwing his weight
behind a proposed law intended to pressure the Bloomberg administration to
change its policy.

During a boisterous rally on the steps of City Hall where immigrants chanted
loudly in Spanish, Mr. Miller endorsed a bill that would require all city
agencies to adopt a broad privacy policy -- characterized as "don't ask, don't
tell" -- that would protect immigrants as well as gays and crime victims, among
others.

For years, the city prohibited its workers from disclosing someone's immigration
status to federal authorities so as not to discourage people from reporting
crimes, seeking medical help or getting other basic services, but a federal
court ruled that policy illegal.

This spring, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg issued a new policy to meet the new
federal standards including the court ruling, effectively replacing the old
"don't tell" policy with "don't ask" in all but a few cases. His aides said the
policy was intended to protect the rights of immigrants and to ensure that they
continued to have access to city services without fear of being reported, while
at the same time meeting the court mandate.

But many immigrants and their advocates, as well as City Council members,
protested the new policy, saying it offered too few protections and was a step
backward. The mayor later agreed to amend the policy but has not yet done so.

Mr. Miller said yesterday that while he was still negotiating with the mayor to
find a common ground on the city's policy on immigrants, he had decided to
support the proposed bill in case those efforts failed.

"What we have is a difference in opinion at this point about how to move forward
in order to accomplish a shared goal, and we're trying to work that out," Mr.
Miller said. "Now if we can't in the end work it out, then we're going to do
what we think is necessary and the mayor has to do what he thinks is necessary."

Mr. Miller said he believed the bill would meet federal standards by creating a
"generalized confidentiality policy" rather than singling out a group for
protection. He also endorsed another bill that would require the city's Human
Resources Administration, which oversees social services, to provide translation
services to clients when necessary.

Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said city officials were continuing
to study the issue of access to city services and had begun collecting
information and data from immigrants. He said the mayor met with a dozen
immigrant representatives on Monday, for about 90 minutes, to discuss the issue.

"Our hope is that the upcoming revision of the executive order will make this
legislation moot," Mr. Skyler said.

Councilman Hiram Monserrate, a sponsor of the bill and an outspoken critic of
the mayor on this issue, said that unless the city's policy was changed, it
would hurt everyone, not just immigrants.

"I believe it would be truly chilling in immigrant communities, and there will
be a lack of participation and an actual real fear for them to come forward
either to report crimes or to be witnesses in the prosecution of crimes," Mr.
Monserrate said. "At the end of the day, that hurts everyone's public safety."

City officials have argued, though, that the negative publicity over the policy
has scared away more people than the policy itself.

Mr. Monserrate said he hoped the mayor would be more willing to negotiate now
that the Council appeared to be preparing its own bill. He said he had the
support of 36 council members, including the speaker, or enough to override a
veto by the mayor. A second council hearing on the bill is expected to be held
later this month or next.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 17, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing Connecticut: Hartford: Holding Those Who Face Deportation

BYLINE:  By Stacey Stowe (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 103 words


In a pilot program ordered by the federal Department of Homeland Security,
illegal immigrants in Connecticut are being arrested immediately after their
final deportation notice rather than remaining free while on appeal.

Twenty illegal immigrants have been arrested and jailed since Aug. 1, when the
program began. The program may be expanded nationwide if federal officials find
it is effective in reducing the number of immigrants who evade deportation.
Federal officials said there were active cases involving 400,000 people
nationwide who had fled after being ordered to leave the country.   Stacey Stowe
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 29, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 178 words


To the Editor:

A two-part solution to the problem of illegal immigrants could be found to
satisfy both anti- and pro-immigration folk (news article, Sept. 25).

First, change the law that guarantees American citizenship to people born in the
United States to a requirement that American citizenship be granted only to
people born to at least one American citizen parent (like the laws of most other
countries in the world).

Then, allow immigrants the ability to purchase the right to work here for a
year, for each person who wants to live on United States soil, and for each year
that he or she wants to live here, renewable each year. Make the purchase price
sufficient to cover the cost of basic catastrophic medical insurance. If
children are involved, ensure that the price cover some kind of partial payment
that goes directly toward financing education costs, especially English language
proficiency.

It would then be possible to track immigrants, tax them and offer them the
protections that legal workers have.

JANE SCHARANKOV
East Marion, N.Y., Sept. 25, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Death Along The Border

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 55 words


A record 151 people died in the fiscal year that ended Tuesday while illegally
crossing from Mexico into the United States through Arizona, the Border Patrol
said. Most succumbed to the scorching heat of the desert, while others died in
accidents or drownings. In the previous fiscal year, 145 illegal immigrants died
in Arizona.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2003 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

For One Family, It's All Too Familiar

BYLINE:   By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 496 words


Far from the orators on the huge stage, out past the tens of thousands of
cheering participants, the Asitimbay family sat on the grass, barely aware of
the speakers and singers at yesterday's Freedom Ride rally at Flushing
Meadows-Corona Park in Queens.

Manuel and Maria Asitimbay, two Ecuadorean immigrants, could not understand and
did not even know the identities of the people who spoke of the need to help the
so-called illegals. Mr. Asitimbay, 33, said he heard about the rally on a
Spanish-language news program and brought his family to show his support for a
cause that he knows perhaps far better than many of the speakers.

"I can't really know what they're talking about, but I hope it could help me one
day," said Mr. Asitimbay, an undocumented New Yorker who is supporting a wife
and four children on $350 a week.

Mr. and Mrs. Asitimbay speak limited English and were busy trying to keep tabs
on the children: Elizabeth, 13; Jovany, 12; Jennifer, 8; and Katherine, 2.

Mr. Asitimbay works in a deli near Times Square, making sandwiches for office
and construction workers. He and his wife both came illegally to America from
Ecuador.

Last year, the family moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Corona, a Queens
community with a large Hispanic population.

Mr. Asitimbay keeps busy with the children.

Mr. Asitimbay grew up in Flor del Bosque, a small village in Ecuador, one of
eight children. In 1988, when he was 17, his father borrowed money to send him
to America for a better life, he said. Unable to legally obtain a visa, he flew
to Mexico and crossed into California with the help of someone who charged him
$800, he said. It cost him a total of $3,000 to get to New York.

He came to the Astoria section of Queens and stayed initially with cousins,
taking English classes and making $40 a day as a delivery man for a local deli.

It was there that he met Mrs. Asitimbay, who had come to New York in identical
fashion two years later. She said her family raised $4,000 for her travel
expenses.

Mr. Asitimbay says his dream is to get a job as a cleaner or porter in a
Manhattan hotel and to go to college to study computer science.

He says he voluntarily pays $200 a month by submitting a bank check to a local
Internal Revenue Service office, to show he's not a tax evader and to one day
have a Social Security retirement.

Nearby, a Colombian immigrant, Luis Ramirez, 52, sold whistles with the colors
of the Mexican flag, for $1 apiece. Mr. Asitimbay watched as four enforcement
officers for the city Parks Department descended upon Mr. Ramirez and issued him
summonses for illegal vending.

Mr. Asitimbay recalled how one of his friends, an illegal immigrant from
Ecuador, got into a dispute with a co-worker in a restaurant. The co-worker
reported his friend to the INS, and he was deported.

His children would like to see Ecuador and meet their grandparents, he said.

"I miss my family, but I'm stuck here," he said. "If I go back there, I can't
come back to America."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2003



CORRECTION: An article and a picture caption in late editions on Sunday about a
family of Ecuadoreans at a Queens rally for changes in immigration policy used
an incorrect given name in some copies for the mother. She is Maria Asitimbay,
not Anna.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manuel and Maria Asitimbay, two Ecuadorean immigrants, at
yesterday's Freedom Ride rally in Queens, with their children, Elizabeth,
holding Katherine, Jennifer and Jovany. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Border Patrol Releases Immigrants

BYLINE:  By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 89 words


The Border Patrol released scores of illegal immigrants from its detention
center in Laredo, citing a lack of space and money.

Up to 100 people, mostly from Central and South America, will be assigned dates
for deportation hearings. Federal officers acknowledged that they had little
means of compelling the people to appear. Mayor Elizabeth G. Flores of Laredo
said local officials had been given a few hours' notice of the release, a move,
she added, that "makes a mockery of our nation's immigration laws."   Steve
Barnes (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wal-Mart Raids By U.S. Aimed At Illegal Aliens

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words


Federal agents raided 60 Wal-Mart stores across the nation yesterday and said
they arrested more than 250 illegal immigrants who worked as janitors for
outside contractors used by Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer.

As part of the 21-state raid, the largest immigration crackdown in years,
federal agents also searched the office of an executive at Wal-Mart's
headquarters in Bentonville, Ark., and removed boxes of documents, company and
government officials said.

One federal official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that a grand
jury was investigating the matter and that the government believed that Wal-Mart
officials knew about the widespread use of illegal immigrants. The official said
the government had used wiretaps in the investigation and had recordings of
conversations among Wal-mart executives and contractors.

Wal-Mart officials were quick to acknowledge the raids and said that the
arrested workers were employed by contractors and that Wal-Mart required those
contractors to employ only legal workers.

Tom Williams, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the raid and the allegations that
illegal immigrants were used in its stores came as a surprise.

"We've seen no evidence from the Immigration Service that anyone in Wal-Mart was
involved in any scheme involving illegal workers," Mr. Williams said.

He said he believed that the manager whose office was raided worked in
Wal-Mart's building services division.

The workers who were arrested were finishing the night shift before dawn, said
Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for the division of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Most are from Eastern Europe or Latin America.

Mr. Courtney said federal officials had originally sought to arrest 300 of the
janitorial workers when the raids began around 4 a.m. yesterday, but were able
to arrest slightly more than 250. The employees now face deportation.

Immigration experts said the arrests of so many illegal immigrants at Wal-Marts
across the country demonstrated that these workers have come to play a
significant role in the American economy. They often take the low-end,
low-paying jobs shunned by not just American workers, but also legal immigrants.

Yesterday's arrests came after a five-year period that saw federal immigration
authorities greatly scale back the number of company raids. Particularly since
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, federal officials
have focused their immigration arrests on facilities, like airports, that might
be terrorist targets.

"This is the biggest raid in a few years," Mr. Courtney said. "This is the
result of almost a four-year investigation. We're a law enforcement agency, and
we're going to enforce the laws."

Federal law enforcement officials said the investigation grew out of earlier
raids in 1998 and 2001 when about 100 illegal immigrants were arrested working
at Wal-Mart stores in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Missouri. These officials
said that after those arrests, 13 Wal-Mart cleaning contractors pleaded guilty
to knowingly employing illegal immigrants.

Mona Williams, Wal-Mart's vice president for communications, said: "These
federal officials are referring to third-party suppliers that we entrusted to
hire legal workers. For them to say that it strains credibility that we're
surprised about what happened today, those other actions happened years ago."

Mr. Courtney said that if federal officials found substantial evidence that the
cleaning contractors or Wal-Mart officials knowingly employed illegal
immigrants, they could face criminal charges, including fines up to $10,000 per
illegal worker. He said he did not know the name of Wal-Mart's cleaning
contractors or of the Wal-Mart executive whose office was searched.

In a statement, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said, "The investigation is
ongoing," and said the arrests were part of "ongoing efforts to ensure that U.S.
companies do not employ individuals who are unauthorized to work in the United
States."

Wal-Mart officials said the company used about 100 contractors to clean about
1,000 of its American stores. They said they did not know whether one contractor
or many employed the arrested workers.

Wal-Mart is not the first company to face immigration issues. A three-year-old
lawsuit against several California supermarkets asserts that the supermarkets
and their cleaning subcontractors violated minimum wage and overtime laws in
using illegal immigrants to clean their floors.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, which filed that lawsuit,
asserted that some workers were paid less than the $5.15-an-hour minimum wage
and that many were never paid overtime even after working 55-hour weeks.

The cleaning contractors involved in that case often asserted that those workers
were independent contractors and not employees and thus were not covered by
minimum wage or overtime laws.

Mr. Courtney said he did not know whether Wal-Mart's cleaning contractors had
violated wage laws. He said the Department of Labor had not participated in the
investigation.

Wal-Mart has 1.4 million employees worldwide and had $245 billion in revenues
last year. Each week 138 million shoppers visit Wal-Mart's 4,750 stores.

In recent years, Wal-Mart has frequently been accused of skirting various
federal employment laws.

Class-action suits have been filed in more than 30 states charging Wal-Mart
supervisors with pressuring employees to work off the clock. In California,
lawyers have filed a lawsuit accusing Wal-Mart of discriminating against female
employees in its promotions. The lawyers have asked a federal judge in San
Francisco to allow the lawsuit to proceed as a class action, potentially
creating a class of 1.6 million current and former Wal-Mart employees.

Wal-Mart denies pressuring employees to work off the clock and asserts that it
has an aggressive program to hire and promote women.

The raids yesterday were carried out in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Connecticut,
Delaware, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.

Immigration officials said their investigation focused on forms, known as I-9's,
that employers are required to use to determine the eligibility of their
workers.

Ms. Williams said the company was assessing the situation.

"We first learned about the raids when store managers at affected stores began
calling us," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Raids at Wal-Mart"Federal agents raided 60 Wal-Mart stores
yesterday, arresting more than 250 people. Map of the United States highlights
the cities where Wal-Mart stores were raided. (Source by Associated Press)(pg.
A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 3, 2003 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

CROSSING WITH STRANGERS: Children at the Border;
Littlest Immigrants, Left in Hands of Smugglers

BYLINE:   By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3135 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz.


They were barely old enough to cross a street by themselves, much less a border.
But there they were, alone on a hot August evening at a United States
immigration checkpoint, surrounded by law enforcement officers wearing badges
and guns. Eight-year-old Jose Cruz Velazquez held the hand of his brother
Sergio, who was 6.

The Mexican boys had been seized from a smuggler hired by their parents living
without legal papers in Pennsylvania. They were two of a growing number of
children traveling without families who have been snared in the net that
American and Mexican agents cast to stop illegal immigrants from crossing the
border.

Authorities attribute the trend to aggressive American law enforcement
operations during the past decade that have effectively sealed long sections of
the 2,000-mile border. The blockade was further reinforced after the terrorist
attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.
The tightened security has made it much harder for illegal immigrants to move
back and forth across the border, disrupting long-established migration
patterns.

Immigrants who lack American documents have been forced to cross through remote
desert. Smugglers who lead them, called coyotes, have tripled their fees in the
last decade, experts said.

As a result, parents living in the United States illegally find increasingly
that they can no longer afford the growing risks and expense of returning home
to retrieve their children. They face a harsh choice: either they allow others
to raise their children far away, or they hire strangers to smuggle their
children into the United States.

"If my children stay in El Salvador, I will definitely lose them because of the
distance that separates us," said Rigoberto Centeno, a Salvadoran immigrant who
lives in the Washington suburbs and who recently hired a smuggler to help
reunite his family. "If they come with a coyote to the United States, there is a
chance that I will lose them in the desert.

"But there is also a very good chance that they will make it across. If we want
to be with our children, there is no other way."

American officials warn that immigrant parents are leaving themselves and their
children vulnerable to smugglers' abuses.

"These are not Robin Hoods who are interested in helping families," said Joseph
Greene, deputy assistant director for smuggling and public safety at United
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "They are cold-blooded capitalists.
The smugglers have seen children as the next important exploitable population."

For generations, illegal immigrants from Latin America worked seasonally in the
United States, returning home for part of each year. Others who settled more
permanently north of the border made regular trips to visit loved ones back
home.

Now military-style Border Patrol operations -- complete with steel walls,
helicopters, infrared cameras and motion detectors -- have practically shut down
the western stretch of the border near San Diego and the eastern region around
El Paso. The scorching desert here, between Arizona and the Mexican state of
Sonora, has become the main gateway for illegal immigrants. An average of one
immigrant a day died last summer trying to cross illegally in this area -- a
record number.

Despite the dangers, more and younger children are being detained during
attempts to cross. This year, through the end of September, Mexican consular
authorities had repatriated more than 9,800 unaccompanied Mexican minors under
the age of 17 who were caught crossing illegally, according to Juan Miguel
Gutierrez Tinoco, director general of protection and consular affairs at the
Mexican Foreign Ministry. In all of last year, Mexico repatriated about 9,900
unaccompanied minors.

The number of unaccompanied children under 13 who were repatriated rose from
1,300 in 2002 to more than 1,500 at the end of September.

While repatriations of unaccompanied minors have declined along the reinforced
sectors of the border, in Arizona the number has risen to more than 2,300 so far
this year from 975 in 2001, the Mexican figures show.

Officials saythe number of children crossing is much higher, because a great
majority of illegal immigrants pass successfully, undetected by the border
police. Indeed, some officials argue that the flow of children has been high for
years and that increased apprehensions reflect stricter border controls rather
than a rise in the numbers of children who cross.

A Risk Worth Taking

To the parents of Sergio and Jose Cruz Velazquez, who had made a new home in a
city in Pennsylvania, the pain of separation from the boys outweighed the risks
of a journey with a smuggler.

"I did not feel good when my sons were so far away," said Rosa Velazquez, the
boys' mother. "I wanted them with me." She and her husband agreed to pay a
smuggler $5,000 to bring the boys across.

"We never talked about the danger," Mrs. Velazquez said. "Both of us have
crossed the border with coyotes. We know that it is difficult. But we believed
that our sons would be fine."

Following a common pattern, they had their sons sent with no official documents
that could tip off the police to their real identities. The smuggler escorting
them tried to sneak them across the border with false papers, claiming they were
his nephews. He had no information on how to contact their parents, only the
first name and cellphone number of another coyote who was supposed to receive
the boys on the American side.
After the boys were captured, Miguel Escobar, the Mexican consul based in
Douglas, pried that number out of the smuggler and called it, informing a voice
on the line that he had taken custody of the children.

Late that night, Mr. and Mrs. Velazquez were awakened in Pennsylvania by a call
from a relative at the border, who had learned that the boys had been detained.
The parents were overcome with regret.

"I asked myself, what did we do?" Mrs. Velazquez recalled.

Meanwhile, in Agua Prieta, a shabby Mexican border town directly across from
Douglas, Mr. Escobar drove the boys to a child welfare shelter, set behind a
barred fence on an unpaved street. From a distance, it looked more like a prison
than a refuge. The boys pleaded with Mr. Escobar not to leave them there. The
next day, a shelter worker said they had hardly touched their breakfast.

When asked in an interview how it had been for them to face the American border
police officers, Jose Cruz shook his head to say he was not afraid, and summoned
an unconvincing smile. But Sergio held nothing back.

"My legs were shaking," he said, his eyes filling with tears. "I want to see my
mama."

Mr. Escobar has come to dread the sound of his mobile telephone. It rings to
summon him to gather up lost children -- so many that their stories are hard to
keep straight in his head.

It rang on the first Saturday in September about 1 p.m. In temperatures that
soared past 100 degrees, United States Border Patrol officers had found a
5-year-old in pigtails, Karen Tepas, walking with six adults across a stretch of
desert 10 miles east of Douglas. When Mr. Escobar arrived, Karen was crying for
her mother.

The adults captured with her told American agents that during the hike Karen had
been separated from her mother, who was seven months pregnant and had fallen
behind. Karen was captured without her. Mr. Escobar tried to comfort the child,
then drove her to the shelter.

Another call took him back to the Douglas checkpoint, where American officers
were holding Karla Tafolla, age 7, and her brother Roberto, just over a year
old. They had been seized from a 56-year-old woman who presented false documents
in claiming they were her grandchildren.

The officers brought out graham crackers and puppets. They tried,
unsuccessfully, to coax some information from the children about their parents'
location. Karla enjoyed being the center of attention as Roberto toddled about.

In the office next door, Mr. Escobar was losing patience with the suspected
smuggler, a rumpled woman with dyed red hair. He lowered his voice and moved in
close. "I do not have any interest in giving you more problems," he said. "I am
here to help these children."

Finally the woman provided a Phoenix mobile phone number for the children's
father. Then she lowered her voice as well.

"Is there something you can do to help me, too?" she asked.

Most of the suspects arrested on charges of smuggling children in the last year
along this part of the border have been women with no criminal records, said
Paul Charleton, the United States attorney for the district of Arizona.
Typically they were American citizens, or Mexicans with legal status in the
United States that allowed them to move easily across the border. Most were
small-time operators, out for a quick buck.

While smugglers generally try to skirt the Border Patrol by trekking through the
desert, those dealing with children often hide in plain sight, driving or
walking through border checkpoints crowded with customs and immigration
officers. The coyotes present legal documents belonging to other children to
pass their charges as relatives.

Often smugglers are loosely linked to chains of human traffickers that stretch
across Mexico and into the Latin continent. Children who were smuggled into the
United States reported traveling with a series of strangers. They moved
northward on buses or as stowaways on freight trains and vegetable trucks,
staying in safe houses and fleabag hotels, sometimes for only a few hours.
Their parents reported paying fees from $2,000 for a child from Mexico to as
much as $7,000 for children from Central America.

While some smugglers take extra care when they are moving children, others are
dangerously callous. Early this year, two children nearly suffocated in the
trunk of a car caught crossing the desert illegally.

'A Dangerous Situation'

Both American and Mexican officials complain that child smuggling has not been
treated as a serious crime. "Anytime a stranger is entrusted with a child, it is
a dangerous situation," Mr. Charleton said in an interview. "And when a stranger
is entrusted to take a child across an international border that danger is
magnified."

Robert Miskell, chief of the criminal division of the United States attorney's
office in Tucson, said first-time offenders were likely to get more jail time
for sneaking an 85-pound sack of marijuana across the border than a 50-pound
child.

Since the beginning of the year, when the Tucson office made enforcement against
child smuggling a top priority, only one smuggler has been tried and convicted,
drawing a sentence of six months in jail, Mr. Miskell said. Most others pleaded
guilty and were released after a month or two in jail.

In Central America, child smuggling has become the focus of public debate. In
the first eight months of this year, authorities in Mexico detained more than
2,900 minors from Central America who were traveling illegally with smugglers,
according to Mexico's National Migration Institute.

Unicef has joined with the government in El Salvador to sponsor a public
awareness campaign about the dangers. It features radio spots broadcast by 118
stations across Central America, and a comic book with an opening chapter
titled, "I turned my grandson over to a stranger."

Early in September, Salvadoran authorities summoned news organizations to the
international airport to publicize the return of two children deported from
Mexico.

Rigoberto Centeno had agreed to pay $10,000 to a smuggler to deliver his son
Emmanuel, 11, and his 6-year-old granddaughter, Maria Ivania, to his home near
Washington, where he has lived for most of the last 15 years. But near
Monterrey, Mexico, authorities seized the children and a coyote from a
commercial bus.

They spent five weeks in a Mexican shelter before being sent home. Mr. Centeno
returned to El Salvador to receive them because he feared authorities there
would not turn them over to anyone else.

But he was not swayed by the government campaign. Speaking defiantly to
reporters, he said his only regret was that the children did not make it to the
United States. He said depictions of smugglers as ruthless criminals were
overblown.

He and his wife "saw other people, our neighbors hiring coyotes for their
children," he said. "So we thought, why not us? We want the same things."

His main concern was to hold on to his American job, as a supervisor at an
office cleaning company. "If I lose that," he said, "then the entire family
loses."

He embraced the bewildered children. "They are probably going to be scared for a
little while," he acknowledged. But he vowed to return alone to Washington and
send for them soon, again with a coyote.

Mexican and American authorities say that immigrant parents often undermine
their efforts. In Agua Prieta, Bilha Villalobos runs a shelter that takes in
many of the children the Border Patrol finds. Most times, she lamented, it
operates like a big revolving door. Children come in from the border for a few
days. Parents call with urgent promises, saying they have learned their lesson
and will send their children straight back to homes in Mexico.

But when the children are released, their parents give them back to smugglers
for another try at crossing.

"We try to protect the children the best that we can," said Ms. Villalobos,
director of the Casa Y.M.C.A. "But the parents deceive us."

One parent who made such promises was Maria Concepcion Garcia. Her daughter
Abigail, then 12, arrived in the Casa Y.M.C.A. one day in early August, hungry
and dehydrated.

Abigail had been captured by American border agents before dawn, walking with a
small group of immigrants through the desert near the town of Naco. After three
days in the desert, her lips were so chapped they had begun to scab.

In an interview at the shelter, Abigail said she had come to the border from
Guerrero, one of Mexico's poorest states, and was on her way to live with her
mother on Long Island.

Abigail, who showed an infectious smile despite her circumstances, said she had
not been mistreated by any of the strangers she met on her journey. She said she
was scared, "just a little," by snakes that crawled through the sand at night.

A Mother's Heartache

But she hinted at severe hardships she had seen on the trip. "One woman
fainted," she said. "We had to stop for a long time. They gave her cucumber and
banana. There was no more water."

Still, Abigail insisted she was ready to try again. "I want to live with my
mama," she said firmly. "I have not seen her for a long time."

Her mother, Ms. Garcia, had immigrated to the United States seven years earlier.
She soon settled in New York State, making a home with a landscaper from El
Salvador who also lacked legal papers, and the couple had three children. But
Ms. Garcia always longed for three children she had left behind in Mexico.
(Abigail was the second to come.)

"I felt bad every time I did something for my children here because I could not
do the same for my children there," Ms. Garcia said, speaking in a park near her
home on Long Island. She described sleepless nights worrying whether Abigail was
eating well and staying in school.

So two days after she received word that Abigail had been stopped at the border,
Ms. Garcia faxed a letter to Casa Y.M.C.A., authorizing the shelter to release
Abigail to a woman she named as Neyed Yunuen Sanchez Guerrero. She wrote that
Ms. Sanchez would ride with Abigail by bus back to Mexico City, where Abigail's
grandmother would be waiting to take her the rest of the way home.

Casa Y.M.C.A. followed the instructions, but the woman who retrieved Abigail
never looked for a bus. She delivered the child, by agreement with her mother,
to a new smuggler, and hours later Abigail was walking again under a clear
desert sky toward Arizona.

Then the girl's journey took a turn Ms. Garcia did not expect.

For the next four days, she lost contact with Abigail and the smuggler. They did
not call, and no one answered the smuggler's cellphone.

"I could not eat," Ms. Garcia said. "I could not sleep. One night, I stayed out
in front of the house, waiting for Abigail to arrive."

On the fifth day Ms. Garcia got a call from a stranger.

"I have your daughter," said a voice she had never heard before. "But give
thanks to God that she fell into the hands of a family man. Some coyotes would
abuse a girl like this one."

The man told Ms. Garcia that Abigail had become hysterical. She refused to eat,
take a bath or put on clean clothes, and she would not stop crying.

Ms. Garcia pleaded with the smuggler to bring Abigail to New York. Even though
she had already paid $500 as a deposit to the smuggler who first brought Abigail
to the border, Ms. Garcia quickly offered $2,000 to the new one.

"No more tricks, no more lies," Ms. Garcia said. "Bring my daughter to me."

The coyote put Abigail on the phone. She said she was crying because she did not
know anyone and was scared. She reminded her mother that her 13th birthday was
only five days away, on Aug. 17.

"I thought I would already have seen your face," the girl said.

Abigail's birthday came and went. All her mother knew was that she was in a
house somewhere in Phoenix.

But the coyote kept his agreement. Four days after Abigail's birthday, she was
dropped off behind a Home Depot store on Long Island. Ms. Garcia took Abigail
straight home and celebrated her birthday with a meal of turkey in a homemade
Mexican sauce.

The next morning, Abigail was splashing happily in a neighborhood pool, making
new friends.

Of course, Ms. Garcia said as she watched her daughter play, she had thought
about the risks of losing Abigail during her journey north. "It is hard to
explain," Ms. Garcia said. "Maybe I was blind because I wanted her with to be
with me."

An Agonizing Decision

The parents of Jose Cruz and Sergio Velazquez were driven by the same
determination. After learning of their sons' detention in Agua Prieta, Rosa
Velazquez agonized. "I told my husband that maybe we should leave the boys in
Mexico," she said. "Maybe it was too dangerous." It was an option the parents
could not accept. They sought another smuggler. By the end of August, the boys
had reached their new home.

In an interview a few days after their arrival in a gritty neighborhood of row
houses, Mrs. Velazquez was amazed and thankful. She beamed at the boys in their
new bedroom, furnished with only a mattress and an image of the Virgin of
Guadalupe, the patroness of Mexico, but littered with toys sent by the
neighbors. "This is a dream," she said. "Thank God my sons were in the hands of
a good coyote."

Jose Cruz seemed transformed. His smile stretched from ear to ear. When asked
about their journey, however, the boys scurried to their bedroom and slammed the
door shut. "They do not talk about it, not even with me," Mrs. Velazquez said.
"They tell me that they just want to forget."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2003



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Nov. 3 about smuggling of children across
the border from Mexico misspelled the surname of the United States Attorney for
the District of Arizona, who spoke about the problem. He is Paul K. Charlton,
not Charleton.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the border fence in Douglas, Ariz., Karen Tepas, 5, is
turned over to Mexican officials. (Photo by Janet Jarman/Contact, for The New
York Times)(pg. A1); Abigail Garcia Gonzalez, 13, who was smuggled from Mexico,
with her mother, Maria Concepcion Garcia, at the swimming pool in a Long Island
park. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); Karla Tafolla, 7, above,
called her father in Phoenix as Miguel Escobar, the Mexican consul in Douglas,
looked on. The woman, far left, suspected of smuggling in Karla and her brother
was questioned by American officials. (Photographs by Janet Jarman/Contact, for
The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of Arizona highlighting Douglas: More children
of illegal immigrants are being smuggled across the United States border at
places like Douglas, Ariz. (pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegally in U.S., and Never a Day Off at Wal-Mart

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1792 words


They came from Russia, Poland and Lithuania, and their tales of washing and
waxing Wal-Mart's floors for seven nights a week sound much like Pavel's.

Last February, Pavel responded to an intriguing Web site that boasted of
cleaning jobs in the United States paying four times what he was earning as a
restaurant manager in the Czech Republic. He flew from Prague to New York on a
tourist visa and took a bus to Lynchburg, Va., where a subcontractor delivered
him to a giant Wal-Mart.

Pavel immediately began on the midnight shift and said he soon learned that he
would never receive a night off. He said he worked every night for the next
eight months. In this way, Pavel, who refused to give his last name, became one
pawn among hundreds employed by subcontractors that clean Wal-Mart stores across
the nation, paying many workers off the books.

Pavel's unhappy stay in the United States ended with a shock when federal agents
raided 60 Wal-Marts on Oct. 23 and arrested him and 250 other janitors as being
illegal immigrants. Yesterday, the company acknowledged that it had received a
target letter from federal prosecutors accusing it of violating immigration laws
and saying that Wal-Mart faced a grand jury investigation.

The 21-state raid last month exposed an unseemly secret about Wal-Mart, the
world's largest retailer: Hundreds of illegal immigrants worked at its stores,
and its subcontractors appear to have violated overtime, Social Security and
workers' compensation laws.

Company officials deny having known that illegal immigrants worked in their
stores, saying they required their cleaning contractors to use only legal
workers.

But two federal law enforcement officials said in interviews that Wal-Mart
executives must have known about the immigration violations because federal
agents rounded up 102 illegal immigrant janitors at Wal-Marts in 1998 and 2001.
In the October raid, federal agents searched the office of an executive at
Wal-Mart's headquarters, carting away boxes of papers. Federal officials said
prosecutors had wiretaps and recordings of conversations between Wal-Mart
officials and subcontractors.

The use of illegal workers appeared to benefit Wal-Mart, its shareholders and
managers by minimizing the company's costs, and it benefited consumers by
helping hold down Wal-Mart's prices. Cleaning contractors profited, and
thousands of foreign workers were able to earn more than they could back home.

But the system also had its costs -- janitors said they were forced to work
seven days a week, were not paid overtime and often endured harsh conditions.
Foreigners got jobs that Americans might have wanted. And taxpayers sometimes
ended up paying for the illegal workers' emergency health care or their
children's education in American schools.

"We Czechs are willing to sacrifice and work hard, but we definitely weren't
earning enough money," said Pavel, 33, in a telephone interview from the Czech
Embassy before he was deported last Friday. He said he received $380 in cash for
his 56-hour workweeks. That came to $6.79 an hour, and he did not receive
time-and-a-half for overtime.

In interviews, federal law enforcement officials, cleaning contractors, industry
experts and seven illegal immigrant cleaners at Wal-Mart, including Pavel, said
subcontracting allowed Wal-Mart to benefit while enabling it to deny
responsibility.

Wal-Mart officials said it made sense to contract out the cleaning work because
that enabled store managers to concentrate on what they do best, operating
stores that provide low-cost merchandise. Wal-Mart uses about 100 contractors to
clean nearly 1,000 of its stores.

Several industry executives said the questionable contractors made it hard for
legitimate operators to bid low enough to win contracts at Wal-Mart.

"When you don't pay taxes, don't pay Social Security and don't pay workers'
comp, you have a 40 percent cost advantage," said Lilia Garcia, executive
director of the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund, a group financed by
California cleaning contractors to police fly-by-night competitors. "It makes it
hard for companies that follow the rules."

After the arrests, Wal-Mart, which had $245 billion in revenues last year, said
it was beginning a review to ensure that no illegal immigrants worked in its
3,470 American stores.

"We take every action that we can to make sure our workers are legal workers,
and in this case, be assured we will take whatever corrective actions are
necessary," said Tom Williams, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,
Ark.

He said of the target letter, "The notification gives us time to provide the
attorney general's office information that supports our position."

Many people, from janitors to federal investigators, said Wal-Mart store
managers and officials at headquarters knew about widespread use of cleaners who
are illegal immigrants.

"The chief manager of our store knew what was going on," Pavel said. "He knew
that we were illegal."

Federal law enforcement officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said
Wal-Mart executives must have known about the use of illegal immigrants partly
because 13 Wal-Mart cleaning subcontractors pleaded guilty to illegal hiring
practices several years ago.

One of the 13 was Miriam Klackova Facemyer, 30, president of Spartak Cleaning,
who admitted two years ago in federal court in Virginia to employing illegal
immigrants. Ms. Facemyer, a native of Slovakia living in Richmond, employed more
than 110 immigrants, most from Eastern Europe, to clean Wal-Marts and other
stores.

Wal-Mart is not the only retailer to use questionable cleaning contractors.
Hundreds of Mexican immigrants have sued three California supermarket chains,
charging them with hiring contractors that never gave a night off, did not pay
overtime and often paid less than the minimum wage.

Daniel Kuchar, a 25-year-old Czech engineering student, said he worked every
night except Christmas in his 12 months cleaning for two Wal-Mart competitors,
Kmart and Target, in Northern Virginia. The companies have policies prohibiting
contractors from hiring illegal immigrants. Last March, he won a $7,278 judgment
in state court against his contractor, Promaster Cleaning Service, for failing
to pay him time-and-a-half for overtime.

"Everybody goes to the United States for the money," said Mr. Kuchar, who
entered on a tourist visa and has returned to his Czech village.

One subcontractor, Stanislaw Kostek, whose company, CMS Cleaning, cleaned more
than a dozen Wal-Marts in New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia, acknowledged that
he had hired illegal immigrants.

"It's a degrading job; very few people want to do it even though the salary is
at least $2 above the minimum wage" of $5.15 an hour, Mr. Kostek said. "But
there are workers who want to do the job."

Those workers, he said, come from not just Eastern Europe but also Mexico,
Mongolia, Uzbekistan and other distant lands. Some take the jobs hoping they
will be the first step in their climb to the American dream, while others view
it as a way to earn cash before returning home.

Mr. Kostek, a native of Poland, said he quit the business after paying a $10,000
civil penalty last June in pleading guilty to federal charges of employing
illegal immigrants.

Victor Zavala Jr., who cleaned Wal-Marts in New Jersey seven nights a week,
explained the lure of the job.

"When I talk on the phone to friends in Mexico, they ask me how the pay is, and
I say, 'We're getting $350 a week,' " said Mr. Zavala, a native of Mexico City
who was rounded up in the Oct. 23 raid. "They say, 'Wow, in Mexico we're earning
300 pesos a week.' That's just $30 a week. So compared with Mexico, it's good
money."

Mr. Zavala said it was unjust to deport immigrants who worked hard and well. "We
were proud of what we were doing," he said. "Every morning we looked back at the
floors, and they looked real shiny. I don't want to get too emotional, but do
you think we want to go back to our country and earn just $30 a week?"

One night, he recalled, a co-worker sliced his hand open on a floor-scraping
blade and was rushed to a hospital in Red Bank. He had problems paying the $800
bill because his job did not provide health insurance and his employer shunned
the workers' compensation system. The hospital swallowed the cost.

Reached by telephone, Ken Clancy, president of Facility Solutions, which
employed Mr. Zavala, would not comment.

Mr. Kostek described an elaborate network of contractors that served Wal-Mart.
There was a contractor above him, he said, that had perhaps 100 stores. This
contractor then made individual subcontractors responsible for stores, usually
between 5 and 20.

Wal-Mart paid the contractor $10 an hour per worker, Mr. Kostek said, the
contractor paid subcontractors $9 an hour per worker and subcontractors paid
their employees $8 an hour -- although many workers said they received less than
$7. Mr. Kostek said he had to pay for equipment, chemicals and liability
insurance.

He did not pay some required taxes. "How do you pay workers' comp if you're
making $1 an hour and you have to cover all expenses?" he said. "And no, I
wasn't paying Social Security either."

Mr. Kostek would not name the contractor above him, and federal prosecutors and
Wal-Mart executives refused to name Wal-Mart's cleaning contractors and
subcontractors.

Industry experts and janitors said the contractors and subcontractors appeared
to play a shell game, continually closing down, filing for bankruptcy and
reincorporating under different names. Some closed without paying workers their
last month's pay. Some insisted on a $2,000 finder's fee for providing
foreigners with jobs.

"There is a whole Mafia-like structure," said Richard Krpac, chief counsel for
the Czech Embassy. "They advertise on all these Web sites, and they try to erase
all of people's doubts about it. If you're without work for two or three years,
and you're trying to take anything, you may easily fall prey."

Denis, who refused to give his last name, said he got a medical degree in Russia
before taking a job at a Wal-Mart in Lexington, Va. He said the store manager
knew that illegal immigrants were cleaning the floors.

"It's obvious," he said. "They knew the whole crew consists of foreigners who
don't speak English."

Denis said it was exhausting to work seven nights a week, with just a 15-minute
break. "There were no benefits, no health insurance, no nothing," he said.

Robert, a Czech who runs a Web site to attract Eastern Europeans to janitorial
work, said using foreign cleaners was good for Wal-Mart and for American
consumers.

"No American wants to do this job," he said. "If they hired Americans, it would
take 10 of them to do the work done by five Czechs. This helps Wal-Mart keep its
prices low."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Czech Web site that is used to attract people to janitorial
work. (pg. A23)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 10, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Children at the Borders: Why Are They Endangered?

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 117 words


To the Editor:

Re "Littlest Immigrants, Left in Hands of Smugglers" (front page, Nov. 3): To
the letter writers who will undoubtedly reaffirm the right's lack of sympathy
for illegal immigrants and their children, let me remind you: without illegal
immigrants, our economy would cease to function.

If the United States government spent half as much effort prosecuting the
businesses and farms that are employers of illegals as they do patrolling the
border and pursuing "coyotes," the smugglers who lead the children across the
border, the entire "problem" would disappear.

Until then, for the sake of humanity, let these children be with their parents!

JORIAN P. SCHUTZ
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 3, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 12, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant's Choice

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 126 words


To the Editor:

Regarding undocumented immigrant parents who try to bring their children into
the United States, a Nov. 10 letter writer says "these parents can choose to
stay with their children in their home countries in the first place."

She asks, "What part of 'illegal' is so difficult to understand?"

Who is the better parent: the one who respects our restrictive laws and stays
home with his starving child; or the one who works hard for a United States
employer so that he can feed his child and, separated from the child by our
laws, tries to effect a reunion?

What part of "impossible dilemma" is so difficult to understand?

JEFFREY HELLER
Cranford, N.J., Nov. 10, 2003

The writer is an adjunct professor, Safe Harbor Project, Brooklyn Law School.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 15, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Hope on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 400 words


Without more detail, it was hard to determine, exactly, what Homeland Security
Secretary Tom Ridge meant when he called for an ambitious plan to give millions
of illegal immigrants some kind of legal status. But his candid comments in
Miami last Tuesday, which apparently caught the White House off guard, offer the
first hopeful sign since the World Trade Center attack that the Bush
Administration is returning to immigration reform.

For over two years now, the White House has been virtually silent about how to
relieve an immigration mess that has been building for nearly 20 years. Because
the 9/11 terrorists were foreigners, talk about immigration shifted to the
security of our borders. That concern was understandable, but it stalled a
bipartisan effort to deal with the 8 million to 10 million illegal immigrants
who live, work and even pay taxes in this country.

The United States is plainly conflicted about these illegal immigrants. We work
to keep them from crossing our borders. But we take advantage of those who make
it by giving them some of the toughest, lowest-paying jobs, like harvesting
crops, cleaning hotel rooms or busing tables.

A few members of Congress are working on this convoluted issue. The "Ag-jobs"
bill would start giving temporary legal status to 500,000 workers from Mexico
and elsewhere, as a step toward offering more opportunities for legal farm jobs.
The "Dream Act" would allow children of illegal aliens who are raised in the
United States to pay in-state tuition rates at public colleges. Neither bill is
a solution, but they would both be improvements and deserve the administration's
backing. Another idea, to make police and even hospital workers turn in people
they believe might be illegal, is less helpful. Immigrants should not be scared
away from seeing a doctor or reporting a crime.

There are many reasons to give the nation's illegal immigrants some legal
status, and national security is one of them. Mr. Ridge and his staff want to
know who these people are and whether they pose a risk. But those who now
survive in secret will not emerge unless they get assurances that at least some
can, through some new route, become citizens. It will be complicated, since they
can't jump ahead of those already in line legally. But the White House needs to
begin working on the problem, and it's good to hear Mr. Ridge at least bring the
matter up.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants?

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 165 words


To the Editor:

In 1986, more than three million illegal aliens were granted legal status in
what was to be a "one-time" amnesty program.

Now you want another 8 million to 10 million lawbreakers to receive amnesty
(editorial, Dec. 15)? When does it end? You also support the "Dream Act," which
would allow the children of illegal aliens to pay in-state tuition, while
children of law-abiding American citizens from other states would have to pay
more.

The great majority of people illegally entering this country are poor,
uneducated and often not even literate in their own language. These aliens are
holding down wages of minority and blue-collar workers who are citizens of the
United States. Minority and working-class citizens are the ones who suffer. The
people who benefit are those who employ illegal immigrants.

Stiff penalties for hiring illegal immigrants should be enforced. The United
States should gain control of its borders.

ROBERT F. LAPORTA
Dix Hills, N.Y., Dec. 15, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nicholas Blechman)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 162 words


To the Editor:

We must address not just illegal immigration (editorial, Dec. 15), but also the
discriminatory nature of legal immigration.

A status short of citizenship will serve as a relief to the existing illegal
entrants, but do nothing to discourage others from crossing our borders, or to
encourage those who would never dream of entering illegally but struggle to
remain here legally.

For example, thousands of binational same-sex couples in the United States face
potential forced separation because the American person is not permitted to
sponsor his or her foreign partner for permanent residency. Couples must
consider dramatic steps including remaining illegally, or leaving the United
States for friendlier shores.

Incorporation of Representative Jerrold Nadler's Permanent Partner Immigration
Act into any new immigration regulations would be a rare compassionate move from
this predictably conservative administration.

NICHOLAS P. RAY
Tucson, Dec. 15, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 175 words


To the Editor:

The Times, like so many supporters of illegal immigrants (editorial, Dec. 15),
always reminds us that illegal aliens do the work regular Americans won't do:
pick crops, bus tables, clean hotel rooms and so on, because these jobs don't
pay enough.

But the absence of illegal aliens would not mean that these jobs would not
exist. In fact, the absence of illegal aliens would force employers to pay
higher wages to get those jobs done, and then in true American fashion the
rising tide would lift all boats.

Continuing to support the forgiveness of illegal aliens, permitting them to
forgo the burdens of applying for citizenship and rewarding them for their
illegal conduct drains the treasure that so many brave people have died to
defend.

I, for one, would be willing to pay higher prices if in return our borders were
secure and the people who live and work here did so legally. The wages of legal
citizens are held down artificially by the presence of illegal employees in the
workplace.

GEORGE ABRUZZESE
Bohemia, N.Y., Dec. 15, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Incoherent on Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 150 words


To the Editor:

"Middlemen in the Low-Wage Economy" (Week in Review, Dec. 28) raises the
question of the degree to which companies should be accountable for their
contractors' practices in hiring illegal immigrants.

I live in the suburbs of New York, where many communities provide gathering
points for local contractors to hire day workers, most of whom, I suspect, are
illegal immigrants. These "hiring halls" keep the labor pool out of the weather
and the public eye; some even provide televisions and other recreational
facilities.

How can we tolerate a situation in which the federal government is selectively
prosecuting companies for hiring illegal immigrants while local communities are
providing facilities to encourage such hiring? We need a cohesive national
strategy on our illegal immigrant problem if we are ever to regain control of
our borders.

ROBERT FUNCK
Harrison, N.Y., Dec. 28, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 7, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Sees Gains in Protocol for 9/11 Detentions

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6


The F.B.I. and other federal law enforcement agencies have made important
strides toward fine-tuning their counterterrorism operations to avoid prolonged
detentions of illegal immigrants with no clear terrorist ties, a Justice
Department inspector general's report concluded Tuesday.

Among other critical changes, the report said, the F.B.I. has developed a much
clearer set of criteria in recent months for determining which illegal
immigrants should be considered terrorist suspects.

And the Bureau of Prisons, criticized for the treatment of illegal immigrants in
Brooklyn after the Sept. 11 attacks, agreed to hold on to prison videotapes for
six months to help investigate accusations of physical and verbal abuse against
its guards. An investigation into reports that Brooklyn prisoners were
physically and verbally abused was stymied for a time by the disappearance of
the prison's videotapes.

The report, by Glenn A. Fine, the inspector general for the Justice Department,
grew out of a major investigation that his office completed last year into the
treatment of hundreds of illegal immigrants arrested on immigration violations
after the Sept. 11 attacks. That investigation concluded that the Justice
Department had allowed many illegal immigrants with no connection to terrorism
to languish in federal prisons for weeks or sometimes months in unduly harsh
conditions.

The department promised reforms last year in response to Mr. Fine's findings.
But the inspector general's office said it found many of those initial pledges
to be vague.

A second set of responses, prepared by Deputy Attorney General James Comey and
released on Tuesday, "is much fuller and fleshes out the procedures and
protocols much more clearly," an official with the inspector general's office
said.

The main provisions, officials said, center on new criteria for determining
which illegal immigrants are treated as terrorism suspects and how quickly they
can be released from special detention once they are cleared of any links.

The F.B.I. said in the report that its new procedures laid out a clear line of
investigation for counterterrorism agents, supervisors in Washington and
immigration officials at the Department of Homeland Security to trace the
histories and activities of illegal immigrants. The special agents in charge of
F.B.I. field offices have final authority in determining "in a timely manner"
whether an illegal immigrant has terrorist links, the F.B.I. said in the report.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH ON IMMIGRATION: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Politics at the Border

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7


President Bush's sweeping proposal on Wednesday to give legal status to millions
of illegal workers was a political document as well as an immigration policy and
sought to re-establish his credentials as a compassionate conservative at the
starting gate of an election year.

White House political advisers have long talked of the critical importance of
Hispanics to Mr. Bush's re-election. But political analysts said that his latest
proposal was also designed to appeal to a much larger politicalprize, suburban
swing voters, who might see the plan as evidence of a gentler Republican Party.

"For a party that's trying to look more inclusive and welcoming, the proposal
has broader thematics that show an openness to America's new immigrants," said
Bill McInturff, a leading Republican pollster.

Mr. Bush's speech carefully hit the emotional notes about opening the United
States' borders at a time when the administration has spent more energy securing
them. "Many of you here today are Americans by choice, and you have followed in
the paths of millions," the president told the crowd. Every generation of
immigrants, he added, "has reaffirmed the wisdom of remaining open to the
talents and dreams of the world."

Behind the poetic language, analysts said, lay a prosaic White House
calculation: That it was more important to reach toward the political middle
than to worry about placating Mr. Bush's conservative base. Many conservative
Republicans called Mr. Bush's plan nothing more than amnesty for lawbreakers but
moderate Republicans said the White House had enough political capital with the
conservatives to make it worth risking their ire.  Page A28.

Certainly Mr. Bush's speech announcing the proposal, in the East Room of the
White House, came with the kind of political noise not normally heard in the
formal splendor of the executive mansion's state floor.

Hispanic leaders invited by the White House jammed the room, cheering and
chanting. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, whose parents immigrated to the
United States from Jamaica, had a front-row seat.

The real political risk to the White House, moderate Republicans said, was
whether the proposals would be as welcomed by Hispanics as Mr. Bush and his
political advisers expected. Many Hispanic leaders quickly heaped criticism on
an immigration plan that they said did not go far enough, and asserted that the
White House was cynically chasing their votes with an empty plan that would do
them no good in the end.

"The notion that there is a green card at the end of this process is an
illusion, and that's the crux of the matter," said Cecilia Munoz, a vice
president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy organization.
"The headlines today suggest that he's providing legal status. But the bottom
line is when people learn the details of this proposal and what it does and
doesn't do, it's likely to seem less appealing."

The White House left many details of the proposal vague, including a critical
one at the heart of the plan. Under Mr. Bush's proposal, an illegal worker with
a job in the United States could apply to be a three-year guest worker, a status
that would provide full employee benefits, the ability to move freely in and out
of the United States and the right to apply for a green card. In his speech, Mr.
Bush said that an immigrant could renew participation in the guest worker
program -- but he did not say for how long, leaving it up for Congress to
decide.

The tactic is one Mr. Bush has used before, most recently on the Medicare bill,
which allows him, Democrats say, to take credit for proposing reforms while
leaving Congress to work out the details.

For now, analysts of Hispanic voting trends said it was too early to tell how
much the proposal would help Mr. Bush. His advisers have said the president
needs 40 percent of the Hispanic vote to win. Mr. Bush won 35 percent of the
Hispanic vote in 2000, a significant showing for a Republican. For the past
three years, the White House has been aggressively trying to encroach on a
traditionally Democraticand rapidly growing voting group.

"The plan is still too vague to say how it will fare among Latino organizations
and the Latino community," said John A. Garcia, a political professor at the
University of Arizona and the author of the book "Latino Politics in America."
But at the least, Mr. Garcia said that it "puts the spotlight back on Bush and
the Latinos" and gets Latinos re-engaged in a national conversation with the
president and his policies.

But pollsters and political strategists said that Mr. Bush did not have to
persuade every Hispanic voter of the value of his plan, and that just improving
his standing on the margins could make a difference in the 2004 election.

Andrew Kohut, the director of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center, noted that
Republicans have been gaining significant ground with Hispanic voters in the
last decade, and that Mr. Bush's immigration proposals could exploit those
gains. Pew surveys in Florida in the late 1990's, Mr. Kohut said, showed that 36
percent of Hispanic voters were Democrats while 24 percent were Republicans. But
surveys in more recent years showed that 30 percent of Hispanic voters were
Democrats while 32 percent were Republicans.

"So think about the advantage that could be for Bush in a close election, and it
gives you some indication of the potential for this proposal to help him
politically," Mr. Kohut said.

John McLaughlin, a Republican pollster and a partner in Opiniones Latinas, a
firm in Alexandria, Va., that conducts national surveys among Spanish-speaking
adults, said that many legal Hispanics were interested in overhauling
immigration laws for national security reasons, and also to make it easier for
them to travel to and from the United States.

"Their family and friends, even in the legal immigration system, are running
into increased barriers," Mr. McLaughlin said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men sought day work yesterday at an area in Dallas where illegal
immigrants regularly congregate to wait for potential employers. Similar
gatherings occur every day in cities across the country. (Photo by Associated
Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Greeting at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 120 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Would Give Illegal Workers Broad New Rights" (front page, Jan. 7):

President Bush has demonstrated great courage. He is addressing the immigration
issue in a humane manner that lives up to our American tradition.

So many hard-working immigrants are struggling to survive in America. Their
undocumented situation is a national disgrace, and this policy recognizes that
we are still a civilized democratic society.

Apparently, only immigrants still believe that you can be anything you want to
be in America. Immigrants value what we have here, while some Americans have
become lazy.

Xenophobia is embarrassing. The richest people on earth are whining.

JUDITH MARTY
Fullerton, Calif., Jan. 7, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

160 Migrants Are Seized At Upscale Arizona Home

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 615 words


To people in the placid neighborhood at the golf course's edge, where the median
price of a home is $450,000, it seemed there was an awful lot of traffic at a
house on East Shea Boulevard in Scottsdale, Ariz., the most exclusive suburb of
Phoenix.

Eventually, someone had had enough, and called the police. When law enforcement
officers peered through a rear window of the four-bedroom house on Wednesday
morning, they could barely believe their eyes.

''Instead of wall-to-wall carpet, it was wall-to-wall people,'' said Russell
Ahr, a spokesman for the local office of the United States Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. ''They were packed so closely, sitting with their knees
drawn up to their chests, that you couldn't see the floor. All you could see was
their heads and shoulders. There was no place you could walk. It was
appalling.''

By the time they were done counting, Phoenix police officers and federal border
agents had arrested 136 people, 16 of them children or adolescents and all of
them illegal immigrants from Mexico, Ecuador, Honduras and other Latin American
countries. An additional 23 people, who had left the house moments earlier in a
van and a pickup, were followed by the police and also taken into custody.

Yesterday the police, who recovered an AK-47 assault rifle and a 9-millimeter
semiautomatic handgun as well, were questioning at least five of those arrested
in the belief that they might be members of a smuggling ring that had brought
the others to the house and were holding them for ransom.

''Usually these people are charged outrageous sums to be smuggled to Arizona,
and then they're held until their families pay additional sums,'' the mayor of
Phoenix, Phil Gordon, said in a telephone interview. ''What you have is
criminals who are preying on people who are just trying to survive.''

The migrants discovered on Wednesday had already paid their smugglers as much as
$6,000 each, Mr. Ahr said. Some had not eaten in three days. The house into
which they had been crammed lies along the course at the Orange Tree Golf
Resort, just over the city line from Phoenix.

The toilets in the house were inoperable. Twenty-six of the migrants were women,
some with swollen feet and limping -- classic signs, Mr. Ahr said, of having
walked for miles in the desert.

Mr. Ahr said it was becoming increasingly common to find such so-called drop
houses in more affluent neighborhoods, perhaps because smugglers believe that
having customarily operated in low-income areas, they can find refuge in a
change of tactics. Generally, he said, the houses are vacant or rented. The
house on East Shea was rented, although the authorities said yesterday that they
did not yet know to whom. The owner, who neighbors said was in California, may
well not have known what was occurring, Mr. Ahr said.

It was the next-door neighbor, Nicholas Zendelbach, who called the police. Mr.
Zendelbach said in an interview that late one night two weeks ago, he saw a
pickup truck and three 10-passenger vans pull up and disappear behind the house.

''I thought, 'Gee, that's not right,' '' said Mr. Zendelbach, a computer expert
whose own house, he said, is worth about $900,000.

The squalid conditions that the officers found inside on Wednesday were matched
by those discovered the same day in a house southeast of Los Angeles near
Perris, Calif., where smugglers had been holding 64 men and women captive until
one escaped and summoned the authorities.

''It was the most deplorable and dehumanizing conditions that some of these
agents have ever seen,'' Sean Isham, a border enforcement spokesman, told The
Press-Enterprise, of Riverside County. Three men were arrested.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the scores of illegal immigrants the police found at a
house along a golf course in Scottsdale, Ariz. Police officers and federal
border agents arrested 136 people, 16 of them children or adolescents. (Photo by
Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Farmingville, an American Story

BYLINE: By CAROLYN CURIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24; Editorial Notebook

LENGTH: 538 words


There is a sense of dependable sameness in the day-to-day life of some
working-class suburbs. One house resembles the next. Churches fill and empty on
schedule on Sundays. Hangouts hum with activity in the evenings. Neighbors know
one another, sometimes for generations. In recent years, however, some of these
communities have found their routines disrupted by waves of undocumented
immigrants who have bypassed the cities as they look for work.

That has been the story in Farmingville, a Suffolk County community in the
middle of Long Island, which, as it happens, is a perfect encampment for
undocumented immigrants looking for day jobs in landscaping and masonry, or
other difficult manual labor that teenagers and other residents don't want to do
themselves. In the 1990's, more than 1,500 such immigrants -- most of them
Mexican -- arrived in Farmingville, where the population was 15,000.

What began as a curiosity turned into an annoyance as workers gathered daily
along roads to be picked up by contractors. Residents began to complain that
homes in their midst had effectively been turned into dormitories by dozens of
workers who could not otherwise afford housing. After two Mexican workers were
severely beaten by two young white men in the summer of 2000, two filmmakers,
Carlos Sandoval and Catherine Tambini, turned on their cameras.

Their documentary, ''Farmingville,'' recently won a special jury prize at the
Sundance Film Festival and will be shown on PBS stations in June. It has already
made an impact on the island and on its namesake town in particular. Paul Tonna,
a county legislator who displays a sensitivity to immigrant issues in the film,
says the film has forced a kind of community introspection. Brian Foley, a
legislator who tried to establish an off-the-street hiring site for the workers,
says that with the notable exception of the firebombing of a Mexican family's
home last year, local reports of immigrant-related trouble have quieted, at
least for the moment.

Mr. Sandoval and Ms. Tambini say their goal was to produce an honest and
balanced piece by listening to all sides. When a local opponent of the workers
welcomes extremists from California and elsewhere, the ensuing anti-immigrant
rally is long on chest-pounding speeches that echo, almost literally, before a
largely empty hall. But quieter moments resonate with humanity. The workers have
an almost stoic sense of purpose as they go about stomach-churning and dangerous
jobs, including cleaning a crawl space strewn with toxic trash. One tells of
hearing a small child he left behind in Mexico speak for the first time -- by
telephone. Others try to collect from a cheating contractor. A resident named
Louise rejects being labeled a racist as she gives a heartfelt and reasoned
assessment of what she sees as a diminished quality of life since the workers
arrived. All of this is presented in verite style, unvarnished by little beyond
the voices of the subjects.

A film cannot solve the problems of illegal immigration, nor does it try to. But
''Farmingville'' is a primer for anyone -- whether lawmaker or citizen -- who
cares to better understand the usually unseen cost of America's appetite for
cheap labor.   CAROLYN CURIEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Florida: Immigrant Hid In Jet's Wheel Well

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 110 words


A stowaway from the Dominican Republic was discovered emerging from the wheel
well of a passenger jet after it landed at Miami International Airport,
officials said. The man, whose name was not released, was taken into custody by
Customs and Border Protection agents for interviews and processing for
repatriation, immigration officials said. He was not injured. An American
Airlines ramp employee saw him climb out of the right wheel well around 11:30
a.m., shortly after the plane arrived from Santo Domingo. Customs officials and
American Airlines security workers tried to determine how security measures were
breached for the flight of 1 hour and 40 minutes.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

UConn to Assess a Policy On Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DICK AHLES

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; WORTH NOTING

LENGTH: 420 words


The University of Connecticut has agreed to review a policy that bars the
admission of illegal immigrants after legislators complained that the policy is
unfair.

State Representatives Demetrios Giannaros of Farmington and Felipe Reinoso of
Bridgeport, co-chairmen of the education committee, are concerned that the
university will not admit illegal immigrants who may have come to Connecticut as
young children and lived in the state for many years.

''It's penalizing children for mistakes that were made by their parents,'' Mr.
Giannaros said.

The two men plan to introduce legislation granting illegal immigrants admission
to all public colleges and universities in the state.

UConn's admissions application asks if the applicant is a citizen and, ''If the
answer is no and we determine the applicant is not here legally, he or she is
not admitted,'' said Karen Grava, a spokeswoman for the university.

UConn's president, Philip Austin, has asked the university's admissions
department to review the policy and determine how other public colleges and
universities approach the admission of undocumented aliens.

UConn currently takes the hardest line in the state. The colleges in the State
University System admit undocumented students but require them to pay the higher
tuition paid by out of state students even if they have lived in Connecticut
most of their lives.

Community and technical colleges do not permit undocumented students to enroll
in degree programs but they can take courses. Each college makes its own policy
regarding tuition.

There could be some risk involved in applying to a college if the applicant is
in the United States illegally. Section 507 of the USA Patriot Act, passed after
9/11, says a court order can be obtained for student records when authorities
indicate the records are relevant to a terrorism investigation.

But Joshua Bernstein, director of federal policy for the National Immigration
Law Center, an advocacy group representing immigrant needs, said most
applicants' records are protected by the Family Education Rights and Privacy
Act.

Ms. Grava said UConn did not notify any government agency of an applicant's
acceptance or rejection.

The issue could become moot if Congress passes the Dream Act of 2003, a bill
granting amnesty and in-state tuition to illegal aliens under 21 who have lived
in the United States at least five years.

Senator Christopher Dodd is a co-sponsor of the bill. Similar legislation has
been introduced in the House of Representatives.   DICK AHLES


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Takes Steps to Tighten Mexican Border

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, March 15


Federal officials have become increasingly worried about a surge in violence and
instability along the Arizona-Mexico border and will begin what they describe as
a major air and ground initiative to help keep out illegal immigrants, drug
smugglers and possibly terrorists, officials said on Monday.

The $10 million plan, to be announced on Tuesday by the Department of Homeland
Security, will include the first use of unmanned aircraft for border patrol, the
addition of several hundred agents and the creation of seven tent complexes to
detain illegal border crossers.

Asa Hutchinson, an under secretary for domestic security, said in an interview
that a tightening of security in border areas in California, Texas and elsewhere
had led smugglers to turn in increasing numbers to Arizona -- often with violent
results.

''This is not a secure border,'' Mr. Hutchinson said. ''Arizona has become the
chokepoint. This is our current battleground.''

But some human rights and immigrants' advocates believe that broader economic
and political changes -- rather than a law enforcement crackdown -- are the
answer.

''Our border is in utter chaos here in Arizona,'' said the Rev. Robin Hoover,
head of a Tucson group called Humane Borders that provides relief for migrants,
''but a Berlin Wall is not the way to solve the problem.''

Moreover, the unmanned aircraft face technical and safety hurdles. A report in
January by the Congressional Research Service said that drones, as the aircraft
are commonly known, offer several attractive features for border patrol work and
can identify ''a potentially hostile target the size of a milk carton at an
altitude of 60,000 feet.'' But their use is also hindered by accident rates more
than 100 times that of manned aircraft, according to the report.

''I think the jury is still out'' on unmanned aircraft, Mr. Hutchinson
acknowledged, but he added that ''we're looking for new tools.''

Homeland security officials expect to begin using the remote-controlled aircraft
in June to supplement manned air and ground patrols. It will be the first time
the drones will be used for border patrol in the United States, other than on a
trial basis, officials said.

The officials would not give details about the drones, including their numbers
or how frequently they would patrol.

The unmanned aircraft will allow federal officials to spot crossers along parts
of the more than 300 miles of the often-desolate border in Arizona that are not
regularly patrolled, said David Aguilar, who is chief border patrol agent in
Tucson.

Federal officials also plan to expand their patrols with helicopters and manned
airplanes, create a new interagency network to coordinate the initiative, and
add 200 permanent border patrol agents and 60 temporary agents trained in search
and rescue operations. The increase will bring the number of border agents in
Tucson to more than 1,900.

Officials will also create seven air-conditioned tent complexes to house and
detain some immigrants until they can be sent home, rather than freeing them
before court appearances and risking having them flee, Mr. Hutchinson said.

Homeland Security officials said they expected to spend $10 million in the next
six months on the additional personnel and technology.

''This is going to make a tremendous difference,'' said Mr. Aguilar, who will
run the interagency effort. ''It will be a very different focus.''

The past few months have seen a spasm of violence and apprehensions along the
Arizona border, even as illegal border crossings in other parts of the country
have dropped.

Border Patrol agents in Arizona apprehended nearly 200,000 people from last
October to early March, a rise of 34 percent over the same period a year
earlier. And seizures of marijuana at the border were up 17 percent, Mr. Aguilar
said.

With the influx have come more immigrant deaths in the desert -- more than 200
last year by Mr. Hoover's count, many because of the heat. There have also been
execution-style shootings, tortures and kidnappings that law enforcement
officials blame on human smuggling rings. Four people died in a shootout between
immigrant smugglers on an Arizona interstate last November.

Mr. Hutchinson described the smugglers and other traffickers in immigrants and
drugs across the Arizona border as ''greedier, more ruthless and more violent''
than before. ''These are people who have no regard for anyone's safety,'' he
said.

He added that the potential problems went beyond drugs and illegal immigrants.
''Any time you have vulnerabilities at the border, you have to worry about
terrorists taking advantage of that too,'' he said.

But Mr. Hoover, whose group provides water stations in the Arizona desert for
immigrants, said resourceful traffickers would always find a way to get across
the border unless officials looked at the root causes of immigration problems.

''It's like putting rocks in a river -- the water just goes around it,'' he
said. ''You can show off a lot of new technology and more men and women in
uniform, but it's all just more of the same.''

                             --------------------


Death Penalty Sought for Driver

  HOUSTON, March 15 (AP) -- Federal prosecutors said Monday they would seek the
death penalty against the driver of a truck in which 19 illegal immigrants
suffocated last year.

Prosecutors say Tyrone Williams, 33, of Schenectady, N.Y., drove more than 70
illegal immigrants from Mexico, Central America and the Dominican Republic on
May 13 from the Rio Grande Valley toward Houston. Prosecutors say that when the
immigrants began succumbing to the heat in the trailer, Mr. Williams abandoned
it 100 miles southwest of Houston. Seventeen immigrants were found dead inside
the truck. Two others died later.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Don Watt of the Border Patrol on duty near Nogales, Ariz., in
January. Several hundred more agents will be added to secure the border. (Photo
by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Guilty Plea In Smuggling Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 79 words


A man charged in a smuggling effort that killed 19 illegal immigrants, pleaded
guilty to helping to transport and conceal the 3-year-old son of one survivor.
The man, Juan Carlos Don Juan, 22, pleaded guilty to two counts of aiding and
abetting based on the concealment or harboring of an illegal immigrant. He was
one of 14 people charged in a smuggling effort last May in which more than 70
people were packed into a truck. He was not charged with conspiracy in the
matter.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Border Woes Strain Arizona, U.S. and Mexico Talk

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1098 words


Every other morning, Bud Strom begins a ritual of life on the Arizona border,
mounting his horse, Bandit, and traversing the mesquite and grassland of his
1,000-acre cattle ranch in Hereford to look for barbed-wire fencing broken by
border crossers. Come dusk, he will often stumble upon the border crossers
themselves.

A few months ago, he came upon a pregnant Mexican teenager and her boyfriend
looking for shelter from the cold rain. Before that, it was a man from Sicily
who spoke no English but scrawled on the ground that he wanted to get to New
Hampshire. Before that, it was a man simply demanding una cerveza, a beer.

''The border is so porous that we probably get a thousand people a week coming
through the ranch -- it's a sieve,'' said Mr. Strom, 72, whose property sits on
the Mexican border about 95 miles south of Tucson. ''They're all just looking
for a way to head north through the mountains.''

In recent months, there has been an eruption of illegal immigration and related
violence in Arizona, and with it has come a realization by federal officials: no
matter how many hundreds of thousands of migrants they catch and send back over
the border, many will return time and again unless the government finds better
ways to keep them out of the country and out of harm's way.

Officials from Mexico and the United States began meeting last week in Mexico
City on a plan to repatriate Mexican border crossers by sending them deep into
their country, closer to their hometowns, rather than simply returning them near
the border.

American and Mexican officials agreed in February to explore the repatriation
plan, which is similar to a program that was scrapped in the mid-1990's. Though
Mexico had resisted the idea in recent years, American officials saw the
willingness to reconsider the plan partly as a sign of good will in response to
President Bush's recent call for a temporary worker program. However, officials
made clear that there were still potentially major issues involving logistics
and financing to be worked out and that some issues remained off limits.

''We would never allow someone to be sent back to their hometown if they didn't
agree to it,'' said a Mexican diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the negotiations were continuing. ''The program has to be voluntary.
That issue is not even on the table.''

Asa Hutchinson, an under secretary in the Department of Homeland Security, said
that American officials were committed to the repatriation idea and that ''if it
has to be voluntary, we'll make it work.''

The program ''is an important element in our overall strategy to make the
borders more secure and to save lives,'' Mr. Hutchinson said. ''We're trying to
break the cycle of smuggling.''

The cycle has become so entrenched that some smugglers, or coyotes, offer
migrants three trips across the border for a flat rate, usually several thousand
dollars, if they are caught on their first two trips, law enforcement officials
said.

''The coyotes themselves encourage the kind of revolving door that we're now
seeing at the border, because they guarantee these individuals three
opportunities to cross,'' said Paul K. Charlton, the United States attorney for
Arizona.

The vast majority of migrants caught trying to cross the border illegally are
quickly returned without being prosecuted or imprisoned. In Arizona, for
instance, federal prosecutors brought charges last year against only about 3,000
of some 400,000 people caught, Mr. Charlton said.

''It's a question of limited resources,'' he said. His prosecutors generally
limit criminal charges to migrants who have histories of violent or sexual
offenses and smugglers who take large numbers of people across the border or who
put migrants' lives at risk.

Nationwide, of those returned to Mexico, nearly half cross back into the United
States only to be caught again, federal officials say.

In addition to the plan for returning Mexicans to their hometowns, American
officials are pursuing other ways to stop the revolving door of illegal
immigration, particularly in Arizona.

While most other parts of the southern border have had a decline in illegal
crossings, Arizona has recorded a 34 percent jump in the past six months.
Federal officials say tightened security in areas like Southern California and
Texas has pushed smuggling rings to Arizona, which now accounts for about 40
percent of all illegal entries. The shift to Arizona has brought with it a sharp
increase in violent extortions and drug seizures as well as the deaths of dozens
of migrants left in the desert, law enforcement officials say.

In response, Homeland Security officials announced a plan earlier this month to
reassign several hundred more border agents to Arizona and to start unmanned
aerial patrols.

Federal authorities also plan to erect tent cities in the Tucson area to house
more migrants who are caught at the border and process them more quickly to be
returned home. And six federal prosecutors are being added to Mr. Charlton's
staff.

Prosecutors have begun bringing many immigration cases under a so-called
fast-track program, which allows them to streamline the process and reach plea
agreements more quickly. Many judicial districts in the Southwest ''face a
public emergency,'' Deputy Attorney General James Comey said Wednesday at a
Congressional hearing, because ''if we adhere to normal procedures, we would
have to leave unprosecuted an enormous number of offenders.''

In announcing the new border push, Mr. Hutchinson met with local law enforcement
officials, business and civic leaders and American Indian representatives. They
all spoke of the physical and psychological damage that the rise in illegal
immigration had brought.

They told of migrants creating a climate of fear by smashing pipes to get water,
breaking into bunkhouses for shelter and stealing cars and accosting strangers
for food and money. But the local leaders said their anger was directed not at
the migrants, but at the coyote rings that prey on the migrants, dumping them in
the desert to die or leaving them locked in ''drop houses'' or trucks with
little food or water.

Mr. Strom, the Hereford rancher, said that sometimes when he encountered
migrants on his land, some from as far away as Iraq or Japan, ''I'll try to give
them some water or a cup of hot tea, or I'll call the Border Patrol to get them
a ride.''

''You realize that for a lot of these people,'' he said, ''this is just the
beginning of their journey, and you want to help.''

But he acknowledged, ''You can't help but be frustrated.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bud Strom, at the entrance to his ranch, top, in Arizona near
the border, and, above, checking on cattle near a government observation tower
equipped with a camera that is used to look for illegal border crossers.
(Photographs by Nancy Schroeder for The New York Times)Map of Arizona
highlighting Hereford: Mr. Strom often finds illegal immigrants on his Hereford
ranch.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Travelers Are Detained At Newark

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 324 words


Federal agents detained 42 people suspected of being illegal immigrants and
arrested four others yesterday at Newark Liberty International Airport in the
second crackdown in three days on people from Latin countries arriving in Newark
from Los Angeles, the authorities said.

The four people arrested yesterday were charged with smuggling illegal
immigrants, and were taken into custody while they awaited two flights
containing the other 42 immigrants that arrived at 5:45 and 7 a.m., said Janet
Rapaport, a spokeswoman for the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, a
division of the Department of Homeland Security.

She said all of those who were detained were from Mexico, except one person from
Chile, and the group was composed of 36 men, five women and a baby girl. Ms.
Rapaport said last night that all had arrived in Newark on flights from Los
Angeles, but it was unclear on which airlines.

On Thursday, federal authorities detained 88 passengers arriving from Los
Angeles on a Continental Airlines flight at 6 a.m. That group included 63 men,
20 women and five juveniles from Mexico, Ecuador, Guatemala, El Salvador and
Honduras, the authorities said.

Much remained unclear last night about what prompted the large-scale detentions
of people on domestic flights, where passengers are required to show photo
identification but not passports. Ms. Rapaport said she did not know how the
Newark airport had become the focus of two federal crackdowns in less than a
week.

Ms. Rapaport said she also did not know if the two groups were related at all,
or if the four men who were charged with smuggling yesterday had any connection
with the group of detainees who arrived on Thursday.

Civil liberties lawyers and advocates for immigrants said last week that the
detentions on Thursday raised questions about the law and immigration policy,
and that such mass detentions were uncommon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Guilty Pleas In Smuggling

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 86 words


Two people pleaded guilty in Federal District Court in Houston to roles in a
smuggling operation in which 19 illegal immigrants died last year near Victoria.
One, Fatima Holloway, 28, of Cleveland, admitted accompanying the driver of a
truck transporting the immigrants and of lying to Border Patrol agents who asked
if the truck was empty. The other defendant, Abelardo Flores Jr. of Harlingen,
acknowledged recruiting and paying the driver. The immigrants died of heat
exhaustion or suffocation.   Steve Barnes (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tip About Smuggling Network Led to Detentions at Newark

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 13


Some 134 illegal immigrants who arrived at the airport here on domestic flights
over two days last week had been smuggled across the border from Mexico by a
network of thriving and violent smuggling operations in the Southwest,
immigration officials said Tuesday.

Acting on a tip from an informant, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection
agents identified 88 illegal immigrants from among 222 passengers on a
Continental Airlines flight from Los Angeles to Newark Liberty International
Airport last Thursday. On Saturday the agents, who are part of the Department of
Homeland Security, detained 46 others arriving in Newark on a Continental flight
and an American Airlines flight, both originating in Los Angeles.

Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement division of
the agency, which has taken over the case, said that the illegal immigrants --
from Mexico and other Latin American countries -- had been smuggled across the
border in the Arizona area.

A particularly violent and lucrative human smuggling operation has been centered
in the Arizona area, and agency officials said gangs vied for the fees -- up to
$4,000 a person -- they can charge people seeking to cross the border illegally.

And in some cases, according to investigators, rival gangs would kidnap the
illegal immigrants in one smuggling operation and hold them for ransom. In a
case last year in Victoria, Tex., 17 people were found dead in the back of a
locked tractor-trailer after members of the smuggling ring fled with their
money. Two others later died.

An immigration investigator said that in recent months Phoenix, the smugglers'
usual hub for deploying their human cargo throughout the country, had been the
focus of intense enforcement activity.

''We think some are moving their operations to other airports such as Los
Angeles,'' the investigator said. Immigration officials would give few details
about how the immigrants, once over the border, wound up on the domestic
flights.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement official, Mr. Boyd, said that earlier
reports that four people had been arrested as suspected smugglers of the group
that was detained Saturday turned out to be incorrect. The four, he said, were
being detained as illegal immigrants.

Immigrant advocates and civil liberties groups continued to raise questions
about whether the culling of the illegal immigrants from passengers on a
domestic flight amounted to profiling. Lucas Guttentag, director of the American
Civil Liberties Union's Immigration Rights Project, said he was not comforted by
the news that border guards had acted on a tip from an informant.

''That scenario raises more questions than it answers, and it is hard to connect
it to violent smuggling operations in the Southwest,'' he said. ''We still don't
know where there was individualized cause to arrest and detain the people they
did arrest and detain. How could a tip about an individual trigger
across-the-board detentions?''

Janet Rapaport, a spokeswoman for the Customs and Border Protection division,
whose agents met the planes at Newark, said they had acted on a tip that
specific flights contained large numbers of illegal travelers. When those
flights arrived, they announced to all of the passengers that they were checking
their identification papers.

''If they were satisfied with their documentation, they were allowed to go, and
if it appeared suspicious they were held,'' she said.

Mr. Boyd said that the agency was ''obligated to act when we receive
information.''

An investigator said that human smuggling was a seasonal and regional business
that funneled them to whichever part of the country had a need for workers in
key industries. He would not detail which industries and regions were the
destination for the groups detained last week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 14, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agrees to Set Free a Stowaway Held in Detention for Four Years

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 13


The federal government has agreed to release a stowaway who had been among the
nation's longest-held immigration detainees.

The detainee, Salim Yassir, is expected to be set free from a detention center
in Elizabeth within the next two weeks, and can stay in the United States until
federal authorities find a country to which they can deport him, his lawyer
said.

Mr. Yassir had sued the government, contending that he could not be held
indefinitely.

In papers filed on Monday in Federal District Court, Colette R. Buchanan, an
assistant United States attorney, said the court did not have to order Mr.
Yassir's release because the government had decided to free him.

''He's kind of in shock about it,'' said Mr. Yassir's lawyer, Joshua Bardavid.
''What he's been hoping for four years is finally happening. He's very, very
happy and excited.''

Mr. Bardavid said that Mr. Yassir would stay at least temporarily at Christ
House, a religious group residence in the Bronx, which will provide him with
lodging, meals and living expenses until he can find a job.

In August 2000, he was found hiding in a ship bound for Port Elizabeth and
turned over to federal immigration authorities, whom he asked for political
asylum. A judge denied the application, so Mr. Yassir agreed to be deported.

Mr. Yassir, 28, is from Gaza City in the Gaza Strip, an area controlled by the
Palestinian Authority. To send him there, United States authorities would have
needed permission from Israel, which does not have a repatriation agreement for
Palestinians.

The authorities have also been unable to find a third country to accept him,
although those efforts will continue. He will be able to stay in the United
States until a country is willing to accept him, Mr. Bardavid said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Refugee Caucus Urges Asylum For Teenager

BYLINE: By John Files (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 77 words


Members of the Congressional Refugee Caucus are calling for the Department of
Homeland Security to grant asylum to a teenage immigrant from Guinea who was
held in adult jails and other detention centers for three years in a legal
struggle to remain in the United States. The youth, Malik Jarno, now 19, arrived
in Virginia in 2001. The Congressional Black Caucus and members of the Human
Rights Caucus have also urged that Mr. Jarno receive asylum.   John Files (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Northwest: Oregon: Agents Seize 5 Stowaways

BYLINE: By Matthew Preusch (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 75 words


Border patrol agents searching a grain ship anchored near Portland found five
stowaways from China. The authorities charged two crew members with human
trafficking, a spokesman for the Coast Guard said. Officials said the captain of
the 620-foot Liberian-flag vessel, the Pacific Dolphin, had called the Coast
Guard to say he might have stowaways aboard. The stowaways, all men, boarded on
Jan. 13 in Dailan, China, officials said.
   Matthew Preusch (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trying to Stop Surge of Illegal Migrants, Mexican Authorities Meet Them at the
Airport

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1500 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 7


It's 6 p.m., the busiest time of night during the busiest time of the year at
Benito Juarez International Airport.

The migration supervisor, Alberto Pliego, calls it Jumbo Hour. It looks a lot
like a human salmon run.

Mr. Pliego has at least six 747's pulling in from Frankfurt, Madrid, Paris,
Amsterdam and Vancouver, and five agents. Their job is to stand in front of the
flow of passengers pouring from the planes and pick out which ones are tourists
and which are migrants trying to get past them and get to the United States.

''A migrant who makes it past the airport today,'' Mr. Pliego said, ''will be in
Tijuana tomorrow, and probably in Chicago the day after that.''

Migrant smugglers -- whose business is worth an estimated $1 billion in this
hemisphere, second in profits to drugs -- do a brisk business at the airport,
which receives about 10,000 passengers each day.

Mr. Pliego's suit and tie made him look a little too buttoned down to guard
against some of this country's most unscrupulous criminal operations. But by the
end of the night, he had stopped more than a dozen Brazilians who tried to enter
Mexico as tourists, but lacked suitcases, hotel reservations or credit cards. He
supervised the deportation of two undocumented Armenians. Three Guatemalans were
caught trying to enter the country with false visas. And one of Mr. Pliego's
agents caught four undocumented Chinese travelers lingering over soft drinks and
sandwiches in an airport restaurant.

The agent spoke no Chinese. The Chinese spoke no Spanish. But in limited
English, each side seemed to completely understand the other.

The agent speculated that the Chinese men were waiting for a guide to help them
get past migration checkpoints.

The Chinese said they were hungry.

The agent asked the Chinese for their travel visas.

The Chinese said they planned to stay in Mexico for only one night.

The agent escorted the Chinese men back to the same airplane on which they had
arrived, ordering them back to Amsterdam.

The Chinese boarded without putting up a fight.

The Mexican authorities report that a surging number of migrants from all around
the world are traveling through Mexico to get to the United States. So far this
year, Mexico has detained nearly 112,000 illegal migrants, compared with 150,000
in all of 2001. Authorities said they expected total detentions for this year to
reach 200,000. The Mexicans are under tough pressure from the United States,
which since Sept. 11 has feared that global terrorists could easily slip into
Mexico and then cross into the United States.

The overwhelming majority of those detained are from Central and South America,
authorities report. But there are also increasing numbers from as far away as
Pakistan, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Poland, Ethiopia and China.

The migrants often arrive at Mexico's main airports and then travel by land to
the border. But illegal migration routes and methods are as diverse as the
people who use them. On Wednesday, the Mexican authorities detained four Chinese
migrants on a private jet that made an emergency landing for fuel in the
southern state of Chiapas. The pilots reported that they had picked up their
undocumented passengers in Caracas, Venezuela, and that they planned to deliver
them to smuggling contacts at a small airport north of Mexico City.

At a migration detention center to the east of Mexico City holding 500 people of
every background, each farmer, bricklayer, auto mechanic and accountant had an
epic story to tell. The director of the center, Hugo Miguel Ayala, said the
migrants came from more than a dozen countries.

Among them was a 35-year-old Ethiopian woman named Alemayehu, who said she
traveled from her homeland to Egypt, Moscow, Havana and Nicaragua before
boarding a bus bound for Mexico City, hoping to reach New York.

And there was Yu Youqiang, who left his wife and small daughter in Fujian,
China, to seek work in New York. He said he traveled to Frankfurt, then to
Mexico taking nothing but a backpack and travel instructions from a smuggler
scribbled on a scrap of paper.

A 32-year-old vegetable vendor, Mr. Yu said he had made it all the way to the
border before he was caught by the Mexican authorities in a town whose name he
could not recall. He said he had paid smugglers $5,000 for help reaching the
United States. Relatives, he said, had agreed to pay $25,000 more once he
arrived in New York.

''We come through Mexico because it's cheaper,'' he said in English and through
a translator. He said some Chinese migrants flew directly to the United States
from Hong Kong. But false visas cost a lot. And entering the United States
through an airport is much harder than entering through the border.

''They say that it's easy to get across,'' Mr. Yu said. ''You just have to
walk.''

It's fairly easy for Brazilians to enter Mexico. They are among 46 nationalities
that are not required to get Mexican visas. The Mexican authorities report that
Brazilians are coming in droves, and heading straight for the United States.

Migrants' passage through Mexico, while not new, is surging. The country's
border with the United States has long made it a natural transshipment point for
all kinds of illegal trafficking including drugs, guns and migrants. But since
the Sept. 11 attacks against the United States, migration has become a national
security priority -- and often the source of diplomatic tensions -- for
authorities on both sides of the United States-Mexico border.

The United States has pressed hard on the Mexican government to increase
security at its airports and borders, and to crack down against the criminal
organizations that smuggle migrants into the United States, arguing that
smugglers -- known in Mexico as coyotes -- could be easily enlisted by
terrorists.

Mexico, cash poor and rife with corruption, struggles to comply with its
neighbor's demands.

In an interview, Interior Minister Santiago Creel said Mexico had made important
strides in preventing this country from becoming a transshipment point for
terrorists. In December, the government upgraded systems that track foreigners
who enter and reside in Mexico. In the last two years, Mr. Creel said, the
government has dismantled more than 10 important migrant smuggling
organizations, including one that was led by some 44 migration agents and police
officers. But so far, the authorities have not detained any suspected terrorists
trying to enter the United States from Mexico.

Mexico seems burdened in the struggle. While illegal migration through Mexico
has increased by 144 percent over the last year, authorities said, the National
Migration Institute has grown less than 10 percent. Magdalena Carral, the
commissioner of the institute, says she has about $140 million a year to spend
on security at all of Mexico's airports, seaports and land borders. The United
States spends some $700 million to secure its borders, and the United States
Border patrol has tripled in size. Ms. Carral said that while more than 14,000
American agents patrol the 2,000-mile United States-Mexico border, Mexico has
fewer than 329 agents covering its 700-mile border with Guatemala.

''The question we must ask is are we in a better position today to stop the flow
of migrants through the country, and the answer to that question is yes,'' said
Mr. Creel, the interior minister. ''But if you ask do we have systems that are
able to stop anyone and everyone from crossing, the answer is no.

''We do not have such systems,'' he added, ''but neither does the United
States.''

That point became alarmingly clear two weeks ago with the arrest of a
48-year-old woman carrying a ripped South African passport and $7,000 in
assorted currencies.

United States Border Patrol officers detained the woman, Farida Goolam Mahomed
Ahmed, at an airport in the border city of McAllen, Tex. Initial reports
following Ms. Ahmed's detention indicated that she was being held in federal
custody as a suspected terrorist. Two weeks later, authorities have failed to
charge Ms. Ahmed with anything more than illegally entering the United States
and altering a passport.

Still, Mexicans and Americans said her case was a reminder that the border they
share remains porous and unsafe, that migrant smuggling thrives and that the
threat of a terrorist entering from Mexico remains real.

One Mexico City columnist proclaimed this week, without supporting evidence,
that Al Qaeda was operating in Mexico. The American authorities and a high-level
intelligence official in Mexico's Interior Ministry dismissed the column.
However, the Mexican official acknowledged that the possibility is worrisome.

''Welcome,'' he said, ''to my nightmare.''

Gustavo Mohar, a migration expert who formerly served in Mexico's Foreign
Ministry, said: ''It is a very frightening scenario, but real. If we continue to
have a border that allows tens of thousands of people to cross without papers,
you never know when you are going have someone cross who is a threat.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Illegal migrants being held last week at a detention center east
of Mexico City. Mexico has detained 112,000 illegal migrants so far this year,
and the authorities expect total detentions in 2004 to reach 200,000. (Photo by
Arturo Fuentes for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 26, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

FILM REVIEW;
Charming Illegal Aliens Facing Family Upheaval

BYLINE:   By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 765 words


At the start of "In America," Sarah and Johnny Sullivan arrive at the United
States-Canadian border in a swaybacked station wagon with their two daughters in
the back seat. They are from Ireland, and they are coming to the United States
illegally so Johnny can find work as an actor and they can start over after the
death of their young son, Frankie.

With the help of their surviving children, the chirpy Ariel and the watchful,
reserved Christy, they manage to charm their way past a suspicious immigration
agent, who decides to believe that they are carefree vacationers rather than
desperate migrants.

This modest, touching film, which opens today in selected cities, accomplishes a
similar sleight of hand. The family drives wide-eyed through Times Square and
alights in a cavernous, battered walk-up apartment that is quickly spruced up
with colorful paint and scavenged furniture. The neighbors are a mostly harmless
collection of addicts, hustlers and ordinary poor folk, as well as a reclusive
painter named Mateo (Djimon Hounsou), who seems to be dying of AIDS and whom the
girls befriend one Halloween.

Many of the elements in this film -- the picturesque poverty; the angelic,
doomed man; the dead child; the hard-working, sorrow-afflicted parents; the
cute, precocious daughters; the risky pregnancy toward the end -- seem to
promise a sticky bath of shameless sentimentality. But instead, thanks to Jim
Sheridan's graceful, scrupulously sincere direction and the dry intelligence of
his cast, "In America" is likely to pierce the defenses of all but the most
dogmatically cynical viewers.

Mr. Sheridanhas accomplished this trick before, turning stories that might have
otherwise foundered in maudlin excess into sharp, engrossing character studies.
"My Left Foot," about the disabled artist Christy Brown, might have easily been
a hectoring, smiley-faced treatise on the plight of the handicapped, just as "In
the Name of the Father" might have been a lecture on the plight of Irish
political prisoners and "The Field" a soapbox harangue on the plight of small
landowners.

But Mr. Sheridan is more interested in particular people than in general
plights, and what lingers in the mind after you have seen his movies is the
rough, radiant individuality of his characters.

It helps that Paddy Considine and Samantha Morton, who play Johnny and Sarah,
are not well-known movie stars, and that neither is much inclined toward
ostentation.

Ms. Morton, her hair cropped short and her enormous eyes stung with grief, seems
to haunt the edges of the frame until you realize that the blunt, inarticulate
force of her feeling is at the center of the drama.

Mr. Considine, with his gaunt, droopy features and darting eyes, guards Johnny's
privacy behind a facade of genial good spirits.

That the two of them remain somewhat mysterious is fitting, because the movie,
which Mr. Sheridan wrote with two of his daughters, perceives them largely
through the eyes of their children.

The family survives through an unspoken pact of mutual protection that becomes
plain to us only as it starts to unravel. The girls, played by real-life
sisters, Emma and Sarah Bolger, agree not to notice how much their parents are
suffering and to distract them from it as best they can.

"In America" is Mr. Sheridan's most personal movie so far -- just how personal
will become clear when you see the dedication at the end -- and he is too modest
to turn his family's experiences into a parable of anything larger. The title of
the movie sounds a little grandiose, but it is meant to evoke a postcard, or a
child's diary (like the one Christy composes with her video camera): not "this
is what it means to be in America" but "this is what we saw when we were there."

This movie, from moment to moment, feels small, almost anecdotal. It is only
afterward that, like Mr. Sheridan's other films, it starts to grow into
something at once unassuming and in its own way grand.

In America is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has a few
obscenities, one sex scene and a few moments of threatened violence.

IN AMERICA

Directed by Jim Sheridan; written by Mr. Sheridan, Naomi Sheridan and Kirsten
Sheridan; director of photography, Declan Quinn; edited by Naomi Geraghty; music
by Gavin Friday and Maurice Seezer; production designer, Mark Geraghty; produced
by Mr. Sheridan and Arthur Lappin; released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Running
time: 103 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Samantha Morton (Sarah), Paddy Considine (Johnny), Djimon Hounsou (Mateo),
Sarah Bolger (Christy) and Emma Bolder (Ariel).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 2003



CORRECTION: A film review yesterday about "In America" misstated the given name
of the actress who plays Christy. As shown in the credit listing and in a
picture caption, she is Sarah Bolger, not Elizabeth. In summarizing the plot,
the review reversed details about Christy and her sister, Ariel (played by Ms.
Bolger's real sister, Emma). Ariel is the chirpy sister; Christy is the
watchful, reserved one. And it is Christy, not Ariel, who composes a child's
diary with her video camera.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Samantha Mortonas Sarah, Sarah and Emma Bolger as
Christy and Ariel, and Paddy Considine as Johnny in "In America." (Photo by
Bernard Walsh/Fox Searchlight)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants And Auto Licenses

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 106 words


To the Editor:

The easiest way to deal with the flow of illegal immigrants (editorial, Nov. 26)
is to make them legal.

Let Mexicans enter the United States to work at those jobs that we Americans are
too proud to do. The government would save money, businesses would make money
and work would get done.

Mexicans are good people. They are excellent workers and hard-working ones at
that. Mexicans will get the job done and do it well.

Workers of every sort built this land of ours. It will be workers who will build
it anew. If Americans aren't up to the task, perhaps the Mexican worker is.

CHARLES MCENIRY
Stoughton, Wis., Nov. 26, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 29, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Illegal Subletters, an Offer to Come In From the Cold

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT:
CO-OP CITY

LENGTH: 426 words


They crossed the heavily trafficked border and have since lived an anonymous
existence in the densely populated city of high-rises, holding down jobs,
raising children and hoping the authorities would never find them. But now,
offered amnesty, they have a chance to become legal and never again fear
deportation -- to the other side of the New England Thruway.

Amnesty proposals for illegal immigrants may be caught up in election-year
politics in Washington, but amnesty for illegal subletters in Co-op City, the
15,372-unit complex in the northeast Bronx, has arrived.

The illegal subletters -- no one knows how many there are -- exist largely
because of economics. Buyers of apartments in Co-op City must meet requirements
involving income and other criteria, and they pay reduced prices for their
apartments, currently $1,950 a room, or $11,700 for a six-room apartment. So
when families move out, they often do so quietly, subletting illegally to
relatives, friends or strangers, and sometimes turning a nice profit.

''We're giving them a chance to legitimize,'' Al Shapiro, president of Co-op
City's board, said of this population.

For a two-month period that ends in mid-April, illegal residents may apply to
buy their apartments from the current owners, allowing them to sidestep the long
waiting list.

Afterwards, Co-op City will step up enforcement against illegal subletters, said
Herb Freedman of Marion Scott Real Estate, which manages the complex.

According to Mr. Freedman, the amnesty plan had been in the works for several
years, but was delayed by such issues as crumbling parking garages, a debate
over whether the complex should go private and negotiations over a refinancing
arrangement with the state.

In interviews, Co-op City residents said they doubted that too many people would
come forward, explaining that many illegal subletters already knew that they
were not eligible and would keep quiet. Other residents said they thought it
unlikely that subletters would trust management's word or implicate the people
they rented from.

''Someone does you a favor and now you're going to turn them in?'' said Alex
Brown, 60, who has lived in Co-op City for 32 years.

In the first week of the amnesty, 18 people inquired about the plan anonymously,
using names like Hope 132, Silent 420 and Casper 007. Three have submitted
applications to buy their apartments. Management hopes that many more will
follow before the deadline.

''They crossed into the wilds of the Bronx,'' Mr. Shapiro said, ''and they must
be recognized.''   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Bail Denied In Smuggling Case

BYLINE:  By Susan Saulny (NYT); Compiled by Maria Newman

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 153 words


A federal judge in Manhattan denied bail yesterday to Cheng Chui Ping, who
federal officials say was the head of an international smuggling ring
trafficking in people. The ring's operations included that aboard the steamer
Golden Venture, which ran aground off Queens 10 years ago, leaving 10 hostages
from China dead.

A prosecutor argued before Judge Michael B. Mukasey of Federal District Court
that Ms. Cheng was a major flight risk because of her access to vast financial
resources and fake travel documents. When Hong Kong officials arrested her in
April 2000, they found her with $31,000 in cash, three Belize passports with
false names and a phone list of contacts in 16 countries. Ms. Cheng was charged
in June with conspiracy to smuggle illegal immigrants, hostage taking, and money
laundering, among other things, in a seven-count indictment. If convicted, she
faces life in prison.   Susan Saulny (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Flies Home Large Group Of Illegal Brazilian Detainees

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Jan. 28


A group of 277 deportees about a quarter of the illegal Brazilian immigrants
held in detention in the United States -- arrived home Wednesday on a plane
chartered by the United States government.

The flight arriving at Belo Horizonte, capital of the central state of Minas
Gerais, was the first of four planned under an agreement between the Homeland
Security Department of the United States and the Brazilian Congress.

United States and Brazilian officials said the repatriation had run smoothly,
with no trace of the public rancor shown in recent weeks in a diplomatic spat
between the countries.

Early this month, citing what it called the diplomatic principle of reciprocity,
Brazil started to fingerprint and photograph Americans arriving here in response
to new United States requirements of all foreigners, except those of 27
countries that do not need visas to enter the United States.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell complained that Brazil was discriminating
against Americans. Brazil suggested that its citizens should be exempted from
visa requirements.

The chartered flights, arranged before the visa dispute broke out, will be used
by the Brazilian police to help find leaders of an immigrant smuggling ring
linked to Mexican groups known as the Coyote Mafia.

The police said they would be questioning returnees on the flights, and would
arrest only people who were linked to such groups, were traveling on forged
documents or were wanted by the police before leaving Brazil.

More than 5,200 Brazilians were detained in the United States for illegal entry
between October 2002 and September 2003. Most were apprehended on the United
States border with Mexico and have mainly been detained in Arizona, Texas and
Southern California.

Brazilians currently rank fifth among illegal immigrants detained as they try to
enter the United States, trailing Mexico and three Central American nations.

The number of attempts to cross into the United States through Mexico has surged
during the past two years since Brazil and Mexico abolished visa requirements
for each others' citizens.

United States authorities have previously repatriated small groups of Brazilians
on commercial flights, but, due to the surge in Brazilian detainees, charter
flights are now considered the best option.

"If we didn't use charter flights, we wouldn't be able to get the backlog down,"
said Wes Carrington, a spokesman at the United States Embassy in Brasilia.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detainees' Lawyers Sue Over Secret Jail Recordings

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words


When lawyers from the Legal Aid Society made their way into the federal
detention center in Brooklyn in the fall of 2001 to meet with detainees, they
said, they were alarmed to see video cameras on the walls.

Concerned about the confidentiality of their conversations with their shackled
clients -- immigrant detainees who were rounded up after the Sept. 11 attacks --
the lawyers asked whether they were being taped. Prison officials assured them,
they say, that the cameras were turned off.

But the cameras were running. The federal prison was intentionally recording the
lawyer-client conversations in violation of federal law and prison policy,
according to a December report by the inspector general of the Justice
Department, Glenn A. Fine.

Now, in a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn yesterday against
the retired warden of the detention center and other prison officers, six of the
lawyers are seeking thousands of dollars in damages for the secret videotaping
of their conversations at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn.

''Surreptitiously taping attorney-client communications is a direct attack on
the role of counsel and on these Legal Aid attorneys' well-established
constitutional rights,'' said Nelson A. Boxer, a partner of the Dechert law
firm, who is representing the lawyers without fee.

The plaintiffs are seeking damages under a federal statute that prohibits
electronic eavesdropping without court approval and sets $10,000 for each
violation. They have agreed to donate any money award to the Legal Aid Society,
they said.

Traci Billingsley, a spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of Prisons, said she
could not comment on the lawsuit, which cites the former warden, Dennis W.
Hasty, and unknown prison officers as defendants. Mr. Hasty did not return
calls, and Michael Martinez, a lawyer who represents Mr. Hasty as a defendant in
another lawsuit, said he could not speak to the charges because he had not seen
the lawsuit yet.

Ms. Billingsley said the bureau is still conducting its own administrative
investigation, begun about three months ago when the Justice Department decided
not to prosecute any of its employees for their actions.

One plaintiff in the new suit, Olivia Cassin, noticed a video camera at her
meetings in December 2001 with Purna Raj Bajracharya, a Nepalese citizen who had
been held in solitary confinement at the center since Oct. 25. Except for a visa
violation, the only reason for his detention was that he had videotaped a
building in Queens that, unknown to him, had an F.B.I. office on 3 of 12 floors.
The F.B.I. officer who had helped arrest him had already cleared him of all
suspicion.

The lawyers said their suit in part reflects frustration with the Justice
Department's failure to hold anyone accountable for violations documented by its
own inspector general in reports issued last year. The December report cited
more than 40 examples in which lawyers' conversations with clients had been
recorded, and concluded that the taping violated the law and interfered with the
detainees' access to legal counsel.

The tapes of confidential conversations between lawyers and clients were among
more than 300 recovered by the inspector general's investigators only after one
prison official had ordered them destroyed and others had denied their existence
for months. Many tapes, the report said, showed federal officers physically
mistreating detainees. But except for a handful of pictures used in the December
report, no videotapes have been made public, and no one has been punished.

''If the Justice Department is not going to defend the Constitution, then we
will,'' said Bryan Lonegan, one of the plaintiffs.

In explaining a decision not to prosecute anyone, a spokesman for the United
States attorney's office in Brooklyn, Robert Nardoza, has said, ''There was not
sufficient evidence, mainly because all the witnesses had been deported and were
unavailable.''

Mr. Lonegan said that explanation amazed him. ''Here is an officer of the
Department of Justice, who has declined to prosecute another officer of the
Department of Justice, who has committed crimes documented by another officer of
the Department of Justice, because yet another officer of the Department of
Justice has deported the witnesses,'' he said. ''And you have to ask, where is
the justice in that?''

So far the Legal Aid Society has been stymied in its efforts to obtain the tapes
of its own lawyers' conferences with detainees under the Freedom of Information
Act, Mr. Lonegan added. It first requested the tapes last January from the
office of the inspector general, but was directed to the Bureau of Prisons
instead.

Originals or copies of all the tapes cited in the reports have been kept by the
office of the inspector general, Paul K. Martin, the deputy inspector general,
said yesterday. But according to department regulations, he added, the Bureau of
Prisons can determine whether to release them.

In a letter this week, the bureau told Legal Aid, which is struggling
financially, that it would first have to pay $70,500 for research costs. ''There
is no evidence that releasing the information to you will contribute
significantly to the understanding of the general public at large of how the
Federal Bureau of Prisons operates,'' the bureau said in refusing to waive a
fee.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bryan Lonegan, a Legal Aid Society lawyer, said, ''If the
Justice Department is not going to defend the Constitution, then we will.''
(Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 15, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Out of Repression, Into Jail;
Detention for Asylum-Seekers Is Routine, but U.S. Is Taking Another Look

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words


When their military careers were cut short by the collapse of the Soviet system,
Oleksiy Galushka and Viktor Odnovyun pinned their hopes on promises of democracy
in an independent Ukraine. When their grass-roots activism made them targets of
beatings, threats and jail by Ukrainian security forces, they fled west toward
freedom.

But in March 1999, after a circuitous route through Argentina and Iceland, the
two arrived at Kennedy Airport, asked for asylum, and were promptly locked up.
Instead of finding liberty, they joined thousands of other asylum-seekers who
spend months to years in detention, including a Tibetan nun sent from Dulles
International Airport to a rural jail in Virginia, and an Armenian activist
dispatched from San Francisco airport to the jail in Yuba County, Calif.

Detention for such asylum-seekers has become increasingly automatic, arbitrary
and open-ended since the Department of Homeland Security absorbed the
Immigration and Naturalization Service last year, according to a new study made
available Thursday by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Even detainees with strong community ties, established identities and initial
rulings in their favor are now routinely denied parole while their cases are
pending, with no appeal possible, the report said.

"That's the most difficult part of detention -- they can keep us here as long as
they want," Mr. Galushka, 35, said in an interview Tuesday inside the windowless
200-bed lockup at 182-22 150th Avenue in Queens where he and Mr. Odnovyun have
spent most of their four-year-long detention.

The center is one of several run by the GEO Group, formerly Wackenhut
Corrections Corporation, under contract to the government.

But there are signs that such cases are beginning to trouble government
officials. Asa Hutchinson, the Homeland Security Department's under secretary
for border security, said in an interview on Tuesday that he was not satisfied
with the balance between security concerns and the protection of people seeking
asylum.

"I want to make sure that we have the right policies in place," said Mr.
Hutchinson, who indicated that his remarks were prompted partly by a Court TV
movie to be shown next week, which tells of an Afghan woman who fled the Taliban
only to be jailed at the Queens detention center when she sought asylum.

The Lawyers Committee, which eventually helped the Afghan woman get her release,
is discussing its report at screenings of the movie across the country this
week, including one at 6 p.m. Thursday at New School University in Lower
Manhattan. Mr. Hutchinson said initial detention was often necessary to
establish the identity of refugees traveling with false papers, to make sure
they are not a danger. But he said the administration needed to constantly
recheck procedures. "They can be imperfect in an individual case because of
individual officers, or because of policy, and we have to constantly look at
both," he said. Mr. Hutchinson's response comes a week after the Bush
administration began promoting temporary work permits for illegal immigrants, a
stance that might seem at odds with its hard-line practices toward refugees from
repression. The administration has also begun to release some of what it calls
the "enemy combatants" held on Guantanamo Bay, after an international outcry.

Asylum-seekers and advocates said detention centers like the tan brick former
warehouse in Queens are a little like local Guantanamos, in the sense that the
asylum detainees have no way to know how long they will be locked up.

"We understand they want to protect America," said Mr. Odnovyun, 43. But, he
said, if the United States gives visas to terrorists and leaves "people who love
America in the prison," the government is "throwing money in the garbage."

In a sense, the Ukrainians were lucky detainees, because they were paroled at
one point, after three years of detention. But despite support from a score of
citizens in York, Pa., where the two men lived for 10 months, they were
unexpectedly returned to detention last year after an immigration hearing.

The reason? The government's lawyer decided to appeal the judge's ruling that
the men were entitled to protection from deportation under the international
Convention Against Torture. The judge also ruled that they did not qualify for
asylum because they could have stayed in Argentina, a finding they are
appealing.

Immigration officials will not comment on specific cases. But the Lawyers
Committee said that when the government denied the two men parole, it referred
to them collectively as "she" - a form-letter mistake that could indicate a
blanket practice rather than case-by-case review.

Likewise, because of a government appeal, the Tibetan nun has been returned to
jail despite a ruling last month granting her asylum.

The Armenian activist, who has relatives who are United States citizens, was
denied parole by the Department of Homeland Security on the same day that an
immigration judge granted him asylum and released him, the report said.

"These are people who really have very little voice in this country in policy
making," said Elisa Massimino, the director of the Washington office of the
Lawyers Committee, which tries to provide volunteer lawyers for detainees. "They
are very often forgotten, and that's why these problems with their detention
have persisted for so long."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Viktor Odnovyun, left, and Oleksiy Galushka at the Queens
detention center, where people seeking asylum are held while their cases are
pending. The men, who are from Ukraine, have been in detention for four years.
(Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Groups Seeking Asylum For a Teenager From Guinea

BYLINE: By JOHN FILES

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13


The Congressional Black Caucus and the N.A.A.C.P. are calling for the Department
of Homeland Security to grant asylum to a teenager from Guinea who was held in
adult jails and other detention centers for more than three years during a legal
struggle to remain in the United States.

The youth, Malik Jarno, now 19, arrived alone from Guinea in January 2001 at
Dulles International Airport. His case has become a symbol of the difficulties
encountered by thousands of young immigrants who arrive unaccompanied each year
and are detained.

The Congressional Black Caucus, in a letter to Asa Hutchinson, the under
secretary for border and transportation security, said, ''We strongly urge you
to intervene personally in this case by directing that the department stipulate
to a grant of asylum for Malik.''

The letter, which was sent Friday, was written by Representative Donald M.
Payne, Democrat of New Jersey, and signed by all 39 members of the caucus.

Hilary O. Shelton, director to the Washington bureau of the N.A.A.C.P., also
wrote a letter to Mr. Hutchinson, urging Mr. Jarno's asylum.

The case prompted members of Congress and human rights groups to press Mr.
Hutchinson to release Mr. Jarno. Because Mr. Jarno was not considered a security
threat, officials said, Mr. Hutchinson ordered him released from jail in
December.

Mr. Jarno, described by his lawyers as mentally retarded, is now living at a
refugee shelter in York, Pa., pending his asylum request. He fled his country
seeking sanctuary from political persecution that left his family dead, his
lawyers say.

The letter from the caucus said there was evidence ''that Malik will likely be
persecuted in Guinea on account of his father's political opinion being imputed
to him, his membership in this prominent family and his mental condition.''

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, Bill Strassberger, said
that the letters would be reviewed and that Mr. Hutchinson would respond to
them.

''The secretary is empathetic to the situation and wants to ensure that Mr.
Jarno gets a fair hearing,'' Mr. Strassberger said.

A lawyer for Mr. Jarno, Christopher Nugent, said he would most likely be
scheduled for an asylum hearing in the next few weeks.

In 2000, Mr. Jarno traveled to France from Guinea, in West Africa, after his
father, a Muslim cleric and political activist, was killed by government forces.
He was detained by immigration officials when he tried to enter the United
States with a fake French passport.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Mr. Jarno, who speaks French and
Puhlar, a West African language, was not a minor, contrary to his birth
certificate.

Responsibility for detained immigrant children -- about 500 remain in detention
-- fell to the Department of Health and Human Services after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was absorbed by the Homeland Security Department in 2002.

Last year, the human rights group Amnesty International, which has pushed for
less restrictive placements or foster homes for children who are awaiting
determination of their legal status, found that foreign children fleeing
violence and persecution in their home countries were often improperly detained
for months in bleak detention centers in the United States without access to
lawyers or psychological services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 17, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Riding Across America for Immigrant Workers

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 718 words


Borrowing a page from the civil rights movement, immigrants rights groups
announced yesterday that they would stage an updated version of the 1960's
Freedom Rides by sending 18 buses across the nation to draw attention to the
plight of many immigrants.

In organizing this "Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride," the groups, with labor
unions and civil rights organizations, hope to persuade Congress and the public
to back legislation to give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.

The buses will begin heading east from Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle
next week. The riders will stop in dozens of cities for rallies and will meet
other riders in Washington for a rally and lobbying effort. As a finale,
sponsors are hoping to attract more than 100,000 supporters to an Oct. 4 rally
in Flushing Meadows in New York.

"We are tired of seeing the abuses that immigrants face every day," said Maria
Elena Durazo, a union official who is chairwoman of the effort. "The Immigrant
Workers Freedom Ride follows the tradition of the civil rights movement that no
group of people be excluded from the basic rights they deserve."

All told, organizers say, 18 buses carrying 800 immigrants will leave from 10
cities and will stop in more than 100 communities in 42 states so the riders can
hold rallies and news conferences, meet with political leaders and seek public
support.

The immigration riders will stop in Anniston, Ala., where a Freedom Riders bus
was forced off the road and firebombed in 1961. The riders will also hold a
ceremony in Tucson to commemorate the deaths of illegal immigrants in the
desert.

The effort, organizers say, will cost over $1 million; labor unions,
foundations, churches and civil rights groups have contributed.

"This is a continuation of some of the fighting we did 40 years ago," the Rev.
James Orange, an associate of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, said yesterday at
a Washington news conference.

In 1961, scores of blacks and their white supporters boarded buses with the aim
of integrating buses, waiting rooms and terminals in the South, which were often
kept segregated despite a Supreme Court ruling that it was illegal to keep
interstate carriers segregated. At each stop, the riders led rallies at colleges
and churches. Their efforts often met with violence.

The immigrants' ride sponsors are not seeking specific legislation but are
pushing for several goals, among them letting immigrants who work in the United
States legalize their status, and providing full labor protections to and
respecting the civil rights of all immigrant workers, even illegal ones.

"This is an unprecedented mobilization to support immigrants in this country,"
said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an
advocacy group for immigrants. "It's based on the premise that the current
immigration system is broken. It leaves 8 to 10 million people outside the law."

Mr. Sharry said the immigration system was badly in need of change because
illegal immigrants were often exploited, because it was often hard for
immigrants to reunite with their families and because hundreds of illegal
immigrants have died in the desert from heat and thirst. Organizers of the rides
are calling for expanding the number of family reunification visas, which give
priority to relatives of legal immigrants.

"We should reward work and grant legal status to hard-working people," Mr.
Sharry said. "We should reunite families in a timely fashion."

Another concern, especially since the Sept. 11 attacks, is that some immigrants
are imprisoned indefinitely pending rulings on their status, and the legal
rights of others have been reduced.

"Strengthening our borders and strengthening national security should not come
at the cost of denying hard-working men and women their civil rights," Ms.
Durazo said.

The idea for the effort originated with leaders of the Hotel Employees and
Restaurant Employees International Union, which successfully pushed the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. to reverse its traditional anti-immigrant policy and embrace the
cause of immigrants. Many unions are seeking to unionize immigrant workers,
including illegal immigrants, because they are frequently among the nation's
most exploited, lowest-paid workers and because their wages often pull down
wages for other workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

No to Guest Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 120 words


To the Editor:

Re "Politics at the Border" (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8):

We should look to the European experience for guidance.

Millions of guest workers who arrived after World War II chose to stay, creating
a new form of second-class citizenship.

The children of these guest workers, who know no other culture, find themselves
in limbo, alienated and resentful of the status accorded them and their parents.

The prospect of guest workers here in the United States is an affront to all of
us, especially to legal immigrants, who have played by the rules.

We are a nation of laws, and those laws should simply be enforced. We cannot
reward those who have broken the law.

VAUGHN A. CARNEY
Stowe, Vt., Jan. 8, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 19, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and Democracy

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 172 words


To the Editor:

"Temporary Immigration" (editorial, Jan. 12) identifies potential abuses of
workers under the Bush administration's proposed temporary worker program but
doesn't discuss the danger it poses to American democracy.

We are rightly concerned when citizens fail to vote. How can we create a class
of permanently disfranchised residents? As Lincoln taught us, government by the
people is the very heart of our national life. We would jeopardize what we hold
most dear by inviting "guest workers" to pick our crops and clean our streets
without hope of citizenship or participation in our democratic processes.

Our nation was born in a fight against taxation without representation. It would
betray our origins to establish a lawfully resident caste of laborers to pay
taxes, serve our economic interests and do our dirty work but not share in the
work of self-governance.

America's self-interest requires that legalization of undocumented immigrants
includes a path to citizenship.

ARLEEN B. RIFKIND
New York, Jan. 12, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Workers Assessing What a New Bill Will Mean

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Small Business; Pg. 4; ON THE JOB

LENGTH: 1251 words


JUAN CARLOS TORRES has a hard-to-find skill: he knows how to disassemble, clean,
refurbish and test more than 60 models of laser printer cartridges, each with
its own arrangement of gears, screws, drums and rollers. Mr. Torres, a
31-year-old Mexican who came to the United States illegally seven years ago, has
been a godsend for Frank Garcia, the owner of Millennium Remanufactured Toner, a
laser cartridge recycling company in the Bronx with 15 employees.

Yet when Mr. Torres renews his seasonal work visa this month, it will not be for
his adeptness with laser cartridges but with horse manure.

The first time he applied to Millennium, three years ago, Mr. Garcia turned him
away; he had no papers. So Mr. Torres got a job cleaning horse stalls and doing
other duties through the New York Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association, an
industry group whose members employ more than 1,500 assistant trainers a year
through a seasonal work visa program.

After Mr. Torres began the legalization process, Mr. Garcia felt able to hire
him. During the racing season, Mr. Torres starts his day at 4:30 a.m. at Belmont
Park in Elmont on Long Island, just beyond the Queens line, heads to Millennium
for a 9-to-5 shift as the company's manager and quality control specialist, then
goes home to his wife and two children in Brooklyn.

It frustrates Mr. Garcia that a big organization like the racing association has
the resources to obtain a visa for Mr. Torres, but he does not. So Mr. Garcia,
who is also president of the Bronx Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, is hopeful that
a temporary worker program like the one President Bush proposed last month could
help small businesses like his.

''I would benefit from this law right now,'' he said. Indeed, Mr. Garcia plans
to hire another 25 workers to handle millions of dollars of new contracts, the
result of a full-page display in the 2004 Corporate Express computer and imaging
catalog.

And he would like nothing better than to hire Mr. Torres's former colleagues who
worked at another cartridge recycling plant.

''That's a constant fight,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''He wants me to hire these
immigrants, who know how to recycle toner, who were exploited for years.''

But Mr. Garcia says he is ''afraid'' to hire them because of the consequences.

Like many other small-business owners, Mr. Garcia has some doubts about how the
president's worker program would play out.

So far, the plan has not moved beyond a vague outline. President Bush has
proposed that employers be able to sponsor immigrants, including those already
in the country illegally, for three years or more to fill jobs they say they
cannot fill otherwise.

How the details are filled in will largely determine the response of small
businesses, according to immigration experts and small-business owners.

Mr. Garcia is worried about the potential for the program to bog down in
paperwork. He fears that like the current visa programs that are beyond his
resources, the temporary worker program will entail complicated legal or
logistical processes. Raymond J. Keating, chief economist of the Small Business
Survival Committee, an advocacy and lobbying group in Washington, said that
could be true.

''Any mandate like this is going to be more costly for small businesses,'' Mr.
Keating said. ''Big businesses have the ability to absorb these costs.''

The Bush proposal requires that an employer make ''every reasonable effort'' to
find an interested American to fill the job. It is not clear what that means,
but legislation introduced recently by Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South
Dakota, and Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, offered some details
about what President Bush might have in mind.

It would require that employers advertise job openings in ethnic and trade
publications as well as ''in a publication with the highest circulation in the
labor market that is likely to be patronized by a potential worker.'' Major
corporations might not blink at buying classifieds in a major metropolitan
newspaper, but the owner of a neighborhood grocery store might find the cost
prohibitive.

Then there are the potential legal bills. Mr. Garcia said he would like to see
some of the $1,000 fee that the workers would pay under the Bush proposal
funneled to the Small Business Administration or local nonprofit groups to
assist small businesses through the process.

Many immigration advocates say the biggest potential problem with the
president's proposal is its requirement that workers return home after their
temporary status expires; the plan creates no new path toward permanent
residence.

The general manager of a restaurant in Queens, who spoke on condition of
anonynimity because most of her 20 workers are illegal, said that although she
would want to obey the law, she would not require employees to enter a temporary
program that could force them to leave, or remain illegally, a few years later.

She also said the law could actually have a perverse effect: if current illegal
immigrants do not choose to seek legal work under the program, it could attract
more immigrants from other countries who end up staying illegally after their
time is up.

Mr. Garcia predicted that some businesses would use their new power to extort
money from workers in exchange for their papers. ''There are going to be a lot
of people in our community,'' he said, ''that are going to try to take advantage
of that, charge them to get their papers.''

Then there may be others who prefer illegal immigrants because they are easier
to control. Juan Carlos Torres said that described his old cartridge recycling
company, where he earned $2 to $3 an hour. (He earns $12 at Millennium.) ''It's
not in their interest,'' Mr. Torres said, speaking in Spanish, ''because if the
law passes they would have to pay the people what they deserve. When someone is
undocumented, the first thing they say is, 'We can only pay you this much.' ''

Another complicating factor is the close relationships that can develop between
management and workers, which could shade personnel decisions once employers are
given obvious power over immigration status. For example, Mr. Garcia is the
godfather of Mr. Torres's year-old son, a relationship difficult to imagine
between, say, Wal-Mart's chief executive and a cashier.

And if business owners are immigrants themselves, might they clear out jobs to
legalize undocumented relatives (and friends) or bring them in from abroad in a
sort of immigration nepotism?

What if Abdul Mannan, a Bangladeshi businessman with a five-employee halal meat
shop in a heavily South Asian area of Queens, wants to bring in a cousin from
Bangladesh? He could run an ad that says: ''Wanted: Bengali-speaking butcher
with at least 10 years experience, 12-hour days, $400/week.''

How closely would overstretched authorities look into failure to find an
American?

In fact, Mr. Mannan wants nothing of the sort. It turns out he would hesitate
before hiring a temporary worker. Not only would he have to constantly train new
employees, he would lose people that he had become attached to.

One worker, Pedro Sanchez, has been there for five years, has become very
skilled at cutting up a chicken and has learned enough meat-related Bengali to
serve non-English-speaking customers. Replacing Mr. Sanchez would be a ''very
big difficulty,'' Mr. Mannan said, but not because of his
Spanish-Bengali-butchering skills. Mr. Sanchez, he said, is family: ''If he
goes, then I feel maybe one of my two hands is gone.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC -- Frank Garcia, the owner of Millennium
Remanufactured Toner, hopes to hire more workers like Mr. Torres.
 LABOR PAINS -- Juan Carlos Torres at his second job at Millennium
Remanufactured Toner in the Bronx. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


An article in Business Day on Tuesday about immigrant workers from Latin America
who are expected to send $30 billion back to families and friends this year
misstated the total number of such workers in the United States. It is 16.6
million, not 6.6 million.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Adding Value To Immigrants' Cash

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 979 words


ON the highway connecting El Salvador's national airport to the capital, San
Salvador, most of the billboards don't promote luxury cars, fancy tourist hotels
or clothing stores. Instead, they advertise the electronic transfer of
remittances -- las remesas -- the money earned by Salvadoran men and women in
the United States and sent back in allotments of maybe $200 or $300 a month.

For hundreds of years, immigrant workers in America have sent modest amounts to
their families in the old country, often by hand -- through a trusted friend or
an informal agent. Entire villages in Poland and Greece survived off such homely
remittances in the 1950's.

Next week, for the first time, heads of state of the world's wealthiest nations
plan to discuss remittances, in a belated acknowledgment of their huge role in
providing aid to the poor.

Those small bundles of money add up to one of the biggest transfers of wealth
from rich countries to poor ones. The global remittance market may be as much as
$150 billion annually, triple the development aid given by the wealthy nations
to the poor and, in many countries, far more than direct foreign investment.

When they meet on Tuesday at Sea Island, Ga., President Bush and the other
leaders from the Group of 8 industrialized nations intend to discuss ways to
reduce the cost of sending the money home, and to make it more useful for poor
nations once it gets there. But the range of ideas on the table is fairly
narrow: reducing the size of commissions paid to companies that transfer the
money, drawing immigrants to the traditional bank and financial system so more
of the money is saved and made available for loans, and using those savings for
specific small-scale development programs.

Absent is any discussion of the plight of the workers who earn and send back the
money. They often risk their lives to reach a rich country like the United
States, where they may hold down two jobs and earn less than $20,000 a year,
suffer years of separation from their families and endure an uncertain legal
status.

Nor will the leaders examine why poorer societies continually need to export
labor to survive -- or what can be done to break the cycle.

Despite these limits, Manuel Orozco, Central America project director for the
Inter-American Dialogue, a research group based in Washington, says the
discussion at the summit meeting is an important step forward. ''It's a backdoor
way to begin talking about migration and these workers, a subject that is very
sensitive in rich nations,'' he said. ''On balance, it is positive to begin
these discussions and understand the critical importance of remittances.''

By their nature, such meetings tend toward a cosmic perspective; the lives of
individual workers are often missing from discussions of trade and
globalization. Government leaders dedicated to dismantling barriers to the free
flow of goods and services often avoid talking about opening borders to the
people who make those goods or perform those services.

But the discovery over the last five years that remittances are a huge and
essential money source for developing countries like Albania, El Salvador, Tonga
and Lebanon is putting some aspects of labor on the global trade agenda. Mr.
Orozco and the Inter-American Development Bank put together the first studies
showing how remittances had exploded with globalization and the technological
revolution that allowed money to be wired quickly to ever-more-remote areas of
the developing world.

Now the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are tracking the global
flow of remittances. Dilip Ratha, a senior economist at the bank, prepared the
charts and studies for the talks this week. ''If we can reduce the cost of
sending these remittances, it would mean an additional $10 billion flowing to
the poor in developing nations,'' Mr. Ratha said. ''If we can get the money
moving through formal channels, that would mean greater savings and more credit
for these people.''

Kathleen Newland, director of the Migration Policy Institute, a group that
studies immigration issues, said the discussion should include recommendations
for allowing migrant workers to travel back and forth legally, so they could
take an active role in improving their home communities. ''That would have a
bigger impact on development,'' she said.

Though remittances cover basic expenses for poor families, like food, clothing,
shelter and some education, poor countries need more investment and
entrepreneurship. With foreign aid at low levels and foreign investors
preferring proven powerhouses like China, many poor nations increasingly depend
on their own workers to go abroad and send money home.

DEVELOPMENT experts like Dani Rodrik, professor of international political
economy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, said they would be
disappointed if world leaders failed to address the larger issues of the labor
force. ''Return migration is crucial in the long run,'' he said. ''Workers
returning home with their remittances could become a huge new flow for new
investments as long as there were enough incentives to invest.''

Though many workers return to their home country when economic opportunities are
offered there, migration for the most part has been a one-way street. Workers
come to the United States or other wealthy nations and, often, their families
eventually follow. Some critics fear that there will be a permanent class of
countries that survive by providing cheap labor to rich nations.

''With this now-highly mobile labor force going to countries with the jobs, you
could see perpetually underdeveloped societies that will always need to export
their labor to survive,'' said Joseph Siegle, a fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations. ''I don't think that's the long-term solution we are looking for.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making Meals for Immigrant Workers, One Dormitory at a Time

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Far From Mother, a Mother's
Touch; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y.


At 6 a.m., Yolanda Gress-Escamilla climbs onto her bicycle and sets out for
work. About 20 minutes later, she arrives at a small house here on Granny Road,
where the refrigerator overflows with chili peppers and a dozen men sleep three
to a room.

Six days a week, she cooks for the men -- Hispanic laborers who live in the home
-- a job that is part of an underground industry as homemade as Ms.
Gress-Escamilla's chili-verde sauce.

Inside the overcrowded immigrant homes that speckle New York's suburbs, Hispanic
women like Ms. Gress-Escamilla have begun to forge their livelihoods. The women
call themselves cocineras, or cooks, a disparate door-to-door army that brings a
taste of home to men living far from their wives and mothers. These women make
dinner, overhear secrets, console those who cannot find work and quickly get
used to grown men calling them madre, or mother.

''They're people from my hometown,'' Ms. Gress-Escamilla said in Spanish,
through a translator. ''You get to know them and have a sense of family with
them. They need to eat.''

So after the men leave for their long days of work, the women arrive and head
toward the kitchen. They make soup, a main course, rice and beans and maybe a
dessert or empanadas if someone is celebrating a birthday. They set the dishes
on the stove to be warmed later, slip out the front door and move on to the next
house.

The homes are flung far across the suburbs, and the women sometimes work for
weeks without pay. But the payments are in cash, the women do not have to speak
English, and they can grasp at their dreams of independence from bosses and
night shifts at fast-food restaurants. ''I am my own boss,'' said one cocinera,
Josefa Barrera-Rios.

Many communities see the workers' homes -- often overcrowded, usually with
illegal immigrants -- as a blight and a safety hazard, and police and
housing-code officers are sometimes dispatched to evict the occupants and fine
the owners. But the battle over immigration on Long Island has largely swirled
past the cocineras, who say they see the homes simply as places to work.

And so in the afternoon on Memorial Day, Ms. Gress-Escamilla found herself in
the brown one-story home on Granny Road. The kitchen is plain and clean, and a
schedule on the white refrigerator dictates who buys groceries at Compare Foods
each week.

Because it was a holiday, the men breezed into the house from the backyard
volleyball court while Ms. Gress-Escamilla, planning for the next day, slid
frozen pork out of the freezer to thaw. Ten stacks of corn tortillas were piled
in the cabinets, and the refrigerator shelves brimmed with heaps of cheese,
tomatillos (green tomatoes), limes and chili peppers.

The oven was not working that afternoon, and Reyes Beltran, one of the house's
occupants, fretted about the prospects for dinner. A simple salad, the men said,
was out of the question.

''I don't know what Senora Yolanda is going to do for us today,'' he said.

Demand for cocineras has grown as houses filled with immigrant men spread across
the suburbs, but no one knows how many women work in these homes, advocates for
immigrants said. Their work blooms in the spring and fades in the fall, the
women said, when construction and gardening jobs dry up, money runs out and the
men return to Mexico.

Irma Solis, a labor organizer at the Workplace Project, an advocacy group for
Hispanic workers, said the demand for women who will cook and clean was
strongest in Long Island's younger immigrant communities, where single men
living together dominate the Hispanic population. Gradually, the men get married
or their wives arrive, putting the cocineras out of work.

''It's been happening since the first husband brought the first wife,'' Ms.
Solis said. ''There's no need for her anymore. And so that woman has to go and
look for another home where she can cook.''

The women find jobs casually, through conversations at the coin-operated
laundry, on a tip from a cousin who lives nearby or a chat with strangers at a
soccer match. Many female immigrants find their first jobs in the United States
through these informal social networks, said Suzanne Michael, a professor of
social work at Adelphi University in Garden City, N.Y., who studies immigrant
communities.

''The expectation is that women will provide the housekeeping,'' Dr. Michael
said. ''When the men come, they don't have a background in any of that. They're
really like, 'Oh my God.'''

In Mexico, many cocineras were nurses, owned shoe shops or ran pharmacies. But
after coming to Long Island -- many illegally -- the women discovered that the
people most eager to hire them were immigrant men.

''We think that women have a better sense of how to season things,'' said Mr.
Beltran, a Mexican immigrant. ''We can only improvise it.''

Three months after Irene Cano Pacheco crossed the Arizona desert and then flew
to New York from Phoenix, she found a house in Farmingville willing to hire her.
But the dozen men staged an audition first. They gave Ms. Cano eight hours to
prepare dinner at their home, then sent her away while they judged her
spaghetti, beans and breaded pork.

''They got together in the living room,'' Ms. Cano said. ''They said they liked
the food, and I got the job.''

For $300 a week, she would cook for the men and clean the kitchen and bathrooms.
Ms. Cano said she worried about working alone among men, so she set ground
rules: she would not go in the bedrooms, and no one could be vulgar.

''Some of them can be very gross,'' she said in Spanish. ''I am a woman. I don't
accept foul language around me.''

But the carpenters, gardeners, painters and concrete workers who lived there put
her at ease, and this winter, Ms. Cano moved in when she grew weary of the long
bicycle ride to work.

Now, she said, she knows all the men's secrets, the confessions they keep from
wives and roommates. She knows who has been cheating on his wife back home in
Hidalgo, which men are angry at each other, and who feels guilty about the way
he treated his wife and children before he came here.

After she has finished making dinner, Ms. Cano said, she retreats to her room
and calls her three children in Mexico and writes letters to relatives. She will
not work after 6 p.m., but sometimes relents, and sews a button on or goes to
Wal-Mart with the men to help choose dresses for their wives.

''I have the better taste,'' she said. ''Sometimes they need advice from a
woman.''

Residents from various regions of Mexico and Central America cluster together,
and their shared tastes draw women from the same regions. The posole stews of a
native of Hidalgo, Mexico, will not do for someone from Chiapas, and the cactus
dishes prepared Michoacan-style are anathema to anyone used to Mexico City
cooking.

Some houses have two refrigerators and two cooks -- one for the men from the
south of Mexico, and one for those from the north.

Cooking for 12 to 15 men who continually come and go takes planning, said Lina
Pereyda-Ramirez, who came from Mexico 20 months ago. Each week, Ms.
Pereyda-Ramirez plans menus for each of the four homes where she works, telling
the men what supplies they need to buy.

Everything comes in bulk. The pots are big enough to hold two turkeys. The men
buy three-pound jars of mayonnaise, four-pound boxes of frosted cereal,
four-pound containers of salt. The owners of some local groceries make
deliveries.

The job offers small pleasures, Ms. Gress-Escamilla said. The men leave clean
aprons for her every morning, and while Ms. Gress-Escamilla cooks, they tend to
her 2-year-old daughter, Diana, watching cartoons with the girl and spotting
birds.

''We get back from work so late,'' said Juan Chavez, a Mexican immigrant who
lives in Farmingville. ''We're so tired, the last thing we want to do is cook.
We just want it to be ready.''

Sometimes, the women say, they linger and talk to the men, finding out who is
working and who has been hurt, who is going back to Mexico and who needs help
getting here.

Most days, though, the woman say, they hurry from house to house, trying to earn
enough money to pay their rent and send back whatever they can to children and
relatives in Mexico. When work recedes in the winter, Ms. Gress-Escamilla said,
she and her husband struggle to pay the $1,800 monthly rent on their home in
Ronkonkoma.

''He can't work construction in the winter, so the person who has to bring home
the food is me, to at least be able to eat,'' she said. ''Perhaps McDonald's
would give me more hours. But for me, this is the best work.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yolanda Gress-Escamilla prepares a dinner of mole de olla, a
spicy beef stew, for 10 men at a house in Farmingville, N.Y.
Immigrant men often hire women from their home state to prepare meals for them.
Ms. Gress-Escamilla cooks for several houses a day, six days a week.
(Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Yolanda Gress-Escamilla often brings her 2-year-old daughter, Diana, with her.
She leaves toys at each house so Diana can play while she works. (Photo by
Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Platform for Immigrants

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 515 words


Political parties generally like to get through the business of adopting their
campaign platforms without too much fuss. But on the eve of their convention,
President Bush and his loyal followers had to deal with undercurrents of
unhappiness from conservatives about the issue of immigration reform.

Anybody who has watched the Republicans wrestling with this explosive issue this
year knew it would be difficult to please both the Republican moderates who
realize that the system is ''broken'' -- as Mr. Bush put it in January -- and
ideologues like Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, who has not only
opposed easing rules for undocumented workers but has even favored a ''time
out'' on legal immigration. Mr. Bush will gain more support in that wider middle
ground if he sticks with his original proposal to mend the immigration system
and begins supporting bipartisan proposals in Congress.

Mr. Bush made a reasonable start in January at untangling the immigration mess
-- a guest worker plan that he stressed was not an amnesty. There were few
details in his proposal, but even this moderate plan provoked a deafening outcry
from the conservatives in the ''What part of illegal don't you understand?''
crowd. Sadly, the president went scurrying back into safer territory. Congress
stalled passage of a bill to help 500,000 farm workers, and one to lower costs
for immigrants' children to go to college. These bills have the support of
Republicans and Democrats, unions and businesses. The president could easily
bring them to the floor.

At the same time, Mr. Bush needs to head off less helpful proposals. Some
anti-immigrant conservatives want the police or hospital workers to help
identify illegal immigrants as a first step in sending them back where they came
from. Most police experts and health workers strongly object. If an illegal
worker is raped, she might resist going to the police for fear that they will
worry more about her papers than her attacker; that leaves the rapist on the
streets. No health expert wants someone with a contagious disease hiding from
those who could provide treatment.

Mr. Bush's original plan seemed to head in the right direction by promising
workable incentives for those who want to return to their native countries after
earning money in America. But any plan to create a new class of ''temporary''
workers raises the specter of the old bracero program, which resulted in
harassment, discrimination and abuse of too many migrant workers. The word
amnesty is anathema to Mr. Bush's conservative Republican base, but the
president has to realize that reform will work only if there is a reasonable way
to allow some illegal immigrants a path toward permanent residence and even
citizenship.

A party platform has never been a real contract with the voters, of course. But
if the Republicans want to court moderates and appeal to minority voters like
Hispanics, the promise of legitimate and humane immigration reform deserves to
be near the top of the president's agenda for a second term.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers Share a Bus and Hopes

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Sept. 26


As the bus sped through the New Mexico desert and into West Texas, Federico
Gonzalez talked of his dream, an odd dream for an immigrant from Colombia. He
wants to be an F.B.I. agent.

Back home, he had been studying to be a police investigator, but he dropped out
of college because he was too poor to pay all the expenses.

Eager to support his girlfriend and infant son, he moved to Arizona and took a
job as a roofer, attracted to the relatively high pay by immigrant standards:
$9.50 an hour. But the work was grueling, 10-hour days in 100-degree heat. He
soon learned there could be a price for protesting harsh conditions.

"They tell me this is the country of freedom," said Mr. Gonzalez, a passenger in
the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, a caravan of buses heading to Washington
from 10 cities nationwide to campaign for immigrants' rights. "You're supposed
to have the right to speak. But immigrants don't have the right to speak out on
the job because they get fired."

Sitting alongside immigrants from Mexico, China, Sudan, the Philippines and
elsewhere, Mr. Gonzalez, 26, helped keep spirits from flagging, banging out
Latin rhythms on a drum and bantering nonstop about soccer, salsa and
discrimination.

"I can't wait until we get to Washington," he said. "I'm going to be screaming
loud. I just want to make sure they listen to us."

The trip, by 900 riders on 18 buses, was inspired by the 1961 freedom rides that
sought to integrate bus terminals in the South. Today's riders are pushing for
legalizing the status of illegal immigrants, increasing visas for family
reunification and stepping up protections for immigrant workers. Mr. Gonzalez's
bus originated in Los Angeles, and he boarded in Tucson after a rally at the
Roman Catholic Cathedral that attracted 700 supporters.

"Immigrants do a lot of jobs that nobody else wants to do," he said. "They come
here for one reason, to work. They make this place go. They help build America."

When he pushed to form a labor union to improve wages and conditions, he said,
his employer dismissed him, suddenly telling him that his papers were not valid,
even though his papers had long been accepted.

Mr. Gonzalez now drives an ice cream truck. "I always heard about the American
dream, and I'm still looking for it," he said.

He gestured to another passenger, Dhel Galwak Jourchol, a native of Sudan who
immigrated to the United States to escape his country's civil war. "We have a
lot in common," Mr. Gonzalez said. "We both came to America alone, with no
friends."

Mr. Jourchol fled Sudan for India, where he earned a law degree, and later the
United States granted him refugee status. "Since my childhood, I never have seen
peace at all," he said. "The war started in 1983, and we run from the bush to
other places. I don't know where a lot of my family is. I don't know if my
parents are alive."

Though he is protesting immigration policy, Mr. Jourchol, 32, is a cheerleader
for America. "I love the freedom here," he said. "I want to take the system
here, and someday establish it in my country. We really appreciate what America
has done for us, and we will pay you back someday."

But Mr. Jourchol grumbled about discrimination against immigrants. He applied to
work as a corrections officer but was rejected because he was not an American
citizen. "I told them I'm qualified," he said. "I'm a law school graduate."

Guillermo Roacho, a diesel mechanic in Los Angeles, also complained about
discrimination, saying employers exploited his fellow Mexican immigrants because
many did not have legal status and faced deportation if they protested about
anything.

"The Mexicans don't have nothing," Mr. Roacho said. "Without legalization, they
have no rights."

He said he was so eager to join the bus ride that he told his boss he was going
whether or not he was given time off.

Maggie Larson, a rider who immigrated from Malaysia, said she was blessed that
she had never faced job discrimination. A housekeeper at the Royal Kona Resort
in Hawaii, she said: "I work with people from China, the Philippines, Cambodia,
Malaysia. We're very close. We take care of each other. I don't feel
discrimination."

Ms. Larson, 41, who flew from Hawaii to Los Angeles to join the ride, said she
wanted greater rights for all immigrants so they could share her happiness. She
said she hesitated to join the caravan because it meant being away from her
6-year-old.

"Leaving my son for three weeks is a sacrifice, but other immigrants have not
seen their families for 10 or 15 years," she said.

Few work harder than Grey Pichinte, a 23-year-old rider who immigrated from El
Salvador. From 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. each day, Ms. Pichinte studies computer science
at Rio Hondo Community College outside Los Angeles, and then from 5 p.m. until
1:30 a.m. she works as a janitor.

"Immigrants work more than anyone in this country," she said. "They work 16, 18
hours a day."

Tears filled her eyes as she described the riders' visit to Nogales, Ariz.,
where immigrants told of people who died in the desert seeking to enter the
United States. Her parents crossed the desert to escape the violence and poverty
in El Salvador, she said, eventually saving enough money to fly her to the
United States.

"Immigrants deserve everything because of what they went through," she said.
"They crossed the desert. They've made so many sacrifices to seek a better
future. There are dumb people who don't see that."

Shirley Smith, a union organizer, was one of the few nonimmigrants on the bus.
But she, too, had seen plenty of struggle. She was a high school senior in 1959
when whites in a Dallas suburb sought to prevent her and other blacks from
attending a local school.

"They'd throw rocks at us, firecrackers, too," Ms. Smith said.

Ultimately, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. flew to Texas to join that
integration struggle. Today's ride, she said, was part of the same fight.

"Before this trip, I didn't realize that the Hispanic people were treated so
bad," she said. "All they want is to live like other people. We're still
fighting for people's rights. That's what Martin Luther King and Cesar Chavez
died for."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Freedom riders, left, prayed in El Paso on Thursday. Right, in
a gesture of solidarity, Maggie Larson and other bus passengers used cards to
explain on Friday that they were exercising their right to remain silent at a
border checkpoint at Sierra Blanca, Tex.; A bus with laborers in the Immigrant
Workers Freedom Ride rolled through the Southwest last week on its way to
Washington. (Photographs by Christ Chavez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 1, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cap on U.S. Work Visas Puts Companies in India in a Bind

BYLINE:  By SARITHA RAI

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Sept. 30


Prasad Tadiparti, global general manager of human resources at MindTree
Consulting, is working his way around what he calls "a logistical nightmare."

He is trying to anticipate what skills his clients in the United States may need
in the next few years and match them with the profiles of his approximately
1,000 software engineers and others. All this while factoring in how many are
willing to travel, how many hold valid visas to work in the United States, and
for how long.

The "nightmare" is a sharp drop -- to 65,000 from 195,000 -- in the number of
H-1B visas granted for skilled foreign professionals. The change, effective
Wednesday, is making the business environment tougher for Indian software
services companies like MindTree.

MindTree, which counts Franklin Templeton and Avis among its clients, will be
competing with others in the industry for the tighter number of visas. If the
visas are exhausted in the next few months, as some expect, services companies
say that their clients' delivery schedules and new projects will be delayed.

H-1B visas are given each year to foreign workers whose specialized skills are
sought by American companies. During the technology boom, the H-1B visa program,
which allows foreigners to work in the United States for up to six years,
provided a gateway for thousands of Indians who came to work in the United
States, especially in Silicon Valley.

More recently, the number of visa applications has dropped. Last year, petitions
for H-1B visas dropped by 75 percent, to 26,659, according to the American
Electronics Association, a trade group that represents technology companies. The
lighter use of the visas reflected the downturn in the dot-com sector and the
elimination of technology jobs.

But critics now point to another visa, the L-1, that is used to bring in cheaper
foreign workers who may be replaced once they are trained. Congress is also
looking at the L-1, which has no quotas. The L-1 visa has grown in use, rising
nearly 40 percent, to 57,700, last year from 1999, and some say technology
employers are switching to this type of visa.

According to an estimate by the American Immigration Lawyers' Association, there
are some 900,000 H-1B employees in the United States, 35 percent to 45 percent
of them from India.

The H-1B program became an issue as the United States economy softened and
employment slumped. Critics of the program argue that American corporations are
replacing employees with less-expensive foreign workers from places like India
and the Philippines.

Some have even called for scrapping the H-1B visa program altogether, a move
seen as part of a reaction against the increasing trend of sending technology
and back-office jobs abroad.

Despite this antipathy and public outcry, American companies argue that the
program is essential to help maintain competitiveness in the global economy.

In recent Congressional testimony, the chairwoman of the immigration
subcommittee of the United States Chamber of Commerce, Elizabeth Dickson of
Ingersoll-Rand, said the visa limit delayed the hiring of needed professionals.
"We cannot afford to let arbitrary caps dictate U.S. business immigration
policy," Ms. Dickson said.

But with Congress keeping the cap at 65,000, Indian services companies are
scrambling to build teams of visa-ready people, said Laxman Badiga, chief
staffing officer at India's third-largest software exporter, Wipro. Over 3,000
Wipro employees hold H-1B visas.

As Indian software services companies grapple with the vastly reduced quota
ofvisas, American companies will have to figure out ways to collaborate with
them to help manage a supply imbalance that is expected to emerge as the economy
improves, said Atul Vashistha, chief executive of neoIT, an outsourcing advisory
company based in Santa Clara, Calif. "We are already advising our clients on how
to manage this risk scenario," he said.

For the Indian subsidiaries of multinationals like Intel, however, the impact of
the reduced limit is expected to be minimal. "We see this as a bump in the road
rather than something which will have a huge impact in the long term," said
Ketan Sampat, president of Intel India.

But Mr. Vashistha's firm is urging clients like Cardinal Health and Exult to
look at increasing the number of expatriates to help bridge the gap. "If foreign
resources cannot be brought here, then take resources from here to the offshore
location," he said.

The reduced visa limit may gradually diminish the United States' ability to
attract the most talented workers, industry leaders contend. "With U.S. baby
boomers retiring, and the number of tech grads declining, there will be an acute
shortage of skilled talent in the coming years," said Kumar Mahadeva, the chief
executive of Cognizant Technology Solutions, a software services company based
in Teaneck, N.J.

As the economy recovers, industry executives envision an even more acute
shortage of skilled workers. "If there are no visas to bring talent to the
U.S.," Mr. Badiga of Wipro said, "American companies will eventually say, 'Let's
go to India where the resources are."'

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Greeting at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 127 words


To the Editor:

"Politics at the Border" (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8) claims that
President Bush's proposal to liberalize rules for immigrant workers seeks to
"re-establish his credentials as a compassionate conservative."

Mr. Bush wants to allow immigrants to take jobs "that American citizens are not
willing to take." Some might wonder why none of the nearly nine million
unemployed Americans don't want the jobs involved until we remember that the
$5.15 minimum wage isn't enough to bring an average family out of poverty.

Mr. Bush's idea reinforces his "conservative" (pro-employer) credentials, but
without an accompanying hefty increase in the long-neglected minimum wage, it
can hardly be called compassionate.

JOHN GLASEL
Hoboken, N.J., Jan. 8, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Jobs but Not the American Dream

BYLINE:  By David Abraham; David Abraham, a visiting fellow in European history
at Princeton, is a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 700 words


President Bush's immigration reform proposal, unveiled on Wednesday, is a
classic guest worker program on the European model. As such, it may be doomed
from the start: Europe's guest worker programs createdas many problems as they
solved, and to this day they remain unpopular.

Guest worker programs were widely used in Europe from the 1950's through the
1970's during a period of extreme labor shortages. Most of the several million
Turks and Yugoslavs in Germany, for example, are there today because of
Germany's substantial guest-worker program of that period. Lesser but
substantial numbers of guest workers are also to be found among the Muslim
populations of Central and Northern Europe.

Germany's guest worker program was ended more than two decades ago. Yet Germans
still have not resolved the question of what to do with the millions of
immigrants living in their midst. Although these immigrant workers get some
benefits of citizenship -- health care, for example, and unemployment insurance
-- they are not citizens. They are not allowed full membership in German
society, yet neither are they forced to return home. It is virtually impossible
to find anyone in Germany today who would favor re-establishment of its guest
worker program.

The details of the program announced by President Bush have yet to be worked
out. But its outlines are clear. At the invitation of employers, workers will be
permitted to stay in the United States for a limited time without having to wait
in its long immigration lines. They would also secure many of the benefits and
protections of American-born workers.

The chief virtue of the program, as the president made clear, is that the guest
workers would be allowed to move relatively freely between their country of
citizenship -- overwhelmingly Mexico -- and the country in which they are
"guests." Such movement could reduce the disturbing smuggling and illegal border
crossings so common along America's frontiers.

But the drawbacks of guest worker programs far outweigh their advantages. To
begin with, experience shows that guest workers are not good guests: they rarely
want to leave. In Germany today there are more than two million people of Muslim
Turkish origin, many of whose families came as guest workers four decades ago.
Guest workers marry locals; they have children; they encourage their kin and
friends to join them in the host country, legally or illegally.

After all, guest workers are not just labor, they are people. Where will these
people live, and how will they be treated? Can we look forward to new urban
ghettos or rural guest-worker "villages"? Fifty years after the civil rights
movement, will we now have a new caste of subordinated foreign workers? Once the
economic need for guest workers abates (assuming, in fact, that there is such a
need) what happens to them?

It is true that America has more experience with assimilation than Europe. But
that does not mean finding answers to these questions will be any less
difficult.

And in some respects, the dangers of a guest worker program in the United States
are graver than they were in Europe. Germany, the Benelux countries, Scandinavia
and other European host countries had and still have very strong labor unions.
Those strong unions were able to make certain that guest workers were not used
by employers to depress wages. By contrast, American labor unions are weak to
nonexistent in most segments of the labor market.

In addition, President Bush has clearly expressed his intention to put employers
in charge: guest workers will be selected by employers and will be able to
remain in the United States only so long as they stay with the employer who
brought them. This is a sure recipe not only for the exploitation of these
"guests" but also for the depression of American wages generally, especially
among those who can least afford it -- many of them immigrants.

The United States has always been a "welcoming country," as the president said,
"open to the talents and dreams of the world." But this plan is an abandonment
of America's ideals, not an expression of them. It values immigrants' talents
over their dreams. Instead of hope, it offers them simply a job.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Temporary Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 663 words


President Bush wants to create a new class of "temporary" workers in America. As
he said in his immigration proposal last week, he expects these workers to spend
several years here, and he would offer them incentives to return permanently to
their home countries. This is a reasonable idea but unduly limited. It is clear
that there are low-skilled jobs that are open, and that there are many eager to
come, earn higher wages here and then return. At the same time, some should be
able to seek permanent residency. Moreover, the history of guest workers in
America is a brutal one, filled with abuse by employers and the government as
well as legitimate concerns by American workers. The challenge for the
president, the Congress and the leaders of nations that would provide the new
class of workers will be to find a better way to serve their needs, ensuring
that those who are temporary are given a fair,enforceable deal while offering
some portion of them the chance to stay and become permanent.

Perhaps the most notorious guest worker program in recent American history
involved the "braceros" who arrived to help harvest fields during World War II.
Until 1964, more than three million of these workers migrated seasonally to pick
vital crops like cotton or sugar beets in the Southwest. On paper, it appeared
the braceros were getting a good deal and some actually did fairly well. They
were given incentives like promises of transportation, housing and health care.
To assure that they would not stay, a part of their salaries was deducted and
was supposed to be given back when they returned home. Despite such assurances,
many were harassed and discriminated against while they were here and few got
back their deducted wages when they went home. By the time it ended, the
braceros program had earned its reputation as a form of legalized slavery.

For Mr. Bush's plan to succeed, it needs to offer at least some workers a way to
stay in America. Mr. Bush is on the right track when he promises incentives --
incentives that must actually work this time -- for those who want to go back
and perhaps start small businesses or buy farms with their earnings. But the
president was far less clear about those who do not want to go home.

There must be some workable option for such immigrants, especially those who
have been here for years, working, raising families and paying taxes. Without an
optional path to a green card and ultimately citizenship, many of these illegal
immigrants simply won't come forward. Mr. Bush says his first priority when it
comes to immigration reform is security, which makes it crucial to figure out
the identities of the nation's 8 to 10 million illegal immigrants already here.
The president's plan will not entice these immigrants out of the shadows if it
simply turns out to be another way of deporting them.

Giving illegal immigrants a route to legal status does not mean they should be
allowed to jump ahead of those already in the torturously long line for green
cards. Most of the bills in Congress will probably add to the long wait for
those here illegally. Some proposals even levy a fine for crossing the border
without proper documents in the first place. The better packages -- like the one
from Arizona Republicans including Senator John McCain -- encourage temporary
employment at the same time they offer some possibility of permanence. Another
bill, the "AgJobs" bill, which would start with 500,000 agricultural workers'
getting immediate legal status, has already been vetted enough by warring groups
to have strong bipartisan support.

Some suspect last week's announcement was little more than a sop to Hispanic
voters and a prelude to Mr. Bush's visit today to Mexico. He can prove them
wrong by putting his shoulder behind the AgJobs package that already has strong
support from business, labor, Republicans and Democrats. Then he can expand his
temporary worker program to appeal to that same, formidable coalition.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Conference, Fox Backs Bush's Guest-Worker Plan

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, Jan. 12


President Bush won strong support on Monday for his plan to overhaul the
nation's immigration system from President Vicente Fox of Mexico, who called it
"a very important step forward for many Mexican workers in the United States."

For his part, Mr. Bush acknowledged that politics played a part in his proposal
to offer legal status to millions of illegal workers, but he said that did not
undercut the merits of his plan.

"Yes, there's politics involved," Mr. Bush said in a joint news conference with
Mr. Fox in this bustling commercial center in the Sierra Madre, where the two
were meeting at a conference of 34 leaders from the Western Hemisphere. "And
there will be politics probably involved in whether or not it passes Congress.
But the reason I proposed the initiative is because it is the right thing for
America to do."

Both leaders used the occasion to make up publicly after their split over the
war in Iraq, which was opposed by Mr. Fox, once one of Mr. Bush's closest
friends among world leaders. Mr. Bush essentially said here that the argument
was past.

"Vicente Fox is a good enough friend for him to be able to express his opinion
to me without the loss of friendship," Mr. Bush said as he stood with Mr. Fox
during the news conference, at the Quinta Real Hotel. "And he didn't agree with
the decision I made. But the decision I made was the right one for America."

The immigration plan is critical to the domestic politics of both men. For Mr.
Bush, it offers an opportunity to appeal to the Hispanic voters who are
essential to his success in the election this year. For Mr. Fox, it offers an
opportunity for realizing part of a long-held goal to help Mexican migrants.

"This has been a priority of the Fox administration, and they have made that
clear," said Tony Garza, the United States ambassador here. Midway through Mr.
Fox's six-year presidency, much of his domestic agenda -- tax, fiscal, energy
and social reforms -- has been stalled by his opponents in Congress and his own
political failings. He badly needs a victory, and may have a better chance in
the United States Congress than at home.

Mr. Bush said he did not see his proposal as a simple offer of legal status to
Mexicans who had broken American laws, which is the view of many conservatives
in Congress. Under the plan, an illegal immigrant would have to have a job and a
sponsoring employer to apply for legal temporary worker status in the United
States. He reiterated Monday that temporary workers would be expected to return
permanently to their home countries after their work period expires.

"This plan is not amnesty," Mr. Bush said. "I oppose amnesty because it
encourages the violation of our laws and perpetuates illegal immigration."

Mr. Bush's trip here to Monterrey, in the northern state of Nuevo Leon, about
150 miles from the border city of Laredo, Tex., is his fourth to Mexico since he
took office. During the news conference, he invited Mr. Fox and his wife to
visit his ranch in Crawford, Tex., on March 5 and 6.

As the summit meeting formally began Monday evening, the nations still had no
agreement on a declaration that is supposed to be issued by their leaders on
Tuesday. Such texts are usually agreed upon well in advance. The lack of a
statement indicated the depth of disagreement among the leaders.

The United States wanted the summit meeting to set a goal of 2005 for a
hemispheric free-trade zone, the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas. It would
include the 34 members of the Organization of American States, whose economies
together total $11 trillion. Cuba is not included.

But not even Mr. Fox, nor Canada's leader, Prime Minister Paul Martin, thought
that was realistic. This conference, Mr. Fox noted, was not called to discuss
free trade.

The conference presents Mr. Bush with the opposition of what amounts to a "new
left" in South America, led by President Nestor Kirchner of Argentina and
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil. Those leaders see the world
through their nations' own wrenching experiences with the free market.

Brazil has urged other countries to refuse to ratify a conference declaration
including free trade unless Mr. Bush addresses the United States' $20 billion in
annual farm subsidies.

Another thorn in Mr. Bush's side in Monterrey is President Hugo Chavez of
Venezuela. He lashed out at the very idea of formal dinners and conferences
among world leaders.

"While we, the presidents, go from summit to summit, our people go from abyss to
abyss," he said in an interview with a local television station. "These summits
are social gatherings -- we fly, we say hello, we share one or two meals, we
sign a paper, we have a photo taken, and that is all."

Whether the nations would have a paper to sign remained in some doubt on Monday
night.

Another stumbling block emerged. Some leaders objected to an effort by the
United States to oust nations deemed to have corrupt governments from the
Organization of American States and ban them from future meetings.

Mr. Bush separately issued an order barring people deemed corrupt from entering
the United States.

The United States would equate corrupt governments with undemocratic ones. The
question is who decides who is corrupt. The proposal faced "a lot of
resistance," said Bill Graham, the foreign minister of Canada.

"All countries have corruption," he said. "Who will decide whether a country is
invited or not?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Farmers protested yesterday in Monterrey, Mexico, at the start
of the Summit of the Americas. (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 9, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Challenges Bush on Veto Threat

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


The Senate ignored a White House veto threat on Wednesday and voted to block
President Bush from handing some Homeland Security Department jobs to private
companies.

The 49-to-47 vote was a victory for Democrats and labor unions of federal
workers.

Five Republicans voted with the Democrats.

The language was added to a $32 billion bill financing the Homeland Security
Department next year. The White Housewarned of the veto in a statement to
lawmakers, saying the amendment would ''preclude public-private competition and
turn back efforts to significantly improve customer service for immigrants.''

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, a chief sponsor of the provision,
said it was intended to prevent President Bush from replacing 1,100 immigration
officers.Republicans said the workers performed administrative duties.

Five Republicans from states with a significant presence of organized labor
joined Democrats in voting : Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins of
Maine, Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, Christopher S. Bond of Missouri and Arlen
Specter of Pennsylvania.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rescuing What Hatred Tried to Kill

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: MILLTOWN, N.J.


DURI HASAN was in her car on the way to the halal meat market in Highland Park
when the call came from Representative Rush D. Holt's office in Washington.

''Do you know what happened two minutes ago?'' the caller asked. Mrs. Hasan
could guess, but she was too scared to speak the words. ''The House of
Representatives passed the bill.''

Mrs. Hasan offered her thanks and then began frantically calling her sister and
her daughters, wondering to herself if this really might be it -- the guarantee
three years after her husband was murdered in the aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001,
that his death would not kill his dream. If so, it's a rare island of unity and
good will, of disparate people coming together to do the right thing, in the sea
of division and rancor 9/11 helped bring about.

On Sept. 15, 2001, a young man named Mark Anthony Stroman walked into a
convenience store in Dallas and shot Waqar Hasan, 46, a Pakistani immigrant, in
the face. He said he did ''what every American wanted to do but didn't'' --
commit a murder to avenge 9/11. He picked Mr. Hasan, who was beginning a
convenience store business as a prelude to moving his wife and four daughters to
Texas, because Mr. Hasan's face, the gunman decided, was the face of America's
enemy.

But along with the tragedy of her husband's death, Mrs. Hasan and her four
daughters soon learned they faced another nightmare -- since his family had come
to the United States on his visa, their applications for visas and green cards
died when he did. Under federal immigration law, they were subject to
deportation, with no alternative path to legal residency.

On Tuesday the House passed a rare private relief bill, a piece of legislation
addressing the needs of a single family or individual, granting the Hasans
permanent residence status. Only six such bills became law in the past Congress.

It would have to be passed by the Senate and signed by the president before
becoming law, but Mrs. Hasan is finally allowing herself to believe that it will
happen.

''I do not want to believe too much until it is all done,'' she said on Tuesday,
as she and her 17-year-old daughter, Anum, sat on a couch at the family's neat
cottage, white with blue trim and two small American flags out front. ''But this
is big news for everyone. We're finally so close.''

It's hard to think of a case where the right thing seems so obvious. Mr. Hasan
was the epitome of an immigrant striver. Mrs. Hasan, who works nights at a
plastic cup factory while raising her daughters, is described by friends as
deeply spiritual, hard working and utterly devoted to her daughters. The girls,
Nida, Anum, Asna and Iqra, have dreams of their own -- two are in college
studying biology and teaching, the others are in high school.

People throughout the town, friends and total strangers, have rallied to their
side, raising money, helping with food, signing letters of support. Forty-two
members of Congress signed a letter recommending the bill's passage, and 16
leaders of Muslim, Jewish, Christian and other religious and civil liberties
groups drafted a letter on their behalf.

Mr. Holt, who has worked to help the family ever since attending the funeral for
Mr. Hasan, said that after 9/11, the families of immigrants killed at the World
Trade Center were accorded similar protection from deportation. Surely Mr.
Hasan, he says, was just as much a victim of the hate of 9/11.

''It would be a blot on America if this didn't happen,'' said Mr. Holt, a
Democrat, who called to offer his congratulations to Mrs. Hasan after the bill
passed. ''We can't make this right. We can't bring him back to life. But we can
prevent a grievous error from being done.''

BUT, in fact, passage was no simple matter. Private relief bills by their nature
have huge potential for abuse, so they are rare for good reason. The Judiciary
Committee, which considered the bill, is especially divided on party lines, and
many proponents of strict immigration policies feel any exceptions simply open
the door to others. Would forced deportation have been a just outcome for the
Hasans had he been shot on Sept. 10?

Still, for the Hasans and their friends, Tuesday was a day to celebrate, not to
ponder policy. Mrs. Hasan had the night off from the factory, and the girls were
home. They were all burning up the phone lines, as were their neighbors.

''Lots of prayers have been answered,'' said Denise Gonzalez, a family friend
whose daughter attends school with Iqra Hasan. ''This is the best news we could
all get. We're going to all have to come over and drink something bubbly, even
if it's just Perrier.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waqar Hasan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeking the American Way, Immigrants Fill Language Courses

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Lingua Franca? Yes, It's
English; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words


''Easy'' was one of a dozen vocabulary words pasted on the board, and someone in
the back of the Brooklyn classroom offered it in a sentence: ''To learn English
is easy.''

Amid rueful laughter from 35 adults who knew better, the teacher asked Hussein
Saleh, 34, to express the same idea, starting with ''It is.''

''It is learn English,'' Mr. Saleh stumbled, visibly wilted from a 12-hour shift
in the laundromat where he has been working seven days a week for three years,
ever since he arrived from Yemen.

A confusing murmur arose in the accents of Haiti, Guatemala, Russia, El Salvador
and Panama, above the bass line of an air-conditioner with more clank than cool.

Manuel Chavarria, 39, whose schooling in El Salvador stopped at the sixth grade,
took up his pencil with hands that had painted hallways and mopped floors all
day. Elvia Villacis, 46, whose college degree from Ecuador had left her
struggling as a house cleaner to support a teenage son in New York, stared at
other words on the list -- ''terrible, impossible, important, necessary'' -- as
though decoding a secret that could change both her life and America.

To learn English is not easy, but more immigrants than ever are trying. All over
the city, literacy experts say, they crowd the free or low-cost English programs
offered at public libraries, schools and community organizations like this one,
the Church Avenue Merchants Block Association, better known as Camba.

''What can we do, turn them away?'' asked Jude Pierre, manager of adult literacy
programs at the association, which was started to improve the Flatbush business
area 27 years ago but soon branched into an array of social services in a new
version of the settlement house. ''They're kicking our doors down, they want to
come in. We have the space, but we can't hire the teachers -- we just don't have
the money.''

Such programs are part of a network of adult literacy and work force development
efforts supported by a fluctuating mix of federal, state and city money.
Officials at the Literary Assistance Center, an umbrella research group for many
of the programs, counted 31,000 English class slots last year, up from 26,000
three years ago. Unions, colleges and jobs programs may account for several
thousand more. But untapped demand is more than 1.5 million, according to recent
surveys.

Like most such programs, Camba does not advertise the free English classes it
offers morning, noon and night.

But word of mouth alone brings so many applicants, Mr. Pierre said, that
students who do not progress to the next level are asked to withdraw for at
least a trimester to let someone else have a chance. Mr. Chavarria, for example,
had waited six months for another turn.

In the classroom where Mr. Saleh struggled, the teacher, Jovy De La Paz, seized
the moment. It was only the second week, and those dreaming of more than
wordless toil at meager wages were expected to attend four evenings a week all
through the summer.

With an energetic pantomime to match his words, he coaxed Mr. Saleh into a new
start, stopped him short with a chopping motion and pointed to the vocabulary
list again. Pouncing on the halting words that emerged from the student's lips,
the teacher used an extravagant pulling gesture to draw out a repetition and
offered a hearty handshake when, at last, Mr. Saleh said the words again: ''It
is easy to learn English.''

The class burst into applause.

''You get to be an artist, a kind of magician,'' Mr. De La Paz said later.
''They are so highly motivated, it also serves as an inspiration to me.''

To some older New Yorkers, the thought of an evening English class for
immigrants may evoke memories of ''The Education of H*Y*M*A*N K*A*P*L*A*N,'' a
collection of humorous stories first published in the 1930's by Leo G. Rosten
under the pseudonym Leonard Q. Ross. Starring Mr. Kaplan, an irrepressible
Middle European immigrant whose mangled but expressive use of English torments
his pedantic teacher, Mr. Parkhill (''Pockheel'' in Kaplan-speak), the stories
depict a universe where anxious native-born Americans with Anglo-Saxon names do
their best to drum the parts of speech into Kaplans, Mitnicks and Caravellos.

But at Camba and many similar programs, the teachers, too, are likely to be
immigrants. Beginners in a predominantly Haitian afternoon class at the agency,
for example, were learning polite commands like ''Please give me my change''
from Irina Logrivinova, 27, who said she was in an English class for foreigners
herself only six years ago, when she arrived from Russia.

''Been there, done that,'' she shrugged with idiomatic nonchalance, noting that
she had gone on to graduate from Brooklyn College and earn a master's degree
from New York University.

Perhaps French and Creole speakers, who tend to lack the ''h'' sound in English,
would pick up a somewhat guttural, Slavic way of saying ''home sweet home.'' But
would it matter? Not in the view of Mr. De La Paz, who is from the Philippines
and works in an administrative job at the agency during the day, placing and
tracking students.

Only communication counts in New York's Babel of accents, says Mr. De La Paz,
whose teaching experience ranges from an elite boys school in Manila to a camp
for Vietnamese refugees. Besides his evening class at Camba, he teaches an
all-day English class at a public library every Saturday and is urging his
church, All Nations Baptist in Woodhaven, Queens, to offer English lessons to
its increasingly diverse congregation.

''You have to use all your creativity,'' he said of helping people move from
embarrassed silence to self-expression. ''You cannot equate it to money. It's a
kind of happiness that can be shared with others.''

Not everyone sees it that way. ''A lot of the time, the people who hire them
really don't want them to go to school,'' Mr. Pierre said, referring to
employers paying below the minimum wage, off the books. ''They might become
wiser, demand their rights. We've had a lot of students coming here and saying.
'My boss is making it difficult for me.'''

Others argue that given limited resources, only legal immigrants should be in
class. ''It's just a matter of common sense that you would give the slots to
people who played by the rules,'' said Steven Camarota, director of research at
the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that favors more
restrictions on immigration.

The city's traditional programs of English for immigrants have never asked
applicants about their legal immigration status, but experts like Elyse B.
Rudolph, executive director of the Literacy Assistance Center, worry about new
forms of restriction on the horizon. More of the varied streams of government
money used for such programs are being tied to eligibility for public assistance
or to quick job placement, not just progress in learning English.

The goals and potential of immigrants striving to learn English are not easily
pigeonholed. The students in Mr. De La Paz's evening class were of all ages and
levels of education and had widely varying abilities to speak English, despite
all having tested orally as ''Level 3,'' the most advanced.

Yvrose Souffrant, 50, a home health care aide born in Haiti, has lived in New
York for 26 years, raising three children and becoming a naturalized citizen,
she said. Now she wants to communicate better with her elderly patients and
increase her part-time hours.

Jose Juarez, 24, who keeps a Mets cap low over his eyes, has been working at day
labor -- construction, cleaning gutters, hauling debris -- since he came from
Guatemala at 16 but has not given up the hope of college.

Both know much more English than Mr. Saleh, an Arabic-speaker who taught seventh
grade in Yemen, or Ms. Villacis, who watched her middle-class life and her son's
prospects of education implode when the currency in Ecuador collapsed, taking
her job and bank account with it.

In New York, she and her son, now 16, eventually landed in a shelter for victims
of domestic violence before she could sell her house in Ecuador and cobble
together money from cleaning work and a boarder to rent an apartment.

''Without English, I can't defend myself,'' she said fiercely in Spanish before
class. She ventured one sentence in English to show what she had often longed to
say during four years in New York: ''The work is hard, I need you pay more!''

Later, she added another: ''I write my book.'' It was a reference to her
ambition to collect the stories of the women she met in the domestic violence
shelter, where she won a $1,500 prize for an essay on her experience that a
social worker translated from Spanish.

In this part of Flatbush, English is less the native language than the lingua
franca, easing the intersections between Creole, Spanish, Arabic and Russian.

The following afternoon, at a sweltering laundromat that stays open 24 hours,
Mr. Saleh was folding clothes, making change and trouble-shooting rows of
coin-operated machines for customers from many lands.

From a pay phone in the back, he had already made his daily call to his wife in
Yemen, to hear about their 3-year-old daughter, born just after he left for the
United States. He had been on duty since 5:30 a.m.

''Too much tired,'' he shouted above the roar.

But back in class, there was the chance to vent, to laugh, to hope.

''To work in a laundry is terrible,'' Mr. Saleh offered with glee.

''To become a U.S. citizen is excellent,'' a dressmaker from Haiti said.

And when Mr. De La Paz introduced the idea of a verb that needed to be completed
-- to change -- the answers flew.

''To change the oil,'' one said. Another declared, ''To change my life!''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: With an energetic pantomime, Jovy De La Paz tries to coax
progress from students in his English class. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New
York Times)(pg. B1)
Manuel Chavarria, 39, works painting hallways and mopping floors. His schooling
in his native El Salvador stopped at the sixth grade.
 Elvia Villacis, left, struggles as a house cleaner to support a teenage son,
Jean, in New York. Hussein Saleh manages a laundry. (Photographs by Michelle V.
Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2004 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Raise Call For Right to Be Voters

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1144 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 8


For months, the would-be revolutionaries plotted strategy and lobbied local
politicians here with the age-old plea, ''No taxation without representation!''
Last month, some of the unlikely insurgents -- Ethiopian-born restaurateurs,
travel agents and real estate developers in sober business suits -- declared
that victory finally seemed within reach.

Five City Council members announced their support for a bill that would allow
thousands of immigrants to vote in local elections here, placing the nation's
capital among a handful of cities across the country in the forefront of efforts
to offer voting rights to noncitizens.

''It will happen,'' said Tamrat Medhin, a civic activist from Ethiopia who lives
here. ''Don't you believe that if people are working in the community and paying
taxes, don't you agree that they deserve the opportunity to vote?''

Calling for ''democracy for all,'' immigrants are increasingly pressing for the
right to vote in municipal elections. In Washington, the proposed bill,
introduced in July, would allow permanent residents to vote for the mayor and
members of the school board and City Council.

In San Francisco, voters will decide in November whether to allow noncitizens --
including illegal immigrants -- to vote in school board elections. Efforts to
expand the franchise to noncitizens are also bubbling up in New York,
Connecticut and elsewhere. Several cities, including Chicago, and towns like
Takoma Park, Md., already allow noncitizens to vote in municipal or school
elections.

But in most cities, voting remains a right reserved for citizens, and the
prospects for the initiatives in Washington and San Francisco remain uncertain.
The proposals have inspired fierce opposition from critics who say the laws
would undermine the value of American citizenship and raise security concerns in
the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Washington's mayor, Anthony
Williams, has expressed his support for extending voting rights to permanent
residents, but has yet to garner a majority of supporters on the 13-member City
Council. In San Francisco, critics have questioned whether the law would violate
the state's Constitution.

In this city, where Ethiopian restaurants and El Salvadoran travel agents dot
many urban streets, advocates argue that permanent residents are paying taxes
and fighting and dying for the United States as soldiers in Iraq while lacking a
voice in local government. They describe the ban on immigrant voting as akin to
the kind of taxation without representation that was a major cause of the
American Revolution.

They also note that the United States has a long history of allowing noncitizens
to vote. Twenty-two states and federal territories at various times allowed
noncitizens to vote -- even as blacks and women were barred from the ballot box
-- in the 1800's and 1900's.

Concerns about the radicalism of immigrants arriving from southern and Eastern
Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries led states to restrict such
voting rights. By 1928, voting at every level had been restricted to United
States citizens. Today, some argue, those rights should be restored to
noncitizens.

''They're paying taxes, they're working, they're contributing to our
prosperity,'' said Jim Graham, the councilman who introduced the bill here.
''And yet they're not able to exercise the franchise.

''This is part of our history. A lot of people don't know what the history of
this nation is in terms of immigrant voting; they don't understand even that
localities can determine this issue. It's a very healthy discussion.''

Critics counter that the proposed laws would make citizenship irrelevant and
pledges of allegiance to the United States meaningless. It is a touchy political
issue, particularly in an election year when many politicians across party lines
are lobbying for support from Hispanic voters, and many politicians have tried
to sidestep it altogether.

Democrats have most often sponsored the initiatives, but some also oppose them.
In Washington, where Congress has the right to override city laws, some
Republicans said they would try to overturn the immigrant voting bill if it
passed.

''Is it really too much to ask that American citizenship be a prerequisite for
voting in American elections?'' Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of
Colorado, asked in a letter to members of Congress last month.

''One of the things that differentiates American citizenship from simple
residency is the right to vote,'' said Mr. Tancredo, who rallied opposition to
the bill. ''The passage of this measure would not only blur that distinction, it
would erase it -- allowing as many as 40,000 aliens in the District of Columbia
to vote.''

In San Francisco, some critics have also argued that the proposals raise
security concerns. Louise Renne, a former city attorney in San Francisco and a
longtime critic of the concept, recently raised the question of whether
terrorists would soon be allowed access to the polls. "If noncitizens can
vote,'' she asked reporters, ''can Osama bin Laden vote in a school election?"

Advocates for noncitizen voting rights dismiss concerns about threats to
national security, noting that several countries, including Belgium and Ireland,
allow noncitizens to vote in local elections. New Zealand allows permanent
residents to vote in local and national elections.

They argue that immigrants will still aspire to citizenship because it is the
only way they can vote in federal elections. And having the right to vote, they
argue, will help noncitizens feel more politically engaged and committed to this
country.

''A lot of communities are not represented by representatives who reflect the
diversity in their communities and are responsive to their needs,'' said Ron
Hayduk, a professor of political science at the Borough of Manhattan Community
College and an advocate for immigrant voting rights. ''It raises basic
fundamental questions about democracy.''

In Washington, Connie Mann, a 44-year-old permanent resident from Namibia, is
already dreaming of voting for the mayor. Sergio Luna of Guatemala, a community
outreach specialist for the city, hopes to improve this city's struggling
schools, where his son is a student. ''If we have the opportunity to vote for
the school board, the Council and the mayor, we'll be making some changes,'' he
said.

Mr. Graham, who was applauded by his Ethiopian supporters last week for
introducing the voting legislation here, says he believes the bill will become
law, even if it not this year. He says he needs the support of only two more
members of the Council and is working to woo them, even if that means
reintroducing the legislation next year. Lobbying Congress, he said, would be
the next step. ''This is not a 50-yard dash issue,'' he said. ''This is an issue
you just have to keep working on.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2004



CORRECTION: An article on Aug. 9 about a movement by immigrants across the
United States to win the right to vote in municipal elections referred
incorrectly to a comment from Louise Renne, a former city attorney in San
Francisco and longtime critic of the concept, who asked, ''If noncitizens can
vote, can Osama bin Laden vote in a school election?'' Ms. Renne asked the
rhetorical question in an interview with a reporter from The San Francisco
Chronicle. She was not talking to ''reporters.''



GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Graham, right, a Washington city councilman, and Tamrat
Medhin, a civic activist, support voting rights for noncitizens. (Photo by Jay
Talbott for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 19, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 80 words


An article on Aug. 9 about a movement by immigrants across the United States to
win the right to vote in municipal elections referred incorrectly to a comment
from Louise Renne, a former city attorney in San Francisco and longtime critic
of the concept, who asked, ''If noncitizens can vote, can Osama bin Laden vote
in a school election?'' Ms. Renne asked the rhetorical question in an interview
with a reporter from The San Francisco Chronicle. She was not talking to
''reporters.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

School Districts Struggle With English Fluency Mandate

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1155 words

DATELINE: FORT LUPTON, Colo.


Ten-year-old Claudia Hernandez, the daughter of Mexican immigrants, learned
English in the schools here, and after her teacher gave her a dictionary as a
gift, she studied at home, too, playing school with her younger brother. Claudia
would be the teacher, she recalled, and together they would look up words.

"I'd write out the definitions and memorize them," she said, "and my English
just kept getting better."

Claudia's recent certification as a fluent English speaker was a milestone for
her and for her school, Butler Elementary, which like thousands of others across
the nation has become eager to help students learn English as quickly as
possible because a new federal law imposes sanctions on schools that do not.

But because of what experts call a Catch-22 in the law, Butler Elementary will
obtain no credit for Claudia's achievement.

Under the law, school districts must show improvement in many categories of
students, including those who have limited English proficiency. When the
students improve enough, as in Claudia's case, though, they are taken out of the
limited-proficiency category, making it virtually impossible for districts to
demonstrate progress, many educators say.

"It's a big flaw in the law," said Jack Jennings, director of the Center on
Education Policy in Washington, who is overseeing an extensive study of how the
law is affecting school districts across the nation.

Polls have shown that many Americans have never heard of the law, known as No
Child Left Behind, even though it is President Bush's main education initiative.
But Mr. Jennings's study has found that the law is having a profound effect, and
many educators worry that it will result in the labeling of a majority of the
country's 90,000 public schools as failing.

Schools are adjusting to the law's new requirements as they teach the largest
wave of non-English-speaking students in the nation's history. Jeffrey S.
Passel, a demographer who studied the explosive recent growth of
second-generation Hispanics, said American schools were educating about 11
million children of immigrants, more than ever before. About 5.5 million
students, 10 percent of public school enrollment, speak English poorly or not at
all.

The way the law treats test scores of students learning English is one of
several features at issue. It requires schools to make "adequate yearly
progress" in raising the achievement not only of English learners, but also of
students in five racial and ethnic groups, as well as those who are disabled or
are from low-income families. Schools where test scores for any group fail to
rise for at least two consecutive years face increasing penalties over several
years, including paying for private tutors and firing school staff members.

Kathleen Leos, associate deputy under secretary of education for English
language acquisition, said officials from several states had complained to the
department about the loophole. Two, California and Illinois, have already won
approval for proposals that would allow them to receive credit for the rising
scores of students like Claudia, and more may follow, Ms. Leos said.

"Over the years, our English learners have not been well taught," Ms. Leos said.
"This law takes them seriously for the first time."

Many educators agree that the law forces schools to examine how effectively they
have been teaching non-English speakers.

Many districts have long assumed, based on research, that it takes seven years
to bring students who speak no English to full fluency. But the federal law
gives schools just three years to do the job. Any student who has attended
United States schools for three years must be given standardized tests in
English, and schools are held accountable for their scores. The law allows for a
two-year extension to continue testing students in their native language if the
teacher requests one and is granted it.

One district struggling with the law is in Sheboygan, Wis., 60 miles north of
Milwaukee. Its 17 schools teach students who speak 20 languages, including
children of Hmong refugees from Southeast Asia and families from Bosnia and
Albania.

John Pfaff, a principal whose duties include managing compliance with No Child
Left Behind, said the district had long thought that seven years was a good pace
for bringing students to English fluency but is now seeking to move faster.

But even if Sheboygan can accelerate the learning, Mr. Pfaff said, it faces a
"huge challenge" raising the scores of foreign-born students to the same levels
as their English-speaking counterparts, as the law requires.

"I see this as becoming a harder and harder task for every school in every
district," Mr. Pfaff said.

The Department of Education has not reported how many schools failed to make
adequate yearly progress based on standardized tests that were administered last
spring. But a survey by the National Education Association, the teachers' union,
has counted 22,000 schools in 44 states.

More schools failed because of the low scores of disabled students and ones
limited in English than for other factors, experts said.

"This is part of the train wreck that is unfolding," said Richard P. Duran, an
education professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara, referring
to the law's effect on the educational system. "It is going to get increasingly
difficult for schools to show rapid rates of growth for their students. Some
schools will begin to treat their English learners as failures."

In Fort Lupton, 25 miles north of Denver, vegetable farms and meat-packing
plants have attracted immigrants and migrant workers. Spanish-speaking students,
most from low-income families and many with jobs themselves, make up nearly half
of the district's 2,600 students.

Laura Flores, 18, a high school senior, arrived from Puebla, Mexico, three years
ago. She threw herself into her English homework each night following her
after-school job at a Burger King, poring over vocabulary lists until she was
bleary-eyed. Today she is fluent.

"You struggle a lot, but it works," she said.

But many other English learners here are making slower progress. Earlier this
month, an 18-year-old born in Veracruz, Mexico, who has studied English at Fort
Lupton High for four years, stumbled repeatedly in a classroom drill on the
idiomatic uses of "the."

"Where are you going?" the teenager's teacher asked, pointing at the word
"store" on the blackboard.

He said, "I'm going to store."

The teacher corrected, "No, you need to use 'the' before store," and pointed to
the word "beach."

He said, "I'm going to beach." Again, she corrected him.

The superintendent, Stephen Morrison, acknowledged that Fort Lupton's record
with English-language learners was not distinguished, and he praised the law for
focusing attention on their needs. But Mr. Morrison criticized what he called
"punitive measurements and sanctions."

"It seems like there's a no-win aspect to this law," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claudia Hernandez of Fort Lupton, Colo., was certified as fluent
in English, but her school did not get credit. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Changes Made In Test Rules Of School Law

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19


Amid growing opposition to the federal education law known as No Child Left
Behind, federal officials announced on Thursday that the test scores of recent
immigrants who do not speak English would no longer be considered in determining
whether a school was meeting annual targets for academic progress.

The change is expected to relieve pressure on public schools with immigrant
populations. Until now, those schools had been required to test newcomers in
reading and math during their first year in this country, before many of them
have had a chance to learn English. Because of that, education advocacy groups
have long complained that the law essentially forced failure on schools with
large immigrant populations.

Under the law's strict provisions for demonstrating adequate progress by each
subgroup of students -- English-language learners, disabled students, minority
students and the poor -- almost 30 percent of American public schools have been
labeled ''in need of improvement.''

Education Department officials said they did not know how many of the schools
would have escaped that designation if today's rules had been written into the
original law, which President Bush signed two years ago. But Ron Tomalis, an
adviser to Education Secretary Rod Paige, said that in some states where
department officials had analyzed test results, the list of subpar schools could
shrink by 20 percent to 25 percent.

Under the changes, which came after months of deliberation, students who do not
speak English will have a year -- during which they will presumably learn the
language -- before they must take the standardized tests in reading and math.
Schools may administer English proficiency, language arts and math exams to
immigrant students in that first year, but the scores will not count toward a
school's academic ranking.

''It's a win-win for both students and schools,'' Dr. Paige said at a news
conference here at which the Cuban-born musician and songwriter Jon Secada spoke
in support of No Child Left Behind.

Dr. Paige said the new rules were not a direct response to criticism of the law,
but he acknowledged that the Education Department was concerned about the
complaints.

Education advocates praised Thursday's move, but said it should have come
sooner.

''The shame of it is that it took the department more than two years to offer
such a simple, common-sense solution to a problem that has been bedeviling
implementation efforts from the beginning,'' said Ross Weiner, policy director
at the Education Trust, a nonprofit advocacy group that helped write the law.

''The delay in issuing these simple rules raises disturbing questions about the
Bush administration's commitment to making the law work,'' Mr. Weiner said.

A second change to the law is extremely technical, but important to schools.
Schools may now continue counting foreign students in the subgroup of students
learning English for two years after they have learned the language. The change
comes in response to schools' concern that the subgroup of English learners
would, by definition, always ensure a school's failure if students moved out of
the subgroup once the school succeeded in teaching them English.

The Education Department had already granted that change to several states,
including California and Georgia, that had requested permission individually,
said Diane Rentner, deputy director of the Center on Education Policy, a
nonprofit research and policy organization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Security Rules Tie Foreigners With Red Tape

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words


Gabriella A. Barschdorff, a vice president for strategic investment at J. P.
Morgan Chase in New York, is not exactly the huddled-masses type. But one rainy
day last week, shortly before 7 a.m., she joined the long, bedraggled line of
immigrants standing outside 26 Federal Plaza in downtown Manhattan. There she
took the spot held for her by a young man she had hired to camp out in his
sleeping bag.

It was all part of a last-ditch bid to get her formal travel document, a paper
that, as a legal foreign worker with a pending green card application, she badly
needed. If she failed, she would miss a business meeting in London. If she went
without the permit, she risked being barred from coming back to America.

Ms. Barschdorff, who is Swedish, is one of thousands of skilled foreign
professionals working legally in the United States who find themselves virtual
prisoners of a ballooning immigration-services backlog. In the last year, the
mostly routine paperwork they need to work and travel has slowed to a crawl.

Processing times -- for everything from renewing an annual work permit to
securing permanent legal residency -- have as much as quadrupled over the last
18 months, despite the Bush administration's pledge to cut waiting times in
half. The wait to replace a lost green card, for instance, has grown to 19
months from four. And the kind of paperwork sought by Ms. Barschdorff -- a
document allowing her to re-enter the country after a brief trip -- now takes
seven months instead of two.

As a consequence, and despite an infusion of $160 million earmarked for cutting
the backlog, the number of pending applications has risen by nearly 60 percent
over the last three years, to 6.2 million, according to a recent congressional
report. The root cause, officials say, is the post-9/11 reassignment of 1,000
agents who used to issue documents and now do extensive security checks of every
applicant instead.

The fallout ranges from inconveniences to wrenching dilemmas.

There is Christopher B. Murray, for example, the manager of nano-scale research
for I.B.M., who had to decide whether to rush to his mother's side when his
father died in Nova Scotia last week, or battle for an emergency travel document
to replace the one that he had applied to renew last year. And there is William
Powell, an American journalist for Fortune magazine, and his Chinese wife, Joyce
Cui, who spent most of her pregnancy agonizing over whether she should go back
to Beijing to give birth near her family. Because she had applied for a green
card, she risked being barred from the United States if she left before her
travel documents came through; if she stayed, she risked going into labor alone
in New York when he was reassigned to China.

''The delays in processing some of these cases have clearly been as a result of
moving so many of our employees, especially in the service centers, into
security checks,'' said William R. Yates, associate director of operations for
Citizenship and Immigration Services, in Homeland Security. ''We don't
apologize. We have identified a number of persons who represented a threat to
the United States.''

But he added, ''Everything else has suffered, unfortunately.''

Mr. Yates reiterated the commitment to cut the backlog by September 2006. But
there is little optimism among many international businesses and institutions
struggling with the problem on behalf of 700,000 foreign employees based in the
United States.

The new obstacles and delays, business leaders say, are already hurting their
ability to recruit and keep the best talent worldwide.

''There are key people who are unable to work, unable to close the gaps in their
status,'' said Mr. Murray, adding that his recruitment of foreign researchers at
Harvard and M.I.T. had been damaged. ''It puts the U.S. at a serious
disadvantage.''

Processing delays force employers to file costly multiple petitions just to keep
an employee and dependents in legal status, complained Lynn Shotwell, director
of the American Council on International Personnel, a Washington organization
for 250 corporations and institutions that want to ease the movement of
personnel.

The council has protested a Bush administration plan to impose higher processing
fees to finance the hiring of additional personnel.

One of the regional offices most beset with delays is the Vermont Service
Center, which handles applications from New York and other Northeastern states.
Mr. Yates, the domestic security official, said the office, in St. Albans,
stopped issuing non-emergency travel documents for several months this winter
because it ran out of security paper with the department's new logo.

The overflow spilled into district offices like 26 Federal Plaza. In theory,
after waiting 90 days for a work permit to be renewed by mail, for example, an
applicant can have one issued in person, the same day. But in practice, only 100
are given out daily.

Such problems played out last week when Ms. Barschdorff, 33, passed through the
metal detectors at 26 Federal Plaza. She wanted to renew her annual work permit
and to get the document that would let her travel safely to London and back to
her 1-year-old American daughter.

For her, the last best hope was the young man with the sleeping bag, Kendo
McDonald. Mr. McDonald, 28, has worked for a decade as a trusted ''runner,''
shepherding documents and now clients for the international immigration law firm
of Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy. He has his own measure of how much worse
the backlog grew in the last year.

''Before I didn't have to do this 3-o'clock-in-the-morning thing,'' he said,
rainwater still dripping from his jacket. ''I could come at 8 a.m.''

After vetting Ms. Barschdorff's documents, and those of two other clients, Mr.
McDonald guided them into the netherworld of federal bureaucracy. Ms.
Barschdorff would spend the next nine and a half hours there, in a labyrinth of
lines and waiting rooms.

The two other clients asked that their names not be published, worried that
publicity could hurt their pending green card applications. One was a
33-year-old computer scientist at I.B.M. who left India eight years ago to earn
a doctorate at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He said he had
risen at 3 a.m. to make it from his home in Mohegan Lake, where his wife and
5-month-old American-born daughter were sleeping. The other man described
himself as a ''denim consultant'' who was born in Zimbabwe but had lived for
years in London before moving to New York six years ago to work for the fashion
designer Calvin Klein.

Together with Ms. Barschdorff, who previously worked at the European Parliament
in Brussels and has degrees from Columbia and the London School of Economics,
the trio almost typified the mobility of an international class of go-getters
whose cosmopolitan careers help make New York a global hub of finance, science
and design. Both men were being sponsored for green cards by employers, as
''aliens of extraordinary ability'' -- a phrase ''that makes people think of
E.T.,'' Ms. Barschdorff joked. But without the work permit renewals they needed,
they could be left without paychecks.

Mr. McDonald warned Ms. Barschdorff that renewing two documents at once might be
impossible. The waiting room for one was on the eighth floor, the other on the
ninth.

There are plans for every waiting room to adopt a number system like the one
used by busy New York delis, Mr. McDonald said, but for now, after turning in
papers to one of the window agents, applicants just have to wait until they are
summoned by name. The typical wait is four to six hours, he said. And if Ms.
Barschdorff ran up and down between waiting rooms, she would risk missing one or
both calls.

But Mr. McDonald helped her manage the juggling act, and smoothed the way when
her paperwork seemed deficient. J.P. Morgan was paying $1,500 for the law firm's
work to renew Ms. Barschdorff's employment authorization card alone, she said.

Many in the room were fending for themselves. The line that snaked through the
ninth-floor waiting room included a Polish construction worker, a Nigerian
nurse, and a turbaned chef from India. Only the chef, Manjit Singh, 42, would
give his name after explaining that his boss was sponsoring him because of his
skill at making curry for a restaurant on Union Turnpike in Queens.

Some were turned away, but after nearly 10 hours, Ms. Barschdorff emerged
triumphant. She had gained both the right to travel and another year's work
authorization. Her two companions had their work permits, too. Mr. McDonald was
headed back to Queens for a few hours' sleep before doing it all over again.

''Even though I absolutely despise this bureaucracy,'' Ms. Barschdorff said,
''at the end of the day you can come to America.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gabriella A. Barschdorff waited in line last week outside
immigration district offices at 26 Federal Plaza. (Photo by Frances Roberts for
The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Waiting It Out With Immigration''The office
of Citizenship and Immigration Services has seen increases in the processing
time for immigrant applications despite its goal to cut the backlog to six
months or less.Application: I-485 -- To adjust statusAverage processing time, in
monthsFiscal Year2002 -- Goal: 102002 -- Actual*: 132003 -- Goal: 62003:
Actual*: 33Application: I-90 -- To replace a green cardAverage processing time,
in monthsFiscal Year2002 -- Goal: 12002 -- Actual*: 192003 -- Goal: 32003:
Actual*: 4Application: I-131 -- Travel documentAverage processing time, in
monthsFiscal Year2002 -- Goal: 22002 -- Actual*: 32003 -- Goal: 12003: Actual*:
7*Fiscal years are October to September
 2003 figures are projected.(Source by General Accounting Office)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

COVER STORY;
Drugs, Bodies, Weapons And Terrorists

BYLINE:  By HUGH HART

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1087 words


THERE's no stopping "Traffic." In 1989 the British "Traffik," a Channel Four
production, traced heroin trade along ancient smuggling routes from the poppy
fields of Pakistan to the end-user: teenage drug addicts in England. Then in
2000, Steven Soderbergh's equally downbeat epic, with an innovative multistrand
story line, shifted locales to Mexico and the United States and earned four
Oscars, including one for best director, and a nomination for best picture. This
week, USA presents its own six-hour "Traffic" mini-series, with a new,
terrifyingly human twist.

"What's happened is that there's now this huge international trade in smuggling
people by using the heroin smuggling people by using the heroin smuggling
routes," said Ron Hutchinson, who wrote the screenplay for the mini-series. The
drug routes, he said, have formed part of the infrastructure for the terrorist
networks; their wheels are greased by drugs, which have become "the
international underground currency."

"It's disposable; it's portable; it doesn't give you the headaches that a bundle
of cash does because you don't have all the problems of getting it into the
banking system and hiding it," Mr. Hutchinson said. "So there's this huge circle
now and it all comes back to drugs."

Expanding the "Traffic" metaphor to encompass immigration and terrorism was not
necessarily what USA executives had in mind when they approached Mr. Hutchinson
two years ago about revisiting the subject. "What I basically said to them was
that I didn't think audiences would want a retread of the same tale," recalled
Mr. Hutchinson, who is also the executive producer of the mini-series. "There's
this whole underground economy that's come along in the last 10 years or so
since the original 'Traffik' and it's not just about drugs anymore."

To dramatize the nexus among drugs, bodies, weapons and terrorists, Mr.
Hutchinson devised three hopscotching story lines. A rogue agent (Elias Koteas)
cuts off contact with his handlers from the Drug Enforcement Administration to
broker a suspicious heroin deal with an Afghan drug dealer (Ritchie Coster)
while, in Seattle, his wife (Mary McCormack) tries to deal with their rebellious
teenage son (Justin Chatwin). Elsewhere in Seattle, a taxi-driving illegal
immigrant from Chechnya (Cliff Curtis) worries about the fate of his wife and
child, who are supposed to be hidden in the hold of a cargo ship.
Simultaneously, a Seattle businessman (Balthazar Getty) who's taken over his
father's garment factory gets entangled with a shady Chinese-American
"businessman" (Nelson Lee) who's interested in importing more than textiles.

Stephen Hopkins, who had demonstrated his ability to juggle parallel story lines
as the Emmy-nominated director of "24" during its first season on Fox, was hired
to braid the narrative bits together. "In the first two hours of this series, we
had to do something scary, which is tell a bunch of different stories which you
know are all going to collide later on but no one else does," said Mr. Hopkins,
a producer of the mini-series.

"Mary McCormack's character is more straightforward because she's trying to
protect her family, so that's the easiest to jump in and out of," Mr. Hopkins
continued. "But the other ones demand being educated by a lot of information
politically and geographically. Some of the ideas I think are foreign to most
people's thinking unless you really follow global politics."

The global reach of drug-financed trafficking was certainly not lost on Mr.
Hutchinson. "The drug business was the original multinational corporation," he
noted. "It's extremely efficient." And ruthless. Mr. Hutchinson, who was
nominated for an Emmy for his work on a previous docudrama, "The Tuskegee
Airmen," made up fictional characters for "Traffic" but based much of the
material on actual events, including an incident he'd heard about from a
journalist friend at the BBC.

"Bodies had been washing up on the coast of Sicily for months, some of them with
bullet holes in the back," Mr. Hutchinson said. "The story was, there had been a
shipload of immigrants to be droppedoff somewhere in Western Europe. The captain
was being paid in heroin, something like a half a kilo a person. When the
captain found some stow-aways, the peol ehe was delivering them to didn't want
to pay any extra so the captain basically shot a half-dozen people and threw
them overboard."

Not that the creative team had to look far afield for examples of human cargo.
Mr. Hopkins filmed "Traffic" in British Columbia. "The first day of shooting, a
giant boat bringing refugees from Asia was picked up in Vancouver," he recalled.
"There were hundreds of people who'd been in this hold for three weeks and
hadn't been let out and were really ill."

Many McCormack, who recently appeared in Mr. Soderbergh's HBO series 'K Street,"
observed fiction imitating fact on a daily basis while portraying Carole McKay,
the well-meaning middle-class mom who's trying to keep her son from getting
caught up in the urban drug scene. "I've never seen anything like it," Ms.
McCormack said. "You'll be walking down the street in Vancouver and right there
in an alleyway you see someone shooting up or doing crack. The people I spoke to
in Vancouver were not shcoked by that at all."

For Mr. Hutchinson, "Traffic" provided an opportunity to knit together seemingly
unrelated predicaments into a broader tapestry of human behavior. "In a larger
sense, this is more than just a story about drug taking," he said. "When you see
some 17-year-old girl shooting up in an alley, that is intimately connected with
this vast 2,000-year-old network, and at some point she's connected with
immigrant smuggling, she's connected with moving guns and explosives and other
nasty stuff around the world, because that habit pays for people who are moving
things other than drugs, sight unseen, and they are doing this through the
ongoing sale of heroin."

As Mr. Hutchinson tells the tale, "Traffic" courses to its somber destination
fueled not just by the apparently incessant appetite for cheap highs but also by
an equally powerful yearning for freedom. "I thought of this story as a way to
explore immigration as much as the drug thing," he said. "I live in California
and read all the time about people being found dead in containers coming from
south of the border or being washed ashore on the Pacific Northwest. America is
still this extraordinary beacon when you consider the terrifying things people
will still do to get here."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover: Elias Koteas as Mike McKay in "Traffic."; Elias
Koteas, left, as Mike McKay, a drug enforcement agent. Below left: Mary
McCormack as his wife, Carole. Above: Martin Donovan as Brent Delaney, McKay's
partner.; Mr. Koteas, left, at the head of the caravan, and Balthazar Getty
right, as Ben Edmonds, a Seattle businessman. Below: Smugglers prepared to drown
the body of an illegal immigrant in a scene from "Traffic." (Photographs by Alan
Zenuk/USA Network)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 7, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Caught in a Terrorism Snare

BYLINE: This article was reported by Ralph Blumenthal in McAllen, Tex., Ginger
Thompson in Mexico City and Michael Wines in Johannesburg, and was written by
Mr. Blumenthal.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1340 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Aug. 4


If Farida Goolam Mahomed Ahmed picked mid-July to swim the Rio Grande into the
United States from Mexico, as the lack of an entry stamp or visa in her South
African passport and the soaking wet jeans in her bag all but blared, it was not
a case of great timing or finesse.

At the quiet McAllen-Miller International Airport in this sun-baked border town
of 106,000 eight miles inland from Mexico, as elsewhere, the Border Patrol and
other security agents were on stepped-up antiterrorism alert. And with her
Muslim name and South Asian features, the petite woman of 48 with long,
jet-black hair who presented herself for a morning flight to New York on July 19
was not exactly inconspicuous.

It did not help that she was carrying $7,300 in assorted currencies and that
three pages were torn out of her passport. Or that she held business cards for
an establishment across the border in Reynosa, Mexico -- a business that Mexican
authorities say does not exist and may signify her reliance on the human
smugglers called coyotes.

But more than two weeks after Ms. Ahmed was detained as a possible terror
suspect, linking her fatefully to the alarm that the Bush administration sounded
against threats of large-scale attacks by Al Qaeda, the government has yet to
charge her with anything beyond re-entering the country illegally, a
misdemeanor, and felony counts of mutilating or altering a passport for entry
and lying to federal agents.

After three days in a Border Patrol holding cell with a concrete bed and no
shower, and what her lawyers in court called a troubling four-day delay in
bringing her before a magistrate, she remains in the custody of United States
marshals in a county lockup near Harlingen. A federal grand jury is to begin
hearing evidence in Houston on Aug. 16, said Michael T. Shelby, the United
States attorney prosecuting the case.

South African officials say the United States has not sought their help in
identifying Ms. Ahmed. The San Antonio office of the F.B.I., which is handling
the case, did not reply to messages.

But while the investigation is continuing, and parts of her story remain
enigmatic, some United States officials, lawyers and others say privately that
Ms. Ahmed -- a divorced mother who came to the United States legally in 1996 and
lived in Chicago and elsewhere for three years -- seems an increasingly
improbable terrorist and that her case may have been publicly presented as
unnecessarily ominous.

Mr. Shelby said that her name was run through security indexes and that ''the
record does not indicate she is a suspect in any other criminal activity besides
U.S. immigration law.''

Representative Solomon P. Ortiz, a Corpus Christi Democrat who is a longtime
member of the House Armed Services Committee, was widely quoted after her arrest
as maintaining that Ms. Ahmed's name did crop up on a watch list of suspected
terrorists -- a claim that other officials say runs contrary to any known
evidence. Mr. Ortiz, who was traveling, did not respond to requests to his
Washington office for a telephone interview, but repeated though a spokeswoman,
Cathy Travis, that ''multiple law enforcement sources'' had told him that Ms.
Ahmed had traveled ''250 times all over the world.''

Asked for Mr. Ortiz's source of information, Ms. Travis said: ''His kind of
folks, multiple law enforcement guys, Customs, Border Patrol, Immigration, folks
like that.''

Eddie Flores, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in the McAllen sector -- 19,000
square miles of South Texas where 76,860 illegal immigrants have been
apprehended since October, 20 percent more than last year -- said that Ms. Ahmed
went through the usual F.B.I. automated fingerprint check upon detention and
that no negative information came back.

Ms. Ahmed's public defender, Kyle Welch, did not respond to calls about his
client. But Will Harrell, executive director of the American Civil Liberties
Union in Texas, said:

''It doesn't take much to trigger a lawful investigation, but nothing enables
the government to treat people beneath the standards of the Geneva Convention
and Vienna Convention.

Tshepo Mazibuko, a spokesman for the South African Embassy in Washington, said
that Ms. Ahmed had not contacted the embassy and that United States authorities
had not responded to requests for information about her, including copies of Ms.
Ahmed's fingerprints to verify that she is a South African citizen. ''We are
definitely worried,'' Mr. Mazibuko said.

The Mexican authorities, denying they may have failed to intercept a possible
terrorist, declared that Ms. Ahmed was not on any watch list and so could not
have been stopped when she flew in from London on July 14. ''She did not fit any
suspicious profiles,'' a high-level intelligence official in the Interior
Ministry said.

Ms. Ahmed's family members, interviewed this week in their home in Johannesburg,
declined to answer some questions or give many specifics, but said that they had
talked to her several times by phone and that she seemed confused about her
case. They called her a longtime Johannesburg resident once in the auction and
furniture business and now unemployed. They said she was not religiously or
politically inclined and had no conceivable connection to Al Qaeda and
terrorism. And they said she was not a frequent traveler.

''Farida went to New York, or went to America, to work,'' said Riaz Bassa, a
nephew who spoke for the others. ''You know, you hear about the American dream,
the way people go to other places, to do bigger things. And this is what she
wanted to do. She is not linked to Al Qaeda. She is not a religious person.
Absolutely not. If you know her, you know that she is not religious. She is not
Al Qaeda. She is a single parent who is very worried about the future of her
kid. She is divorced from her husband. You know, she has to send the kid to
school, pay the school fees and do all this type of thing. And she went to
America, she was on the way to New York, yes. She was going to work.''

Mr. Bassa did not deny that she might have sneaked in. ''She doesn't have an
America visa,'' he said. ''She got declined before. So this was the route she
took.''

''I think she just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time,'' Mr.
Bassa said.

A federal prosecutor, Lynn Cook, arguing for Ms. Ahmed's detention at a hearing
in McAllen on July 27, said she came to the country legally in 1996, evidently
overstaying her visa. ''She's been in this country for some period,'' Mr. Cook
said, ''three years according to the pre-trial services report, with no legal
status whatsoever in the country.''

An F.B.I. agent, Garry Simmons, testified that Ms. Ahmed had a McAllen address
in her phone book and acknowledged having a friend here. Mr. Simmons said agents
had found a hotel where Ms. Ahmed had recently stayed in McAllen and interviewed
a maid who seemed to recognize her.

As sketched in a four-page F.B.I. affidavit by another agent, Daniel V. Delgado,
and an hour's court hearing, Border Patrol agents at the airport, checking every
traveler, saw right away that her passport held no visa or entry stamp. It was
only later when the wet jeans were found in her luggage and agents found three
pages torn from her passport that, the F.B.I. said, she admitted ''she came
through the bush'' and had removed the pages to eliminate the record of the
route of her flights, which took her through the United Arab Emirates, London
and Mexico.

Questioning stopped when she asked for a lawyer. Agents said they had her
consent to go through her bags, finding the money along with passport-size
photos of herself and photos of her daughter, Soraya, and her father, her
divorce decree, gambling cards from the Taj Mahal and Caesars Palace in Atlantic
City, a British phone card, a cellphone, a digital camera, an address book and
an expired Illinois drivers license. Mexican authorities said she had an
American Social Security card.

Agent Simmons said he had asked her if she was a Sunni or Shiite Muslim. ''She
didn't know,'' he testified.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stepped-up security is evident in border areas like the
McAllen-Miller airport in South Texas, where a Border Patrol vehicle was on
duty. (Photo by Brad Doherty for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Arrest In Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 129 words


A man the authorities have described as a central figure in an immigrant
smuggling case in which 19 people died last May has been arrested and charged in
Mexico, possibly preventing his prosecution in the United States, officials
said. The man, Victor Rodriguez, an American citizen formerly of Brownsville, is
among 14 defendants in the case, in which the illegal immigrants died of heat
exhaustion or suffocation when abandoned in Victoria, Tex., inside a sealed
transport truck. Michael T. Shelby, the United States attorney in Houston, said
he would not agree in advance to a prison sentence of less than 30 years for Mr.
Rodriguez. Mr. Shelby said Mexican officials typically required such an
agreement before extraditing a defendant to the United States.   Steve Barnes


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 25, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cleaner at Wal-Mart Tells of Few Breaks and Low Pay

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 975 words


Every night for months, Victor Zavala Jr., who was arrested on Thursday in a
21-state immigration raid, said he showedup at the Wal-Mart store in New Jersey
to clean floors.

As the store's regular employees left at 11 p.m., Mr. Zavala said, they often
asked him whether he ever got a night off.

Mr. Zavala, identified by federal agents as an illegal immigrant from Mexico,
told the Wal-Mart workers that he and four others employed by a cleaning
contractor worked at the Wal-Mart in Old Bridge every night of the year, except
Christmas and New Year's Eve.

Now Mr. Zavala feels cheated, saying he worked as hard as he could pursuing the
American dream, only to face an immigration hearing that could lead to
deportation for himself, his wife, Eunice, and their three children, 10, 7 and 5
years old. He was one of 250 janitors employed by Wal-Mart contractors who were
arrested at 60 Wal-Mart stores before dawn on Thursday.

"My family's not happy about this," said Mr. Zavala, who said he paid a "coyote"
$2,000 to smuggle him into the United States three years ago. "My children do
not want to leave and go back to Mexico."

A federal law enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity said
yesterday that several current and former cleaning contractors for Wal-Mart, the
nation's biggest retailer, were cooperating with the government in its
investigation. On Thursday, federal officials acknowledged that they had
wiretaps and recordings of conversations and meetings among Wal-Mart executives
and contractors.

Federal officials said that as part of the Thursday raid, they searched the
office of a middle-level manager at Wal-Mart's headquarters in Bentonville, Ark.
The officials said the government believed that Wal-Mart executives knew the
cleaning contractors were using illegal immigrants.

Federal officials noted that 102 illegal immigrants working for Wal-Mart
cleaning contractors had been arrested in 1998 and 2001 and that 13 Wal-Mart
cleaning contractors had pleaded guilty after those arrests. Those pleas remain
under court seal.

Wal-Mart said yesterday that it had begun an internal investigation and would
dismiss anyone in its work force who did not have proper immigration papers.
Wal-Mart also told its officials to preserve any documents that might be
relevant to the federal inquiry, which is being conducted by the Department of
Homeland Security's division of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Wal-Mart officials said that the raid surprised them, and that they had no idea
the company's cleaning contractors used illegal immigrants.

They acknowledged yesterday that 10 immigrants arrested on Thursday in Arizona
and Kentucky were employed directly by Wal-Mart. Company officials said they had
brought these workers in-house after certain stores phased out the use of the
contractors for whom the immigrants had worked.

Wal-Mart officials also said the company required its contractors to hire legal
workers only.

"We have seen no evidence thus far that anyone in Wal-Mart is involved in any
scheme involving illegal workers," Tom Williams, a company spokesman, said.

Government officials and Walmart executives declined yesterday to name the
cleaning contractors whose employees were arrested.

"These arrests are part of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement mission and
part of our continuing commitment to investigate companies that are hiring
individuals who are not authorized to work in the United States," said Garrison
Courtney, a spokesman for the immigration agency.

Federal officials said yesterday that the leading nation of origin for the
janitors caught in Thursday's raids was Mexico, with 90. The Czech Republic was
second with 35, followed by Mongolia with 22, Brazil with 20. Uzbekistan,
Poland, Russia, Georgia and Lithuania each had about a dozen.

Mr. Zavala, the janitor in Old Bridge, N.J., said he got his job shortly after
arriving in the United States, when a neighbor asked whether he wanted work
cleaning buildings. Mr. Zavala, 28, said he did not know the name of his boss.

Mr. Zavala said he believed that the Wal-Mart managers knew the janitors were
illegal immigrants.

"Deep in their minds, of course the store managers knew it," he said. "The other
guys from the crew didn't speak one word of English. Of course they knew it, but
if you asked them, they'll say 'we thought they were citizens or residents.' "

Mr. Zavala said the contractor that he and Eunice, his wife, worked for paid
them $400 a week each for working 56 hours. That would come to $6.25 an hour if
time and a half overtime is included for all hours worked in excess of 40.

"We don't know nothing about days off," said Mr. Zavala, whose hometown is
Mexico City. "We don't know nothing about nights off, we don't know health
insurance, we don't know life insurance, and we don't know anything about 401(k)
plans."

He said that when he was arrested and taken to a detention center in Newark,
immigration officials mocked him for taking a job that paid so little in a state
where rents and living expenses are so high. He said that in his 16 months as a
cleaner at Wal-Mart, he was given only two nights off.

He said he did not think that the contractor withheld taxes from his pay,
raising questions about whether the contractor was making the required
contributions for Social Security and unemployment insurance.

Misha Firer, an illegal immigrant from Russia, said he worked for three months
last year as a cleaner at Wal-Marts in Ephrata, Pa., and Glens Falls, N.Y.,
working 90 consecutive days without having a day off.

Mr. Firer said that he earned $6 an hour, working the midnight-to-8 a.m. shift,
washing, waxing and buffing floors. He said the chemicals were so strong that
some workers had nose bleeds, sore eyes and skin irritations.

"Nobody wanted to take the job," he said. "It was a night job and it paid very
little."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Zavala Jr., shown with his wife, Eunice, believes that
Wal-Mart managers knew that janitors working for their cleaning contractors were
illegal immigrants. The Zavala family now faces possible deportation. (Photo by
Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEW YORK BOOKSHELF/NONFICTION;
The Immigrant Experience in All Its Glory

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 132 words


CROSSING THE BLVD: Strangers, Neighbors, Aliens in a New America
By Warren Lehrer and Judith Sloan
Photography and designby Warren Lehrer
W.W. Norton
($35, hardcover)

After living in other parts of the country ... I find myself again a resident of
Queens -- now the most ethnically diverse locality in the United States. Every
day, my wife, Judith, and I cross the 12-lane gantlet of speed and commerce that
is Queens Boulevard, along with immigrants and refugees from all parts of the
globe. ...

An elderly Afghan woman walks, stops, and waits at each of three median islands,
until she finally makes it across the 225-foot-wide boulevard, alive but worn
out. After buying saffron rice and other ingredients needed to cook kabuli
palau, she knows she will have to make the journey back again.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sex Criminals From Abroad Are Arrested In Crackdown

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 467 words


Federal agents yesterday arrested more than 50 foreign citizens from 25
countries who were living in New York and New Jersey despite the federal
government's desire to deport them after they were convicted of sex crimes,
mostly against children.

Asa Hutchinson, an undersecretary of the Homeland Security Department, and other
federal officials said at a news conference at Federal Plaza in Lower Manhattan
that 56 immigrants had been arrested and charged with immigration offenses, and
possibly faced deportation. They also said 16 fugitives were still being sought.

The officials called the news conference to announce the arrests and to
publicize Operation Predator, a three-month-old effort of the Department of
Homeland Security and one of its agencies, the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, to find child predators and sex offenders who, Mr. Hutchinson said,
had left the criminal justice system and "hit the streets" across the country.

Under Operation Predator, the two agencies pool intelligence in an effort to
thwart the people they call "domestic and international child predators."

The arrests yesterday involved immigrants, but United States citizens who are
suspected of sex crimes against children like traveling abroad to engage in sex
with minors are being sought as well.

Officials said that more than 1,300 people had been arrested across the nation
through the program since July.

All the new arrests represent cases that moved through criminal justice systems
and then disappeared from the government's oversight. When questioned about how
cases managed to disappear, with convicted sex offenders becoming legally
invisible for years, Mr. Hutchinson and Michael J. Garcia, the acting assistant
secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, had few answers.

Mr. Garcia pointed to the "wide coverage" necessary to monitor state and local
areas that have "so many prisons." Mr. Hutchinson said the lost cases happened
before the creation of his department.

"It illustrates things we need to do better," Mr. Hutchinson said.

Mr. Garcia added: "One way or the other, they should have been in the system.
They weren't. They are now."

One man who was arrested yesterday was a citizen of Ecuador living in New Jersey
who sexually assaulted a 2-year-old. Another was a man from Trinidad living in
New York, who raped his 7-year-old niece. Others were convicted of sexual abuse,
criminal sexual contact, sodomy and the distribution of child pornography, among
other things.

Mr. Hutchinson said the hardest part of Operation Predator was "getting
intelligence on where these people are." When asked where most of the 56 arrests
took place yesterday, officials said the offenders were found at home.

"We're not going to do a one-day sweep and then not follow up," Mr. Garcia said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Muslim SUNY Student's Expulsion Is Protested

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 786 words


Groups of legal advocates and students protested the arrest and expulsion of a
State University of New York Maritime College student yesterday, claiming the
college singled out the student, a Muslim from Nigeria, after he argued with a
college official to lower his tuition. The Bronx-based college denied it had
called the authorities, citing privacy laws that prohibit academic institutions
from disclosing information about their students.

The case has become a rallying point for immigrant advocacy groups, who say it
is an example of the heightened scrutiny immigrants have received since the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Under federal rules, in particular a
regulation requiring immigrants from 25 countries to register in a special
process with federal authorities, thousands of immigrants could face
deportation.

"This case exemplifies conditions within schools where administrators are able
to abuse their authority by threatening foreign students," said Monami Maulik,
an immigrant advocate who has taken up the case and led a rally yesterday
outside 26 Federal Plaza in Lower Mahattan.

The student, Sulaiman Oladokun, 28, has been in a New Jersey jail since March,
when agents from the Joint Terrorism Task Force arrested him in the college
library. About two weeks after his arrest, the college expelled him. It was two
months before he was scheduled to graduate. He is being held by immigration
authorities on charges that he falsified his Nigerian college records, a charge
he denies. Mr. Oladokun's United States student visa was issued based on his
Nigerian academic record, Ms. Maulik said.

Mr. Oladokun said that a college vice president, Kimberly Cline, had threatened
to call immigration authorities on him in February, after he had argued with her
over tuition. A copy of his immigration report, drawn up by the authorities
after his arrest and provided by Ms. Maulik, states that "the school contacted
the Joint Terrorism Task Force because of what they believed to be suspicious
behavior of the subject."

The college, in a statement, said "such allegations are absolutely false." It
added, "We at Maritime College have not demanded or arranged for the detention
of any of our students, nor can we now demand or cause the release of any
student."

Mr. Oladokun, in a telephone interview from the Bergen County Jail in New
Jersey, said that Ms. Cline "said she'd call the I.N.S. on me." He continued: "I
said, 'That's not logical.' This has nothing to do with the I.N.S. I didn't know
it was a kind of warning."

Laura Mullen, a college spokeswoman, declined to comment on why Mr. Oladokun was
expelled. Federal privacy laws, the college said, prohibit the release of
certain information about students. Ms. Cline was not at work on Friday, another
college spokesperson said, and was unavailable for comment.

Whatever the reason for Mr. Oladokun's problems, his case as an immigrant in
danger of facing deportation has become more common sinceSept. 11, 2001.
Advocacy and civil liberties groups report a rise in arrests and detentions
since the federal government toughened rules that monitor the movements of
immigrants, particularly Muslims. "Special registration, the questioning of
people, secret arrests and detentions have had a devastating impact," said Lee
Gelernt, senior staff counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union's National
Immigrants' Rights Project. "A lot of hardships were caused by pinning the
terrorist tag on people too quickly."

Under one such rule, immigrants from 25 countries were required to register with
the federal government. Since the rule was imposed last November, 290,526
immigrants across the country have registered, said Mark Thorn, a spokesman for
New York Immigration and Customs Enforcement, within the Department of Homeland
Security. Of those, about 13,000 face deportation in court dates to appear
before judges.

For foreign students, a new national rule, the Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System, required academic institutions to begin entering information
on foreign students into a federal database in August of this year. In New York
that has been compounded by local agencies, like the New York Police Department
and the Taxi and Limousine Commission, that have been working more closely with
immigration authorities, said Sinyen Ling, a staff attorney at the Asian
American Legal Defense and Education Fund, which has been handling litigation
for Muslim men in the New York area.

"What we've been hearing is an increase of local city agencies that have been
involved in enforcing immigration laws," Ms. Ling said.

"The SUNY student stands out because there's a belief that it was the school
that actually reported him," she added.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants' rights advocates held a news conference yesterday to
protest the treatment of Sulaiman Oladokun, a Nigerian Muslim expelled from SUNY
Maritime College two months before his graduation. (Photo by Lucian Read/World
Picture News for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BY THE WAY;
The Sari as a Sign of Progress

BYLINE:  By Tammy La Gorce

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 294 words


To anyone who has roamed the curry-scented neighborhoods of Edison around
dinnertime or fought the urge to twirl to a Bollywood number ringing out of a
double-parked Honda along Iselin's commercial strip, the jacket blurb on S.
Mitra Kalita's new book, "Suburban Sahibs" (Rutgers University Press, $23.95),
won't come as a surprise. "Middlesex County, New Jersey," it says in part, "is
home to one of the largest Indian populations in the world outside India."

In a tidy 164 pages, the author, 27, whose Indian-born parents live in West
Windsor, combs through the Middlesex existence of three immigrant families: one
affluent, one struggling and one politically prominent. Drawing on two years of
research and her own childhood memories of Middlesex's thriving Indian
commercial hub, she details the ambivalence immigrants feel about where home is
and the comforting, but also suffocating, effect of finding so much of India in
sprawling suburbs an hour's commute from New York City. As a child, she writes
in her introduction, "I grew distressed if my two worlds collided. I never
smelled the scent my brothers and I dubbed 'IFS,' for 'Indian Food Smell,' but
knew it existed because my classmates told me so."

An education reporter for The Washington Post, Ms. Kalita said in an interview
that much had changed in the Indian-American community just since publication of
her book (available at bookstores and at www.desiwriter.com).

Most notably, the Indian community is trickling westward. At her brother's West
Windsor prom, for instance, a girl wore a sari. And though she has long
considered herself a Gap girl, lately she has started wearing an Indian scarf
over a black dress. These are signs that "we're getting somewhere," she said.
Tammy La Gorce

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Homeland Far From Home

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 207 words


The United States bears some burden of responsibility for the well-being of
Cambodian refugees, even if it is simplistic to blame the United States alone
for drawing Cambodia into the Vietnam War 30 years ago. We also need to think of
the larger costs to American society of the deportations of men and women who
are leaving children, spouses and elderly parents behind.

We will bear a significant portion of the burden of these domestic disruptions
through increased dependence on public assistance and other publicly funded
social services.

There are alternatives to automatic deportation. First, we should consider
whether it is ever justified to deport a refugee who came to the United States
as a child; who in all respects is American and for whom deportation to a land
he has never known is unconscionably cruel. Second, short of an automatic bar,
immigration judges should be authorized to consider a person's evidence of
rehabilitation and grant a second chance in appropriate cases. Third, community
service, rehabilitation programs or probation-type procedures would recognize
the need to support rather than further devastate refugee communities that have
already been traumatized.

Bill Ong Hing
Davis, Calif.
Jay Stansell
Seattle

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Homeland Far From Home

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 55 words


Our country is proud of its immigration tradition but insists on deporting men
and women who violate, even slightly, the criminal laws.

I lost one client for a $15 shoplifting conviction. Another is headed back to
Afghanistan for a white-collar crime.

The "reform" of 1996 has thousands of similar victims.

John Crow
Tucson, Ariz.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
In School and Out, Lessons About Becoming American

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y.


HIS class numbered all of eight pupils, so when L. Joachin Mendez's fellow
teachers asked him if there was a real need to continue offering English as a
Second Language courses in Southampton's schools he could only shrug.

"The question was, 'Is this population here to stay?' " said Mr. Mendez, a
teacher at Southampton High School, recalling a conversation he had a dozen
years ago about the town's emerging Latino immigrant population. "I said, 'I
just don't know, I just don't know.' "

He and everyone else soon found out. Immigrants of all stripes, particularly
Latinos, continued to stream toward the string of tony communities on Long
Island's South Fork, drawn by the pull of steady work in service industries --
laboring in the region's vineyards, doing landscaping jobs, filling in on
construction sites.

In all, according to census figures, Suffolk County's Latino population nearly
doubled from 1990 to 2000. The increase is even more pronounced in Mr. Mendez's
English classes: he now teaches about 50 students.

"People joke that I must have been out recruiting," said Mr. Mendez, 46, who is
of Dominican descent.

With the growing population has come some inevitable frictions, both in school
and outside. And Mr. Mendez is trying to ease the transition for recent arrivals
and established residents, both at the school as a teacher and guidance
counselor and in the community at large as a member of Organizacion Latino
Americana, an advocacy group for Latin immigrants.

The latest flash point here is the creation of a so-called hiring hall, a place
where immigrants, mostly Latino men, can be hired as day laborers.

A grassy lot near a local 7-Eleven convenience store is already serving as an
informal spot where laborers gather early each morning to be selected for work.
And while almost no one disputes the need for the workers, some here argue that
the creation of a formal hiring hall might serve as a tacit endorsement of those
immigrants who are in the United States illegally.

This fall, as elections neared in communities all along the South Fork, hiring
halls were hotly debated. Those who opposed the halls cited concerns about
illegal immigrants. Advocates of the halls, like Mr. Mendez, contended that they
were an effective way to manage an influx of immigrants -- legal and not -- who
would continue to flow to the region looking for work.

WHILE the debate raged intensely, many communities here put off any formal
action on the hiring halls. But now, nearly a month after the elections, Mr.
Mendez and others here hope that the climate has cooled enough for them to renew
a discussion between immigrants and established residents about the creation of
the halls with an eye toward more genuine dialogue and less rhetoric.

"The hiring hall is just a practical solution," Mr. Mendez said. "You have guys
who are being paid $100 a day and they're working 14 hours straight and moving
this mountain of earth. They're serving the economy of Southampton."

As Mr. Mendez drove through town yesterday, he described how the laborers are
drawn from small towns in their native countries by accounts from other
immigrants who have already come to the South Fork and sent back reports of
opportunity, jobs, money.

"It's a combination of fate, luck and material conditions," he said of the
forces that draw immigrants to the region. "The allure is strong."

Mr. Mendez says he is hopeful that town officials and advocates for Latinos can
find a middle ground on the issue. For their part, members of the town's council
say that the hiring hall issue is a priority for officials.

"The door is definitely not slammed shut," said Dennis A. Suskind, a councilman,
referring to the hiring hall debate. "It's a complicated question because of the
undocumented population."

On one level, Mr. Mendez said, what Latinos here and other immigrants around the
region are facing from established groups is simply the 21st century's echo of
similar conflicts experienced by immigrant groups in the past.

But beyond an immigration dispute, Mr. Mendez said, the conflict speaks to
something more basic. "This is a reflection of our humanity," he said. "And how
we deal with people who are less fortunate than we are."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing United Nations: Number Of Asylum-Seekers Drops

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 119 words


The number of people seeking asylum in the 29 richest countries fell more than
20 percent in the first nine months of the year, to 343,570, and Russia overtook
Iraq as the largest single source, according to the office of the High
Commissioner for Refugees.

Asylum applications by Russian citizens, mainly Chechens, jumped to 23,681 for
the period, compared with 21,610 Iraqis. With the exception of those fleeing the
conflict in Chechnya, most groups of asylum seekers declined. The number of
Afghans seeking asylum dropped by 48 percent; those from Serbia and Montenegro
fell 24 percent. Britain remained the largest single destination, with 47,900,
followed by the United States (43,600) and Germany (38,900).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: 13 Charged In Marriage Scheme

BYLINE:  By Susan Saulny; Compiled by Thomas J. Lueck

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 85 words


Twelve women and one man were charged yesterday in what prosecutors say was a
scheme in which they received money from immigrants to marry them so they could
get green cards.

Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, said the 13 applied for
52 licenses to marry immigrants from India, China and other countries. The 13,
who were charged with perjury and offering false documents in applying for
marriage licenses, were paid $2,000 to $10,000 for their services, prosecutors
said.   Susan Saulny

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: 9/11 INQUIRY;
Chief of Sept. 11 Panel Assesses Blame but Holds Off on Higher-Ups

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18


The chairman of a federal commission investigating the Sept. 11 terror attacks
said on Thursday that information long available to the public showed that the
attacks could have been prevented had a group of low- and mid-level government
employees at the F.B.I., the immigration service and elsewhere done their jobs
properly.

The chairman, Thomas H. Kean, former Republican governor of New Jersey, said in
a telephone interview that his investigators were still studying whether senior
Bush administration officials should also share the blame. He said it was too
early to suggest that White House aides or other senior officials had been
derelict.

"There were people at the borders who let these people in even though they
didn't have proper papers to get into this country," Mr. Kean said of
immigration inspectors who allowed the hijackers into the United States.

"There were visa people who let these people in," he said. "There were F.B.I.
people who, when they got reports from Phoenix and Minnesota and elsewhere,
didn't think they were important enough to buck up to the higher-ups. There were
security officers at the airports who let these people onto airplanes even
though they were carrying materials that weren't allowed on airplanes."

Mr. Kean said an interview that was broadcast Wednesday by CBS News was being
misinterpreted as suggesting that he was calling for the departure of senior
administration officials.

"We don't have the evidence to do that yet," he said. "We're doing the work. The
report may in fact end up suggesting that people are the subject of some serious
criticism."

Mr. Kean, whose bipartisan 10-member panel is to issue a final report in May,
said he was surprised that some midlevel officials at the F.B.I. and in federal
immigration agencies had not been removed from their jobs, given errors before
the Sept. 11 attacks that may have allowed the hijacking plot to go undetected.

"It surprises me that if there were serious mistakes, there haven't been any
consequences of those mistakes," he said.

The F.B.I. had no formal response to Mr. Kean's comments. A bureau official,
speaking on condition of anonymity, said the actions of the midlevel personnel
before Sept. 11 were "under review, including an inspector general's review of
whether there were institutional or personnel issues that should be addressed."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Song of Queens, a Dream in Brooklyn

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 176 words


To the Editor:

According to "Blue Blood at the Gas Pumps: Queens Families Still Have Their
Legacy, if Not Their Land" (news article, Jan. 3), "some New Yorkers" view the
borough as "a sprawl of highways and airports, where legions of newly arrived
immigrants live in cramped high-rise apartments alongside ugly suburban tract
houses."

This may ring true for some who are passing through on their way from here to
there. But you need to get off the highway to discover the beauty.

The borough is, of course, one of the most ethnically diverse areas in the
country, a place where immigrants' dreams become reality even while they are
crammed into those ugly buildings, but there is more. There are parks with
forests and tree-lined streets. There are beaches, and harbors, and views of
Manhattan that can take your breath away.

Be careful, though. If you get off the highway, you may put down roots and start
another line of aristocrats whose lineage may be marveled at in The New York
Times 200 years from now.

MARY FARREN
Forest Hills, Queens, Jan. 4, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facing New Challenges

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2743 words

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER


EACH day at 4 a.m., as the lights come on in the back of Nino International
Bakery, Robinson Plasencia begins another day. After fleeing from Peru 15 years
ago when vandals destroyed his family's business there, Mr. Plasencia struggled
to make his way in a new country, first in Queens and later in this bustling
village of 28,000 people on Long Island Sound.

In the early days, when he was new to the United States, he barely eked out a
living. But now, his business is thriving. One recent morning, as customers
streamed in to buy coffee and pastries like alfores (Peruvian cookies) and
turron de donas (Portuguese rolls), Mr. Plasencia greeted them with the
confidence of a successful businessman. "Everything is fresh," he told visitors.
"Try some!"

Mr. Plasencia's story is a new one, and yet an old one here. For more than a
century, Port Chester has served as a magnet to immigrants, first Irish and
Italian. Now, over the past two decades, Port Chester has turned into something
of an Ellis Island for Hispanic immigrants, a place of first refuge for people
who are lured not just by the harbor it has given to their friends and
relatives, but also by the village's proximity to affluent communities like
Greenwich, Rye and Harrison, where jobs are plentiful working on gardens and
properties and caring for children.

In this way, the new Port Chester has drawn immigrant families into the service
economy, much as the village offered manufacturing jobs from the 1920's until
the 1960's in factories like the one here that made BeechNut LifeSavers, which
offered work to several generations of immigrants.

Looking out of the plate-glass window in the front of his new quarters on
Poningo Street, Mr. Plasencia, who became a United States citizen in 1995,
pointed across the way to several recent immigrants from Central and South
America. "When I first came here, I was lonely too, like they are," he said.

Close to half of the village's population is now Hispanic, according to the 2000
United States Census. And advocacy groups suggest that the percentage is higher
because the census likely missed illegal immigrants.

In some regards, Mr. Plasencia and others who were drawn to Port Chester in the
late 1980's have been more fortunate than the newer arrivals from Ecuador, Peru,
Guatemala and Mexico. Many of the earlier Latino immigrants were able to obtain
legal papers and steady employment, and they have set down roots, raised
families and found good jobs.

It is a far different, and less hopeful, story for the newcomers, many of them
here illegally. Mayor Gerald Logan recently estimated that 3,500 undocumented
Latinos live here, a 2.5-square-mile village next to the Byram River. Crossing
the Mexican border illegally, they make their way to Port Chester, meeting up
with relatives and friends who settled here earlier.

Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks two years ago, United States immigration
laws have become more strict, and most of the recent group of undocumented
immigrants from Central and South America are unlikely to ever obtain legal
papers, said Ann Blanchfield, a lawyer at the Westchester Hispanic Coalition, a
nonprofit social services organization in White Plains.

"If they stay, they'll have to live under the radar forever," she said. "They'll
cobble a life together working in restaurants, hotels, country clubs, wherever
they can. But if they get injured or sick, they're not eligible for any
benefits, so they're sort of stuck in a no-man's land."

That could change, however, if President Bush's proposal on Monday to overhaul
the nation's immigration laws is adopted by Congress. Under the proposal, an
undocumented worker could apply for temporary worker status in the United
States, with employee benefits, like minimum wage and due process, accorded to
those legally employed.

Ms. Blanchfield said the Hispanic Coalition helps immigrants get United States
taxpayer identification numbers and pay taxes, even if they are undocumented.
"It's a goodwill gesture on their part," she said. "It shows they want to comply
with the system."

Although there have been complaints in other Westchester communities where
Latinos have settled, like Mount Kisco and Tarrytown, Ms. Blanchfield said she
had heard few objections to the presence of illegal immigrants in Port Chester.
"Mostly, employers and others call up to see what they can do to help," she
said.

Ms. Blanchfield said that although employers undoubtedly take a risk in hiring
undocumented immigrants, they constitute the only available labor force willing
to take the lowest-paying jobs.

ESPECIALLY vulnerable are day workers like Miguel, 26, a recent immigrant from
Guatemala City who spoke on condition of anonymity, saying he feared that giving
his name would make it easy for immigration authorities to find him. Ms.
Blanchfield said Miguel and other day workers are sometimes prey to employers
who hire them but fail to pay them.

"It's happened to many of my friends," said Miguel, who was waiting for work
recently outside of Our Lady of the Rosary Church. While he decides whether to
stay or return to his country, Miguel spends his days at the Don Bosco Center, a
soup kitchen and job placement center for immigrants sponsored by the church, a
religious and social services institution in the village.

When the weather is good, Miguel and the other men wait outside for work. When
it rains, they go inside, playing dominos at one of the long cafeteria-style
tables in the center, socializing with the other men and participating in the
English as a Second Language classes offered by the church.

Inside the church offices one recent afternoon, the Rev. Timothy Ploch, a priest
from the Salesian order, a Roman Catholic group dedicated chiefly to education
and missionary work, mused on Port Chester as a small Ellis Island.

"The main difference is that at Ellis Island, the immigrants are legal," Father
Ploch said. "In our village these days, most of the new arrivals cross without
papers."

The immigrants rely on the church not only for work placement but also for
social services, some food and supplies like diapers. "They trust the church,"
Father Ploch said, "because they're sure we would never turn them in."

Our Lady of the Rosary Church also runs clothing drives for the needier
immigrants and holds group showers several times a year for expectant mothers,
most of them Latinos, who cannot afford to buy supplies for their infants.

Before the church's Don Bosco Center offered sanctuary to the day workers, many
of them waited for employment on street corners throughout the village. But Port
Chester officials, church workers and representatives of the Westchester
Hispanic Coalition decided several years ago that it would be more effective to
acknowledge the illegal immigrants' presence and their need for work by
establishing a central hiring location, said Gerald Logan, the village's mayor.

"If you go by the letter of the law, they really shouldn't be hired at all, but
if they don't get work, they'll become homeless," said Mr. Logan, 66, a former
financial executive who is in his second two-year term.

Mayor Logan is also concerned about many of the immigrants' living conditions.
"They stay in overcrowded apartments and pay high rents just to plant their feet
on the ground here," he said. "What money they have left, they send home."
Immigrants who were interviewed for this article said they had no alternative
but to pay the rents the landlords demanded, and not to complain about the often
run-down conditions.

Joseph P. Cannavo, president of Great American Development, an owner and
developer of real estate here, said, "It's not the landlords, it's the tenants
who bring in the extra people."

Mr. Cannavo said landlords often don't know that additional people are living in
the units, and when they suspect that might be the case and inquire, the tenants
claim that relatives are temporarily visiting. Mr. Cannavo also said he charged
market rates for apartments and it was not true that overcrowding was caused by
exorbitant rents.

When Port Chester's police chief, Joseph Krzeminski, was growing up here in the
1950's and 60's, the vast majority of the newcomers were Polish, Italian and
Irish, he said.

"The village has always been a place for immigrants," said Mr. Krzeminski, who
as a boy lived in a five-family house owned by his Italian grandfather.

Like other immigrants of that time, Mr. Krzeminski's grandfather purchased a
house and rented out apartments to relatives and friends from Europe. Because
the rents were low, the newer residents were able to save money and buy their
own houses, in turn.

Now, though, most of Port Chester's multifamily houses are owned by absentee
landlords who charge high rents, the police chief said. Troubled by fire and
health hazards created by overcrowding in the apartments, Mr. Krzeminski reports
the worst cases to the Port Chester Building Department.

The police chief said he is also concerned with the drunkenness that occurs at
night and on weekends among some of the newer immigrants, most of whom are here
alone, away from their families. Mr. Krzeminski said some immigrants have been
attacked at night when they are out alone. According to the police department,
Port Chester recorded 57 robbery-assault cases in 2002. Of those, 54 involved
Latinos and took place on the street. In 2003, there were 49 robbery-assaults
with 44 involving Latinos and 34 taking place on the street.

Lt. Jeff Hartrey of the Port Chester police said the perpetrators of such crimes
against Latinos know that their victims often don't put their money in the bank
and carry their cash with them.

Chief Krzeminski said assailants also know that illegal immigrants are unlikely
to file a formal complaint.

Mr. Krzeminski said some changes in the village since he was a boy have not been
for the better, a sentiment shared by Frances C. Nugent, who is the city clerk
for Rye.

Born 83 years ago in Port Chester, which is part of Rye, Mrs. Nugent said she
misses walking at night with her children to the downtown area for ice cream
cones. Fretting about the impersonality of the large chain discount stores about
to be built in that section of the village, she said: "Whether the new plans
will be good for Port Chester remains to be seen. I liked it better when all the
shopkeepers knew our names."

Other things have changed, too.

The bakery is on one of this village's many side streets, where small businesses
like coin laundries and bodegas share working-class neighborhoods with modest
multifamily homes. Nino International Bakery moved last year from Port Chester's
more densely populated downtown section, where a $140 million urban
redevelopment project is under way. A 15-screen movie theater, a Super Stop &
Shop, and several big-box retailers, among other businesses, are scheduled to
open in the downtown area in the next 18 months.

Gregg Wasser, a principal with the Bethpage, Long Island-based G&S Investors,
said his company's plans for The Waterfront, as the project is known, will
benefit the village, which he described as a "region that is under-retailed."

But plans for The Waterfront are proceeding slowly and not without controversy.
Since the warehouse club retailer Costco built a 140,000-square-foot store more
than a year ago alongside the river, no new retail construction has taken place.

Some residents, like the mayor, whowelcome new development, said they were
worried the developer wouldn't finish the project.

Mr. Wasser said that he first had to complete relocation efforts for displaced
businesses and deal with legal opposition to eminent domain efforts associated
with The Waterfront. The state Court of Appeals refused to hear appeals last
summer by four merchants whose buildings were acquired for the project by Port
Chester two years ago, and the demolition phase is almost finished. Mr. Wasser
said construction is to begin shortly, with some retailers expected to open for
business as early as this summer.

IN response to critics like Mrs. Nugent, the city clerk, who fear the loss of
the village's character, Mr. Wasser said some old storefronts from the first
half of the 20th century will be retained. "We're not razing all of the old," he
said. "When something is there for 60 or 70 years, you don't throw it all away,
because you can't duplicate it."

At the local public schools, administrators said they must tailor their
instruction to address the needs of the children from legal and illegal
immigrants. In the latter group, fewer children speak or read English well, and
there are more health problems.

Of the 3,527 students enrolled in the district's six schools (four elementary
schools for grades kindergarten through 5, a middle school for grades 6 though
8, and a high school), 65.3 percent are Hispanic, said Dr. Charles Coletti,
superintendent of schools. Ten percent are African American, 23.9 percent are
white, and 0.8 percent are Asian.

Dr. Ellen Santiago, principal of Edison Elementary School, said that one-third
of the students at the grade schools need assistance with English. In two of the
elementary schools, as much as 80 percent of the students receive free or
reduced-price lunches, which "indicates the high level of economic need in the
community," she said.Because many parents work long hours and hold several jobs,
the schools open at 7:35 a.m. and offer special-help classes until 6 p.m., Dr.
Santiago said.

Dr. Coletti said that despite the challenges, 95 percent of 4th graders were at
or above the competency level for math on state mandated performance tests last
year, as were 91 percent of 8th graders.

English language scores, though not as high, showed that 85 percent of 4th
graders and 70 percent of 8th graders were at competency level or above, he
said. Of the 214 students in last year's high school graduating class, 83
percent went on to college, half of those to four-year institutions and the
other half to two-year community colleges.

"Many of our students can't afford a four-year college, so they go to
Westchester Community College and then transfer on," Dr. Coletti said. "They're
often the first generation in their family to attend college.

"But then that has been the American way for succeeding waves of immigrants.
Higher education always has been the fastest route up the economic and social
ladder. In the early 20th century, it was Eastern Europeans. These days, it's
the Latinos."

Wampum Came First

Port Chester Timeline, Since European Settlers Arrived

1660: John Coe, Peter Disbrow and Thomas Studwell purchase land on Manursing
Island from the Siwanoy American Indians, for 8 coats, 7 shirts and 15 fathom of
wampum.

1663: First group of settlers moves onto the mainland, some going to Poningo
Neck (now in the city of Rye), and others to Saw Pit (which was named for its
saw pits, where logs for the shipping industry were cut. Saw Pit later became
Port Chester.) Over time, the American Indians are forced off the land by the
settlers.

1798: The merchant Jared Peck operates a brisk shipping trade along the Byram
River, transporting local grain and crops to New York City, establishing several
mills in Saw Pit.

1837: Saw Pit becomes the village of Port Chester, officially being incorporated
31 years later.

1879: First regular steamboat is placed in service, making three trips a week to
New York City.

1884: Port Chester Water Company establishes supply system for village.

Early 1900's: Waves of European immigrants, drawn by manufacturing industry,
begin to arrive.

1950's: Among Port Chester's major manufacturers: the Ernest Simons
Manufacturing Company, which made sheets and pillow cases; the Russell Burdsall
and Ward Bolt and Nut Company; Fruit of the Loom, Abendroth Brothers, which
manufactured stoves and furnaces; Beech-Nut LifeSavers; Arnold Bakers; and the
Empire Brush Company.

1970's: Many of Port Chester's factories begin to move south or west; the
downtown retail sector struggles.

1984: LifeSavers shuts down its North Main Street factory after 64 years, the
last major manufacturer to leave the village.

Late 1990's: The developer Gregg Wasser develops plans for the Waterfront at
Port Chester, a shopping area of big-box discount retailers along the Byram
River. Meanwhile, Latino-owned stores and restaurants open along the struggling
Main Street.
   By Elsa Brenner and "The History of the Town of Rye," compiled in 1960 by
Louis C.A. Lewin and Warren J. Lewin.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sunday morning Mass at the Church of Our Lady of the Rosary in
Port Chester, where close to half the population is Hispanic. The church, which
conducts weekend Mass in English, Spanish and Portuguese, also runs clothing
drives and assists expectant mothers. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New
York Times)(pg. 1); Top, students participating in a social-skills game at an
after-school program. In the district's six schools, 65 percent of the students
are Hispanic. Above left, Robinson Plasencia, a Peruvian immigrant who owns Nino
International Bakery. Above, one of the small businesses in Port Chester that
share the block with multifamily homes. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New
York Times)(pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Faces Change, but Church's Mission Remains

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER


IT has been a century since the Church of Our Lady of the Rosary began
ministering to successive waves of immigrant groups in this village. The first
parishioners, who were working-class Italians unable to afford a professional
builder, began erecting the church by dint of their own labor in 1903. That year
they finished the basement, where the first Masses were held, and two years
after that, they put the finishing touches on the altar and the remainder of the
structure.

From its perch near the Byram River, the original brick structure still stands
-- albeit with some renovations and improvements - monitoring the constantly
changing village.

Over the years, priests from the Salesians of Don Bosco order have addressed
more than the just the spiritual needs of Italian, Irish and now Hispanic
immigrants. At first, they tended to a predominantly Italian community that drew
its living from the factories along the river. Now that most of those businesses
have left, the most recent wave of immigrants from Central and South America
looks for jobs in the households of wealthy property owners in neighboring
communities, and with the construction crews that build their houses.

As the Rev. Timothy Ploch, a Salesian priest like those before him at the Our
Lady of the Rosary, observed, "The real story of the church is not the original
laying of bricks, but rather the work that has since taken place inside the
building." It is the mission of the Salesian order, founded in Turin, Italy, in
the late 1800's, to give to children and the poor, he explained. Most of the
current parishioners, he said, have come across borders illegally from towns and
cities where "life is difficult and there's a real desperation."

The Salesians' mission in Port Chester begins before the children are born, with
a church-sponsored program called Special Delivery. At group baby showers for
needy and unwed mothers, pregnant women are given a crib, stroller, blankets,
diapers and a bag of baby clothes to get them started, said Maria Massa, an
outreach coordinator at Our Lady of the Rosary.

Many of the women seeking services from the church live in overcrowded quarters
with their spouses and children, and sometimes become the victims of domestic
violence, Ms. Massa said.

"We bring in doctors, immigration lawyers, and workers from My Sister's Place to
empower them," she said, referring to a shelter for battered women and their
children. "Many of the women are undocumented, but we don't ask, so officially
we don't know. But even when they are documented and have a Social Security
number, it's still tough for them to get a job."

The church also runs a food pantry twice a week a week, on Tuesday and Saturday
mornings, supplementing parishioners with bags of canned goods, cereals, pasta
and rice. At the Don Bosco Center next door, the Westchester Hispanic Coalition
operates a hiring site that offers free breakfasts and lunches, along with
advocacy for wage settlements and work-skills training.

Youth prayer groups are held in the Don Bosco Center in Spanish on Fridays at 8
p.m. and in Portuguese at 8:30 p.m. Adult prayer groups are held in the church
hall in Spanish on Saturdays at 8 p.m. and in Portuguese on Thursdays at 8 p.m.

On weekends, there are 10 Masses, some in English, some in Spanish and one in
Portuguese for Port Chester's growing Brazilian population, Father Ploch said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lunch at Don Bosco Center, a soup kitchen and job placement
center for immigrants. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

If You're Thinking of Living In/The Ironbound;
A Home Away From Home for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By JULIA LAWLOR

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1715 words


THE working-class area in Newark's East Ward known as the Ironbound is the first
stop on many an immigrant's pursuit of the American dream, beckoning with its
low-cost housing, close-knit community and convenient location.

Often the journey ends not with a house in a leafy suburb, but on the gritty
streets of the Ironbound itself. Some new arrivals may have the means to leave,
but they do not have the heart to do so.

"What's so special about this place is that it's a community, a little village,"
said Linda Rodrigues, a daughter of Portuguese immigrants and raised in the
Ironbound.

Dr. Rodrigues, chairwoman of the foreign language department at the New School
University, returned to the Ironbound in 1976 after living briefly in New York
City. From her living room she can gaze across the street at the house where she
grew up. She can stroll along the Ironbound's commercial center, Ferry Street,
and bump into someone she knows on every block. Traffic is congested, to be
sure, and there is a severe shortage of parking spaces. But, she said, "I don't
want to live anyplace else."

The Ironbound, which comprises roughly four square miles east of Newark's
Pennsylvania Station, between the Passaic River and Newark Liberty International
Airport, is a mix of homes, stores and industrial buildings, with a vibrant
commercial center of shops, ethnic restaurants, cafes and clubs on Ferry Street.

Portuguese immigrants started arriving in the 1920's to join a population that
was largely Polish, Italian, Irish and German. There was also a sizable number
of blacks in the 1950's and 1960's, Ms. Rodrigues said, but the number has
dwindled.

Relaxed immigration laws resulted in a large influx of Portuguese in the 1960's
and 1970's. The next wave of immigrants, in the late 1980's and early 1990's,
were Portuguese-speaking Brazilians. More recently, there have been Spanish
speakers from South America and Mexico.

Only about 15 percent of the housing in the Ironbound is single-family,
according to Arthur Rosa, president of the Rosa Agency, a local real estate
firm. Two- and three-family houses make up about 60 percent of the market, he
said, and the remainder is apartment buildings with four or more units.

Prices have doubled in the last five years and more than tripled in 10 years,
Mr. Rosa said. Existing single-family homes range from the low- to the
mid-$200,000's, two-family housing is in the mid-$300,000 range, and
three-family houses in the mid-$400,000's. New two-family houses start in the
mid-$400,000's and new three-families go for well over $500,000.

SINCE the late 1990's, demand for housing has been high, said Manuel Morais,
president of Century 21 Central Realty in the Ironbound. Some 900 new homes have
been built in the last decade.

In the past three months, however, sales have slowed, in part because a
revaluation in Newark has caused property taxes to soar, said Manny Fernandes,
sales manager for Century 21. Dr. Rodrigues's taxes doubled, for example, to
$7,600 from $3,700.

The demand for rental apartments in the Ironbound exceeds the supply, and most
tenants are found by word of mouth.

Matt McCracken, an architect, moved to the Ironbound from London four years ago,
renting a large three-bedroom apartment on Ferry Street with access to a
backyard for $1,200 a month. He likes the short commute to his office in
Manhattan, and he can walk to the supermarket, the barber, the neighborhood bar.
"You feel like you're in a community as soon as you walk into the Ironbound," he
said.

This closeness attracted many Portuguese immigrants to the Ironbound. Jobs were
available in the many factories and there were people happy to help them find
work and a place to stay. Today, there are some 20 Portuguese social clubs, most
representing a single town or province of Portugal. The clubs help new
immigrants, but mainly offer programs that keep the Portuguese traditions alive.

The oldest of the clubs, the Sport Club Portuguese, was founded in 1921 and has
1,000 members from all regions of Portugal, said its president, Jack Costa. It
sponsors nine soccer teams and a troupe that performs traditional Portuguese
dances. It also founded the Luis de Camoes School, which teaches Portuguese
history and language. "This is a way to show our kids where we came from," Mr.
Costa said.

Brazilians now make up about half of the Portuguese-speaking population in the
Ironbound, where initial tensions over cultural differences between mainland
Portuguese and Brazilians have largely disappeared.

Grass is a rare sight in the Ironbound today, but when Newark was founded in
1666, the area was all farmland. Early on, said Charles F. Cummings, a Newark
city historian, the Ironbound area was referred to as "Dutch Neck" and then
"Down Neck" because of the way the Passaic River curved to form what looked like
a neck.

The Ironbound's present name may stem from the many forges and foundries there
in the second half of the 19th century, Mr. Cummings said. But the name might
also have come from the rail tracks that surrounded the area when the railroads
were built in the 1830's.

The Ironbound soon developed into the industrial center of the city, where the
poorest residents lived and toiled in factories 12 hours a day, six days a week.
At one time it was filled with breweries, according to Mr. Cummings. The most
famous, Ballantine, opened there early in the 19th century. The Ballantine
brewery closed in the 1970's, as did many other Ironbound factories.

A big fear of many Ironbound residents today is that the jump in property taxes
late last year will force them out of the area. Many tax bills have more than
doubled, said Augusto Amador, a City Council member for the East Ward, which
encompasses the Ironbound. "This is causing a lot of pain, and those most
affected are the senior citizens who can't afford to pay," he said. One realtor
cited the case of an elderly woman whose taxes jumped from $700 in 2002 to
$3,900 at the end of last year.

Mr. Amador is proposing an ordinance to allow elderly and disabled homeowners in
one- and two-family houses to defer paying the tax increase until their homes
are sold.

The lack of space -- for recreation, for parking, for expanded schools and
playgrounds -- is another concern. The Frederick Law Olmsted-designed Riverbank
Park was saved from being turned into a minor league baseball stadium by a group
called Friends of Riverbank Park. After extensive renovation, it reopened last
year. A new park, Joseph Minisch Park, is being built alongside the Passaic
River.

"Open space is a major quality of life issue in the Ironbound," said Joseph
Della Fave, executive director of the Ironbound Community Corporation. "We have
half an acre of park space for every 1,000 residents, compared with seven and a
half acres of park space for every 1,000 residents in New York and other major
cities." Mr. Della Fave's office is favors amending the master plan to require
new developments to set aside space for parking and playgrounds.

The housing boom has led to overcrowding in the Ironbound's schools. In the
area's six elementary schools, class sizes through fourth grade average in the
mid-20's, according to Ray Lindgren, executive assistant to the superintendent
of schools. State guidelines call for no more than 21 students per class in
those grades.

Dr. Lindgren said classes in the upper grades can reach 30 students, though
guidelines state there should be no more than 24. Some schools use trailers for
classrooms.

The district is planning to replace all the elementary schools, most built more
than 100 years ago. Two new schools are to be built on the sites of existing
schools; the rest will be built elsewhere and the present buildings used for
other purposes. A new East Side High School is to be built at the old Ballantine
brewery site.

Eight years ago, the state took over the Newark public schools, largely because
of problems with fiscal management and academic achievement. Dr. Lindgren said
that there had been a "major turnaround in the fiscal area" in the schools and
that academic achievement had improved, "although it is not where it needs to
be."

STILL, the Ironbound has one of the jewels of the district: the Ann Street
School. In 1999, the school, for pupils in prekindergarten through eighth grade,
received a National Blue Ribbon award, the only urban school in New Jersey to do
so that year, according to Dr. Lindgren. The award is based on the quality of
curriculum, special programs offered and student test scores, he said.

On statewide assessment tests, the percentage of fourth graders in the six
schools who scored "proficient" or "advanced proficient" in language arts
literacy ranged from 83 to 94 percent, except at South Street School, where 59
percent of the students scored that high. The statewide average was 86 percent.
In fourth-grade math, the range was 72 percent to 91 percent, except for 44
percent at South Street, which ends with fifth grade. The statewide average for
math was 68.5 percent.

Between 62 and 90 percent of eighth graders were proficient or better in
language arts, compared with a statewide average of 73 percent. In math, the
percentage of eighth graders in three Ironbound schools who scored proficient or
above ranged from 73 to 79 percent; at Oliver Street School, however, 46 percent
were at that level and at Hawkins, 28 percent. The statewide average was 68
percent.

Last year's senior class at East Side High School had 399 students, and 49
percent went on to two- or four-year colleges. Students totaled an average of
757 on the SAT reasoning tests, compared with the statewide average of 1,016.

Many parents in the Ironbound send their children to parochial schools. St.
Casimir Academy has 220 students in prekindergarten through eighth grade.
Tuition is $2,500 a year. The Academy of St. Benedict also offers
prekindergarten through eighth grade, with tuition and fees of $2,300. It
currently enrolls 250 students.

Ironbound residents -- whether from Portugal, Ecuador, Peru or Brazil -- seem to
share one form of recreation. The parks are full of children, and adults,
playing soccer, and the game is the spectator sport of choice at bars and clubs.
When Brazil won the World Cup, revelers took to the streets in the middle of the
night.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: St. Stephen's Episcopal Church at Ferry Street and Wilson
Avenue, left, and homes on New York Avenue.; Ferry Street, the commercial center
of the Ironbound, reflects the area's strong Portuguese flavor. (Photographs by
Dith Pran/The New York Times); 3-bedroom, 1-bath single-family house at 95 1/2
Napoleon Street, $189,000. 2-family house with 3 bedrooms, 2 baths in main unit
at 25 Main Street, $385,000. 3-family house with 3 bed-rooms in each unit at
76-78 Clifford Street, $579,000. Chart: "GAZETTEER" POPULATION: 50,000 (2000
census).AREA: 4 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $34,231.MEDIAN PRICE OF
ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $217,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $4,000.MEDIAN PRICE ONE YEAR
AGO: $190,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $115,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF EXISTING
TWO-FAMILY HOUSE: $385,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF NEW TWO-FAMILY HOUSE: $465,000.MEDIAN
PRICE OF EXISTING THREE-FAMILY HOUSE: $450,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF NEW THREE-FAMILY
HOUSE: $579,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $200,000.MIDRANGE
RENT ON A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,000.GOVERNMENT: Nine-member nonpartisan
Newark City Council, one each from five wards and four at large, serving
four-year terms. The Ironbound is in the East Ward, represented by Councilman
Augusto Amador.SCHOOL EXPENDITURE PER PUPIL: $11,093.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO
MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 20 minutes by New Jersey Transit train to New York Penn
Station; $3.30 one way, $92 monthly. Or 35 minutes on PATH train to 33rd Street,
$1.50 one way.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN: 13 miles.IMMIGRANT SUCCESS STORY: At
McWhorter and Lafayette Streets in the Ironbound, a plaque commemorates two
people who embodied the immigrant experience: Daniel and Elvira Rodrigues.
According to his daughter, Linda, Daniel left Portugal at 13 as a stowaway on a
ship to Brazil; among other jobs there, he worked as a milkman, going door to
door with a cow. In 1925, at age 23 and with a third-grade education, he left
for the United States, again as a stowaway. Wandering the Brooklyn docks, he
heard about a Portuguese-speaking community in Newark, went there, and met some
Portuguese laborers who let him sleep in the bathtub at their boarding house. He
met his future wife, Elvira -- born in Brazil of Portuguese parents -- and after
factory and construction jobs, they opened a successful oil business. With the
profits, the couple bought real estate. In 1959, the family sailed to Portugal
with 66 trunks of food and clothing for the poor. Map of New Jersey highlighting
The Ironbound.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

PUBLIC LIVES;
Looking at Immigration From Both Sides

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 826 words


WHEN H.I.V. drained Carlos Sandoval of his health and forced him to leave behind
his career as a Manhattan lawyer, he retreated to the East End of Long Island to
figure out where his life was headed. The answer, as it turned out, was to the
Sundance Film Festival.

In September 2000, Mr. Sandoval, 51, was reading a newspaper at his boyfriend's
home in Amagansett when he came across an article about two Latino day laborers
from the hamlet of Farmingville who had been attacked by white men promising
work. Mr. Sandoval, whose heritage is Puerto Rican and Mexican-American, was
horrified by the crimes.

Even though he had no experience in filmmaking, Mr. Sandoval became determined
to make a documentary to examine the attacks and the boiling pot that
Farmingville had become. The project would take two years, it would cost
$572,000, and it would immerse Mr. Sandoval, a soft-spoken man, into a community
where emotions were at a fever pitch and where residents on both sides of the
debate often screamed first and thought later.

"I didn't think about how scared I would be," Mr. Sandoval said. "I was in
hostile territory, alone."

The movie that emerged, "Farmingville," will be shown at Sundance on Sunday, one
of 16 documentaries in competition at the film festival.

One recent evening, Mr. Sandoval and his co-director on the project, Catherine
Tambini, were huddled inside Mr. Sandoval's Upper West Side apartment preparing
for the festival. The neat studio with the egg yolk-colored walls had become a
cluttered editing room and repository for some 250 videotapes of raw footage.

Mr. Sandoval bit his lower lip as he apologized for the clutter, then went back
to watching his movie, which was playing on a television in the corner. The
lawyer turned filmmaker, who attempts eloquence on every subject, said he saw
the film as a rondel, a poem that returns to a refrain as it spools along.

The product playing on the television appeared much more raw. Protesters
screamed at each other. The camera swept over the grimy abandoned building where
the Farmingville laborers were attacked. A laborer pulled up his shirt to reveal
a deep scar.

After deciding to make the documentary, Mr. Sandoval moved into Farmingville in
early 2001, renting a bungalow for $850 a month. He tried to create a home there
and weave himself into the community. He planted flowers in his backyard and
said hello to his neighbors. He went to church on Sunday and took
chicken-and-rice dinners to community meetings.

Mr. Sandoval wanted to tell the immigration story from both sides, so he had to
make friends with the laborers as well as the non-Latino residents of
Farmingville who derided them. Sometimes, his efforts flopped. Often people did
not trust Mr. Sandoval and his crew, and they would refuse to be interviewed, or
would agree to participate in the movie only to back out or leave town.

But he became friends with others, like Margaret Bianculli-Dyber, who led a
residents' group that protests illegal immigration. Ms. Bianculli-Dyber, who is
featured in the movie, espouses views that are the opposite of Mr. Sandoval's
sympathies with immigrants and laborers, yet Mr. Sandoval said he grew to like
Ms. Bianculli-Dyber's wit. "It's very hard for me to judge and hold people to
judgments," he said.

Mr. Sandoval said that being in Farmingville during such tumult was at times a
frightening and unfamiliar life for him and for Ms. Tambini. They talked on
cellphones for fear that a land-line call would be tapped, and they stored
footage of the movie in a heavy safe, worried that someone might set fire to Mr.
Sandoval's rented bungalow.

The 78-minute documentary, culled from the 200 hours of footage that Mr.
Sandoval and Ms. Tambini had gathered, gives an intimate glimpse into the world
of Farmingville, where more than 1,000 laborers arrive each year to work as
landscapers and handymen. With spare narration, the movie swoops from the street
corners where laborers wait for work to rancorous meetings of the Suffolk County
Legislature to the bedrooms and living rooms of immigrants and anti-immigration
activists.

Mr. Sandoval is no Pollyanna, but he has idealistic goals for the movie. He said
it was his attempt to curb racism like the kind he had experienced growing up in
Southern California.

"He's got the altar boy mentality," Ms. Tambini said. "He's always trying to do
the right thing."

He said he never got involved in gangs like many others in his neighborhood, but
he disappointed his mother all the same when he went to Harvard, and later to
law school at the University of Chicago, instead of becoming a priest.

His health has improved since 1996, when he left law, but at the time, Mr.
Sandoval did not know whether he would live more than another few years, he
said. Making the movie was an attempt to do something significant before he
died.

"I though this was going to be my swan song," he said, quickly apologizing for
being so maudlin.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Carlos Sandoval

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CARLOS SANDOVAL (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York
Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legalizing Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 132 words


To the Editor:

Re "Workers in the Shadows," by David Brooks (Op-Ed, Jan. 10):

Those beautiful, beckoning words inscribed on Lady Liberty have been a beacon of
hope for all, including most of our ancestors.

In this respect, making it easier for immigrants to begin to enjoy these United
States is always a good thing. But the real dilemma is keeping this promise to
immigrants while also keeping open opportunities for jobless Americans.

The real concern is that for America's corporations, newly legalized immigrant
labor may cost less than hiring a jobless American. If we let this happen, we
backhand our own citizens. If we do not, we deny Lady Liberty's promises, a
dreadful impasse no president or political party should ever wish to confront.

WADDELL ROBEY
Harrisburg, Pa., Jan. 10, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 15, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Relations With Cuba

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 181 words


To the Editor:

Re "U.S. Halts Cuban Immigration Talks; Worsening of Ties Seen" (news article,
Jan. 8):

Reunifying fragmented families on both sides of the Florida Straits requires
that the governments of the United States and Cuba maintain a constructive
approach toward discussing issues like migration.

The Bush administration's decision to suspend semiannual talks jeopardizes
reunification efforts and introduces a conditionality that threatens to
asphyxiate the already limited avenue for humanitarian and cultural activity
between the two countries.

Last fall, the Cuban government announced that starting in early 2004,
Cuban-Americans wishing to visit the island would no longer be required to have
visas. This act, however limited in its actual positive impact, is a significant
symbolic step forward and should be met by the Bush administration as a
legitimate reason for salvaging the few remaining channels of communication with
Cuba.

LULY DUKE
East Hampton, N.Y., Jan. 12, 2004

The writer is president and chairwoman, Fundacion Amistad, a group promoting
U.S.-Cuban relations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Victims of Sex Trafficking

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 174 words


To the Editor:

Re "Putting the Sex Trade on Notice" (editorial, Jan. 9):

As an attorney who represents trafficked sex workers, I have seen firsthand how
this administration has failed many trafficked young women.

Under United States law, the government is charged with offering assistance to
victims who are trafficked into the United States by giving them visas and other
benefits that will allow them to rebuild their lives.

But the frequent requirement of cooperating in criminal prosecutions intimidates
most victims from coming forward, and in fact many victims have found themselves
aggressively interrogated by law enforcement officials as if they themselves are
the criminals.

Add to this the general level of fear and distrust that this administration has
created in immigrant communities, and the result is a law that allows the
administration to market itself well but does not deliver all that much for
young people around the world.

JUHU THUKRAL
New York, Jan. 9, 2004

The writer is director, Sex Workers Project, Urban Justice Center.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SOUTH ASIAN NEW YORK;
The City Will Speak More Tongues, But South Asians Are Stranded

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 443 words


ADVOCATES for immigrants had reason to celebrate last month. After nearly two
years of wending its way through the government, a City Council bill that
requires the Human Resources Administration to provide interpretation and
translation services became law. But now some of these same advocates are
criticizing the fine print; they say the new law has left speakers of South
Asian languages like Bengali, Hindi, Urdu and Punjabi stranded.

Under the new law, documents emanating from the agency, which administers public
assistant and food stamp programs, will be translated into Spanish, Russian,
Chinese, Korean, Haitian-Creole and Arabic only.

Partha Banerjee, a columnist for the Bengali-language weekly Akhon Samoy,
faulted the choices in a column published late last month. "It's astonishing and
arbitrary and needs to be fixed," he said last week, adding that part of the
blame lay in the South Asian community's failure to organize behind the issue.

The backers of the law, many with gleaming pro-immigrant credentials, defend the
legislation. "Ultimately, the point was to be as inclusive as possible while
accommodating the fiscal concerns that the administration and other members of
the council," said Councilman John C. Liu of Queens, one of the law's sponsors.
"And these six languages covered the most people."

Still, resentment runs deep. "I think it's essential legislation, but it
excludes my community," said Annetta Seecharran, executive director of South
Asian Youth Action, based in Elmhurst, Queens. "Especially in the post-9/11 era,
it feels like another slap in the face."

Although translation of documents is limited to six languages, the city must
still provide oral interpreters in all languages. The agency already provides
live and phone interpretation services in more than 100 languages, said its
spokeswoman, Lisi de Bourbon.

The final list of six languages covered by the new law was derived from sources
that included the latest census and a survey of food-stamp recipients, according
to Andrew Friedman, co-director of Make the Road by Walking, a nonprofit group
that worked for years on behalf of the legislation. The languages found to be
most common among respondents nearly match the six languages cited in the law,
except that Arabic replaced French. Bengali, at 16th, was the top South Asian
language.

Determining how many people speak a language like Bengali is tricky. The 2000
census showed only 19,000 Bangladeshis in the city, but community leaders like
Mujib Rahman, president of the Bangladesh Society of New York, said there were
hundreds of thousands of South Asians who spoke the language.   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Indian neighborhood in Jackson Heights, Queens, where
translations required by a city law could be of little use. (Photo by Rebecca
Cooney for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Waging War, From Wall Street To Corner Grocery;
Beyond the High-Profile Cases, Spitzer Helps Low-Wage Workers

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words


Katerina Papastathis was furious. The restaurant where she worked as a waitress
was not paying her a cent in wages, making her rely solely on tips.

She knew that her employer, the Elias Corner Restaurant for Fish in Queens, was
violating minimum wage laws, so she filed a complaint with the New York State
Department of Labor. Five months passed, and she heard nothing.

So she contacted the state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer.

Soon, his office subpoenaed the restaurant's records. It had investigators try
to interview workers at Elias Corner. And when the restaurant's owner began
pressuring workers to sign affidavits saying they were being paid the minimum
wage, Mr. Spitzer subpoenaed the workers to testify under oath that, in fact,
they were not being paid. Last June, he announced that Elias Corner had agreed
to pay $460,000 for minimum-wage violations.

Ms. Papastathis, an immigrant from Greece, could not be happier: "It's so
beautiful, what he did."

Mr. Spitzer has made huge headlines for his fights on behalf of Wall Street
investors. But he has also been battling for a less visible, less clamorous
group: New York's low-wage workers. Last month, Mr. Spitzer announced that the
Gristede's supermarket chain would pay $3.2 million to hundreds of African
immigrants who often received $2 an hour delivering its groceries, far less than
the $5.15 minimum wage.

He stunned a Long Island construction contractor -- and other employers who use
day laborers -- by having him arrested at his home in front of reporters after
accusing him of not paying four immigrant day laborers a month's wages.

After he charged three Korean greengrocers with paying Mexican immigrants just
$3 an hour for their 80-hour work weeks, Mr. Spitzer persuaded 200 others to
agree to pay the minimum wage and overtime and to inspections by outside
monitors.

"We went to different unions and different public officials for help, but when
we went to Eliot Spitzer, we encountered our best ally," said Jerry Dominguez,
an official from Casa de Mexico, an advocacy group, who took up the cause of
greengrocer workers. "He's doing a lot for workers, more than some union leaders
are."

Mr. Spitzer admits a warm spot for these enforcement efforts. "They're my
favorite cases," he said in an interview last week. "People say, 'The Wall
Street cases must be your favorite cases,' because they generate great interest,
given there are 100 million investors who feel touched by the mutual fund piece
of what you're doing. But the greatest need, I thought, was to help low-wage
workers who are least able to protect themselves."

The attorney general's labor bureau, created in its current form in the early
1980's, spent its first 15 years mainly handling modest cases referred by the
state Labor Department and defending lawsuits brought against the state.
Patricia Smith, the chief of the labor bureau, said it was only in the past few
years that the department had been flexing its muscles, bringing 89 of its own
cases in 2003, up from 10 a decade earlier.

Ms. Smith, who began working in the office in 1987, said that Mr. Spitzer had
urged the nine-lawyer labor bureau to take the offensive.

"It's the first time that we actually had a mandate to do labor cases on our
own," she said. "Eliot told us to think about what can be done to help working
people and to try to do it."

As a Democratic politician and prosecutor, Mr. Spitzer can bring
attention-grabbing cases, as he weighs whether to run for governor. And there
are undeniable political benefits to his fight for workers. Chinese-American and
Hispanic-American groups have hailed him, and so has organized labor. Denis
Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said, "He has redefined
what attorney generals do -- not only in our state but throughout the country --
in enforcing worker rights."

Mr. Spitzer denied that there was any political calculation to his efforts. Most
of the immigrant workers his office helps, he was quick to note, do not even
vote.

"I usually face this question with the Wall Street cases: 'You just did this for
the political upside,"' he said. "If I helped an old lady across the street,
they'd say I'm doing it for political benefit. Every one of these labor cases
has been a lightning rod."

When Mr. Spitzer went to bat for day laborers, some suburbanites asked why he
was defending a group they viewed as a blight on their community. When he
accused Korean greengrocers of violating wage laws, they accused him of
discrimination.

But Mr. Spitzer has been adept at winning over some of his targets. In his tense
dealings with the Korean greengrocers, he agreed to drop his threat to sue for
millions of dollars in back pay so long as they agreed to a new code of conduct.

Samuel Ahne, a lawyer for the Korean-American Association of Greater New York,
praised Mr. Spitzer for not putting greengrocers out of business. "He's been
eager to work with the employer," he said.

But there are business executives who view Mr. Spitzer's tactics as unfair.
"He's too aggressive," said John A. Catsimatidis, chairman of Gristede's. "When
you're negotiating with the government and they tell you, 'We'll give you six
months if you plead to this, but if you go to trial, you'll get 20 years,'
everybody ends up pleading."

Ismail Ngendakumana, a Gristede's deliveryman who is from Burundi, welcomed Mr.
Spitzer's help, saying many coworkers would use their back pay -- some will
receive more than $20,000 -- to go to college or bring their families to
America.

"A lot of workers are very happy," said Mr. Ngendakumana, who often earned $175
a week, including tips, working 70-hour weeks. "I knew one day we would have
justice."

Mr. Catsimatidis insisted that Gristede's did nothing wrong with its
deliverymen; he said a subcontractor was responsible. And he said that Mr.
Spitzer strong-armed Gristede's into paying the $3.2 million.

"The people he's helping are illegal aliens," Mr. Catsimatidis said. "They
haven't paid a dollar to the I.R.S. in their lives."

Mr. Spitzer said he was obliged to help illegal immigrant workers. "On workers
rights, New York State law does not distinguish between illegal immigrants and
anybody else," he said. "We cannot permit employers who break the law to eat
away at the rights of all workers by hiring illegal workers and paying them
subminimum wages and getting an unfair competitive advantage."

Several of New York's top Republicans declined to comment on the attorney
general's efforts to help immigrant workers. Republicans nationwide are seeking
to woo Hispanic voters, evidenced by President Bush's recent proposal to grant
three-year visas to some illegal immigrant workers.

One industry group that might have been expected to criticize Mr. Spitzer, the
New York State Restaurant Association, welcomed his work. Rick Sampson, the
group's chief executive, said: "He's going into some places that aren't paying
overtime or the minimum wage. Those places give the whole industry a black eye."

Some labor advocates voice surprise that Mr. Spitzer, the son of a wealthy real
estate developer, has taken up the cause of immigrant workers. But he says he
has not forgotten where he comes from.

"My grandparents were immigrants," he said. "My Dad grew up on Avenue B and
Fourth Street in a walkup apartment without hot water. My father was a printer -
he had a little printing press in the basement of their tenement. He did a lot
of printing for synagogues. There is not a long lineage of enormous comfort in
my family."

Mr. Spitzer has used muscular tactics to get low-wage employers to pay
attention.

Three years ago, his office won the first criminal conviction of a sweatshop
owner in a decade -- the employer had forced Chinese immigrants to work 100-hour
weeks and had not paid them for months. His office won the first felony
conviction of a restaurant, Jade Palace, in Sunset Park for violating overtime
laws.

Xue Xian Lin, a Jade Palace worker, said she was coerced into working 70 hours a
week without overtime. "The state attorney general helped not just me," she
said, "but many other workers, because so many other employers saw what happened
and now won't break the law."

The attorney general's office sometimes protects higher-wage workers, too. It
went after TSI Broadband, an Internet company, getting it to pay $250,000 in
back wages. It had persuaded 52 employees to work for several weeks without pay
until a new contract came through, but that contract -- and the promised pay--
never materialized.

Rangel Lucero worked for a kosher food factory in Williamsburg, Tuv Taam, often
receiving just $300 for his 80-hour weeks. He said he was delighted when Mr.
Spitzer announced last October that Tuv Taam had agreed to pay $1 million for
minimum wage and overtime violations.

"We were really surprised," Mr. Lucero said. "We never imagined they would
pressure the company so strongly."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ismail Ngendakumana, top, once earned $175 for 70 hours as a
Gristede's deliveryman. The state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, says he
favors cases that help low-wage workers. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York
Times); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B1); Working at Tuv Taam, a kosher food
factory in Williamsburg, Rangel Lucero was often paid $300 for his 80-hour
weeks. After the state attorney general stepped in, Tuv Taam agreed to pay $1
million for violations. (Photo by Lucian Read for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trip Home From Europe Becomes Kafkaesque Ordeal

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 912 words


A German woman married to a Brooklyn schoolteacher had been told that she had
all her papers in order when she took a quick trip to show off her infant
daughter to her parents in Germany.

But her return home in late December turned surreal and terrifying when Homeland
Security officials at Kennedy Airport rejected her travel documents, confiscated
her passport, then detained her and the 3-month-old overnight in a room with
shackled drug suspects. They let her go only after ordering her to leave the
country no later than tomorrow.

After a month of desperate efforts by her American husband, their lawyers and
legislators, late yesterday a spokeswoman for the Homeland Security Department
said that the woman, Antje Croton, 36, would be granted a last-minute reprieve.
But Mrs. Croton said she had received no written notification. "I'm in a
nightmare," she said as she packed yesterday afternoon, having abandoned hope of
straightening out the problem. "I feel like I'm in the wrong movie."

Her husband, Christopher Croton, said the couple was not convinced their ordeal
was over. "The experience has been like trying to open a door to a room that
does not exist," Mr. Croton said. "That's the irony here. My German-born wife
has to come here to experience this wall of, just The State."

He pointed out that other foreigners with fewer resources have been caught in
the same kind of bureaucratic confusion ever since the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was absorbed by the Department of Homeland Security last
year.

Mrs. Croton has lived in Park Slope for five years, and her application for a
green card has been pending for nearly two. When her sister urged her to visit
Germany, she wanted to take no chances. So in October, she said, she asked
immigration officials at 26 Federal Plaza about getting a new travel permit.

According to her account, an immigration official, C.E. Herndandez, insisted
that her old permit was still valid, though it had a July expiration date,
because it bore a stamp saying "April 2004." Reassured, Mrs. Croton departed on
Dec. 9. "I did everything by the rules," Mrs. Croton said.

But on Dec. 22, when she returned to Kennedy Airport at 9 p.m., exhausted after
a 10-hour trip alone with her baby daughter, Clara, front-line border security
officers barred her way. They said the immigration official had been wrong: the
July 2003 expiration, not the April 2004 stamp, applied, and she could not enter
the United States.

They interrogated her until 2 a.m., she said, as she wept, tried to nurse her
baby and pleaded with officials to call her husband, who was waiting without
word in the terminal.

Mrs. Croton, who has worked for an ad agency in Hamburg and as a journalist in
New York, and who recently started her own Internet business as a handbag
designer, said she was astonished that the official questioning her had to
struggle to enter her replies in an archaic computer, hunting and pecking and
calling for help to save the document file.

"Then this man says, 'We are going to put you on the next plane going back
home."'

"I said, 'This is my home,"' recalled Mrs. Croton, who has lived in the same
apartment with her husband since before they were married in 2001.

She was then taken from the airport's terminal 1 to terminal 4, she said, to a
fluorescent-lit room where a dozen detainees included a man who had been
carrying an illegal gun and several suspected drug couriers in shackles.

"I couldn't even spell my name anymore," Mrs. Croton said. "Nobody who hasn't
had a little infant and traveled on a long-distance flight can understand. I
said, 'I need to lie down. I'm shivering, I'm exhausted, I'm nursing."' But she
said an officer retorted: "Stop crying. There were other people here with kids,
and it's not going to get you anywhere."

The most humane response, Mrs. Croton added, came from the low-level worker who
had driven her from one terminal to the other. Learning that the mother had no
diapers left for her baby, the driver returned with three toddler-sized
disposable diapers, the only ones she could find.

In the morning, a supervisor told Mrs. Croton that she had to board a plane to
Germany, but she refused, fearing for her health and the baby's. She was then
offered another option: to buy a ticket for a flight to Germany leaving within
30 days, with no guarantee she could ever return.

The couple hoped to straighten out the mess before her forced departure, but the
red tape seemed impervious. Two weeks ago, the couple went back to see Ms.
Hernandez at Federal Plaza, and she again told Mrs. Croton that her travel
document was still valid until April.

When told what had happened at the airport, other officials said that without
Mrs. Croton's confiscated passport and file, their hands were tied. They were at
an impasse until an inquiry by a reporter for The New York Times to Janet
Rapaport, a spokeswoman for the Border Security section of Homeland Security.

That resulted in a flurry of activity. Ms. Rapaport said yesterday that a
decision had been reached by Susan T. Mitchell, director of New York field
operations for Customs Enforcement and Border Security, based on a review of
Mrs. Croton's file. Mrs. Croton would be allowed to stay and pursue her green
card application. "I guess for humanitarian reasons," Ms. Rapaport said.

"I want to believe it," Mrs. Croton said. "But they tell me I can stay, and then
I stay, and then what if they tell me I'm a real lawbreaker?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antje Croton was detained with her baby, Clara, upon her return
to Kennedy Airport from Germany. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SOAPBOX;
... and Citizenship for Latinos

BYLINE:  By ALLAN B. RAMIREZ; The Rev. Allan B. Ramirez is pastor of the
Brookville Reformed Church and chairman of the Nassau County Commission on Human
Rights.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 678 words


THE most rapidly growing community on Long Island are the new immigrants of
Latino descent. This trend is but a reflection of a similar pattern across the
country. Certainly there has been greater visibility of the Latino community in
some circles of society, but much more needs to happen in order to bring this
community into the mainstream of the general population; participating and being
represented in all facets of political, business, cultural, and social life in
America.

Without question, the business community has come to recognize the tremendous
buying power and potential within the Latino community. There is tremendous
investment being made in advertising to reach to this segment of the population.
Of course, the cynical side of me tells me that the only reason business is
paying attention to us is because we have something business wants. Money.

Business is willing to treat us equally as any other consumer who has money to
spend on products they want to sell. Politically, culturally and socially is
another issue. For the most part, politicians are ignoring the Latinos even
though we have been growing in numbers, and we are partly responsible for that.
Latinos come from about two-dozen countries and have been slow at obtaining
American citizenship. The average politician has little motivation to help,
represent or acknowledge any group of people that has no voting power. While
Latinos have a tradition of maintaining their identity and ties with our country
of origin, it is vital that we remember that we have come to the United States
for economic and educational opportunities.

If we are to fully realize the opportunities we seek, and to make the American
Dream a part of our lives, we must make an intentional effort to naturalize all
who have planted new roots here in the United States. Failure to go down this
path will result in the continued marginalization of millions of people, and we
will only have ourselves to blame.

The most recent race for Suffolk county executive saw two candidates from major
political parties totally ignoring one of the major issues in that county. The
issue of undocumented workers was not debated or addressed by either candidate,
and the media never challenged them to do so. Why? Because the Latino community
is largely seen as a group that can be ignored without having to pay a political
price.

Another example that comes to mind is the lack of visibility of government
officials willing to condemn the brutal bias attacks against Latinos. For the
most part, major political leaders remained silent when two day laborers were
lured by neo-Nazis and almost killed in Farmingville in 2000. Equally disgusting
was the lack of our officials' coming forward to condemn the firebombing of the
home of a Latino family in Farmingville this past summer. Even the Suffolk
County police department was reluctant to label this a possible bias incident.

Latino community leaders must realize that nobody is going to help our
community, unless and until we help ourselves by setting our sights on
naturalization for every Latino.

A voice must be raised that a new day is coming to America. A new day of justice
and righteousness that will be made possible when we exercise the basic
principle of having the power to participate in the democratic process through
our vote. We must challenge ourselves and each other to integrate fully into the
fabric of the great nation so many have risked their lives to reach.

Today our community may be mostly doing the dirty work nobody else is willing to
do. Dishwashers, maids, landscapers, construction workers, short-order cooks,
car-wash attendants, office cleaners, etc. Yet, we must dream that from these
humble roots will come the next generation of leaders for the United States. Our
children will become teachers, doctors, lawyers, government officials,
accountants, etc., and our contributions will usher us into a new day for the
United States.

A new day can and will come to America, but it is up to us to make it happen.
And citizenship is the only way.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ECONOMIC VIEW;
Time to Slaythe Inequality Myth? Not So Fast

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1005 words


IF there is one thing that most people think they know about incomes in the
United States over the last few decades, it is probably that salaries have grown
more unequal. The rich have gotten richer faster than everyone else has.

In recent weeks, a new book has challenged this conventional wisdom, calling it
a statistical mirage, and its striking claim has begun to receive national
attention. Among native-born Americans, lower- and middle-income families have
actually received proportionately bigger raises than the wealthy, according to
"The Progress Paradox" (Random House), written by Gregg Easterbrook, a
Washington journalist. Only a great influx of immigrants - many of them poor,
but richer than they were in their home countries - has made inequality appear
to widen in the statistics, Mr. Easterbrook says.

"Factor out immigration," he writes, "and the rise in American inequality
disappears."

The idea has echoed from the book into the pages of The Washington Post, The
Chicago Sun-Times, The San Diego Union-Tribune, The Times of London and
BusinessWeek magazine, among other publications. It seems like one of those
facts that could rewrite conventional wisdom about the American economy.

It happens, however, not to be true.

The millions of immigrants who have entered the country in recent decades have
indeed made inequality look larger than it otherwise would. But even among
households headed by native-born Americans, the rich have done far better than
others over the past 20 years - as well as over the past 30, 40 or 50 years,
according to government statistics and the economists who study them.

The reasons will sound familiar. The long bull market of the 1980's and 90's
helped mainly the well off, as has the rising value of a college degree in an
increasingly complicated economy. At the middle and bottom of the income
distribution, meanwhile, the overseas exodus of factory jobs, the stagnation of
the minimum wage, the shrinking power of labor unions, the automation of the
workplace and - yes - the immigration boom have all helped keep a lid on raises.

"The fact of the matter is, income trends have favored people at the top of the
income distribution, and that's true of native-borns, too," said Gary Burtless,
a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, whose research is
cited in Mr. Easterbrook's book. "There is no data source that disagrees with
that simple statement. In fact, the better the data, the more that the skew
appears."

Mr. Easterbrook, a senior editor at The New Republic who is a visiting fellow at
Brookings, acknowledged last week that he had gone too far in the book. His
discussion of inequality occupies a very small part of "The Progress Paradox,"
he said, and he was mainly arguing that immigration played a role in the rise in
inequality. "Even if there were not that increase in immigration, there would
certainly be a rise in inequality," he said in an interview. "I did a poor job
of writing that page."

The book's central argument is that Americans do not realize quite how good they
have it. Diseases that once ended thousands of lives are now just a nuisance,
and life expectancy has soared. Home heating and air-conditioning are almost
ubiquitous. The prices of air travel and telephone calls have plummeted,
allowing average people to move easily around the country and to talk to the
other side of the world. In the typical household, all the children have rooms
of their own.

"All told, except for the clamor and speed of society, and for trends in popular
music," writes Mr. Easterbrook, "your great-great-grandparents might say the
contemporary United States is the realization of utopia."

The rise in income at all steps on the economic ladder is crucial to the story.
Even in the bottom half of the distribution, the average native-born family
makes about 20 percent more than it did in 1970, after adjusting for inflation,
according to an analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge and Susan Weber,
both of Queens College.

But as real as this increase is, it hides an important part of the story, which
in turn explains why the inequality question and Mr. Easterbrook's exaggeration
matter.

Less than half of the rise in pay among lower-income households comes from
actual wage increases. Most of the rise is a result of families putting in more
hours on the job as many women have joined the work force. This has obvious
benefits, giving today's women economic freedom that their grandmothers did not
have, but it also leaves less time for children, aging parents and everything
else outside the office.

The pay increases for upper-middle-class and wealthy households, on the other
hand, stem largely from healthy jumps in how much they earn each hour. Over all,
a native family at the 90th percentile - earning more than 9 in 10 others - made
68 percent more in 1999 than in 1969, after adjusting for inflation, according
to an examination of census numbers by the Public Policy Institute of
California. At the 20th percentile, the increase was 30 percent.

This gap has allowed upper-income families to afford better health care and
homes in better school districts, among other things, and it underlies much of
the current economic debate.

MANY Democrats argue for an increase in the minimum wage (as does Mr.
Easterbrook) or a repeal of the recent tax cuts, which benefited mainly
upper-income families. Some of the Democratic presidential candidates want an
overhaul of trade policy to keep middle-class jobs from moving abroad. Veterans
of the Clinton administration counter that trade restrictions would make the
country poorer over all. They tend to propose training and support programs for
people who have lost their jobs.

Many Republicans say that government intervention to narrow the income gap would
undermine the country's free-market system. An economy that tempts people to get
very rich is a healthier one, they add.

All this is fodder for debate. Whether inequality has risen or fallen, however,
is a settled question.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Richer, Faster"Among families headed by someone born in the
United States, high-income families saw their earnings grow faster than
middleincome ones. 1949Annual family income50th percentile: $19,61990th
percentile: $40,20390th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.0 1959Annual family
income50th percentile: 29,78890th percentile: 60,63090th as a multiple of the
50th: 2.0 1969Annual family income50th percentile: 40,80490th percentile:
81,39790th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.0 1979Annual family income50th
percentile: 45,05090th percentile: 93,17290th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.1
1989Annual family income50th percentile: 47,73490th percentile: 106,67890th as a
multiple of the 50th: 2.2 1999Annual family income50th percentile: 51,00090th
percentile: 122,40090th as a multiple of the 50th: 2.4 (Sources by Queens
College; Census Bureau)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obstruction Is Charged in Sex Slavery Case

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 781 words


In November, a federal immigration agent flashed his badge at the door of a
Queens apartment and told a frightened young woman from South Korea that he was
there to deport her.

The woman had been cooperating with the police against the owners of a Flushing
bar that she said had held her captive in a case of human trafficking, federal
prosecutors in Brooklyn said yesterday. The woman said they beat her and tried
to coerce her to become a prostitute to pay back an ever-growing debt.

The immigration agent, Nisim Yushuvayev, was legitimate. But his threats were
not, the prosecutors said in an obstruction-of-justice complaint they filed
against him yesterday. They said he was in league with the bar owners to spirit
the woman out of the country to keep her from providing prosecutors with more
information against him.

The story of the agent and the young South Korean woman provided a glimpse of
the shadowy world of forced labor and what the prosecutors described as sex
slavery in New York City. The prosecutors said the bar owners, Wun and Kyongja
Kang, used promises of a better life in the United States to entice two young
women from Seoul to work at the bar, the Renaissance Bar & Room Cafe in
Flushing.

Before one of the women slipped away and went to the police, the prosecutors
said, the gentle promises made in Seoul ended with violence, sexual assaults and
efforts to sell the women to a Chinatown brothel. The Kangs were arrested last
month. They face federal forced labor charges and have been held without bail.
They have pleaded not guilty.

Until the Renaissance bar closed last month, neighbors said, men arrived each
night. Inside, more than a dozen young South Korean women were hostesses. "It's
just a place where they get the guys to open their wallets," said a neighbor who
refused to give his name yesterday.

Across the country, prosecutors say, an unknown number of women, and some boys
and men, are trapped each year in a desperate life of forced labor that
sometimes involves sexual servitude. Often, they say, the victims are brought to
this country by people who play on their hopes and then strand them here with
big debts they cannot repay.

Yesterday the United States attorney in Brooklyn, Roslynn R. Mauskopf, called
such traffickers "21st-century slave traders."

In the city, such stories come to light rarely, often in sketchy accounts from
victims who can be as frightened of officials as they are of their captors. In
another case last month, Brooklyn prosecutors charged four Mexican men living in
Corona, Queens, with smuggling four women into this country to work at brothels
in Brooklyn and Queens.

Yesterday, the prosecutors said Kyongja Kang, 41, found the young women in South
Korea on a trip there. They said she promised them respectable work keeping
customers company and pouring them drinks.

She told them, according to the complaint, that no sexual relations would be
involved. Once here, though, the complaint said the agreed-upon $10,000 debt the
women owed the bar owners for travel costs and rent mushroomed. The young women
were never paid. Their passports were held by the bar owners, the complaint
said.

Soon, the prosecutors said, there were suggestions from people at the bar and
Mr. Kang that it would be possible to work off the debt faster by selling
themselves for sex. When they resisted the suggestions and tried to slip away,
the prosecutors said, Mr. Kang sexually assaulted them and beat one of them.

His lawyer, Charles A. Ross, said yesterday that his client was fighting the
charges vigorously.

In federal court in Brooklyn yesterday, an exhausted-looking Mr. Yushuvayev, 27,
listened quietly as a federal prosecutor, Lee J. Freedman, told a federal
magistrate that Mr. Yushuvayev had confessed after he was arrested on Friday. He
said he acknowledged that he had gone to the Queens apartment and tried to take
the young woman to Kennedy Airport in a livery cab. She ran away.

But Oliver A. Smith, a lawyer for Mr. Yushuvayev, an inspector for the Bureau of
Customs and Border Protection, said he planned to contest all of the charges.

Magistrate Judge Roanne L. Mann agreed to release Mr. Yushuvayev on $500,000
bond, but only after the court received proof of the value of homes pledged as
security by his father, an immigrant from Uzbekistan.

It was not clear from the court filings how Mr. Yushuvayev and the Kangs might
have known each other. But the complaint said that after he was arrested last
month, Mr. Kang admitted that he "sent a man whom be believed to be an I.N.S.
employee" to the Queens apartment to get one of the South Korean woman to leave
the country "so that she could not testify against him."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Renaissance Bar & Room Cafe, on 154th Street in Flushing,
Queens, closed last month. An immigration agent and the bar's owners face
charges in what prosecutors say involved human trafficking and prostitution.
(Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rooms to Succeed;
For the Children of Indian-American Hoteliers, All Is Possible

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words


Vinu Patel realized his immigrant dreams by working 100 hours a week to turn a
profit on a struggling motel. He wanted something better for his children.

Morning and night, Mr. Patel, an immigrant from the Indian state of Gujarat,
manned the front desk and did repairs on a 60-room Econo Lodge in Bordentown,
N.J., while his wife, Indu, and two children hauled suitcases, made up beds and
vacuumed rooms. And the work paid off. At age 57, Mr. Patel owns not only the
Econo Lodge but, with relatives, four other hotels.

As with thousands of other Indian hotel owners, Mr. Patel hoped his children
would choose to stay in the hotel business, but he wanted them to work with
bankers and brokers rather than as bellhops. So, with an immigrant's classic
trust in education but a novel Indian twist, he helped put his son, Montu, and
daughter, Payal, through hotel school, in their case the Preston Robert Tisch
Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University.

Immigrants from India -- mostly from the state of Gujarat and many bearing the
name Patel, which is common in the region -- have, during the last three
decades, quietly acquired more than one-third of the 53,000 hotels in the United
States, most of them budget and mid-priced franchises, hotel industry officials
say. But this strike-it-rich story has more recently taken a compelling though
not entirely surprising turn.

At hotel schools like those at Cornell University, New York University and San
Diego State University, as well as more general business schools, the children
are studying how to manage chains of hotels, work in corporate offices of
name-brand franchisers and acquire more upscale properties like Marriott and
Hilton. Call them the Cornell hotel Patels.

"What we did we did the practical way," said Vinu Patel, reflecting on the
generational change. "With their educational background, the children can work
for corporate America. They understand what corporations are looking for in the
hotel industry -- how to market and acquire the product better than we do."
Montu, who received his master's degree in May, is advising his father on
acquiring new hotels while working full time as director of sales and account
development for American Express's travel agency network. Payal, who attended
N.Y.U.'s undergraduate hospitality program, evaluates hotels and other real
estate for Standard & Poor's.

The children are not only pursuing bigger and better hotels but also,
apparently, hipper hotels.

Jay and Neil Shah's parents started with a run-down hotel in downtown
Harrisburg, Pa., in 1984, but the sons, armed with degrees from Cornell and
Harvard, took the business public in 1999 as Hersha Hospitality Trust. Their
$275-million-plus company, named for their mother, operates 27 hotels, and among
them is the recently built 24-story Hampton Inn in Chelsea, which Neil Shah
describes with the kind of business argot that reflects a newly minted
generation.

"Our strategy is to try to bring mid-priced hotels into the Manhattan urban
market, but to do so with a bit of flair," he said. "We work with top designers
and fit our hotels out with a contemporary fresh look that people identify with
New York, with cutting-edge design, but for which they don't have to pay $300 a
night." (Rooms at his Hampton Inn start at $149.)

Sociologists call businesses dominated by a single ethnic group, like the diners
owned by Greeks, fruit stores owned by Koreans and a nursing profession with an
abundance of West Indians and Filipinos, "ethnic niche businesses." They say the
children of the Gujarati immigrants illustrate what sometimes happens with the
second generation

Sometimes, as with Korean grocers, the parents want the children to become
doctors and scientists, far outside their own line of work. At other times, as
happened among many Jews in the garment industry and Italians in construction,
the children raise their parents' livelihood to new levels, working as designers
and dress manufacturers rather than cutters and sewing-machine operators,
becoming the construction contractors on skyscrapers rather than toiling as
stonemasons.

Philip Kasinitz, a professor of sociology at the City University of New York's
Graduate Center, said that certain immigrant groups often concentrated in
certain businesses because of a particular characteristic of the American labor
market at the time they arrived.

When Indians came here in large numbers after the loosening of immigration laws
in the 1960's, the hotel business was at a watershed. With the growth of
interstate highways, American travelers were shunning tumbledown roadside motels
and welcoming sleek new franchises like Holiday Inn. The gas crisis of the
1970's and the savings and loan crisis of the 1980's meant that a lot of these
hotels could be picked up cheaply enough for immigrants to afford, said Dr.
Chekitan Dev, a professor of marketing at the Cornell University School of Hotel
Administration.

But running a hotel is a 24-hour, 365-day-a-year business, often operated with
the loneliness and dislocation pictured in the movie "Mississippi Masala."
"That's the sacrifice they're prepared to make," said Hitesh Bhakta, chairman of
the Asian American Hotel Owners Association. "If you want to improve your lot in
life, educate your children, then maybe you have to go to Minnesota where no one
else will go."

The Indians' knowledge of English and a commercial savvy prized by their culture
gave them a distinct leg up on other immigrants, and they had a network of
relatives and close friends to help out. Like much of India, Gujarat, on the
west coast just north of Bombay, has a deeply rooted ethic of hospitality.

"There's actually a phrase in Hindi: 'A guest is like God,"' Professor Dev said.

Mr. Bhakta (formerly Patel -- he changed his name to make it distinct) said that
his 8,400 members own 20,000 hotels worth $37 billion, including half the
nation's Days Inns, half its Ramadas, 40 percent of its Holiday Inns. The group
has become such a presence that it is negotiating with insurance carriers to
lower steeply rising rates for its members. Not surprisingly, the negotiations
are being led by Tarun Vig, a 27-year-old Indian-American and Harvard M.B.A.
from a hotel-owning clan.

At Cornell's hotel school, 13 percent of the graduate students are of Indian
origin.

"I don't want to stay as a mom-and-pop operation," said Vikas Patel, a
second-year student. "I want to make it on a bigger scale."

Students are studying finance, property development and labor negotiations,
learning such things as how to evaluate the profitability of a hotel and how to
cut costs by pooling laundry services and airport transportation for different
hotel brands. Most hotel chains allow owners to manage competing brands as long
as chain standards are maintained.

This semester, the "executive-in-residence" at Cornell will be H.P. Rama, who as
a young immigrant worked as a waiter at a Howard Johnson's restaurant in
Manhattan and is now chief executive of JHM Hotels, a family business that owns
33 hotels with 5,000 rooms in the Southeast. In 1999, he became the first Indian
chairman of the American Hotel and Lodging Association. His nephew, Vinay M.
Rama, is a senior at Cornell hotel school's undergraduate division.

Vikas Patel's father, Ramesh Patel, the son of Gujarati sugar cane farmers, came
here in 1970 to complete his studies in civil engineering. While working as an
engineer, he also invested in a 30-room hotel in Tempe, Ariz. Now, with three
brothers-in-law and a friend, he owns three Days Inns and a Best Western in
Arizona and New Mexico., and he is delighted that his son is being formally
educated in the hotel business.

"He will learn more marketing skills, the business skills that I didn't learn
directly," the elder Mr. Patel said. "He will do a lot of networking and come
into contact with lots of people in the hotel business."

Vikas Patel actually started medical school, but the siren song of the hotel
business proved too seductive.

"I want to expand our family business, maybe increase the level of the brands we
own, like Hampton Inn or Hilton Garden Inn or Courtyard by Marriott, possibly
even some full-service properties like a Marriott or Holiday Inn," he said.

There are more than a few cultural twists to Indian hotel ownership. Some Hindus
have spurned the larger hotels because the restaurants they include require them
to serve alcohol and cook meat. Professor Dev says that sometimes there is
tension between the generations, as parents resent their children's foisting new
commercial ideas on them. "They're questioning the business model that enabled
the parents to send their kids to Cornell in the first place," Dr. Dev said.

But even those parents do not begrudge their children's education.

"We don't want it to be a crapshoot like it was for us," is the way Dr. Dev
phrased the parents' attitude. "We were lucky; you may not be so lucky."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neil Shah and his brother took the family hotel business
public. Its holdings include the Hampton Inn in Chelsea. (Photo by Ruby
Washington for The New York Times); Vinu Patel, left, with his son, Montu, at
the Quality Inn the family owns in Lebanon, Pa. (Photo by Kalim A. Bhatti for
The New York Times)(pg. B1); Ramesh Patel, left, goes over plans with his son,
Vikas, for renovation of a hotel in Roswell, N.M. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The
New York Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Freehold: Loitering Law Set For Review

BYLINE:  By Stacy Albin (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


The Borough Council will consider repealing an antiloitering ordinance that
critics said was a pretext to harass day laborers, many of whom are immigrants.

In December, three advocacy groups and at least six laborers filed a federal
lawsuit, claiming the ordinance unfairly targeted laborers who often obtained a
day job by standing on a public sidewalk. Under the ordinance, which had been in
effect since at least the 1970's, many laborers were given summonses and fined.
The repeal will be placed on the council's agenda possibly as soon as Monday,
Ms. Higgins said.   Stacy Albin (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 6, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Asks U.S. Citizenship For Slain Dominican Soldier

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE and HOWARD O. STIER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words


Army Pvt. Luis Moreno was born in the Dominican Republic but he lived in the
Bronx for more than half his life and he died Jan. 30 after being shot while
guarding a gas station in Iraq. Now, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is asking that
he be granted citizenship in the United States.

In a letter dated Wednesday, Mayor Bloomberg asked President Bush to grant
citizenship posthumously to the 19-year old private, citing a 2002 rule that
expedited naturalization for soldiers.

Private Moreno was shot in Baghdad on Jan. 23 and died last week at a hospital
in the United Kingdom. He immigrated to the UnitedStates in 1991, but neither he
nor members of his family had received citizenship.

About 37,000 immigrants serve in the armed forces, or about 3 percent of the
active-duty population, Pentagon officials say. In 2002, President Bush waived
the waiting period to apply for citizenship for immigrants who joined the
military after Sept. 11. Prior to the waiver, immigrant soldiers were allowed to
apply after three years of service.

Relatives, friends and well-wishers streamed into the Ortiz Funeral Home in
Washington Heights yesterday, paying their final respects at a wake. Among them
was Representative Jose E. Serrano, who said he had urged Private Moreno's
parents to apply for citizenship for their son.

"I see something inconsistent to having noncitizens die in our wars," Mr.
Serrano said. "Let's reach out to the president."

Family members said American citizenship was important to Private Moreno, who
had been on active duty for about a year, after joining the Army in a local
recruitment office in Washington Heights. He completed basic training in South
Carolina.

"He lost his life fighting for the United States, and he always wanted to be a
U.S. citizen," Private Moreno's sister, Michelle Moreno, said.

Private Moreno was the youngest of four children. He attended Taft High School
in the Bronx. His father, Manuel Moreno, has worked as a grocery deliveryman.

Private Moreno's girlfriend, Jessyca Corporan, 18, questioned the request for
citizenship.

"Now that he's dead, what can he do with it?" she said.

She expressed sorrow at Private Moreno's death, which she said baffled her: "If
the war stopped, why do they keep killing the soldiers there?"

She added that Private Moreno "wanted to make it out of the neighborhood, make
something of himself."

"He was going to visit in March," she added. "He wrote a letter saying he had a
big surprise for me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mourners visiting the coffin of Pvt. Luis Moreno in Washington
Heights. Private Moreno died on Jan. 30 after being shot in Iraq.; A T-shirt
honoring Private Moreno made by a friend bears his neighborhood nickname.
(Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Refugee's Secret: Rising Culinary Star, Now Inmate E37326

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words


His true age is a mystery, his name another. A few guesses at each are on file
with the State of California, in whose custody he now resides.

His work, though, has been tasted by patrons at some of the most exclusive
restaurants in Manhattan. In the kitchens of the city, he was known as Eric
Meas, prodigy with a pan, rising star whose congenital sense for
cross-continental flavors and textures won him quick acclaim.

There were stints at Daniel, Le Regence and 44, and to each he carried a
fairy-tale background story of coming to New York as a refugee from Cambodia and
teaching himself his trade at a roadside International House of Pancakes in
Queens.

There was more to the story, though, and in the parts Mr. Meas left out can be
found the reason he is in prison. There, too, can be found a New York fable, for
Mr. Meas has lived the dream that made the city.

New York, after all, is a place of reincarnation, where a person can pull a
whole new existence from the bang and clatter of rough streets and capricious
commerce. It will give a new life to just about anyone who comes looking. And it
gave Eric Meas two.

The first began after 1975, when the Khmer Rouge took over Cambodia, instituting
rule by murder. The father of a boy then known as Mary Lan Meas was killed, and
the mother and the child ultimately escaped as refugees to the Bronx. The
mother, Maryan Nop, who still lives in the Bronx, said in an interview
translated by her brother, Boreth Nop, that she and her son entered Thailand in
1979, moving from there to the United States in 1981.

In the Bronx, Ms. Nop says, her young son flourished, briefly. There were
accolades for grades and attendance and a grand prize in a storytelling contest.
But the Bronx streets were rough.

"I asked my mother, 'why did you give me the name Mary?"' Mr. Meas said in a
written statement provided by a friend. "Everyone makes fun of me."

Soon enough, he was involved in a street gang, and calling himself Eric. In his
mother's view, the boy was throwing away the new life he had found in New York.
Her response was a maternal classic: "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" solution.

"In desperation," she said, "I sent him out to Fresno to live with distant
relatives for a short time, in the hopes that I could remove him from the
connections he had established here in New York."

Instead, he made new connections. According to law enforcement and corrections
officials who have access to Mr. Meas's criminal records, he became affiliated
with a gang called Cambodians on Cocaine, a violent outfit specializing in home
invasions and burglaries. In 1989, he was convicted of attempted robbery in the
first degree and sentenced to three years and four months in prison in Los
Angeles County, state records show.

It was at this point that the mystery surrounding Mr. Meas's name and age began
to take form. In a telephone interview a few weeks ago, he said that his real
birthday was Sept. 3, 1973, making him 30 now and only 16 when he entered the
adult corrections system.

By Mr. Meas's written account, he gave the police a false year of birth, 1967,
because he was scared. Asked in a telephone interview to elaborate, he said that
he had hoped that by claiming to be an adult, he could keep his mother from
learning that he was in trouble.

And so it was the adult prison system that admitted a man referred to in letters
and in official documents as Meas Waye and Marylan Meas on Nov. 17, 1989. The
prisoner says in his legal statements that his legal name is Mary Lan Measnd
that he prefers to be called Eric.

Whatever his real name, to California he became inmate No. E37326 forever after.

The prisoner was released on parole in 1991, after serving a year and a half of
his sentence. He told parole officials that he planned to go to New York, where
he had relatives, but he violated parole by never again checking in with those
assigned to supervise him, said Agent Michael Rose, a California parole officer
assigned to interstate cases.

Mr. Nop, Mr. Meas's uncle, said in an interview that he had spoken to parole
officers in the Bronx upon Mr. Meas's release and had come to believe that Mr.
Meas did not have to check in. Mr. Nop said that he could not remember the names
of the person or the agency he consulted.

"I felt like, O.K., let it go, one day, one year, until now," Mr. Nop said.

Despite Mr. Meas's status as a fugitive, he plunged into an effort to redeem
himself in New York. Records show that he completed a 300-hour training course
to become a nursing assistant in 1992. He received a high school equivalency
diploma the next year. He was starting a new life, again. He was becoming Eric
Meas, again.

And in this new life, Eric Meas was a runaway success. After IHOP, he landed
jobs at some of the finest and most expensive restaurants in the city, finding a
place among people who think of civility as an art form. He worked as a
sous-chef at Le Regence and 44 and as a saucier at Daniel.

His big break came in an offer to be executive chef at the Palmetta Plantation
House, which opened in the summer of 1998 on the Upper East Side.

"The Cambodian-born Mr. Meas, 25, has an extraordinarily light touch with
seafood and a gentle way with herbs," Eric Asimov wrote in The New York Times.
"If only the fish that is served in the Caribbean were as juicy and delicious as
what comes from Mr. Meas's kitchen."

With a pedigree from some of Manhattan's finest kitchens, Mr. Meas eventually
returned to California, applying for work at a new place called Venture Frogs
Restaurant in San Francisco, a distinctively Northern Californian operation that
proclaimed an intention to "embrace and embody the Internet start-up culture."

Of all the candidates for an executive chef, the standout was this exuberant
young man with tales of a boat trip from Cambodia and life on the tough streets
of New York, as well as an estimable New York resume, said Richard Hsieh,
manager of Venture Frogs.

"We wanted to find a chef who was young and energetic and outgoing," Mr. Hsieh
said.

Mr. Meas went to work, and the menu he created included dishes with names like
Netscape Pan-Fried Noodles. But the whole thing could hardly have been more
poorly timed, as the last half of 2000 ushered in the decline of so-called
Internet start-up culture. Critics were harsh, but the restaurant has survived.

Mr. Meas acquired more responsibilities, becoming the father of a young girl
named Ireena. He went on to draw raves from the Asian press for his work at Dot,
a restaurant in the Radisson Miyako Hotel in Japantown.

By this time, a dozen years had passed since his release from prison.

"We just lost track of him, and he fell through the cracks," said Agent Rose,
the parole officer. "Then, bam, there he was."

On Aug. 22, 2003, San Francisco police officers were called to a possible
attempted burglary at an apartment building near the Embarcadero. The suspect
had a home address in the same building, so his explanation that he had simply
locked himself out of his apartment made sense. But the officers became more
interested in another detail, a police report shows. Their suspect was wanted on
a longstanding parole violation warrant.

The police booked him, listing in their report that their prisoner had two
aliases, was 35, stood 5-feet-8 and weighed 135 pounds.

The man they took into custody is known as inmate No. E37326 at the Sierra
Conservation Center, a camp 60 miles east of Sacramento in the foothills of the
eastern Central Valley. He is scheduled to serve four years. After that, the
inmate said in a telephone interview, nothing stands in his way.

"I want to open a restaurant in San Francisco, but New York is my home," he
said. "I want to open a restaurant there. Give me a few years. I'll be back."

Officials at the prison describe their charge as an unremarkable inmate.

"He doesn't have a real big record; he's pretty typical," said Lt. Kenny
Calhoun, a spokesman for the warden. "Apparently, he has claimed to be an
executive chef, or something."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Meas as the executive chef at the Dot restaurant, left,
and at the time of his booking for parole violation. Mr. Meas is scheduled to
serve four years. (Photo by San Francisco Sheriff's Department)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

FILM;
A Tale of Hate Hits Close to Home

BYLINE:  By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: BRIDGEHAMPTON


FARMINGVILLE, in central Suffolk County, is a world away from the South Fork.
But some residents here say that over the past year they have noticed
uncomfortable similarities with that hamlet, the infamous epicenter of Long
Island's immigration wars.

Here, as in Farmingville, there has been a rapid increase in undocumented,
mostly Latino, workers, and increasing tensions about their presence. In
Farmingville, those tensions erupted in violence in 2000. In the South Fork,
people wonder: Could that happen here?

So it follows that a screening on Jan. 28 of the documentary film
"Farmingville," a chronicle of the firestorm there, should draw a
standing-room-only audience in Bridgehampton, even though it was on the evening
after a major snowstorm. That the film won a special jury prize last month at
the Sundance Film Festival no doubt was a draw. But audience members, Latino and
Anglo, said they ventured out mostly because they were worried about whether the
events in Farmingville could be repeated here.

"We're in for it, aren't we?" said Maryann Calendrille, a co-owner of Canio's
bookstore in Sag Harbor.

Ms. Calendrille pointed out that in Southampton, there is a controversial
proposal to build a hiring hall to keep day laborers off the streets, and that
in East Hampton, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was cracking down on
the congregation of such laborers at the train station. She also said that the
opponents of illegal-immigrant workers have been increasingly vocal, as Latinos
have exhibited growing political strength.

In Farmingville, disputes over the congregation of day laborers at a 7-Eleven
swiftly accelerated into a battle in the Suffolk County Legislature over a
proposed hiring hall. There were also battles there over overcrowded housing.

"This film shows the human scale of how people are dealing with each other
day-to-day in increasingly horrific ways," Ms. Calendrille said after the
screening of "Farmingdale," which was at the Bridgehampton National Bank
headquarters. "We can explain economic theory forever, but if people are
demonizing each other, well, that's the real danger and the thing we all have to
work on."

About 140 people, roughly a quarter of them Latino, filled every seat in the
bank's community room and stood along three walls. Among them were Dennis
Suskind, a Southampton town councilman, a local lawyer, political advocates,
business owners and day laborers.

The film was shown with subtitles in either Spanish or English to correspond
with the dialog. The screening was sponsored by a local progressive
Unitarian-Universalist congregation.

Latinos in the audience said it was important that the film be shown. "I am glad
to see how many people came," said Chini Alarco, an organizer of a 42-team
Latino soccer tournament in East Hampton. "People here need to know what
happened in Farmingville."

Ms. Alarco, just like Farmingville residents interviewed in the film, discovered
that soccer's popularity among Latinos "translates to political power," she
said, then laughed wryly. "It's the main reason they haven't allowed us to build
more soccer fields here."

"Farmingville," shot largely as events there unfolded, grants equal time to all
sides: Anglos, Latinos, anti- and pro-immigrant advocates, county lawmakers and
the police. The filmmakers, Carlos Sandoval and Catherine Tambini, said they got
access by persuading those involved that they would be impartial.

Mr. Sandoval, who left a career as a Manhattan lawyer and now lives in
Amagansett, said he was inspired to make "Farmingville" after reading a
newspaper article about two Mexican day laborers lured to an abandoned
warehouse, then brutally attacked. Photographs of the attackers' white
supremacist tattoos, used as evidence in their criminal trials, provided one of
the film's more chilling moments.

Ms. Tambini lives in Hampton Bays and was a co-producer of "Suzanne Farrell:
Elusive Muse," a 1990 documentary nominated for an Academy Award. She and Mr.
Sandoval said they believed the Farmingville scenario could play out here,
pointing out that Sachem Quality of Life, the homegrown base of Farmingville's
anti-immigrant movement, has growing support on the East End. Mr. Sandoval said
he found striking parallels between the South Fork and Farmingville, including
the derogative language that some local residents use to refer to Latinos.

"I thought the Hamptons would be more progressive, but about 1999 or 2000
something changed," he said. "It was a souring experience."

Latinos on the South Fork have formed Organizacion Latino Americana, which has
more than 100 active members and strong links to national, pro-immigrant groups.

The group's president, Isabel Sepulveda de Scanlon, said after the screening
that her organization was planning a Latino film festival with Southampton
College. "There should be more Latinos making their own films and telling their
own stories, don't you think?" she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An image from the documentary "Farmingville," above. The
filmmakers, Catherine Tambini and Carlos Sandoval, answered questions after a
recent screening. (Photographs by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Enclave's Favorite Officer, Now Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 822 words


In the heavily Guyanese enclave in Richmond Hill, Queens, the police detective
known simply as Rudy was ubiquitous in his blue community affairs windbreaker.
The detective, Rudranauth Toolasprashad, 38, could chat in Hindi with local
immigrants about news from Guyana, and he often introduced them to his fellow
officers and superiors.

"Whenever you need help in this neighborhood, you go to Rudy," said Tony Yassin,
who owns the Spice World grocery store on Liberty Avenue. "It used to be very
difficult to get help from the police, but now if there's a problem in the
community, Rudy takes care of it."

But now he is one of two detectives and a sergeant who have been reassigned to
desk duty in connection with an investigation into corruption accusations in the
102nd Precinct in Richmond Hill, police officials have said.

Detective Toolasprashad, the precinct's community affairs officer, was ordered
to hand over his gun and shield, and was transferred to an administrative job
with the department's Housing Unit, the officials said. The scope of the
investigation and the accuracy of the accusations remain unclear; he remains on
the payroll, and no criminal or administrative charges have been filed.

The news buzzed yesterday through the sari shops, halal meat stores and roti
restaurants along Liberty Avenue, the main thoroughfare in a neighborhood
dominated by Guyanese immigrants and others of Indo-Caribbean background.
Guyana, a former British colony and the only English-speaking nation in South
America, is home to descendants of indentured servants from India and Africa.

Detective Toolasprashad (pronounced tool-AHS-pra-SHAD) came to the neighborhood
several years ago and became a well-liked figure, residents said yesterday. They
said that he comes from an affluent Guyanese family, has a nice home in Jamaica
Estates, a neighborhood of stately houses in Queens, and drives a Jaguar. He
readily gave out his cellphone number.

Maria Thomson, president of the 102nd Precinct Community Council, said he
''tried to bring everyone together.''

''Some people don't like new people assimilating,'' she said, ''but Rudy was one
of the best community affairs officers we've had in the 102nd Precinct in my 30
years involved.''

A police spokesman said yesterday that he could not comment on the case because
it was still ''an active investigation.'' But people with knowledge of the
investigation have said the case could include allegations of misconduct
involving green cards and passports and off-duty employment.

Harpreet Singh Toor, president of the Sikh Cultural Society, a temple on 118th
Street, said yesterday of Detective Toolasprashad: ''To the best of my
knowledge, he never asked for any money and nobody approached him for any
hanky-panky business. I saw Rudy as a straightforward cop who was always telling
people that you have to follow the regulations and work within the system.''

That appeared to be a common assessment. Mr. Yassin, the grocery store owner,
said Detective Toolasprashad was known as an effective liaison between the
Guyanese and Sikh populations and the police.

He became the man to see for residents who needed help getting police permits
for religious events and for merchants seeking latitude on parking rules for
truck deliveries. He helped arrange permits for Indo-Caribbean parades and
negotiate complaints about the customary four-day celebrations for Guyanese
weddings. He often escorted police commanders to speak to local groups and
arranged security details at Sikh temples.

After Sept. 11, 2001, residents said, Detective Toolasprashad encouraged the
precinct to assign officers to prevent bias crimes against the temples of Sikhs,
who wear turbans and are often mistaken for Muslims.

Some of those who voiced support for the detective said they suspected that he
had been set up by local residents who were angry that he helped empower
Guyanese immigrants. They said he persuaded them to attend community meetings
and join groups like the precinct's community council and Community Board 9.

''He was aggressive in promoting community affairs at the precinct, and these
things can have repercussions; people get offended,'' Mr. Yassin said. ''He
helped bring a total turnaround in the way the precinct relates to the Guyanese
community.''

The chairman of Community Board 9, Paul Sapienza, said, ''He has always gone out
of his way to draw the community into the mainstream, and he introduced people
to us who then became members of the board.''

Basil Persaud, who owns the Persaud Hardware store on Liberty Avenue, called the
detective ''a person of great respect.''

He added: ''Yes, he was a guy who could get things done, but I never heard of
him asking for anything. If you had a grievance about the police harassing so we
cannot do business, like sanitation summons or delivery trucks getting tickets,
he would speak to the captain or superiors and ask them to ease up.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Sikh Cultural Society, a temple in Richmond Hill, Queens.
Detective Rudranauth Toolasprashad often arranged security details at temples.
(Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Destination, Neza York

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4; URBAN TACTICS

LENGTH: 1175 words


NOT long ago, you could impress the typical Mexican immigrant in New York by
asking a simple question: ''Usted es de Puebla?'' Are you from Puebla?

The typical answer? ''Yes, how did you know?''

It wasn't that difficult. Starting in the late 1980's, most Mexicans who came to
New York were from poor, rural towns in Puebla, a state in the south central
part of the country. But in the past decade, immigration patterns have changed
in a way that has important ramifications for the future of Mexican New Yorkers
and those who employ, organize and educate them.

New York is home to 190,000 Mexicans, according to the 2000 census; some
estimates place the figure closer to 300,000. Although immigrants from Puebla
still represent 50 to 80 percent of Mexicans in New York, many newer arrivals
are young urbanites who have emigrated alone from poor settlements in and just
outside Mexico City. They come with street savvy, slightly more education and,
sometimes, disdain for the rural Mexicans who preceded them.

These changing patterns mean that young Mexicans coming to New York are not only
more educated but also more likely to learn English and continue their education
once they get here. They may also have specific skills, making it easier for
them to find jobs. And because they are moving from one urban area to another,
they may find it easier to adjust to life in New York.

Francisco Gonzalez, an outgoing 22-year-old clerk in a music store in Port
Richmond, Staten Island, is typical of the new group. He came to New York from
gritty Ciudad Nezahualcoyotl, a city of more than two million people just
outside Mexico City that is known as Neza, and is so poor that trash is still
collected by donkey cart.

Although Mr. Gonzalez finished middle school in Neza, he could not get a place
in a public high school and his parents could not afford a private one. He left
home four years and eventually made his way to Staten Island, where he found a
community of immigrants from Neza and a job at Neza Records, which caters to
Latinos.

In Mr. Gonzalez's opinion, urban migrants often feel superior to Mexicans from
the countryside, and not just because they are typically better educated.

''Sociocultural factors are very influential,'' he said. ''Immigrants from the
countryside have a very different culture than those from the city: the type of
music they listen to, how they speak.'' Customers from Neza, he said, buy
alternative rock and ska, while those from more rural areas prefer traditional
music like cumbias and rancheras.

The tension between the two groups is apparent. Some Mexican city dwellers
described their rural cousins as uneducated hicks; those from the countryside
dismiss urban migrants as lazy, immoral and more likely to be gang members. ''In
the countryside there's not much culture,'' Mr. Gonzalez said. ''They devote
themselves to working.''

Amadeo Macareno, a cook who comes from a small town in Puebla and works in El
Rey del Taco, a grocery and taqueria in Woodside, Queens, added: ''They think
they are better than us, that they know more than us. People that come from the
state of Puebla are the ones that work more. We're more responsible.''

The changing nature of Mexican immigration patterns is supported by data
provided by the Mexican Consulate, which has records showing the birth states of
325,000 Mexicans from the metropolitan region who sought passports between 1996
and 2003.

The annual numbers from Mexico State are rising much faster than those from
Puebla. The numbers from Mexico State soared by 854 percent between 1996 and
2003; the increase in Puebla during that period was only 491 percent. Neza and
similar crowded urban settlements surrounding Mexico City account for most of
the emigrants from Mexico State, said Manuel Vazquez Cabrera, an anthropologist
and former state representative who lives in Neza.

Since 1996, Mexico State has gone from being the eighth-most-common state of
origin to being the fifth. (Puebla is still No.1, but now accounts for less than
50 percent of the city's most recent Mexican immigrants seeking passports.)

THERE has even been a shift within Puebla. Immigration has slowed from its rural
areas and increased from the regions around the state capital, also named
Puebla, according to Robert C. Smith, a sociology professor at Barnard College
whose book ''Mexican New York: Transnational Lives of New Immigrants'' is to be
published this fall by the University of California Press.

On average, Professor Smith said, immigrants from in and around Mexico City have
two more years of education than those from Puebla. And the increased numbers
from Neza are heartwarming for the few who came in the 1980's. Although the city
was not formed until the 1950's, when migrants from other states squatted on the
dry bed of the former Lake Texcoco, residents had a sense of pride.

''We were very, very few,'' said Raul Velez, who moved to Washington Heights in
1984. ''Around here, I was the only one. About five or six years ago, I started
seeing more people from Neza.''

Today, Mr. Velez is an American citizen who owns Tacos Neza, a restaurant on St.
Nicholas Avenue that he named after his home city because he was so tired of
seeing Mexican businesses named after Puebla. His fellow Nezans have taken to
calling this city Neza York.

Although some students of immigration worry that urban migrants are more likely
to have criminal pasts, many see advantages in the shift that outweigh the
possible negatives. ''Some of these people coming in will have secretarial
skills, or will have at some point been employed in services,'' said Arturo
Sarukhan, the Mexican consul general. ''That, I think, provides employers the
opportunity to find skilled labor.''

Urban savvy is another ingredient that may make it easier for these newer
immigrants to fit into their adopted city. The term ''Neza York'' was originally
coined decades ago, before immigration to New York began, to reflect Neza's
urban texture, and the attitude has carried over: many New Yorkers from Neza say
they find it easier to adjusting to city life here than do their peers from
Puebla.

''Puebla's, like, really calm people,'' said Mike Amigon, whose father owns Neza
Grocery in Woodside, Queens. ''Neza's like, really hyper people. In Neza, you
live fast, like in New York.''

But urban migrants may come with certain disadvantages, in part because they
often arrive alone, as young men.

''It's more likely to be a less organized, less institutionalized migration,''
Professor Smith said. ''I see the change from one place to another as involving
risks to immigrants. Not because of their urban or rural backgrounds, but
because of the communal structures that do or don't exist for them.''

Some Mexican immigrants, like Sergio Maldonado, a cook from Neza who works in a
Mexican restaurant in Port Richmond, Staten Island, agreed that there were
differences. But, he added, ''At the end of the day,'' he said, ''we're all from
the same country. Once we're here, we don't make a distinction.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Raul Velez, left, owner of the Tacos Neza restaurant, and his
brother, Francisco, top right, are from Neza, just outside Mexico City. Neza,
above, is an urban area characterized by bleak poverty. (Photo by Above, Wesley
Bocxe for The New York Times
 top right and below, Michelle V. Agins for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parents Seek Better School Translations

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words


A coalition of advocacy groups called yesterday for the city Department of
Education to set up a vast translation network for the non-English-speaking
parents of city schoolchildren.

The groups, led by the New York Immigration Coalition and Advocates for
Children, also released the findings of a survey indicating that many immigrant
parents are often kept in the dark about messages and school meetings critical
to their children's future.

''The New York City school system has systematically failed to provide
translation and interpretation services to parents who require these services,''
the report reads. ''Despite numerous federal, state and local laws mandating
translation and interpretation for parents with limited English proficiency, the
New York City Department of Education has yet to adopt policies and procedures
to address these issues.''

At a news conference in Manhattan, several parents, speaking through
translators, described their ordeals.

Ana Cartagena, a mother of eight from Puerto Rico who lives in Bushwick,
Brooklyn, said she was once told by a principal that if she wanted to know what
was going on in her children's school, she should learn to speak English.

Maria Llivicura, another parent, said her daughter Melissa was held back last
year but she was never given a clear explanation, in Spanish, as to why.

Advocates for immigrants have long complained about the dearth of translation
services in city schools. In fact, they had cause for celebration three years
ago, when, after years of pressure, the Board of Education adopted a resolution
calling for a new systemwide translation and interpretation policy, based on the
recognition that ''communicating with parents is a fundamental component of
their children's overall academic success.''

But the Board of Education was dismantled as part of the recent reorganization
of the school system before anything significant was done, the advocates said.

At the news conference, Margaret McHugh, executive director of the New York
Immigration Coalition, and Jill Chaifetz, executive director of Advocates for
Children, praised Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein and Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg for emphasizing parental involvement, particularly by placing a paid
parent coordinator in each school. But without better translation services for
PTA meetings, parent-teacher conferences and informational notices, they said,
much of that effort will go to waste.

Paul Rose, a spokesman for the Department of Education, said that many parent
coordinators were bilingual and that language skills were taken into account
when they were selected.

He said that parents who call the mayor's 311 hotline with school-related
questions can get answers in other languages and that messages sent to parents
from the chancellor are translated into eight languages: Spanish, Chinese,
Russian, Korean, Urdu, Arabic, Haitian Creole and Bengali.

''We're interested in the proposals presented by Advocates for Children and the
New York Immigration Coalition and will continue to work with them as we strive
to continually improve our communication to students and their families,'' he
said.

The report released yesterday surveyed 915 parents whose primary language was
not English and 55 students from immigrant families. Eighty-six percent of the
respondents live in New York City, while the others live in Westchester County
and on Long Island. The surveys were conducted from October through January, and
were distributed by community organizations.

Among New York City respondents, 51 percent said the parent never or rarely
received written school information translated into his or her native language,
while 9 percent reported that the parent always received such translations.
Sixty-one percent reported that the parent never or rarely received oral
interpretation services at school, while 7 percent reported that the parent
always enjoyed such services.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jill Chaifetz, left, and Margaret McHugh, second from left,
speak to reporters about a translation network. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Freehold: Day Laborers Hold Rally

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 136 words


Day laborers barred in January from gathering at an open-air job market
congregated there on Saturday and demanded that the borough reopen the site.
About 100 laborers and supporters met for a 90-minute demonstration on an
industrial stretch of Throckmorton Street that was also attended by a handful of
counterprotesters. The so-called muster zone had been in use for about four
years before borough officials closed it on Jan. 1. Workers, most of them
believed to be illegal immigrants, had gathered there each day to wait for
contractors to offer construction or landscaping work. Borough officials have
maintained that as the number of immigrants grew, it put a strain on schools and
services and led to severe crowding in homes. Some workers said they have had
trouble finding work since the closing of the site.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wave of Foreign TV Becomes an 'Emotional Outlet' for Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; The Many Channels That
Say Home

LENGTH: 1395 words


The global village is breaking into its global parts.

Walk around the immigrant quarters of Jackson Heights or Flushing in northern
Queens, and televisions are tuned to shows from other countries.

In Jong Ro Barber Shop, on Union Street in Flushing, customers waiting for $17
haircuts watch soap operas from South Korea on the tidy shop's Samsung
television, riveted by melodramas with the same languid pace, low-rent sets and
overwrought music of American soaps, but in a language that lets them feel at
home. ''I do watch American TV, but for an emotional outlet I need Korean TV,''
said Soo Oh Choi, the shop's owner, speaking through a translator.

In Jackson Heights, Aashish Patel and half a dozen compatriots gathered this
month at a local motel for a Super Bowl party of sorts, complete with beer and
potato chips. The world-class game they watched until dawn was not football, but
cricket between India and Australia beamed from abroad.

''We feel we are in India like that,'' Mr. Patel said.

Hundreds of thousands of immigrants in New York and millions more across the
United States receive these foreign channels. UHF long ago expanded into the
ethnic market with Spanish-language channels and stations like KTV in New York,
which has been broadcasting Korean programs since 1995. But the number of
international channels has mushroomed in the past five years because of the
feverish competition between satellite and cable companies.

Immigrants who arrived in the 1950's and 60's often used television to learn
American idioms and mores; baseball alone was a master teacher. But some
scholars worry that the availability of international channels makes it too easy
for immigrants to continue to cling to their homelands. Neal Gabler, senior
fellow at the Norman Lear Center for the Study of Entertainment and Society at
the University of Southern California, said that although the phenomenon of
foreign channels produces many benefits, it chips away at the ''common cultural
references'' that have allowed for whatever melting is supposed to take place in
the American pot.

''The things that unite us will be lost in another competing identity,'' Mr.
Gabler said.

The satellite provider Dish Network offers 50 international or foreign-language
channels, including Polish and Portuguese. Across the country, Time Warner Cable
offers 37, including channels in Arabic, Russian, German, Greek, Persian,
Filipino and Vietnamese. In New York City alone, more than 90,000 of Time
Warner's customers get the international channels.

These channels are laying another set of bridges between immigrants here and
their native lands, joining jet planes, cheap long-distance calling and the
Internet. Immigrants can follow the same catastrophes and laugh at the same
homespun jokes as their kin and friends overseas. Relative newcomers can relax
in front of a television without being baffled by English. They can also immerse
their children in their native tongues, narrowing the generational distance
typical in immigrant families.

Pyong Gap Min, a Korean-born professor of sociology at Queens College who speaks
English fluently, watches Korean soap operas and movies almost every night with
his wife. ''It's very special to me,'' he said. Still, he worries that some
immigrants may be using television to isolate themselves.

''In a foreign environment they live comfortably, enjoying Korean food, going to
Korean churches, working in Korean businesses and now seeing Korean
television,'' he said. ''This frees them from learning American English and
American customs.''

But other immigrants think such concerns are unwarranted.

''During the day you're surrounded by American culture,'' said Mudassar Khan,
27, a Pakistani who runs an electronic appliance store in Jackson Heights. ''The
only time you feel Pakistani culture is when you're home watching TV.''

Even before cable and satellite television became widely available, Puerto
Ricans, Mexicans and other Hispanics watched television in Spanish over UHF
networks based in the United States, like Telemundo and Univision. These
networks proved that a mix of soap operas, entertainment, game shows and news in
a native language can draw a profitable audience. By the late-1980's, recalled
Barry Rosenblum, president of Time Warner Cable of New York and New Jersey, his
company was hearing from Greek, Korean and Indian businessmen who also wanted to
start channels that would package programs from overseas, supplemented with news
of their New York ethnic neighborhoods.

For roughly $9.95 a month above the price of a standard cable package in the New
York-New Jersey region, Time Warner offers two Chinese, two Indian and two
Korean channels, and individual channels in Italian, Russian, Arabic, Greek and
Japanese and a catch-all Latin American channel. It also offers a separate
package of about 15 channels from Spain and Latin America.

The satellite dishes sprouting over the roofs of Queens testify to the growing
popularity of a younger technology. A division of EchoStar Communications, Dish
Network, which has been broadcasting foreign channels since 1996, now offers 50
channels. DirecTV, controlled by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, offers 45
Spanish-language channels and several channels originating in China, Taiwan and
Hong Kong. Stephanie Campbell, its senior vice president for programming, said
''we are definitely looking to expand'' into other ethnic niches as the company
develops more satellite capacity. Both companies declined to say how many
customers they had for their ethnic channels.

Michael Schwimmer, senior vice president for programming of Dish Network,
pointed out that foreign television stations are eager to broadcast in the
United States. ''Networks are always looking for eyeballs,'' he said.
''Traditionally they look in their own country, but if they can get eyeballs
outside the country and a company like EchoStar can help them do it
economically, they'll want to do business with us.''

Some channels are beamed directly from abroad to providers here and then quickly
distributed to home televisions. Others are repackaged here by local
entrepreneurs from either satellite feeds or videotapes. The foreign broadcasts
are usually delayed, timed to American hours and cleansed of advertising for
products that immigrants here cannot buy. Cricket games, broadcast live by Dish
Network with an eye on its South Asian audience, are a separate paid offering.

Mr. Rosenblum of Time Warner does not accept the criticism that ethnic channels
impede assimilation. ''My sense is that nobody sits down and just watches the
Greek channel or the Indian channel,'' he said. ''They're part of packages
widely available to people, so it gives people a connection to where they're
from, but it doesn't cut them off from where they are.''

Mr. Choi, the Korean barber who is fond of Korean soap operas, said he also
likes to watch golf, basketball and the programs on Animal Planet.

Mr. Khan, the electronics store owner, who immigrated here as a teenager 12
years ago and graduated from Bryant High School in Queens and Baruch College,
said he mostly watched American television. Still he orders the Dish Network's
South Asian package of Indian and Pakistani channels for his parents, Mohammad
and Sanjeeda Khan, with whom he lives.

They like to watch Pakistani news, a Pakistani soap opera called ''Lab-e-Derya''
and two popular Indian serials about working women, ''Jassi Jaissi Koi Nahin''
and ''Kkusum.'' (The spoken forms of Pakistan's Urdu and India's Hindi are
closely related.) He often watches the soaps with them and has noted the
differences from American television.

''When a guy gets married, he usually lives in the same house with his
parents,'' Mr. Khan said, citing one example. ''In the English soap operas, the
kids move out.''

Anil Merchant, who came here 19 years ago from Bombay, keeps the television in
his beauty salon on 74th Street in Jackson Heights tuned to an Indian TV channel
that broadcasts a stream of MTV-like songs expressed in sinuous dance numbers,
and he also likes to keep up with the doings of Indian politicians. ''This goes
into the small towns and interior in India,'' he said of the Indian channel.
''CNN doesn't cover it.''

''We don't know John Kerry,'' he said. ''We heard about him, but we're more
interested in Indian politics.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nandubnai Patel, left, joined friends this month at a motel in
Jackson Heights, Queens, to watch a cricket match between India and Australia.
Hundreds of thousands of immigrants in New York enjoy a slice of home with
foreign programming. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)
Pakistani
Korean
Chinese
Indian
Russian
Spanish
Greek
 French

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 29, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carless Immigrants Find Risk on Long Island Roadways

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 27; Peril
Afoot in the Land of Four Wheels

LENGTH: 1489 words


When a craving for cigarettes struck him one January night, Jose Cortes leaped
onto his black mountain bike and sped away to the gas station down the street
from his home in Hicksville, N.Y. He told his family he would be quick.

But like scores of Hispanics who try to navigate the automotive jungle of Long
Island on two wheels or two feet, Mr. Cortes, 23, never returned home. At 10
p.m. on Jan. 6, a 1993 Ford Taurus slammed into Mr. Cortes, killing him.

In that instant, Mr. Cortes became not only the object of his family's
outpouring of grief but also a disturbing statistic. In a region where almost
everyone drives, Hispanic residents, many of them poor and without cars, are
victims of pedestrian and bike fatalities in disproportionate numbers.

About 10 percent of Long Islanders are Hispanic, according to census data,
though demographers say they now make up closer to 15 percent of the population.
But Hispanics made up 43 percent of Nassau County's 35 pedestrian deaths in
2002, and 35 percent of the fatalities last year, according to statistics from
the New York State Department of Health and the Nassau County Medical Examiner.
In neighboring Suffolk County, Hispanics accounted for 21 percent of the 28
fatal pedestrian accidents in 2002 and 30 percent of the 44 deaths in 2003,
according to the State Health Department and Suffolk's medical examiner. There
was no breakdown on Hispanics involved in fatal bike accidents.

Those statistics get at an evolving suburban truth: As more and more Hispanics
move into the suburbs, they risk injury or death because they walk and ride
bicycles in a place where the roads are often dark, the sidewalks scarce and
traffic menacing. Daily commutes and trips to the grocery store have become
perilous dances with oncoming traffic.

It is a pattern found in suburbs across the country, from Atlanta to Washington,
to Los Angeles, where the percentage of Hispanics struck by vehicles and killed
is two to three times as much as their representation in the population,
according to Michelle Ernst, an analyst for the Surface Transportation Policy
Project, a traffic safety advocacy group.

''It's a huge part of the problem,'' Ms. Ernst said. ''We're seeing a lot of
communities being built without the pedestrian in mind, and we expect it's going
to be more and more of a problem.''

On Long Island, some are killed as they walk to bus stops. Some die as they
bicycle down four-lane highways. Others are recent immigrants unaccustomed to
the pace and rules of New York traffic, and they are struck crossing against a
traffic signal. Still others walk home drunk in the middle of the street, and
never notice the headlights behind them.

''I hear all kinds of stories, oh my God,'' said John Vanegas, 22, who works at
a recycling plant in Westbury. As he walked home on Wednesday afternoon, Mr.
Vanegas, an immigrant, described how a friend had slipped on his bike and
skidded into the street and how a co-worker's cousin was killed by a drunk
driver. ''Every single day, we do the same thing,'' Mr. Vanegas said. ''We walk.
It's really dangerous.''

Some deaths, like Mr. Cortes's, result in arrests, but a survey of newspaper
clippings over the past two years shows that the majority of Hispanic pedestrian
fatalities do not. (The Nassau and Suffolk Police Departments said they do not
keep data broken down by ethnicity.) Sometimes, the person disobeys a traffic
signal, or runs in front of oncoming traffic, the police said.

Often, though, victims' relatives say, the victims are blameless. In October,
Maria Elana Espinosa was crossing Clearmeadow Drive in Hempstead when a GMC
Suburban stopped at a red light, turned right and hit her, according to a police
accident report. Ms. Espinosa lingered in the hospital with head injuries and
died a month later, and the driver was never ticketed or charged, according to
the Nassau County police.

Ms. Espinosa, 58, a Colombian immigrant, lived a lonely life that revolved
around the Catholic church, baby-sitting jobs, and fending off the effects of
lupus, her niece, Nurian Robert, said. Because she had endured so much, her
death carried a special sting, Ms. Robert said.

''It's very unfair,'' said Ms. Robert, who wants the driver to face some legal
penalty. ''She was just trying so hard. The last month of her life was just
dreadful.''

According to Nassau's data, the accidents are clustered by time and place. Most
occurred in Hempstead and West Hempstead, where Hispanics make up 12.5 percent
of the population, according to census figures. Most happened between 7 p.m. and
11 p.m., and on clogged thoroughfares like the Hempstead Turnpike or Northern
Boulevard. Suffolk County did not provide similar data.

The families and stories left behind after these crashes are scattered across
Long Island. In a small home in Far Rockaway, a man named Walter Garcia recalls
the way he lost his wife, Marta, and mother, also named Marta, in a car accident
on Dec. 1.

''It's like losing your life,'' Mr. Garcia said.

The women, both Salvadoran immigrants, had spent the day cleaning a home in
Hewlett and were walking toward a bus stop when, despite a red light, they
stepped into an intersection and the path of a Mercury station wagon, according
to a Nassau County Police report. The report said an inactive streetlight had
left the intersection dark.

Life was hard for Mr. Garcia's wife, who was hobbled by diabetes. She leaned on
her mother-in-law for companionship, Mr. Garcia said. The women rose early three
times a week and slowly made their way to the bus that took them to Long Island.

According to 2000 census data, Hispanics on Long Island are twice as likely as
whites to walk to work, and six times more likely to ride a bike or take the
bus, a trip that usually involves a few blocks' walk to and from the bus stop.
''This is part of their desperate situation,'' said the Rev. Allan Ramirez, who
works with Hispanic immigrants on Long Island. ''They have no choice but to walk
to many of these places. If they're lucky, they get a bicycle. They're on the
road, they're on the street.''

Many immigrant men and women who walk to and from bus stops or to jobs cleaning
houses or cooking at restaurants during warmer months pile into a friend's car
during the winter.

But in Farmingville and Southampton, Great Neck and Westbury, a few still hike
along the sides of the roads, their hands and heads sheathed in gloves and
scarves. Some said they wanted driver's licenses, but were not eligible; others
said they wanted cars, but could not afford them.

Miguel Mayorga, 36, is one of the few who enjoys the foot commute. At 8:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Mr. Mayorga walked home down Montauk Highway after finishing work as
a cook at the Pancake Cottage, smoking a cigarette in the frigid air. Reflective
stripes on his black pants glinted in the moonlight.

Cars flew by, and Mr. Mayorga said in Spanish that he enjoyed the 20-minute
walks to and from work, and the quiet and exercise they provide. As he spoke, a
pickup truck pulled up alongside him, and his friends beckoned: ''Miguel!
Miguel! Come on!'' He walked on.

Roads like the Montauk Highway and the very layout of the suburbs pose a danger
to the people who travel on foot, said Luis Arteaga, director of the Latino
Issues Forum in San Francisco.

Mr. Arteaga said that there are problems with the way the roads are laid out,
and a lack of crosswalks, sidewalks and streetlights. They are dangerous
arteries between city centers and outer suburbs, he said. Early suburbs, now
heavily populated by Hispanics and other minorities, are squeezed in the middle.

For the Hispanic immigrants who survive a crash, the physical trauma is mere
prelude. Many, like Mario Rivas, 28, have few relatives and friends in the
United States. Once agile and strong, they adjust to weakened bodies in an
unfamiliar country.

Mr. Rivas mowed lawns for a living before he was struck by a Jeep in September
2003 in East Hampton.

He had just finished loading lawnmowers onto a trailer on the side of the road
when he was hit. His legs were nearly sheared off below mid-thigh. When he woke
up two days later in the hospital, his legs felt like they were burning. Now, he
says he has no clue how to make a living in America.

''Sometimes I don't know why I'm still alive,'' Mr. Rivas said, in practiced
English. ''I always thought I was going to work and save some money and go back
to Mexico. Now, I don't know.''

His brother lives in the Hamptons, and his mother flew to New York two weeks
after the accident. He wonders if he will ever have a girlfriend again.

People have donated much to Mr. Rivas to help his recovery, and during a
physical therapy session, he stood on a new pair of prosthetic limbs and paced a
white linoleum corridor. It was hard work, and sweat beaded on his forehead.

''How are you feeling today?'' asked his therapist, Ed Wormold.

Mr. Rivas took a shallow breath.

''Tired.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miguel Mayorga, 36, walks home every night after working as a
cook at the Pancake Cottage in Hampton Bays. He said he enjoys the exercise he
gets walking to and from work. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York
Times)(pg. 27)
 Mario Rivas, 28, was struck by a Jeep in East Hampton in 2003 while he was at
work, loading a trailer. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg.
29)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 2, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 170 words



To the Editor:

Re ''The Americano Dream'' (column, Feb. 24):

Underpinning David Brooks's enlightened reading of assimilation in America is an
important recognition that Mexican immigration has strengthened the social and
cultural vitality and economic growth of the United States.

Regardless of their migratory status, law-abiding, hard-working and taxpaying
Mexicans in the United States have chosen to make this their new home. The great
majority go through enormous pains to assimilate while maintaining their
cultural identity as a means to mitigate the segregation and racism that some of
them still face here.

Today, Mexicans and Mexican-Americans live in all corners of the United States.
They participate in all walks of life; they need new opportunities, not renewed
prejudices, to continue becoming an integral part of this great country.

Mr. Brooks has set the tone for a responsible debate untainted by xenophobia or
political and partisan gain.

ARTURO SARUKHAN
Consul General of Mexico
New York, Feb. 24, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 11, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Lavish Homes Divide a Brooklyn Neighborhood

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; Making It Big (the
House, That Is)

LENGTH: 1169 words


As a teenager 25 years ago in Communist Odessa, Alex Puzaitzer shared a cramped
two-room apartment with his mother and older sister, spending nights on a sofa
bed. But as a successful entrepreneur in capitalist Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn,
he wanted something considerably more comfortable for his family.

Two years ago, he bought a run-down stucco house in Manhattan Beach, tore it
down, and built himself a stately beige Mediterranean -- with a veranda, tall
metal gates and terra cotta-colored roof tiles -- a house that reminded him of
houses he had seen on visits to the Riviera. The house is spacious enough for
his college-age daughter and teenage son to have their own bathrooms and for 20
relatives to dine together on holidays.

But not all of Mr. Puzaitzer's neighbors are happy about his hard-won elbow
room. They find that the new houses that Mr. Puzaitzer and other prospering
immigrants have put up are at odds with their neighborhood's unassuming
character -- bulkier, ritzier and sometimes considerably more flamboyant than
surrounding houses.

''Each one is outdoing the other to show how big a house they can build, showing
their wealth to an extreme degree, and it just doesn't fit in,'' said Phil
Metling, a retired optometrist who has lived in Manhattan Beach since the
1950's.

And some comments about the new houses are much tarter.

''It looks like a boat,'' said Matthew Weinstein, a retired camera shop owner,
describing another house with a prow-shaped second floor protruding over the
first floor. ''You should smack a bottle of Champagne against the front.''

While tempests over the growing number of grand houses, or McMansions, have
swirled across the United States, the controversy in Manhattan Beach has a
decidedly immigrant tinge. Many people who came from the former Soviet Union
have been able to afford substantial houses or have raised children who can
afford them. Often the scale of the houses reflect a family's yearning to
declare that after years of scratching out a living they have arrived.

The local critics -- many of whom are just a generation or two removed from
their own immigrant roots -- sniff at the heavy-duty metal gates, tall entrance
pillars, outsized windows and paved front yards as an extreme makeover of a
neighborhood that has long been defined by classic colonials, Tudors and summer
bungalows set back on ample lawns. The owners of the larger new houses respond
that their homes are thoroughly American in their ambition, and are increasing
the values of their neighbors' homes as well. They detect more than a whiff of
envy.

''They see people accomplishing more than other people and there's always a
jealousy issue,'' said Mr. Puzaitzer, 43, who after immigrating from Ukraine
managed a popular local restaurant and nightclub and now is president of
ZoneChefs, a diet-meal delivery company that he said has revenues of $8 million
a year.

Beyond their aesthetic objections, longtime residents say the bulky new houses
block their light and views and limit the vistas of streets where rows of lawns
were once visible for blocks.

''I refer to them often as railroad stations,'' said Hersh Libo, a retired
pediatrician.

More than three decades ago, the Russians began reviving what was then the
declining apartment-house neighborhood of Brighton Beach, opening up their own
bustling restaurant rows and setting up thriving medical practices. The most
successful immigrants -- not all of them from the Soviet Union -- started moving
to Manhattan Beach next door.

They included people like Oscar Kitsis, a 67-year-old builder from Ukraine, who
had memories of the grand opera house in Odessa and built a three-story brick
home on Coleridge Street with 25 rooms, six bathrooms, and 20-foot pillars that
flank an entrance door that alone costs $8,000.

''We are all human beings and we are supposed to improve ourselves,'' said Mr.
Kitsis, who has since left the neighborhood. ''Why should I stay in one room or
two because the people around me do the same?''

Until the Russians arrived in significant numbers, Manhattan Beach had been an
outpost of doctors, judges, merchants and educators. Many had lived there for
decades. Residents like Ken Irsay, a 61-year-old retired food distributor, have
pictures on their walls of immigrant forebears -- in his case a short
mustachioed grandfather who had been a cantor in Russia. Mr. Irsay proclaims
himself neutral in the controversy, but speculates that there may be ''a bit of
envy buried in'' the criticism, imagining neighbors saying to themselves, ''Here
I am an American working hard all my life, struggling and here come these people
throwing up mansions with no effort at all.''

Marina Rubinshtein, 39, a dentist who has lived in Manhattan Beach since the
early 1990's, said that whatever comforts that she and her compatriots have
acquired have been fairly won. She recalls coming here from Riga, Latvia, at age
15, and putting herself through college and dental school with loans and a
series of low-paying jobs at places like Burger King.

''Not everybody came to America and made a million dollars overnight,'' she
said.

Rather than classic American home styles, the Russian immigrants have often
preferred contemporary and grand, said Victor Angurov, a vice president of the
Manhattan Beach Community Group, the leading civic group, because under the
Soviet system conspicuous attention to style was discouraged as ''capitalist
excess.''

''People enjoy the freedom they didn't have over there,'' said Mr. Angurov, an
immigrant from Odessa.

The Eastern Bloc immigrants who built the larger houses said they needed them
for the parents or grown children who lived with them. Along the way, real
estate values have escalated, with many houses valued at more than $1 million.

But longtime residents like Mr. Weinstein treasure the old look of ''the
Beach,'' as they call it. Mr. Weinstein, 58, grew up in a house his parents
bought for $6,000 during World War II. The old bungalows formed the backdrop of
his youth as much as the mournful piping of seagulls over Sheepshead Bay. As
adults, he and his wife, Stacey, bought a three-bedroom stucco house next to
that of his parents.

''I'm nostalgic and I don't like to see beautiful old houses ripped down,'' Mrs.
Weinstein said of the new homeowners.

More than few longtime residents feel the new construction has beautified their
blocks and some have developed friendships with the Eastern European-born
neighbors. ''Most of the Russians stick to themselves because of language and
cultural issues,'' said Esther Schwartz, a science teacher. ''But if you make
overtures to them and they feel you mean it, they really do reciprocate.''

Ultimately, the proliferation of new houses saddens older residents because it
represents the passing of an era, however inevitable. ''It doesn't feel like the
neighborhood I moved into,'' Mr. Libo, the retired pediatrician, said.

Mr. Libo recently sold his brick Tudor. It was bought by a doctor from Russia.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A house towers over its neighbor on Norfolk Street in Manhattan
Beach, Brooklyn.
Eye-catching homes in Manhattan Beach include these on MacKenzie Street, top and
right, and Coleridge Street, above. However, some longtime residents of the
neighborhood say that the scale of the new homes is out of place in the modest
neighborhood. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 One neighbor said of this house on West End Avenue, ''It looks like a boat. You
should smack a bottle of Champagne against the front.'' (Photo by Andrea
Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

May the Road Rise Up To Smack You

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; About New York

LENGTH: 759 words


WOULDN'T it be nice to march up Fifth Avenue with the wind at our backs for a
change? Imagine: a parade that celebrates one immigrant experience in a manner
that brings pride to all -- with that wind nudging us onward, and not slapping
our faces, as if to scold. Now wouldn't that be grand?

But some of the reports preceding the St. Patrick's Day parade today were
fostering an urge to march in the opposite direction.

For here were the Fire Department and two unions, reminding firefighters to
behave on St. Patrick's Day. Yes, many off-duty firefighters in uniform drink on
March 17, and yes, there have been a few alcohol-related incidents of late. But
should this city's firefighters be warned like sixth graders embarking on a
class trip?

Here, too, was the New York City Correction Department Emerald Society,
disinviting the correction commissioner from marching beside its members because
he had demoted one of their brethren. Some muttered that the demotion smacked of
discrimination against the Irish.

And here was the parade committee, barring an Irish vodka company from serving
as a sponsor because of its minor involvement with that other parade in
Woodside, Queens -- the ''gay'' one. The company's sin, apparently, was to
sponsor a children's marching band in that unholy event. (By the way, since when
do liquor companies sponsor children's events?)

James Barker, the parade committee's executive director, said that the official
St. Patrick's Day parade honors a Roman Catholic saint and that after the
company's involvement with that other parade, ''We wouldn't touch them with a
thousand-foot pole.'' He went on to explain that homosexuality is an illness
that can be controlled.

Mother Machree.

Time to kick off a one-person parade, away from Fifth Avenue, away from
Manhattan. Into the tunnel, under the East River and up again, resurfacing in
Woodside, of all places. Down the avenue, past the pubs and up a flight of
stairs known so well to people who are new to this country.

Here is the Emerald Isle Immigration Center, where immigrants unload the
questions that weigh them down. How do I apply for citizenship? How do I sponsor
my fiancee so that she can join me in this country? How do I get a Social
Security card? Do you know of any jobs?

For a suggested donation, which often comes in crumpled fives and tens, many
clients will lay bare their hopes and fears. Some will flip through the job book
that is kept behind the receptionist's desk (''Waitress''; ''Part-time nanny'';
''Handyman/Doorman/Porter/Must Have Green Card''). And some may one day stand in
front of the office's stark-white wall and smile for the Polaroid camera that
snaps the headshots that accompany applications for citizenship.

WHEN it was founded in 1988, the center adopted a slogan that was meant to evoke
its mission: ''Meeting the needs of the newest Irish arrivals.'' Now, 16 years
later, that mission has broadened so dramatically that some at the center see a
need for a new motto.

For one thing, explained Siobhan Dennehy, the executive director, many of the
center's Irish clients are not new to the United States. For another, she said,
many clients are not Irish at all. They just know it as place to turn to for
help.

Monday was fairly typical. Gardenia Diaz, a counselor who is from Colombia,
talked by telephone to more than a dozen clients -- natives of Ireland, but also
of Peru, Argentina and Colombia. She also met with a woman from Ecuador who was
preparing her application for citizenship.

Another counselor, John Stahl, juggled many telephone inquiries with several
appointments. He met with a Venezuelan man interested in becoming a citizen and
a woman from County Antrim who was curious about American citizenship.

As he chatted with the woman, a young couple walked in. ''We're just after
arriving in New York,'' the man said, his brogue answering the question, From
where?

Next came a man from a small island -- not Ireland, but Dominica, in the West
Indies -- wanting to know about applying for a green card, which would give him
permanent legal status. He sat down under a wall decoration of shamrocks and
began filling out a form.

Ms. Dennehy, a native of County Dublin, acknowledged that some Irish people --
though hardly a majority -- have told her that the center should focus on the
needs of Irish immigrants only. ''But that would be an impossibility,'' she
said. ''I couldn't imagine turning anybody away.''

The parade to her doorstep will resume tomorrow. The center is closed today, in
honor of St. Patrick.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 18, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Albany Social Security ID Checks Threaten Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 966 words


New York State is threatening to suspend the driver's licenses of half a million
drivers -- 5 percent of the state's 10 million drivers, including thousands of
immigrants working here illegally -- because their Social Security information
at the Department of Motor Vehicles does not match up with the data on file at
the Social Security Administration.

The first 112,000 warning letters were sent out in recent weeks. Raymond P.
Martinez, the state's commissioner of motor vehicles, said yesterday that the
purpose was to systematically correct the department's database and to ferret
out fraud, not to take driver's licenses away from illegal immigrants.

But it has generated waves of fear among immigrant groups, who protested the new
policy at a rally at the State Capitol on Tuesday. Although New York is one of a
dozen states that do not officially limit driver's licenses to legal residents,
the commissioner acknowledged that by the end of the year the ''data cleanup''
would eliminate the driving licenses of all New York immigrants unable to prove
that they have legal authorization to be in the United States.

Others who might be caught in the data sweep, officials said, include women who
changed their name when they married or divorced, people who failed to provide a
change of address, so-called deadbeat fathers trying to avoid child support
enforcement and anyone with the bad luck to have had a Social Security number
garbled by a clerk's typo, either at the state D.M.V. or in the Social Security
Administration's database.

Mr. Martinez said motor vehicle personnel are expected to use case-by-case
discretion on prosecuting people who provided a false Social Security number.
Those who produce fraudulent documents will be arrested and charged with a
felony, he said.

The letters being sent out warn drivers they have 15 days to contact the D.M.V.
to clear up discrepancies and provide verifiable documents, including a Social
Security card. So far, the response rate is running at 68 percent, with about
3.2 million records cleaned and 7.8 million to go, counting non-driver state
ID's and learner's permits, officials said.

Almost a third of the letters have gone unanswered. At that rate, more than
150,000 licenses are likely to be suspended by the end of the project, which is
estimated to cost $740,000 counting computer time and multiple mailings, Mr.
Martinez said.

Some advocates for immigrant rights said the impact would be devastating on
thousands of workers like Lupe, a Mexican landscaper on Staten Island who uses a
truck to earn the $15,000 a year that supports his five younger children, three
of them born in the United States. In a three-way call translated by Rev. Terry
Troia, a pastor who directs a center for immigrant workers, Lupe, who has lived
here for 12 years and who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that after
receiving the letter he was afraid he would be deported or imprisoned if he were
to go in to the Department of Motor Vehicles.

To obtain a license six years ago, he said, ''I presented my passport and my
birth certificate, proof of my address.'' But for Social Security, ''I invented
a number,'' he added.

''It has horrible consequences for immigrant workers who are just trying to make
a living,'' said Gouri Sadhwani, executive director of the New York Civic
Participation Project, an immigrant and labor union advocacy group. ''It's yet
another way that local and federal officials are criminalizing immigrants.''

Mr. Martinez responded: "We're not criminalizing anything. If they obtained it
under fraudulent means, that's something they've already committed, that's not
something we cooked up.'' He said the Motor Vehicles Department would not notify
immigration authorities unless the driver had presented immigration documents
that seemed suspicious and needed verification.

Restricting or expanding access to driver's licenses for immigrants has been a
hotly contested political issue in statehouses across the country since 9/11. As
possession of a photo ID became a prerequisite for entering many office
buildings and hospitals, for buying train tickets, wiring money and renting an
apartment, a push to make driver's licenses more fraudproof has clashed with a
campaign to uncouple the regulation of driving from immigration status.

Michele Waslin, a senior immigration policy analyst for the National Council of
La Raza, a Latino civil rights organization, said New York's move was part of a
national trend of introducing new restrictions through policy changes rather
than changes in the law.

''This is a public safety issue,'' she said. ''If they're working, if they have
to go to school, if they have to go to the hospital, they have to drive and it's
in the public interest that they be licensed and insured drivers.''

''The Department of Motor Vehicles should not become an immigration agency,''
Ms. Waslin said.

States differ widely on how they handle the issue, according to Jay Maxwell,
chief information officer for the American Association of Motor Vehicle
Administrators.

''We would really like the federal government to step up to their role and
decide how these people, who have been here for many years working and
contributing to the economy, should be treated,'' he said. Talks with Mexico and
Canada about the issue broke down after Sept. 11.

In most states, the Social Security number requirement was added as part of the
nation's 1996 welfare overhaul to improve child support enforcement efforts. But
it originally applied only to applicants who actually had a Social Security
number.

Two years ago, officials said, New York's D.M.V. began requiring an original
Social Security card, and demanding that applicants who instead show a foreign
passport also produce a valid, unexpired visa.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Farmingville: Two Plead Guilty In Firebombing

BYLINE: By Patrick Healy (NYT); Compiled by Ian Urbina

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 121 words


Two Long Island teenagers admitted in court yesterday that they set a house
ablaze last July because Mexican immigrants were living there. The teenagers,
Kyle Mahler, 18, and Scott Soucek, 16, each pleaded guilty to a charge of
reckless endangerment as a hate crime in Suffolk County Court.

They could be sentenced to 1 1/3. to 4 years in prison when they are sentenced
this spring. Three other youths were accused in the case; two pleaded guilty and
the other's case is being handled in juvenile court. Mr. Mahler said that on
July 5, he drove a car with several of his friends to the victims' home. Mr.
Soucek admitted that he tossed a lit firecracker and bottle rocket into an open
window. No one was hurt.   Patrick Healy (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can America Grow and Stay Green?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 143 words



To the Editor:

While immigration is contentious in the Sierra Club, there is an older, more
profound division between the majority of the board members and the insurgents
who have worked for years to make the group more militant and activist, with a
greater orientation toward the grass-roots volunteers (front page, March 16).

The ''old guard'' is using a false dichotomy by depicting its candidates as the
only alternatives to an alleged outside anti-immigration takeover. In fact,
there are several candidates who support the club's current neutrality on
immigration issues but who could fairly be termed ''insurgents'' because they
call for significant improvements in other matters of conservation policy and
internal administration.

JIM LANE
New York, March 17, 2004

The writer is a member of the executive committee, New York City Group of the
Sierra Club.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can America Grow and Stay Green?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 143 words



To the Editor:

I am a contributor to the Sierra Club and support its work on the environment,
but I would be disappointed to see it take an anti-immigration position
(''Rumble at the Sierra Club,'' editorial, March 17). It is nonsense to think
that America's population is reaching unsustainable levels.

I suggest that the Sierra Club focus on the fact that total world population is
reaching menacing levels. This is leading to the loss of forests, estuaries and
aquatic habitats and the continued contamination of our water supplies and
atmosphere.

While people cry out for family planning in areas of Asia, Africa and Latin
America, the Bush administration is turning away funds from private
family-planning groups. It would be appropriate for the Sierra Club to speak out
against these administration policies.

BOB PRAVER
Locust Valley, N.Y., March 17, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Unions Can Gain From Immigration

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; ECONOMIC
VIEW

LENGTH: 898 words


IN February 2000, leaders of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. agreed on a major shift in
immigration strategy. After decades of mistrust of immigration, its executive
council was now calling for an amnesty for the millions of illegal immigrants
living and working in the United States.

''Throughout our country's history, immigrants have played an important role in
building democratic institutions and vibrant new communities that enrich our
lives,'' Linda Chavez-Thompson, the labor federation's executive vice president,
said at the time.

In the four years since the union resolution, the labor market has lost about
1.2 million jobs. Moreover, data suggest that immigrants seem to have fared
better than natives. A February study by the Pew Hispanic Center, based on the
Bureau of Labor Statistics' monthly survey of households, concluded that
Hispanic immigrants found more jobs last year than native workers did.

Terrorism has combined with a weak economy to harden attitudes against
immigration in many parts of the country. But the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which
represents 13 million American workers, remains steadfast in its
immigration-friendly stance. Its commitment illustrates a shrewd understanding
of the dynamics of the American economy: immigrant workers aren't going away, so
it may as well try to organize them.

''The old way of thinking was immigrants are the enemy of the American worker;
the new way of thinking is immigrants are the American worker,'' said Cecilia
Munoz, a vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a Latino
advocacy group.

At the A.F.L.-C.I.O. executive council meeting in Bal Harbour, Fla., this month,
the immigration committee -- composed of leaders from more than a dozen
affiliated unions -- emphasized anew their commitment to an immigrant amnesty
bill. ''There was no 'wait a minute, let's go back on the resolution,''' said
Maria Elena Durazo, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees
Local 11 in Los Angeles.

''Today, very few people will say that the loss of jobs is due to immigrants,''
she said.

At least in part, immigrants have been shielded from this accusation because
there are few of them in the hardest-hit sectors of the labor market, like
manufacturing. Industries with a big immigrant presence -- like construction --
have done relatively well.

Nonetheless, strong demographic forces also support the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s current
position. Ana Avendano, a lawyer at the federation who deals with immigration
issues, noted that there is an understanding among union leaders that immigrants
are driven to the United States by forces beyond their control. The collapse of
Mexican agriculture, she noted, brought millions of Mexicans streaming over the
border in the last 10 years.

Moreover, the sanctions against employers who hire undocumented workers -- which
became law in 1986 with union support -- have done nothing to stop this flow. By
some estimates, nine million illegal immigrants live and work in the United
States. And demographers like Jeffrey S. Passel of the Urban Institute estimate
that the illegal immigrant population is growing by 500,000 a year. In some
parts of the country, illegal immigrants dominate entire occupations, like
janitorial services and construction.

Unions cannot afford to have such a big chunk of the labor force operating under
the radar screen, unprotected by labor laws. ''There's a perverse incentive for
employers to recruit undocumented immigrants to avoid labor laws,'' Ms. Avendano
said.

Perhaps more important, if unions stuck to their positions against illegal
immigrants in the work force, they would be shutting themselves off from a
growing swath of the economy. ''What would it mean to organize service workers
and not organize immigrants?'' asked Ruth Milkman, director of the Institute for
Labor and Employment at the University of California, Los Angeles.

Indeed, even as union membership has dwindled nationwide, immigrant-heavy unions
have added new members. Last year, overall membership of A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions
fell by 40,000. But the Service Employees International Union added 75,000
members and the Laborers International Union of North America added 32,000.

There are potential pitfalls to the labor movement's new immigration stance.
Frank D. Bean, a sociologist at the University of California at Irvine, noted
that union attitudes could harden against immigrants if the labor market does
not pick up in coming months.

UNION support for immigration is not a blank check, either. Ms. Avendano
underscored that while the A.F.L.-C.I.O. supported an amnesty bill that would
grant legal status for illegal immigrants who are already here, it did not want
more immigration. The union federation still views immigrant workers as a
potential threat. ''Employers shouldn't be able to use these workers to make
wages stagnant,'' she said.

Despite the weak labor market, unions' commitment to immigrants has not been
truly tested. Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, argued that it
was easy for unions to maintain their support for an immigrant amnesty because
there is virtually no chance that an amnesty bill will advance in Congress this
year to the point that unions have to go to battle for it.

''They haven't been obliged to make the hard choice between their new
constituencies and their old constituencies,'' Mr. Suro said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 5, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charging an Entrance Fee at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 133 words



To the Editor:

In ''Land of the Free?'' (Op-Ed, March 31), Steven C. Clemons says, ''America
should not penalize ambition,'' which is something I highly agree with, both as
an immigrant and an American.

It seems that by charging visa applicants to the United States, the government
has forgotten every immigrant who was fortunate enough to become a citizen and
make the United States into the superpower that it is.

It is truly sad to see how profits are being made on this issue.

After 9/11, it's tempting and to a certain extent understandable to keep
foreigners from entering the country, but as Americans we must learn to
understand others in order for us to grow and for the world to once again have
hope in the name ''United States of America.''

MELLISSA SEECHARAN
Staten Island, March 31, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Manhattan Store Owner Accused of Underpaying and Sexually Harassing Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 711 words


Three immigrant women yesterday filed a federal lawsuit that accused a Manhattan
store owner of paying them far less than the $5.15-an-hour minimum wage and
telling them he would not grant them raises unless they had sex with him.

The lawsuit asserts that the women, who worked as cashiers and stocked
merchandise, were paid as little as $30 for a 10-hour day, or $3 an hour, and
were told they were to blame for their low pay because they refused to have sex
with the boss.

The lawsuit, brought against three jointly owned stores in Upper Manhattan,
describes a pervasive atmosphere of sexual harassment, with the owner telling
the women that he kept a bed in the basement of one store for sex.

Deyanira Espinal, 38, a Dominican immigrant, said in court papers that when she
asked for a raise last October, the stores' owner ''told me he would give me a
raise only if I had sex with him.''

She added, ''I did not have sex with him, and therefore I did not receive a
raise.''

Ms. Espinal said in an interview: ''I felt bad, bad, bad. I have two daughters,
and here he was making this proposition, and I needed the job.''

Ms. Espinal said the owner once grabbed her in the store basement in an attempt
to assault her sexually.

Later, he reduced her schedule to three days a week from six days to punish her
for spurning his advances, she said.

The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, was brought against
the three stores -- two Ramco stores and a National Discount store -- and
against their owner, Albert Palacci.

Mr. Palacci denied the accusations. ''That's not true,'' he said. ''We don't
have those things here.''

He insisted that the harassment charges were baseless. ''This is the worst thing
you can hear,'' he said. ''It's a lie 100 percent.''

He said that some people have worked at his stores for more than two decades.
''We pay top money,'' he said. ''Some people will say things because they want
to get money from you.''

The Women's Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union filed the
lawsuit after the women approached the group to complain that they were being
underpaid, harassed and not receiving overtime.

''We were abused very unjustly on the job,'' said Maria Araceli Flores, 22, a
Mexican immigrant who worked at the stores. ''I had to put up with it out of
necessity. I have a 5-year-old daughter to support.''

The lawsuit accuses Mr. Palacci of false imprisonment, alleging that he once
took two of the women to a house, locked the door and ordered them to undress.
The suit further alleges that when the women refused, he took off his clothes,
told the women to look at him and do whatever he told them. When they refused,
the lawsuit asserts, he grabbed the women and threw them on the bed, but they
again refused to submit.

Jennifer Arnett, a staff lawyer with the Women's Rights Project, said these
abuses were far too common in New York City.

''This is not an isolated instance, especially in this area, where there are a
lot of immigrant workers,'' she said. ''This sort of abuse is running rampant,
with workers being paid $30, $40 for 10-, 12-hour days and a lot of sexual
harassment.''

In the court papers, Angela Berise Peralta, a Dominican immigrant, said that
once when she went into a store basement to seek some merchandise, she saw a bed
there and Mr. Palacci asked her to have sex with him, but she refused.

On another occasion, she alleged, she accompanied him to a trade show in
Manhattan, and he asked her to go to hotel, adding, ''I can give you what the
young guys cannot.''

Patricia Smith, director of the Attorney General's Labor Bureau, said, ''Sexual
harassment happens in a lot of small retailers because there aren't a lot of
people around to witness it.''

Ms. Peralta, 22, said she was paid $30 for working 10-hour days, while the other
two women said they were paid $40 for 10-hour days.

''It was too much work and very little money,'' Ms. Peralta said.

Ms. Espinal said she was fired in March for refusing the owner's advances. ''Mr.
Palacci threatened me by telling me that I should do what he wanted me to do
because I had children to support,'' Ms. Espinal said in the lawsuit.

She now works for another retailer in Upper Manhattan, she said, that pays her
$40 for 11-hour days.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Araceli Flores, left, and Deyanira Espinal, with their
daughters, are two of three women filing the suit. (Photo by Rebecca Cooney for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Parents Not Tricked, Judge Says in Custody Case

BYLINE: By ARIEL HART

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 12


A judge in Memphis has terminated the parental rights of a Chinese couple who
say they were tricked into giving up their daughter, now 5, to foster parents
when she was a baby.

Judge Robert Childers of Circuit Court said that the couple, Shaoqiang and Qin
Luo He, had ''failed to establish a meaningful relationship'' with the girl,
Anna Mae, because of ''neglect and inattentiveness'' and that the ''physical
environment of the Hes' home is unhealthy and unsafe.'' Judge Childers said they
sought custody only so that they would not be deported.

''We are just shocked,'' Mr. He said. ''We did not abandon our child.''

They will appeal, he said, adding, ''We are convinced that in Memphis, Tenn.,
justice does not come easy, especially for minorities and immigrants.''

The Hes have spent four years trying to get their daughter back, saying the
foster parents, Jerry and Louise Baker, enjoyed wealth, connections and
community support that stacked the deck against them.

The Bakers, who have sold their house to pay legal bills, said they feared that
Anna Mae would be taken from the only home that she has known and sent to live
in what they view as a life of poverty with unstable parents in a dirty house.

The proceedings became a cause celebre in the Chinese community in Memphis.
Representatives of the Chinese Embassy from Washington attended court.

The battle has it roots months before Anna Mae was born, with an unrelated case
in 1998. A fellow student at the University of Memphis, where Mr. He was
studying for a graduate degree in economics, accused him of sexual assault. He
was cleared of the charge, but lost his place at the university, his scholarship
and his stipend, the couple's sole means of support. His student visa was
revoked, and the old Immigration and Naturalization Service began deportation
proceedings, which have halted for the custody case.

Overwhelmed and without medical insurance, the Hes turned to Mid-South Christian
Services when Anna Mae was born in January 1999. Through Mid-South, the Hes
found the Bakers, experienced foster parents who agreed to take in Anna Mae
while the Hes got back on their feet.

Three months later, the Hes signed papers to extend the arrangement to temporary
custody. They say they did not know that those signatures put in play the
child's permanent custody. They could get her back only with the consent of a
judge. The judge said that was not accurate.

The Bakers have said there was also a verbal agreement that they would raise her
to adulthood.

The Hes say they were not advised to hire their own lawyer. When they signed
over guardianship in court, witnesses testified, the arrangement was described
as temporary and no one detailed its pitfalls for the Hes.

The Hes, who found work at Chinese restaurants, visited Anna Mae about 80 times
in the next two years and began to ask for the child's return. On her 2nd
birthday, the Bakers would not let the Hes take her out for a family portrait,
hostility peaked, and the Bakers called the police.

The Hes say the police ordered them to stay away from the house. They did. The
Bakers said their absence over the next four months constituted legal
abandonment and grounds for terminating the Hes' parental rights, a provision of
Tennessee law that the Hes say they did not know.

In addition to the abandonment question, much of the argument in the case seems
to double as a culture clash. The Hes have said that where Americans see big
families in close quarters as a sign of low living standards, the Chinese
culture values close association with extended families.

Ms. Baker has testified that she was afraid that the Hes would summarily
''ship'' Anna Mae out of the country. In China it is not uncommon for children
to be partly raised by relatives, both for the parents' convenience and for the
family's bonding, Twila Tardif, a developmental psychologist at the University
of Michigan and faculty associate with the Center for Chinese Studies, said.
''Typically, it goes until nursery school, maybe age 3, or elementary school,
would be the most common,'' but can last longer, she said.

The Bakers' lawyer, Larry Parrish, said that they were motivated just by concern
for the girl and that he was glad that the judge had taken into account the
couples' character.

The decision calls Ms. He impetuous and calculating. Citing Mr. He's answers on
loan and visa applications, it says his conduct is ''marked by deceitfulness and
dishonesty.''

''I think it would have been cruel and unusual punishment for this child to be
taken out of her present circumstances,'' Mr. Parrish said. ''I couldn't
conceive of a child being so innocent and so punished.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shaoqiang and Qin Luo He holding daughter, Avita, 1, yesterday
in their hotel room in Memphis after a judge ruled in the four-year custody case
involving another daughter, Anna Mae, 5.
 Jerry and Louise Baker, foster parents, listening to their lawyer, Larry
Parrish, at a news conference after they retained custody of Anna Mae.
(Photographs by The Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2004 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Once Tortured, Now Tormented By Images of Brutality From Iraq

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words


The moment the television in his small Bronx apartment began to flash pictures
of naked prisoners and grinning guards, Jean Pierre Kamwa switched it off and
went to bed. But like many immigrants who sought American asylum from torture,
Mr. Kamwa, who fled Cameroon in 1999, said the photographs unleashed a storm of
fear and memory that would not let him sleep.

In the dark, he said, he relived his days as a student activist in Cameroon,
when soldiers from the ruling party imposed martial law. Mr. Kamwa, 34, was
repeatedly detained without trial, threatened with death, and tortured with
beatings that damaged his body and seared his mind. After settling in New York,
he chose to help victims like himself as a social service caseworker.

In daylight, he said, he found himself coping with a spike in anguished calls
from his caseload of refugees who had suffered similar abuse at the hands of
jailers -- the weeping Bulgarian woman in Brooklyn, the frightened Tibetan man
in Queens. Many of them said the images from Iraq awoke old traumas from distant
penal systems, scars that never healed and that flash easily into pain. For
some, the Abu Ghraib stories even ignited fears for their own safety from an
American government suddenly cast in a harsh new light.

''They don't feel secure anymore,'' Mr. Kamwa told doctors at the
Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture, where he himself was treated.
''They ask, 'Where to go, how can they be safe in the world?'''

There are an estimated 400,000 survivors of foreign torture living in the United
States, and those who work with survivors say about a quarter of them live in
the New York area. While others may debate the fine points of interrogation and
the reach of international law, these survivors are now encountering a new
dimension of fear, according to doctors and counselors in the network of
specialized torture treatment centers across the country.

''There was a sense of horror and disbelief,'' said Dr. Allen S. Keller, the
director of the program at Bellevue Hospital Center, which treated more than 600
people from 70 countries last year, and gets 5 to 10 new referrals a week.
''These are individuals who came to this country seeking safety. We owe it to
the torture survivors living in our country not to condone or practice it.''

Rachel Tschida, a spokeswoman for the Center for the Victims of Torture in
Minneapolis, the first such center in the world when it opened in 1985, said the
assumptions of torture victims about America have suddenly been thrown into
question. ''The overwhelming feeling, frankly, is heartbreak,'' she said.

No city has a higher concentration of torture survivors than New York, where
Sept. 11, 2001, and its aftermath already undermined confidence in the United
States as a safe harbor in a violent world. Many, like Mr. Kamwa, went through
additional trauma during months in a detention center near Kennedy Airport
before winning political asylum.

But it has been much the same this week in Fridley, Minn., for Richard Oketch, a
53-year-old public school teacher who said he suddenly found his suburban house
no refuge from fresh flashbacks to torture chambers in Idi Amin's Uganda.

''It brought me back to where I was -- the bodies on the floor, the naked
bodies,'' said Mr. Oketch, a former patient and current board member of the
torture victims center in Minneapolis. ''It's difficult to comprehend that that
can be done by the United States, because it represents the values that people
are looking for -- human rights, safety, security. The first reaction is, it
cannot be.''

He has been awake until 4 a.m. night after night, he said, reading stacks of his
children's picture books to battle the tormenting images from his past. But a
single glance at his subscription copy of Time magazine, which showed a sketch
of a hooded prisoner on its cover, sent him spiraling back to his own ordeal.
Besides being hooded, beaten and bayoneted, Mr. Oketch, whose family was
prominent in opposition to the Ugandan dictatorship, said he was forced to clean
away dead bodies and mop blood from torture rooms where others were mutilated.

''I got lost,'' said Mr. Oketch, whose testimony before Congress in the
mid-1990's helped win passage of federal grants for torture treatment centers
like the one in Minneapolis he credits with winning back his life. ''I didn't
expect it at all. It took me a few days to come back and realize, maybe it's
just like where I was, a few people involved, it's not the entire United
States.''

The nation's 23 torture treatment centers received $10 million in federal funds
last year, and Congress has authorized -- though not yet appropriated -- an
increase to $25 million. Additional money goes to the United Nations for similar
centers it helps finance abroad. But some veterans in the field are now haunted
by the prospect that survivors of torture at American hands could one day be
among their clients.

''You don't get a lot of second chances to build trust with this population,''
said Paul Stein, executive director of the Rocky Mountain Survivors Center in
Denver, where the Abu Ghraib revelations changed the course of a women's support
group on family issues, veering the discussion into anguished accounts of
violence and humiliation. ''The country that they trusted to offer them safety
and to help explain torture is now the country that is perpetrating torture.''

Some reject that conclusion. ''I don't feel like the standard of the U.S.
government has changed,'' said a Tibetan artist in New York who is still
awaiting a decision on his application for asylum and asked that only his first
name, Samten, be published.

Yes, he said through a translator, he had been deeply disturbed by the picture
of a pile of naked prisoners and an Iraqi on a leash. ''I felt sorry for them,''
he said. ''I was shocked. I never thought prisoners of war would be treated like
that.''

But then he decided it was the work of a few and tried to put it out of his
mind, he said, holding out his hands to reveal scarred and pocked palms. Chinese
soldiers burned them in an oven, he explained; doctors at Bellevue, America's
oldest public hospital, saved them with surgery.

The scars still burn sometimes, Samten said. The nightmares still come. ''But I
am making art again,'' he said. ''And I still believe in America.''

So do some whose faith takes different tack. In a French-speaking group therapy
session run by Hawthorne E. Smith, co-director of clinical services at the
Bellevue program, several West African men voiced the hope that the full truth
will come out in the United States in ways that it never could in their own
lands.

Many doctors who treat torture victims have warned for months that the United
States was dangerously disregarding the hard-won international conventions
against torture. They were distressed, they said, that government officials have
asserted that interrogation techniques like ''water boarding'' -- immersing a
detainee in water and making him believe he is going to drown -- stops short of
torture.

''Make no mistake, that's torture,'' Dr. Keller said, recalling the patient from
the Ivory Coast who had suffered just such treatment at the hands of a military
faction. Years later, just taking a shower or being caught in the rain, he would
panic and gasp for breath.

Sitting beside him, Mr. Kamwa, an alumnus of the program, closed his eyes as
though in pain, and rubbed the furrows on his brow. ''My skin crawls when I just
talk about it,'' he said softly in French.

''I come here to have a safe place, to be out of these tortures,'' Mr. Kamwa
said. ''But it is still in my heart in America to speak for human rights.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2004



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about immigrants who were refugees from
torture overseas, and their reactions to photographs of Iraqi prisoners being
abused by American soldiers, attributed a distinction incorrectly to the Center
for Victims of Torture, in Minneapolis. Established in 1985, it is the oldest
center in the United States for victims of torture. The world's oldest is the
Rehabilitation and Research Center for Torture Victims, founded in Copenhagen in
1982.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean Pierre Kamwa, who fled Cameroon because he had been
tortured, was granted asylum in the United States. Now he assists other victims
of brutality. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Adeyinka M.A. Akinsulure-Smith works with torture victims.
 Jean Pierre Kamwa, center, with Hawthorne E. Smith, left, and Dr. Allen S.
Keller, who run a New York program for torture victims. (Photographs by Marilynn
K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2004 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Latin Migrants to U.S. Send Billions Home

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


Caribbean and Latin American immigrants across the country, in states like
Wisconsin and Kentucky as well as Texas and California, are expected to send a
record $30 billion this year to their families and friends back home, according
to a study released on Monday.

Those remittances by immigrants, who are often holding down two jobs and earning
less than $20,000 a year, have become a hot topic when the subject of
development is discussed at the highest levels of government. It will be an
important issue at the summit meeting of seven of the world's largest economies,
plus Russia, in Sea Island, Ga., next month.

At a time when the world's wealthy nations give just $52 billion in foreign aid
to the poorer countries, the $30 billion sent home by immigrants in increments
of $200 to $300 is substantial. It is more money than these countries receive
from foreign aid and in foreign investment.

The money goes to private families, not public development projects or directly
to commercial enterprises, and international financial institutions as well as
development agencies want to figure out how that money can be used to finance
projects that will have a broader economic impact.

The Inter-American Development Bank, other financial institutions and now the
Bush administration are pressing to reduce the costs of transferring the money,
to persuade large banks to accept these remittances and to make it easier to
increase the size of small businesses and other enterprises in these countries.

''We want to bring this out of the shadows so people understand the critical
contribution these hard-working people are making,'' said Donald F. Terry,
manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund of the Inter-American Development
Bank, which commissioned the study.

Already, the development bank has helped persuade companies to cut the costs of
transferring money, to about 7 percent from 15 percent to 20 percent. The goal
is to cut that in half, Mr. Terry said.

The survey by the bank was the first to measure how much money immigrants in
individual American states sent home. Originally, the survey planned to cover 25
states but expanded to 37 and the District of Columbia when researchers
discovered that a relatively small number of immigrants in Kentucky -- 26,068 in
total -- were able to send home $53 million.

''We kept adding states as we realized the flow of remittance was substantial
throughout the country, even where there was a relatively small number of
immigrant workers,'' said Sergio Bendixen, president of Bendixen & Associates,
who ran the survey for the development bank.

Immigrants in six states sent more than $1 billion. The top two were California,
with $9.6 billion, and New York, with $3.56 billion. Over all, at least 61
percent of the 6.6 million foreign-born workers from Latin America and the
Caribbean send money home.

In an era of globalization and a growing disparity between rich and poor in this
hemisphere, families have made immigration part of their survival strategy,
sending at least one relative north to earn money, legally or illegally. Over
the last decade, the size of the remittances has doubled. One of every four
adults in Central America now receives remittance money.

Deputy Treasury Secretary Samuel W. Bodman said on Monday that helping cut costs
for immigrants transmitting their money home was a top priority for the
administration and the governments of other wealthy nations at the meeting next
month.

There are social consequences to these remittance arrangements that often go
unmentioned. With a breadwinner in the United States, families can be divided.
Young children are sometimes left with grandparents. And adults working two jobs
have little time to help the children they may have brought along.

''There are huge social costs that people don't want to talk about,'' said Julia
Sweig, senior fellow for Latin America at the Council on Foreign Relations.

Officials said this migration would only increase now that the Western
Hemisphere has become an integrated, if informal labor pool.

''This is the human face of globalization,'' Mr. Terry of the Inter-American
Development Bank said. ''I don't think it's anything to celebrate that so many
of a country's workers have to leave to earn a living. What we can do is see
that they are treated better.''

Roughly one-third of the workers lack the proper documents to work legally in
the United States. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is supporting legislation introduced last
week by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, that would make
these workers less vulnerable to employers.

Ana Avendano, associate general counsel at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that by
threatening immigrants with expulsion, employers are able to pay them low wages
and require long hours that violate laws.

''We are working to help these immigrant workers send their remittances home
without having to pay a fee,'' Ms. Avendano said, ''and at the same time we are
working to improve the conditions of the most vulnerable workers because that
helps all workers.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 2004



CORRECTION: An article in Business Day on Tuesday about immigrant workers from
Latin America who are expected to send $30 billion back to families and friends
this year misstated the total number of such workers in the United States. It is
16.6 million, not 6.6 million.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Ramon Cruz, who left Cuba three years ago, counting out cash in
Miami last week for a $300 wire transfer to his mother, who still lives there.
The remittances will be a topic at next month's Group of 8 meeting. (Photo by
Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Chart/Map: ''Miss You. Stop. Here's Money.
Stop.''Workers from Latin America and the Carribean will send more than $30
billion to their families at home in 2004, according to a new study.Map of the
United States shows the total that the workers are expected to send
back.California -- $9.61 bil.New York -- 3.56Texas -- 3.18Florida --
2.45Illinois -- 1.53Largest averages sent per workerMaryland -- $2,897North
Carolina -- 2,864Alabama -- 2,797Georgia -- 2,743Virginia -- 2,671(Source by
Inter-American Development Bank)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; Corrections

LENGTH: 78 words


An article on Saturday about immigrants who were refugees from torture overseas,
and their reactions to photographs of Iraqi prisoners being abused by American
soldiers, attributed a distinction incorrectly to the Center for Victims of
Torture, in Minneapolis. Established in 1985, it is the oldest center in the
United States for victims of torture. The world's oldest is the Rehabilitation
and Research Center for Torture Victims, founded in Copenhagen in 1982.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 22, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Laborer's Death Prompts Homicide Investigation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK and JESS WISLOSKI; Ann Farmer and David Chen
contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 966 words


The job paid $90 a day with no benefits. It required heavy lifting while
balancing on flimsy platforms three stories high, exposed to the elements but
not to the knowledge that the work flouted safety rules and construction
blueprints.

Angel Segovia, 37, took the job, and for him there were even more hardships.
Besides having to rise at 4:30 a.m. for a two hour train ride or share a
three-bedroom apartment with five cousins, Mr. Segovia also had to give up
seeing his wife, two daughters and a son for four years, since moving to New
York to find work to support them.

And in the end, which came Thursday morning, the job cost him his life. His
employer was Big Apple Development and Construction of Bayside, Queens.

Prosecutors in the Brooklyn district attorney's office opened a homicide
investigation into the death of Mr. Segovia, an Ecuadorean immigrant who fell
when an illegally constructed balcony roof snapped from the wall of a new luxury
condominium building in Brooklyn, law enforcement officials said yesterday.

The city medical examiner's office said his death was caused by blows to his
head and torso and injuries to internal organs. The death was ruled an accident,
a medical designation that meant the collapse of the balcony was an unexpected
event. The ruling did not assign or relieve civil or criminal liability, said
Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner's office.

Advocates for laborers and immigrants used Mr. Segovia's death to call for
criminal prosecutions of developers and construction companies that put workers
at risk. They criticized the efforts of federal labor regulators as ineffective.

Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, whose office has no
jurisdiction in Mr. Segovia's death, said in a telephone interview that the
exploitation of undocumented laborers is increasingly drawing the attention of
prosecutors in large cities.

''We're going out and trying to find these cases, because the workers are afraid
to report them,'' Mr. Morgenthau said. ''I do think it's a serious and growing
problem, the exploitation of illegal workers.''

The city's Buildings Department workers, who had sealed off the site of the
accident at the intersection of Forth Hamilton Parkway and 97th Street in Bay
Ridge, began dismantling the balconies yesterday. Some of the workers on the
project returned to the building yesterday to pack up and head off to work on
another project for Big Apple in New Jersey.

One of the two workers injured in the collapse, Jose Fernandez, 20, was released
from Lutheran Medical Center in Sunset Park, said Neal Gorman, a hospital
spokesman. A second injured worker, who was admitted to Lutheran under the name
Bac Gumyul, 40, was in critical condition, Mr. Gorman said.

Mr. Segovia and the injured workers were pouring concrete onto a balcony roof
that was held up by cantilevered support beams when one of the beams gave way,
sending the workers tumbling three stories in a deluge of bricks and flowing wet
cement.

The cantilevering contradicted plans on file with the Buildings Department,
which issued violations on Thursday against three companies involved in the
project -- Marine Partners, the owner, of Yonkers; Big Apple Development and
Construction, the main contractor; and Pro Weld Fabricators, the contractor on
the balcony work, of South Ozone Park, Queens. Officials of those companies did
not return repeated calls seeking comment yesterday.

Brian M. McLaughlin, a state Assemblyman and the president of the New York City
Central Labor Council, an advocacy group chartered by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said
Mr. Segovia's death underscored the need for criminal prosecutions to ensure
safe working conditions for immigrant laborers.

''You have people who come here seeking a better way of life,'' Mr. McLaughlin
said. ''They're willing to take a job whether it's dangerous or not.''

Across the country, prosecutors in California have been more aggressive than
others in pursuing convictions in connection with workplace deaths, but New York
prosecutors have had some successes.

In January, Philip V. Minucci, a contractor, was sentenced to 3 to 10 years in
prison after pleading guilty to manslaughter charges in the deaths of five
construction workers who were killed when a scaffold collapsed at a building in
Gramercy Park in October 2001. Mr. Minucci admitted that he had designed the
scaffold without regard for its safety.

Mr. Segovia, who had worked as a farmer and construction worker in Ecuador, had
viewed the job, dangerous as it was, as a way to build a home for his wife,
Emma, and their children, according to relatives in Queens interviewed yesterday
who asked that their names be withheld because they fear deportation.

Mr. Segovia had moved to the United States four years ago, and three of his
brothers had followed, spreading out to find work in Brooklyn, Connecticut and
Pennsylvania. Other family members were closer. Mr. Segovia lived in a
three-bedroom apartment on the second floor of a vinyl-sided, two-story home
with a view of a car dealership in Jamaica, Queens. So did five of his cousins.

He found work with Big Apple a year after arriving in the United States, and
worked for the company steadily for the next three years, his family said. Two
years ago, Mr. Segovia broke a hand on the job and was out of work for a few
months.

He had not traveled home in those four years because of his immigration status,
and his wife and children have never been to the United States for the same
reason. His paychecks came twice a month, amounting to a little more than $400 a
week, and he sent about $200 a week to his wife, family members said.

''He was building a house in Ecuador,'' Mr. Segovia's cousin said. ''He didn't
finish.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Pride of a New Taxi Medallion, the Gravity of New Realities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words


Victor H. Salazar had hardly been feeling very triumphant the last few weeks.
The voluble Ecuadorean immigrant exulted last month when his nearly $300,000 bid
landed him a New York City taxi medallion at a rare city auction, but the
financial realities that lay ahead quickly sobered him.

''When I came to this country, I started at below zero,'' said Mr. Salazar, who
has been driving a cab for more than a decade. ''Right now, I'm way below zero
because I owe a lot of money to a lot of people.''

But when a clerk at the Department of Motor Vehicles handed him his new license
plates last Thursday with his medallion number, 1T37, he felt his first flush of
validation. The rumor among drivers had been that the new medallions -- the
aluminum shields affixed to taxi hoods that bestow the right to operate a yellow
taxicab -- would either be V's or T's. Mr. Salazar, 40, had wanted V, for
Victor, but T would do just fine. ''One-triumph-thirty-seven,'' he proclaimed.

The first taxicabs bearing medallions from last month's auctions for corporate
fleets and individual drivers have begun hitting the streets, 98 in all as of
yesterday afternoon. Soon there will be 300, joining the 12,187 other jostling
yellow chariots already crowding the city's roadways. With the city planning to
auction off 900 medallions over three years, they represent the first wave of
the largest expansion of the taxi fleet since the Depression.

For winners like Mr. Salazar, the euphoria of last month's auction has given way
to the avalanche of details that go into giving birth to a new yellow cab, the
only type permitted to accept street hails. There are fees to be paid, forms to
be filled out, inspections to endure and equipment to be installed. And for
struggling immigrant drivers who have suddenly become owners, there are also
daunting new financial responsibilities and questions about whether all the new
cabs will hurt business.

The losers from last month's auction are dealing with their own new set of
realities. Some are deciding whether they should continue in a business in which
owners do better then renters in the long run. Although this month's
long-awaited fare increase has helped, garages have significantly raised the
amount they charge drivers who lease from them, and many say they have seen a
drop in the number of people taking cabs.

With the money he had set aside for a medallion, Jassim Jesse, 45, a Bangladeshi
taxi driver, is now shopping around for places to open a small restaurant or
store. His weekly lease, he said, has gone to $650 from $575 (it would have been
more if he had not agreed to switch to an older car), and he is making only $10
or $15 more per day after the fare increase. His best year as a cabdriver came
three years ago, and even then he failed to scratch out $29,000, he said, hardly
worth the hours and the stress.

Mohammed Mia, 24, who tried to buy a pair of corporate medallions with a cousin
and start a mini-fleet, is already thinking about next year's auction. Mr. Mia's
broker refused to submit their bid of $600,000 for two medallions because he
considered it too low (he was right). Mr. Mia said that in retrospect, he
regretted not bidding more because prices on the open market had since
ballooned.

For the winners, however, there has been scant time to revel. Mr. Salazar's taxi
broker, Richard Chipman of Westway Medallion Sales, expected a $25,000 down
payment right away. And on June 1, the first payments on the medallion loan are
due. For Mr. Salazar, his loan and insurance will cost about $700 a week, on top
of $175 a week for his car, meaning he will start every day about $125 in the
hole, if he works seven days a week. But he says he believes his investment will
bear fruit eventually.

Last year, Mr. Salazar lost $30,000, nearly all of his savings, trying to land a
medallion on the open market. His broker, Fabio Diaz, disappeared with his money
and that of more than a dozen other struggling immigrant drivers. The police
caught up with Mr. Diaz recently in Florida, but Mr. Salazar is not sure he will
ever recover anything.

With the savings he had left and a $7,500 loan from his bank, Mr. Salazar had
about $16,000. For the remaining $9,000, he turned to cajoling relatives. His
wife's sister lent him $4,000, including her tax refund for this year. His older
brother lent him another $4,000; the last $1,000 came from his brother's wife.

''It's not easy borrowing money from people,'' Mr. Salazar said, ''especially
because everybody's immigrants around me.''

In the end, though, he got what he needed, and he arrived last Thursday for his
closing at Taxi and Limousine Commission headquarters dressed smartly in a
button-down shirt and khakis. Left in his checking account: $720.

After Mr. Salazar signed a flurry of forms, he was handed a stack of papers and
his bill of sale. ''With any luck, you'll be on the road today,'' said Stan
Shames, the commission's closing agent. ''At the latest tomorrow.''

As it turned out, Mr. Shames had underestimated the bureaucratic maze Mr.
Salazar was about to plunge into. Already that morning, Mr. Salazar had dropped
off his Toyota Sienna at a shop in Long Island City to get a new meter installed
and the decals and lights above his car changed. Unlike most drivers who lease a
medallion, Mr. Salazar owned his vehicle. He bought it six months ago for about
$29,000 using three credit cards. Now everything in it had to be changed over.

Back at his office, Mr. Chipman ticked off the other places Mr. Salazar had to
visit: the Department of Motor Vehicles at Herald Square for his plates; the
Department of Finance in Lower Manhattan for his $500 tax stamp; the Workers'
Compensation Board in Brooklyn for his waiver of workers' comp; and finally the
Taxi and Limousine Commission center in Woodside, Queens, for his rate card,
used car inspection and ''hack-up,'' the actual affixing of his new medallion to
the hood of his car.

As it turned out, the line at the D.M.V. would quash any possibility of hitting
the road that day. Mr. Salazar finally hurried out about 3 p.m., two hours after
he came in, but only after paying $40 to an elderly man to switch places with
him in line. After jumping on the subway and wolfing down lunch, he rushed into
the Department of Finance around 4 p.m. But by then it was too late to
accomplish anything else.

The next day brought more frustration. Mr. Salazar, who lives in Queens, hurried
first to Lower Manhattan to post bond on some outstanding traffic tickets. Then,
he headed to Brooklyn. After some difficulty, he filled out the forms waiving
workers' compensation and headed to a car wash to clean up his minivan for
inspection.

The taxi commission site in Woodside is a sprawling complex off the
Brooklyn-Queens Expressway that drivers dread because of the inspections they
have to endure three times a year. Inspectors can fail drivers for everything
from a dented fender to an inadequate suspension. When the place is crowded,
drivers might wait in line for several hours. If a violation is found, they have
to get it fixed and come back. A sign displayed prominently in the lobby
prohibits bribes.

Mr. Salazar rolled in shortly after noon, joining a sea of yellow taxicabs.
After waiting for some paperwork and paying a $100 fee, Mr. Salazar was told he
already had a problem. Because he changed license plates, he needed a new New
York State inspection sticker. He had to go to a repair station to get one
before he could go any further. Mr. Salazar checked three places, before finding
one that could finish the work in an hour. By the time he got back to the
center, it was 4 p.m.

Technicians examined his alignment, brakes, suspension, lights, emissions, meter
and dozens of other items. Besides small tears on the seat covers in the back,
for which inspectors gave him a ticket to return in 10 days with them fixed, he
was clean. After some more paperwork, a worker came out to ratchet his new
medallion onto the hood.

''It's a taxi now,'' the worker said.

''It feels like I just gave birth,'' Mr. Salazar said, rolling out of the
garage.

His new life finally began the next day. At 9:05 a.m., Mr. Salazar emerged from
the Queens-Midtown Tunnel. He decided to save his toll receipt as a souvenir.
''This is my official time of entry to my place of work, Manhattan,'' he said.

Soon after, cruising down Second Avenue and rubbing his hands together, he was
like a child at recess: ''Now I want to see my first hand go up.''

At 46th and Second, a man on a cellphone flagged him down.

''How are you doing, buddy?'' Mr. Salazar said to the man, as he pulled away
from the curb and got to work.

Hailing a Dream

 New York City is auctioning off 300 medallions each year for the next three
years, the largest expansion of the taxi fleet since the Depression. Hundreds of
people, most of them immigrants, are scraping money together to bid on these
precious aluminum slips, which represent freedom, security and, perhaps one day,
wealth. This series followed several bidders through the auction process to the
day when some received shiny medallions of their own on their taxis' yellow
hoods. The series continues to be online at nytimes.com/metro.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: HAILING A DREAM: Third of three articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission center in
Woodside, Queens, where Victor H. Salazar, who won a new taxi medallion, had it
affixed to his hood. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 ''One-triumph-thirty-seven'' is what Victor H. Salazar said about his taxi
medallion number after receiving his new license plate. He bid nearly $300,000
to win the medallion at a rare city auction last month. (Photo by Richard
Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 31, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can Prints Lie? Yes, Man Finds To His Dismay

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2021 words


In front of the immigration judge, the tall, muscular man began to weep. No, he
had patiently tried to explain, he was not Leo Rosario, a drug dealer and a
prime candidate for deportation.

He was telling the truth. He was Rene Ramon Sanchez, an auto-body worker and
merengue singer from the Bronx who bore not even a passing resemblance to Mr.
Rosario, a complete stranger 12 years his junior and a half-foot shorter.

''Why don't you get his photo then?'' Mr. Sanchez cried out in Spanish, pounding
a fist into his palm. ''And compare my fingerprints with his?''

The judge, Alan L. Page, had been told the prints were the same. ''The general
rule is, the prints don't lie,'' Judge Page had said earlier. ''If you got the
same prints that Leo Rosario has, you're Leo Rosario. And there's nothing I can
do about it.''

So Mr. Sanchez, in late 2000, was sent back for another week in a grim detention
center in Lower Manhattan, severed from his family and livelihood, because his
fingerprints had been mistakenly placed on the official record of another man.

Remarkably, this was not the first time Mr. Sanchez had paid for that mistake.
He had been arrested three times for Mr. Rosario's crimes, and ultimately spent
a total of two months in custody and was threatened with deportation before the
mistake was traced and resolved in 2002.

Mr. Sanchez's ordeal, unearthed from court records and interviews, amounts to a
strange, sometimes absurd odyssey through a criminal justice system that made a
single error and then compounded it time and again by failing to correct it.

The limits of fingerprint evidence have been much in the news. An Oregon lawyer
jailed as a material witness in the Madrid train bombings was freed this month
after the F.B.I. said it had mistakenly matched his prints with others found
near the scene of the attacks.

Mr. Sanchez's case, if less dire or public, is no less chilling a lesson in how
easily a person's identity can be smudged in this era of shared databases, and
how long it can take to cleanse it -- particularly if, like Mr. Sanchez, he
speaks little English and has a minor police record of his own.

Over the two years in which his fate was tied to a man he had never met, the
authorities repeatedly discovered the crossed identities and freed him. But
until his lawyer filed notice that he intended to sue the state, no one tracked
down and fixed the root problem: the faulty fingerprints in the state's vast
criminal justice files.

At the immigration hearing in late 2000, Judge Page acknowledged the
possibility, however slight, that an error had been made.

''Unfortunately, this type of problem you can't unsolve -- you can't undo -- in
two minutes,'' he told Mr. Sanchez. ''If it's a mistake,'' he added, ''it's a
terrible mistake.''

Bad Luck, and Bad Timing

   The first mistake was made by Mr. Sanchez, a legal immigrant from the
Dominican Republic. On July 15, 1995, he was pulled over in upper Manhattan and
charged with driving while intoxicated.

But what happened next -- as laid out in court records and in an affidavit by
William J. Sillery, the state criminal justice official who helped untangle the
mess in 2002 -- was a monumental piece of bad luck, and bad timing.

When the police fingerprinted Mr. Sanchez, then 33, they wrongly placed the
prints on a card that bore the name, Social Security number and other data for
Leo Rosario, Mr. Sillery wrote. Mr. Rosario, a 21-year-old Manhattan man, had
been arrested the night before on charges that he had sold a bag of cocaine to a
police officer, records show. The police then mailed the card to the state
Division of Criminal Justice Services, where Mr. Sillery was director of the
office of operations.

Police departments across the state typically fax fingerprints to Albany after
an arrest. But the faxed prints are often replaced with clearer copies that are
mailed in later. ''In this case, therefore, Rosario's actual fingerprints were
replaced in our base files with Sanchez's fingerprints,'' Mr. Sillery wrote.
(Spokesmen for his department, the police and immigration authorities declined
to comment on the case, citing the lawsuit Mr. Sanchez has filed against each of
them. The lawsuit, still pending, charges false arrest and imprisonment and
deprivation of his constitutional rights.)

The errant fingerprint card lay dormant in the files for the next three years,
as Mr. Sanchez went back to his life repairing cars, singing part time and
visiting his two young daughters. The D.W.I. case was dismissed, said Andres M.
Aranda, a lawyer who has represented Mr. Sanchez.

But in August 1998, Mr. Sanchez was stopped again by police officers, who said
he had been swerving from lane to lane on Amsterdam Avenue in upper Manhattan.
He admitted that he had drunk four beers, the police noted, and he apologized.

He was charged with D.W.I. and jailed for four days before being led into State
Supreme Court in Manhattan, where the clerk announced his case as ''Calendar No.
45, Leo Rosario.''

Apparently a new set of prints taken from Mr. Sanchez matched those on Mr.
Rosario's card in the files. Since his cocaine arrest, Mr. Rosario had pleaded
guilty to an attempted drug sale, then violated his probation by disappearing,
said a spokesman for the city Department of Probation. A warrant had been issued
for his arrest.

''What's your name?'' Justice Bonnie G. Wittner asked the man in front of her,
according to the court transcript.

''Rene Sanchez,'' he replied.

''This is supposed to be Leo Rosario,'' the judge said.

Mr. Sanchez said through an interpreter that he was not Mr. Rosario.

''Who is this person here?'' the judge asked.

As she tried to get that question answered, Mr. Sanchez seemed uncannily
prescient about the real problem. ''Get my prints,'' he said. ''Maybe there was
a mistake with my hands.''

New prints were ordered, as they would be again over the next two years, but
because of the earlier mix-up, they would always match the ones in Mr. Rosario's
file.

A Warrant Lies in Wait

   This day, however, a court probation officer, Vera Thompson, checked a mug
shot of Mr. Rosario, and said it did not match the man in court. Justice Wittner
released him.

Even though the D.W.I. charges were ultimately dropped, the warrant for Mr.
Rosario remained in place. It tripped up Mr. Sanchez again a year or so later,
he says, when he was stopped for a defective taillight. An officer ran his
license; he was handcuffed and taken into custody. It appears that by then Mr.
Sanchez's name was linked to Mr. Rosario's in law enforcement computers as if it
were an alias, leading the authorities to Mr. Rosario's warrant.

''I thought this was not possible, that the problem had been solved by the
judge,'' Mr. Sanchez said. He said he was released after several hours after it
was determined he was not Mr. Rosario.

His next brush with the law was not so brief. On Oct. 11, 2000, returning from a
visit to relatives in the Dominican Republic, he was taken into custody by an
officer in the baggage-claim area at Kennedy International Airport and was told
there was a warrant for his arrest under the name of Leo Rosario. Apparently, as
he had passed through a checkpoint, his name had again snagged him.

The next day, he went before Justice Wittner, who appears not to have recognized
him from his case two years earlier. She fended off his urgent pleas to be
heard, saying she would hear him a day later, when his lawyer could be summoned.

It is unclear why, but no lawyer appeared the following day, and as Mr. Sanchez
stood alone in court, the confusion grew. A court probation officer told the
judge that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had made a formal request
that Mr. Rosario be held for deportation proceedings.

Hearing that, Justice Wittner said she would end Mr. Rosario's probation and
hand him over to the immigration service. ''He'll have to face whatever charges
he is facing,'' she said.

Mr. Sanchez, beyond astonishment, asked, ''What case?'' He said he was not aware
he had any immigration problems.

''I don't know,'' the judge said, adding later: ''I'm not an immigration judge.
I have terminated your probation. I don't know about your other problems.''

''Please, permit me to speak,'' Mr. Sanchez said in exasperation. ''Please.
Please, Miss.''

''I can't help you, sir,'' she concluded.

Mr. Sanchez was held for about a week at a jail in Lower Manhattan, then moved
to an immigration detention center on Varick Street, where he lived with scores
of other detainees. When the guards called him Rosario, he answered, ''My name
is Sanchez.'' He felt abandoned.

''I was very confused, actually, because I thought, 'There's so much
intelligence in this country -- why is this happening to me?''' he recalled.

No Way to Mistake Them

   More than a month after he was stopped at the airport, Mr. Sanchez was
finally taken before the immigration judge, Alan Page, who explained that the
government wanted to deport him. ''They claim that back in 1996 you were
convicted of attempted criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third
degree,'' Judge Page said, according to recordings of the hearings that were
obtained by The New York Times under the Freedom of Information Act.

Mr. Sanchez, who again had no lawyer beside him, denied that. ''I always work,
pay taxes,'' he said at one point.

''You sure you got the right guy?'' the judge asked the immigration service
lawyer, Anne Gannon, who said she would ''have them run the prints again.''

''You better do something,'' the judge said, adding later, ''A.S.A.P. -- maybe
you got the wrong guy.''

Settling that matter would take four more hearings and another month in jail for
Mr. Sanchez. He ate little, his 185 pounds dropping to 165, and his hair began
to fall out, he said.

At the next hearing, his lawyer, Peter Koenig, was there but the immigration
service was missing a crucial file. At the third hearing, on Dec. 7, 2000, the
judge said that a new comparison of the fingerprints had been made, and that the
government believed ''they're one and the same.''

''Nobody has ever been able to prove that there are two people out there with
the same exact set of prints,'' Judge Page said. ''And they were using
fingerprinting, I think, for approximately the last 100 years, or more.''

He added: ''He's Leo Rosario. There's no other conclusion I can reach.''

But a week later, at the hearing where Mr. Sanchez broke into tears, some
progress was made: His lawyer indicated that he was trying to obtain a
transcript of the 1998 hearing in which Justice Wittner had released Mr.
Sanchez.

A few days before Christmas, after someone from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had gone to the police and seen Mr. Rosario's photo, Mr.
Sanchez was released.

At a hearing a month later, which Mr. Sanchez did not attend, Judge Page
remarked, ''This is one of those odd situations.''

So Mr. Sanchez was not Mr. Rosario, after all? the judge asked an immigration
lawyer. ''Two completely different people? No way you would mistake them?''

''No, there's not,'' the lawyer replied.

It is not clear who directed Mr. Sillery, the state official, to investigate two
years later, after Mr. Sanchez's lawyer, Irving Cohen, filed a claim with the
state that he would sue. But Mr. Sillery wrote in his affidavit that the two
men's fingerprint records had been corrected.

Mr. Sanchez, now 42, says he has never received any apology from the
authorities, but has had no more problems with them. Before he left on another
trip to the Dominican Republic last fall, Mr. Cohen wrote a letter for him to
show anyone who mistook him for Leo Rosario, explaining the mix-up.

Mr. Rosario's whereabouts are unknown, but he may not be entirely gone from Mr.
Sanchez's life. This month, Mr. Cohen and the other lawyer, Mr. Aranda, went to
court seeking Mr. Sanchez's case files. A clerk began searching in the computer,
Mr. Aranda recalled, but seemed confused by what came up.

''Are you looking for Mr. Sanchez,'' she asked, ''or Mr. Rosario?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rene Ramon Sanchez in front of a Manhattan immigration office.
The police mistakenly put his fingerprints on a drug dealer's file card. (Photo
by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 31, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rewards of a 90-Hour Week: Poverty and Dirty Laundry

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words


For the many New Yorkers who dread spending two hours in a noisy, often smelly
laundry washing and drying their clothes, it is a godsend that most laundries
will handle that unpleasant chore for them, and for as little as $5 a load.

But few customers pay attention to the thousands of ''wash and fold'' workers --
most of them women from Mexico -- who actually handle their laundry. They are
among the most anonymous laborers in New York. In humid basements and backrooms
around the city, they shovel clothes in and out of washers and dryers, matching
socks and folding hundreds of towels and undergarments each day.

Most laundry workers earn less, often far less, than the minimum wage of $5.15
an hour. Gabriela Mendez, a veteran of six Manhattan laundries, said one paid
her $230, or $3.19 an hour, for a 72-hour week, while at another she earned
$220, or $2.45 an hour, for a 90-hour week.

She and other workers boil over with tales of oppressive conditions or abusive
bosses. Some said their employers hit them for taking a long lunch or fired them
for being out sick for a day; others said they saw co-workers collapse from the
heat.

''The laundry pays us less than they're able to,'' said Inriqueta G., an illegal
immigrant who works at a laundry in the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn. She
would not give her last name.

''They say they can't pay us more because we don't understand English,'' she
continued, speaking through a translator. ''But we work just as well as other
people.''

In recent months, the wages and working conditions of laundry workers have begun
to attract outside attention. The state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has
begun cracking down on a handful of laundries, winning tens of thousands of
dollars in back wages for the workers and pressuring some laundries to begin
granting paid sick days and one-week vacations. Several immigrant advocacy
groups have taken up the cause of laundry employees, and an effort has begun to
unionize some workers.

''There's an industrywide problem about failure to pay the minimum wage, and
these workers are almost never paid time and a half,'' said Patricia Smith,
director of the attorney general's Labor Bureau. ''When we ask owners why
they're paying so little, they say, 'That's what everybody else pays.'''

Ms. Smith added that at a majority of the laundries investigated by the office,
there have been allegations of oppressive working conditions, including sexual
harassment, physical and verbal abuse and poor environmental conditions, like
the use of harsh chemicals.

Avenue B Cleaners, a laundry on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, agreed last
month to pay $23,000 in back wages and damages after several workers complained
to the attorney general that they had been paid less than $250 each for a
72-hour work week. Anyone who works a 72-hour week -- or 12 hours a day, six
days a week -- should receive at least $453.20 a week if paid the minimum wage
and overtime. Government officials noted that minimum wage laws also apply to
workers who are in the country illegally.

Avenue B's lawyer, Samuel Ahne, acknowledged the company's failure to pay the
minimum wage, but he said that should not be surprising. ''The reason people are
being underpaid is there is a lot of financial stress over all on the owners,''
Mr. Ahne said, citing property tax increases, soaring rents and intense
competition from immigrant entrepreneurs.

James B. Levin, a lawyer for Bright Laundry, a laundry on East 84th Street that
agreed last September to pay $18,200 in a settlement with the attorney general,
had a different explanation for the wage violations. ''There aren't enough jobs
available for people, and they'd much rather work for less than the minimum wage
than not work at all,'' he said. ''And, remember, a lot of these workers aren't
legal.''

Ms. Mendez said she grew so fed up with the illegal wages she was paid at
laundry after laundry that she complained to Casa Mexico, an immigrant advocacy
group, and then to the attorney general. She, her husband and their 5-year-old
son live with two other families in a bare-bones three-bedroom apartment in
Corona, Queens. Her 12-year-old son lives with her mother back in Mexico.

''We came here because we were living in poverty,'' Ms. Mendez said. ''We didn't
have enough to buy shoes. All we ate was tortilla and beans, and we didn't have
enough to buy fruit. I wanted something much better for the children.''

She complained that one laundry did not give the workers gloves even though they
handled sheets smeared with blood. Another, she said, prohibited them from
drinking water from the tap, despite the sweltering heat. Ms. Mendez also said
that one boss hit her because she took a 45-minute lunch, 15 minutes longer than
usual.

Inriqueta G., the worker in Brighton Beach, took a laundry job after a Mexican
friend told her about it. But the low pay has taken a toll, she said,
complaining that by the end of each month she has too little money to buy juice
or meat for her children.

She pays $950 a month for a crowded one-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn, near the
Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, while she receives $350 in cash for a 70-hour week.
That works out to $5 an hour; if she were paid the minimum wage and overtime,
she would earn nearly $400 more each month.

''I don't know how to change things,'' she said. ''Sometimes I look for other
work, but it's hard because I don't speak English, and I don't have time to go
to school. I just hope one day there will be better conditions at work.''

Many laundry workers hope that Mr. Spitzer and the laundry owners will negotiate
a code of conduct to improve wages and conditions, like the one he negotiated in
2002 with Manhattan's greengrocers, who were often found to have violated
minimum wage laws. But immigrant advocates say a code was easier to arrange with
greengrocers because so many of them were Korean immigrants, making it simpler
for Mr. Spitzer to deal with one group, the Korean American Association of
Greater New York.

The ownership of laundries, in contrast, is far more ethnically dispersed.
Korean immigrants own many, perhaps most, laundries, but there are also owners
from Pakistan, India, Russia and other countries.

Immigrant groups also cite a cultural obstacle to creating such a code -- the
suggestions from husbands and boyfriends that women should not complain about
conditions at work. ''When the laundry workers finally started coming to us,
when we really wanted to begin a fight, a lot of these workers told us, 'My
boyfriend says not to get involved,''' said Gerry Dominguez, a consultant to
Casa Mexico and the Association of Mexican-American Workers. ''There's a macho
element we have to fight here.''

Many laundries have raised wages after seeing the attorney general's enforcement
actions and after immigrant groups began fighting for laundry workers. During
the past year, workers say, pay has climbed at many of them by $30 to $100 a
week. Many laundries that paid $250 for a 72-hour-week now pay $300 or even
$350, which still violates minimum wage and overtime laws.

Asociacion Tepeyac de New York, an advocacy group for Mexican immigrants, has
staged demonstrations at laundries and is seeking to unionize 40 workers at
Symphony Cleaners, which operates several shops on the East Side of Manhattan.
''We need a union because the managers treat us so badly,'' Maria, an illegal
immigrant from Mexico who declined to give her last name or initial, said at a
recent demonstration at the Symphony Cleaners on East 44th Street.

She said one manager had pressured her to have sex but she refused, adding that
the manager prevailed with another worker, telling her she would be fired unless
she had oral sex with him.

Myung Lee, whose son-in-law owns Symphony Cleaners and who serves as its
spokesman, denied that the company violated minimum wage laws. Mr. Lee said one
supervisor had been fired after facing sexual harassment charges, but he
acknowledged that the supervisor had been rehired because he was such a good
manager.

Piedad G., an illegal immigrant from Mexico City who also declined to give her
last name, said Symphony Cleaners suddenly laid her off after she began
complaining about conditions. She said she worked from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Mondays
through Saturdays, leaving her apartment in Queens an hour before work and
returning an hour after work.

''When you work 7 to 7, it's like you're only living to work,'' she said, adding
that she received $300 for 66 hours' work, which translates to $4.55 an hour.

She said she received no vacation days, no paid sick days, no health insurance
and only one paid holiday, Christmas. Last summer, she said, a co-worker fainted
from the heat.

''When I asked for permission to miss a day because I was sick, they wouldn't
let me,'' she said. ''When a person misses a day, they tell them there is no
more work for them. So I went to work when I was sick.''

Back in Mexico City, Piedad G. said, she was a dental receptionist. She said she
and her husband each paid $3,000 to be smuggled into the United States,
expecting to earn far more here to help pay their two sons' tuition for high
school and eventually college. She burst into tears when she started talking
about her children, whom she said she has not seen for three years.

''Life is a lot more difficult here than I thought,'' she said. ''Sometimes I
think I was crazy to come here. This is a country with a lot of opportunities,
but in order to take advantage of those opportunities you have to suffer a
lot.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers demonstrated in April at Symphony Cleaners on East 44th
Street to protest what they said was low pay and unfair employment practices.
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 Gabriela Mendez, who said she filed a complaint with the state, at Bright
Laundry on East 84th Street, one of six laundries she worked at. (Photo by
Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 3, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Worries at the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 143 words



To the Editor:

Reading about Rene Ramon Sanchez's ordeal after his fingerprints were mistakenly
substituted for another man's (front page, May 31) only serves to heighten the
anxieties of many of us who are not residents or citizens of the United States,
particularly those who are frequent visitors on legitimate business trips.

Most of us understand the reasoning behind the U.S.-Visit program, which
requires all visa holders to be photographed and fingerprinted, but we still
hold our breaths at immigration checkpoints. What if something goes wrong with
the database -- the wrong name, similar name, misread print, perhaps an uncanny
resemblance to a recently added individual being sought?

Then what? Will it be Guantanamo instead of the Sheraton? That could be a
serious interruption in one's schedule.

ERIC CORDERO
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., May 31, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Questions for Samuel P. Huntington

SECTION: Section 6; Column 5; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 120 words



In the May 2 issue, the magazine ran a headline claiming that I said
''immigration is ruining America.'' That claim is false.

I did not say immigration is ruining America, and I have never said that.

What I wrote is that the continuation of existing trends could lead to ''the
eventual transformation'' of America into a land of two peoples with two
cultures. To say that something could be transformed is not to say it is being
ruined. Transformation may be for better or worse, and as I point out,
successful, stable, prosperous democracies like Canada and Belgium are bilingual
and bicultural.

Your allegation that I claim immigration is ruining America thus has no basis in
fact.

Samuel P. Huntington
Cambridge, Mass.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Struggling to Draw Workers Sending Money Back Home

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words


The entry of America's big banks into the business of handling immigrants'
remittances of money back home was expected three years ago to produce a
financial revolution with potentially powerful policy implications for the
United States and Latin America. So far the revolution does not seem to have
panned out.

According to a report to be released today by the Pew Hispanic Center, a
nonprofit research group, banks have captured only a trifling share of the money
flow. And the price of remitting money -- which fell sharply in the late 1990's
-- has leveled off.

For the 10 million, mostly poor Latin American immigrants in the United States
who last year sent $30 billion to their families back home, linked bank accounts
and cross-border A.T.M. networks were to offer a cheaper way to send money than
using traditional cash-based players like Western Union, a subsidiary of the
First Data Corporation, and Moneygram, which is owned by the Viad Corporation.
Through remittance services, banks also hoped to draw these immigrants -- more
than half of whom do not have bank accounts -- into the formal financial sector.

Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has been a major promoter of this cause. Last
April, he joined finance ministers and central bank governors of the Group of 7
leading industrial nations in a statement promising to continue working on ways
to make it easier and cheaper for immigrants to send money to their home
countries and ''to integrate remittance services in the formal financial
sector.''

Four of 10 remittances to Latin America are for $200 or less. After dropping
from about 15 percent in the late 1990's to 9 percent in 2001, the average fee
to send $200 to Latin America has not fallen much further. The average fee this
year is 7.6 percent, according to the Pew study.

''The banks have gone through all this effort; it's still early, but the numbers
are still fairly small given the size of the operation and the extent of their
investment,'' said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew center. ''Prices have
stabilized, especially in Mexico, the biggest market, despite very substantial
increases in volume and competition.''

Today, some 50 companies vie for a slice of the roughly $1.2 billion a month
that flows to Mexico. And banks have focused on the Mexican market. Indeed, it
was the Mexican government's decision to issue a new ID card for its expatriates
in the United States, and the Treasury's decision to allow banks to accept it as
identification to open accounts, which drew many banks into the remittance
business three years ago.

Despite hefty marketing efforts, banks have captured a meager share of the
business. According to the Pew report, the four largest banks in the business --
Citibank, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and Harris Bank -- together handle about
100,000 transfers a month. That is less than 3 percent of the 40 million of
remittance transactions to Mexico each year. And banks' effect on prices also
seems muted. The average fee to send $200 to Mexico remains at 7.3 percent,
compared with 8 percent in 2001.

Offerings from the banks have changed the market to some extent. Flat fee
structures make it less expensive to transfer larger sums of money. (The average
fee to send $400 to Mexico is 4.4 percent.) Some of their A.T.M. or
account-based products are cheaper than the average of all transfer methods. Yet
banks remain hampered by many less-educated immigrants' lack of familiarity with
formal banks and financial services.

And banks face other big obstacles, like the small A.T.M. networks and bank
branch systems in Mexico and other Latin American countries, which seldom extend
into rural areas.

Manuel Orozco, a remittance expert at Georgetown University, who put together
the report for Pew, argues that banks have been in the business for only three
years and are still learning how to gain customers in a population that has
traditionally stayed away from the formal banking system. But he predicts that
banks will eventually take a bigger share and drive prices further down.

''The cost will fall,'' Mr. Orozco said, ''as banks attract more customer
deposits and so they can finance the transfers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe Knows It Needs a Lot of Immigrants. But It Also Fears Them.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

DATELINE: MARRAKESH, Morocco


TERRORISM has come to Europe. The Continent's economic growth seems to lag
perennially behind that of the United States. But neither of those things topped
the list of worries for some European business and political leaders who
gathered here this week for an international business conference.

Instead, they worried about babies, or more specifically, about a lack of them.
The tone was set by Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former president of France,
who presented a series of demographic projections indicating that many European
countries would be losing population at a rapid rate within a couple of
generations. Meanwhile, he said, nothing of the kind would be happening in the
United States, thanks to immigration.

Those who remember the fears of the 1970's, when there was Malthusian talk of
too many people using up the world's resources, might think that a time of
falling population would not be all that bad.

In her 1995 novel ''Children of Men,'' P.D. James invented a time when, because
of some environmental disaster, no babies had been born for decades. Real estate
prices fell and some towns gradually lost all their inhabitants, but what made
the situation unbearable was the fear the human race was vanishing.

There is no danger of that now, of course, at least not from demographic trends.
Europeans have babies, just not enough of them to provide future workers to pay
their parents' and grandparents' retirement benefits. The pay-as-you-go system
seems to demand more workers just to finance benefits already promised.

There is an obvious solution, as Jean-Rene Fortou, the chief executive of
Vivendi Universal, noted when asked about Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's demographic
worries. ''The Mediterranean was for many centuries a single world,'' he said.
''We could have very strong synergies with the countries'' of North Africa,
where population growth continues.

Now the opposite is happening. Michael Fuchs, co-owner of the Impex Group, a
German advertising company and a Christian Democratic member of that country's
Parliament, dismissed talk of immigrants seeking work. They were, he said,
trying to get welfare benefits.

Moroccan businessmen at the world congress of the International Chamber of
Commerce said European visas had become difficult to obtain. Europe fears that
visitors will stay, whether as terrorists, welfare recipients or workers who
take jobs when unemployment is already high.

Taieb Fassi-Fihri, an official in the Moroccan foreign ministry, complained
about ''the nonintegration'' of Europe with the Arab world, saying that as the
European Union expands it becomes less open to his region.

The newer members of the European Union have learned that it will be years
before their citizens can seek work in most of the older members. There is
considerable hostility to Turkey's application to join the union, with Mr.
Giscard d'Estaing suggesting it would make more sense for Russia to enter.
''Russia is a European country,'' he said. ''Will the E.U. expand to cover half
the planet?''

To Norbert Walter, the chief economist of Deutsche Bank, the solution is
obvious: first reform the European welfare states, to reduce benefits for those
who do not work, then welcome immigrants.

But don't bet on that happening. ''People do not like reforms,'' said Claude
Bebear, the chairman of the supervisory board at AXA, the insurance company. The
young people who will suffer as tax burdens rise to support the growing number
of retirees seldom vote, he added.

Europe believes it needs more people to support its system. But it also fears
what would happen if they came.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Valery Giscard d'Estaing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Longer Wait For Citizenship And the Ballot

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words


New York, long the doorway for immigrants seeking entry into American society,
now has one of the nation's longest backlogs of newcomers awaiting answers to
their citizenship applications. It now typically takes triple the time to become
a United States citizen in New York as in San Antonio -- a year and a half
compared with six months.

The backlog of pending citizenship cases in New York exceeds 100,000, more than
in any other district in the country. The waiting list is likely to prevent a
large number of would-be citizens from voting in the November election,
frustrating voter registration drives and raising questions among advocates
about why federal offices in some cities have fallen so far behind others in
processing applications.

''There are many people who should be able to vote now, but because of the
backlog, they're stuck, they won't be able to register,'' said Dan Smulian,
training and legal services director for the New York Immigration Coalition, an
umbrella advocacy group for more than 200 groups that work with newcomers.

Immigrants eligible to apply for citizenship are heavily concentrated in six
voter-rich states: California, New York, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and
Illinois. A growing number live in states like Arizona and Washington whose
immigrant populations soared in the 1990's. Yet while application delays are
shrinking in Seattle, Phoenix, El Paso and even in Los Angeles, government
figures show, New York is one of many areas where deep backlogs rule.

Applications in West Palm Beach take 19 months to handle, more than twice as
long as the seven months in Seattle, unpublicized government figures obtained by
The New York Times show. Applications in Detroit take more than two and a half
times as long as they do in Phoenix. One of the longest waits is in Cleveland:
more than three years from application to oath of allegiance.

Such are the new mysteries of a federal battle against a growing naturalization
backlog, one that President Bush pledged to eliminate in the last campaign.

Federal immigration officials say they are making headway in meeting the
president's promise, to cut naturalization paperwork to six months or less. But
current figures and long-term trends show the effort being outpaced by rising
demand from a growing pool of 11.5 million eligible noncitizens, more of them
now prompted to naturalize by a mix of insecurity and allegiance.

The sharp disparities among districts defy easy explanation, but theories
abound. Some experts point to the special registration program for thousands of
Muslim and Arab men after Sept. 11, 2001, which pushed districts with many such
immigrants, like New York, to shift more workers from naturalization to
background checks. Some advocates, like Celeste Douglas, the New York
citizenship coordinator for the health care workers union, suggest that the Bush
administration might be slower to give the vote to immigrants in New York,
presumably Democratic-leaning, than to Hispanics in Texas.

Federal officials said that high-volume districts were just lagging smaller ones
in instituting better business practices, but that assertion was not supported
by agency data. A Feb. 28 agency document calculating backlogs showed 28 months
in low-volume Detroit, 11 months in Phoenix, 9 months in Baltimore, 21 months in
Miami and 13 months in Los Angeles, which handles the largest caseload in the
nation.

''There is absolutely, positively no connection between the amount of time it
takes for someone to naturalize and any voter registration system,'' said
Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, now
part of the Department of Homeland Security.

Norine Han, one of his superiors, declined to provide a breakdown of the
workload, resources and performance of the nation's 83 districts, part of a
required progress report being prepared for Congress later this year. She ended
an interview when this reporter sought more information to explain disparities.

Many would-be citizens have been waiting years without information, including
Margaret Marsden, 74, the widow of a Navy serviceman. Ms. Marsden said her first
application was lost in the early 1990's when she lived in New York. She
reapplied in 1998 when she moved to West Palm Beach and has supplied her
fingerprints to immigration authorities three times.

''All I did was to work all my life and pay my taxes,'' said Ms. Marsden, who
came to the United States from Trinidad in 1970. ''We all want that sense of
belonging.''

In another case, a letter summoning Errol Taylor to be sworn in as a citizen on
May 14 arrived at his Flatbush home more than a year after his interview and two
years after he had applied for citizenship. But it was too late for Mr. Taylor,
a hospital worker who had lived and worked in Brooklyn for decades after leaving
Trinidad in 1975. He died in March at 60.

Several experts rejected the notion that the disparities could reflect political
calculation, including Doris Meissner, who was commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization in the Clinton administration at a time when Republicans accused
the administration of playing politics with naturalization by trying to speed up
the process. A Justice Department investigation ultimately found no wrongdoing.

''It's pretty impossible to me to imagine that there could really be a conscious
slowing down, a freezing in some states and not in other states,'' said Ms.
Meissner, now a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a research
organization. ''That being said, it is not defensible in my opinion to have such
incredible ranges of different times to do the same thing around the country
when it is the same process.''

An explanation for some of the most startling extremes was offered by lawyers at
the American Immigration Lawyers Association: higher backlogs in districts with
disproportionately large Middle Eastern and Muslim populations like Washington,
Detroit and Cleveland. In such districts, said Crystal Williams, head of
government liaison for the association, many more immigration officers had to be
shifted from citizenship cases to registering thousands of Arab and Muslim men,
a program that proved all but useless in finding terrorists and that was
eventually dropped by Homeland Security.

''Offices that had a high number of special registrations are the ones having
the hardest time recovering,'' she said. ''A number of offices have given a very
high priority to catching up on their naturalization backlog, sometimes to the
detriment of other areas.''

Some immigrant advocates in New York, like Myriam Rodriguez, deputy director of
the Immigration Center at Hostos Community College in the Bronx, report that
just the wait for the first appointment to provide fingerprints is stretching
beyond seven months, much longer than a year ago.

In contrast, Wafa Abdin, the head of legal immigration services for Catholic
Charities in Houston, spoke of a dynamic improvement, with processing cut from
up to three years to as little as five months.

Ms. Abdin credited a new director of the federal district office in Houston and
a high priority placed on naturalization. But the contrast with New York
awakened deep suspicions in Ms. Douglas of the health care workers union,
1199/S.E.I.U.

''I'm wondering how political that is,'' Ms. Douglas said. ''What is the
difference in Texas? Does it have anything to do with Mexican immigrants, and
assumptions about the Latino vote? Are there assumptions about immigrants in New
York and how they're going to vote?''

All would-be citizens in the post-9/11 era face delays from centralized
fingerprint and background checks and shifts of immigration personnel into
enforcement, government officials and immigration advocates agree.

''We have to wait on the F.B.I.,'' said Shaconia Burden-Norton, a federal
community relations officer in the New York district immigration office. ''The
F.B.I. will just say 'pending.' And we can't push them.''

Many waiting have lived in the United States much longer than the five years
usually required. Some were part of a post-9/11 surge in applications attributed
by officials to a mix of patriotism and insecurity.

Another nationwide spike in applications occurred in March -- up 64 percent, to
77,000, compared with a year ago -- and may reflect a one-time scramble to beat
an April fee increase, federal officials say. They still project about half a
million applications in the fiscal year ending in September, fewer than in 2002.

But scholars of immigration say the pool of those eligible for naturalization
will grow in the next year or two, shadowing a rise in legal entries from 1999
to 2001. The proportion that applies for citizenship has been growing since the
mid-1990's, said Jeffrey Passel, a researcher on immigration at the Urban
Institute, in part because of anti-immigrant measures that made even longtime
holders of green cards feel vulnerable.

Eugenia Claxton, 68, of Brooklyn, is one of many who had been satisfied with a
green card for decades. By the time she applied for citizenship in December
2001, she had already made America her home the hard way.

Bit by bit over 40 years, working as a live-in maid, then as an aide in New York
city nursing homes, she sent children to college, paid off a mortgage and saved
for her retirement, which began the week the World Trade Center fell. That is
when Ms. Claxton said she finally realized she was not going back to live in her
native Costa Rica.

''All my children are here, all my grandchildren,'' she recalled of her
decision. ''I said to myself, it's worthwhile for me to vote.''

But two and a half years later, Ms. Claxton is still waiting.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugenia Claxton, 68, of Brooklyn, applied for citizenship in
2001 after working 40 years in the United States. (Photo by Michelle V.
Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

By a Back Door to the U.S.: A Migrant's Grim Sea Voyage

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and SANDRA OCHOA

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6079 words

DATELINE: PEDERNALES, Ecuador


A red light, barely visible on the horizon, made the captain of the William turn
as mean as the devil.

It was the fourth day of an illegal sea voyage. Hector Segura was at the helm of
a creaky old fishing boat overloaded with 205 passengers: all migrants from
Ecuador, all hoping to reach the United States. The distant flicker, Mr. Segura
thought, was the law on their tail.

He rushed his human contraband into the foul, cramped darkness below deck and
warned them not to come out. From that night on, he cut their rations of food
and water because he was worried that to avoid capture, he might need to stay at
sea longer than planned and he wanted to make the boat's meager resources last.

Their bellies aching, their tongues parched, some of the migrants began to call
the captain ''El Diablo.'' Most, however, accepted him as a necessary evil.

To them, he was a coyote, or coyotero, an operative in a chain of smugglers who
guide migrants from the highlands of Ecuador up the Pacific Coast to Guatemala,
then overland across Mexico and through border deserts into the United States.
Many of the travelers on his ship were headed to Queens.

In collaboration with The New York Times, a reporter from El Tiempo, a newspaper
in Cuenca, Ecuador, took the eight-day voyage, covering 1,100 nautical miles
from a cove near this scruffy Ecuadorean beach resort to the northern coast of
Guatemala. Her journey as a client of smugglers -- and sometimes a hostage --
provides a rare look inside one small part of the vast pipeline that carries
untold numbers of migrants to the United States each year.

Up close, the typical migrant smuggler is unlike the sophisticated, violent
mastermind portrayed by American law enforcement officials. Most never went to
high school. They are often unarmed. They are motivated by the same poverty that
drives migrants from their homelands.

The smugglers run a business built for the poor by the poor, relying on
willpower and wooden boats to move thousands of people. They do not always prey
on migrants. Their business is based on trust that runs deep in communities that
have sent migrants to the United States for decades.

David Kyle, an expert on migrant smuggling at the University of California, said
Latin American governments, which have grown dependent on money sent home by
migrants, put up little more than symbolic fights against smugglers and even
celebrated illegal migrants as national heroes. In the United States, the fight
against the smuggling clashes with powerful economic interests that depend on
illegal workers.

Peter Andreas, author of the book ''Border Games: Policing the U.S.-Mexico
Divide,'' called the border efforts a ''politically successful policy failure''
-- successful at conveying an image of aggressive action, but a failure in
deterring either smugglers or migrants.

The United States Border Patrol reported in June that the number of migrants
detained along the border with Mexico over the six months ended in April had
jumped to nearly 660,000, from 505,000 a year earlier. The United States
government often cites detention numbers as a way to measure illegal migration.

''We are basically swatting flies,'' said one high-level official in the United
States Department of Homeland Security. ''Essentially we are completely
overwhelmed by the numbers. They're just running over us.''

Indeed, across Latin America, business is booming for people smugglers like the
captain of the William, despite a multibillion-dollar security crackdown at the
United States border after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks -- or rather, because of
it.

Immigrants, driven by faltering economies at home and facing reinforced border
controls and airport security all along the trail from Central America to the
Rio Grande, are turning to smugglers to guide them along increasingly remote and
perilous routes. Most of them cross Central America and Mexico.

American and Mexican officials report an alarming increase in Brazilians flying
into Mexico City and then moving overland to the United States. The flow of
Cubans seeking to reach the United States, where they almost automatically win
asylum, has begun to shift from southern Florida to routes through Mexico's
crowded tourist resorts in the Yucatan then north to Texas.

Migration officials have also begun to find Eastern Europeans in northern
Mexico, heading for Los Angeles.

Among these smuggling routes, United States immigration and military authorities
say, the Ecuadorean sea voyage is one of the least visible and fastest growing
in Latin America. In the last four years, at least 250,000 people have left
Ecuador on fishing boats, they say. That is nearly 10 times the 27,000 Haitians
who embarked by boat for the United States during the 1990's.

As demand for the smugglers' services has soared, so have their profits.
Immigration authorities from Ecuador, Mexico and the United States estimate that
people smuggling in the hemisphere generates some $20 billion a year, second
only to drugs.

Ecuadoreans typically pay between $10,000 to $12,000 for passage to the United
States, often putting up their homes or small plots of land as collateral to
loan sharks, called chulqueros, who charge exorbitant interest.

For many, the monthlong journey begins with 8 to 10 days at sea. Migrants leave
from beaches along Ecuador's poorly guarded coast, head west out to sea toward
the Galapagos Islands, then north to Guatemala, where geography and rampant
corruption make it as popular as Mexico as a transshipment point for drugs, guns
and people.

The voyage is dangerous. Villages across southern Ecuador run rife with tales of
people who left for the United States and disappeared along the way. Four years
ago, Ecuadorean officials conducted a rare investigation into the drownings of
at least 26 people off northern Guatemala. Most reported deaths are simply
ignored.

Hundreds of unidentified bodies, many believed to be Ecuadoreans, have washed
ashore there and have been buried by residents in a seaside graveyard, marked
simply ''XX.''

The Economics of the Smugglers

 Each illegal sea voyage from Ecuador involves collaboration among several
groups of smugglers, who seek passengers and then join together to hire a boat.
Many of the groups spring from extended families. Ties of kinship and community
bind together the chiefs, the guides, the ships' crews, the drivers and the
operators of safe houses as the migrants move northward, passed from hand to
hand along the way.

One of the most important groups involved in the January voyage of the William
was led by a young woman named Rosa Hipatia Zhingri Angamarca. She runs her
business from Cuenca, a quaint colonial town high in the Ecuadorean Andes.

In a telephone interview, Ms. Zhingri, a 30-year-old mother of two, acknowledged
that she smuggled migrants. But she described herself as a good coyote. She said
she made sure her clients traveled safely, if not comfortably. If her clients
are intercepted by the authorities before reaching their destinations, Ms.
Zhingri said, she arranges for them to make two more attempts at no extra fee.

''I am only trying to help people,'' she said, ''Not hurt them.''

The rise and fall and rise again of her own family runs parallel to the
struggling region where she runs her business. Until five years ago, she said,
her father ran a successful bus company. A serious crisis in 1999, caused by
plummeting oil prices and billions of dollars of damage from storms, plunged the
economy into ruins. Ecuador adopted the dollar as its national currency to help
stop soaring inflation. But the value of Ecuadorean wages fell by half,
devastating families who could barely make ends meet.

Ms. Zhingri said her father's bus company went bankrupt. Friends invited him to
get in on the booming migrant trade. Her father had been a migrant, she said. He
traveled back and forth to New York to work in restaurants. So he had
established contacts who could help move others, too.

The smuggling business has been good for the Zhingri family, and brought new
signs of life to an otherwise dying region.

The Inter-American Development Bank reports that migrants send nearly $1.5
billion a year back to Ecuador, the second-largest source of foreign income
after oil. The money has paid for New England-style mansions that sprawl across
old potato fields. It has paved roads and paid for shiny sport utility vehicles.

But there are few able-bodied men. Most have gone to the United States for work.
Women and children are now going in droves.

Ms. Zhingri said her family had made a decent but not extravagant living. She
said she took over her father's business last year because he was 60 and
suffering from diabetes.

She agreed to speak to an American reporter, she said, because she wanted to
make clear that she was not a smuggling kingpin.

''The big coyotes are the ones with hotels and travel agencies and fancy cars,''
she said. ''I do not have any of that.''

When asked if she had ever traveled to the United States, Guatemala or Mexico,
along the same routes that she had sent so many others, she laughed and said,
''I have not even been to Guayaquil,'' Ecuador's port city in the south.

United States immigration authorities in Ecuador, however, have linked Ms.
Zhingri to several boats caught smuggling people out of Ecuador, and identify
her family as one of the leading smuggling mafias in Azuay Province. In joint
operations with other smuggling clans, the authorities estimate, Ms. Zhingri
moves at least two migrant boats a month.

''I do not know why they say that about me,'' Ms. Zhingri said. ''I send people.
I do not deny it. But I do not send the number of people they say I do. I send
two, three, four people at a time.''

At least 30 people on the William said they were clients of Ms. Zhingri. One of
them, a woman named Blanca Chipre, said of the Zhingri family, ''They are
millionaires.''

The January voyage of the William, for which 205 migrants paid an average fee of
$10,000 each, was worth at least $2 million.

When asked to explain the division of that money, Ms. Zhingri said the owner of
the boat earned about $1,200 a passenger, more than enough to cover the cost of
the vessel if it was intercepted and sunk by the authorities.

About $800 a person went to smugglers in Guatemala, she said, for retrieving
migrants from the beaches and providing them food and lodging.

Migrants pay an estimated $2,000 to guides and safe house operators that help
them through Mexico. Then they pay a final $5,000 when they reach Los Angeles, a
smuggling hub considered the beginning of the end of their journey. From there,
the migrants take planes, buses and cars throughout the United States.

Ms. Zhingri said her cut was $1,000 to $1,200 per migrant.

''It is good money if the migrant makes it on the first trip,'' she said. ''If
he is caught and sent back, then I have to send him again at my own expense and
I earn almost nothing.''

Neither reporter ever saw Ms. Zhingri during the planning of the January voyage
of the William. But the migrants and their guides talked about her frequently.

The Ecuadorean reporter arranged passage through one of her intermediaries, a
car salesman named Jorge Ordonez.

The young Mr. Ordonez, gel in the hair and creases in his jeans, and wearing a
plush leather jacket, spends his afternoons at a car lot on Cuenca's bustling
Avenue of the Americas. But he makes his real money arranging illegal passage
for would-be migrants.

The Ecuadorean reporter met with him in January to book passage as far as
Guatemala. They negotiated in the back seat of a Jeep. The deal took less than
20 minutes.

Mr. Ordonez said the fee for the boat ride was $2,600. The price was much more
than what most migrants pay but the only way, he said, to get her on the top of
a long waiting list of people desperate to leave. He agreed to take cash and
traveler's checks. When asked for guarantees that the boats were safe, he gave
them.

''There is nothing to worry about,'' he said. ''These boats are nothing like
what you have heard. They are a little uncomfortable, but they are safe. They
always make it.''

On almost any afternoon, it is easy to find groups of poor, disgruntled
fishermen and sailors gathered at a littered plaza next to the sea in the port
town of Manta, hoping someone will pass by to offer them jobs. Work is scarce,
they say. Pay is typically about $100 a month.

To men like these, migrant smuggling offers a small fortune. Santo Cabeza, 55,
said he served as a cook on several migrant boats, including the Ronald, and
earned about $1,000 for each voyage. Fortunato Mero, in his 60's, said he earned
the same amount as a machinist on a migrant boat called the Calamar. Angel
Sevillana said he was promised $1,000 to captain the Narcisita de Jesus.

One of the most outspoken fishermen in the plaza on a muggy December afternoon
was Hector Segura, a tall and lanky man with a head full of spongy black curls,
the father of two small children. In a conversation with the American reporter,
he denied ever having worked on a migrant boat and, for the sake of his
children, he said he never would.

Still, he said he sympathized strongly with those who do. He said the fishermen
were driven to smuggling for the same reasons that so many migrants are driven
from their homeland.

''They do not think about this once or twice, but a thousand times, before they
do it,'' Mr. Segura said of the fishermen's decision to ferry migrants across
the ocean. ''But what else can they do: accept pennies for their work and let
their children die of hunger? They either work with coyoteros, or they live in
misery. It's simple.''

In fact, that sad reality and the waves of migrants leaving Ecuador have
transformed much of the country's 1,000-mile coastline. Gritty seaside towns
like Pedernales, several hours north of Manta, bustle with prostitutes,
traffickers and low-brow tourists and have become important areas for illegal
migration.

Residents say coyotes began bringing migrants to the isolated coves around
Pedernales about five years ago, after a plague wiped out a promising shrimp
industry. Unemployed fishermen rushed to sign up for service on the migrant
boats. Families converted spare bedrooms into shelters and thatched roof
bungalows into restaurants.

On a Saturday morning in January, not a single plastic table was occupied at the
seaside Magdalena Restaurant. But the owners, Jose Moreira and his wife, were
busy frying a vat of fish.

His customers, he explained, cannot always come to him. Often they are camped on
beaches outside of town, waiting for boats. So he delivers.

''Sure, it hurts me to see so many people leaving, especially the ones who are
very, very young,'' Mr. Moreira said. ''But what can I do? There is nothing I
can do to stop them. So while they are here, we help them, and they help us.''

On the second Sunday in January, a new stream of migrants began to arrive from
the mountains. They came on commercial buses and cattle trucks. Some went
straight to the beach. Others checked into local hotels for a shower and a nap.
Then they lined up at public phones to make calls to relatives, or to their
coyotes.

''Don't talk to anyone,'' Marco Zhingri told the Ecuadorean reporter who had
booked passage and had arrived at Pedernales to await departure. ''If people ask
what you are doing here, tell them you are a tourist visiting the beach.''

It would soon become clear, however, that the migrants' plans were an open
secret.

Desk clerks demand the $8 room fee in advance at the Hotel America, a five-story
building that stretches across an entire block near the center of town.
Strangers knocked on the doors to ask, ''Whose passenger are you?'' and to
collect $2 for the bus that would take the migrants to the isolated beach where
they would depart.

Maids pumped guests they had never met before for secrets. ''When are you going
to travel?'' one maid asked as she hung a mosquito net in Room 217. ''Sometimes
people stay here for weeks waiting for a boat.''

One boy, about 10 and pressed and polished as if he were going to Sunday school,
seemed to work light security detail, helping to watch over the migrants to make
sure that no one bothered them and that they did not talk to strangers who might
interfere with the plan.

The boy followed the Ecuadorean reporter each time she left her hotel. He stood
outside a restaurant while she ate lunch. He stood at a nearby corner as she
made calls from a public telephone. And he trailed her as she wandered through a
street market.

The American reporter, in town to keep watch over her colleague, was followed by
at least five men in a red truck with tinted windows. Then they parked until
dawn outside her hotel, taking long swigs from a bottle of Old Parr scotch.

The Economics on Board

 At 10 p.m., the sound of knocking filled the hallways at the Hotel America and
guests were called from their rooms. They rushed single-file down the stairs, as
if responding to a fire drill, to board a bus waiting out front. When all the
seats were filled, Mr. Zhingri climbed aboard, a man with dark features and
draped with gold jewelry.

The bus took off at getaway speed, and without turning on its headlights
careered north on a two-lane highway. About 20 minutes later, Mr. Zhingri
ordered the driver to stop and told the migrants to run straight through the
trees to the beach.

''Trust me,'' he said, ''You will be in Guatemala in a week.''

The William awaited several miles off shore. From a distance, it was a
reassuring sight: big and broad. But once the migrants were ferried there in
small motorboats and began to get settled on board, they realized it was not big
enough.

As the hold began to fill, some of the passengers shouted that there was no more
room. A couple tried to block the hatch.

A crew member quelled the small uprising. He jumped down into the pit, and
kicked the passengers out of the way.

''Move over,'' he growled, ''We have a lot more people who have to fit down
here.''

Then the floor at the front of the hold caved in, sending dozens of passengers
tumbling onto the hull.

One of them turned on a flashlight, allowing the migrants to see the insides of
the vessel they had entrusted to carry them to better lives. It looked like a
floating coffin: rotting floorboards, cracked beams and water dripping
everywhere.

The flashlight went out. Whispered prayers began to fill the darkness, and
continued until sunrise.

Then the migrants began to crawl slowly onto the deck to stretch. They seemed
shocked at how many there were: more men than women, most in their 20's and
30's. But there were also a few older faces, and some so young they looked as if
they had not finished grade school.

No one was more shocked by their numbers than the captain, who turned out to be
Hector Segura, the same spongy-haired fisherman from Manta who claimed he had
never been a smuggler, and never would be. The Ecuadorean reporter on board,
however, was not the same reporter he had met in the park. The Ecuadorean
managed to travel, at least for the first few days, without revealing her
connection to The New York Times.

It was immediately clear to everyone on board that Mr. Segura was an experienced
smuggler. He took a quick visual count of the passengers and determined there
were at least 50 more than he had planned. There was enough fuel, he indicated,
and enough food and water, but way too little room for so many people.

''This is not going to be a comfortable trip,'' he said.

Grim Passage, Talkative Captain

 His words proved an understatement.

Each hour that passed seemed more unbearable than the last. Meals were only big
enough to whet the appetite: a handful of crackers and small cube of cheese at
breakfast; a watery vegetable stew with a small plate of sardines and rice at
lunch; about the same for dinner.

The rough waves and asphyxiating humidity quickly took their toll on passengers
who had never seen the ocean before, much less ridden across it. They became
pale. Their lips cracked and blistered. They complained of dizziness, nausea and
diarrhea.

Rank smells drifted everywhere: in the boat's single bathroom, in the kitchen,
especially down in the hold.

By the third day, many of the passengers began running out of the bottles of
water they had brought on board and the packages of nuts and dried fruit that
sustained them between meals.

Sickness spread. The water on board was clearly not safe -- there were floating
particles visible in every glass -- but that was all there was to drink. Many of
the passengers said that if they had known they would feel so bad, they would
have never embarked on the journey.

A young passenger named Vinicio said he had lived through worse. He looked about
15, but explained he was a veteran migrant. He had previously tried to reach the
United States twice by land, and once by sea. Each time, the authorities caught
him and sent him back to Ecuador.

Home to him was Queens. Vinicio had never made it there. But that is where his
parents and two older brothers live, he said, and he would take as many boat
rides as necessary until he reached them.

Most of the crew members expressed sympathy for the seasick crowd. They offered
extra water, second helpings and safe places to sleep on deck to those in
serious distress. They were a motley mix of toothless old men like the boat's
engineer and his two 20-something sons, Fernando and Giovanni, who worked as
cooks. Another older man, in his 70's, helped navigate and watched pornographic
movies on a small television while he was at the wheel. The crew called him Don
Juanito.

Another navigator, in his 50's, was called Chapulete, and seemed to be second in
command.

From the first night, the crewmen paid special attention to the prettiest women
on board. They said it hurt to see the women so cramped below deck. They offered
extra fruit and candies. They let the women watch a DVD of ''The Matrix.'' And
each one invited a woman to sleep in his warm, dry bunk.

After four nights below deck, several desperate women accepted. After they fell
asleep, the crewmen climbed into bed with them and pressed them for sex.

Many of the crew had been living as smugglers on the William for years. They
regaled each other with stories of outrunning the law with loads of appliances,
whisky and clothing they had smuggled from Panama for sale at street markets in
Guayaquil.

They said the William had made at least eight migrant voyages last year. In
December, they recalled, United States Coast Guard officers stopped and searched
the William. But the crew had already dropped its passengers in Guatemala, and
they were allowed to go on their way.

Captain Segura was new to the group. He had not worked with this crew and did
not own the boat. He kept his distance, making clear to the crew that he was
their captain, not their friend. He listened to their stories, but offered
little about his own past. He avoided the passengers, unless there was trouble.

He did not tell them his real name; he called himself Johnny. But on a
star-filled night half way into the voyage he allowed a passenger, the
Ecuadorean reporter, into the cockpit to ask about the basics of navigation. He
showed her how to operate the satellite phone and use electronics to stay on
course. He opened a map and explained their route to Guatemala.

Contradicting what he had told an American reporter weeks before, he was
unapologetic when asked why he had become a migrant smuggler. He said he did it
for the money. Smuggling was the fastest, easiest way to make good money, he
said.

Then, he asked where his passenger got the money to pay for her trip. She told
him an American friend had put up the money, and she told him the friend's name.
It was a name he recognized from the plaza in Manta. ''She is a reporter for The
New York Times,'' he said.

The Ecuadorean reporter froze. The captain only smiled and mumbled about the
small world. But he did not threaten her. Out in the middle of the ocean with
nothing more than a tiny notebook, the reporter must have seemed a minimal risk
compared with the problems he could face if something happened to her.

He did not say why exactly, but he opened up even more.

''My name is not Johnny,'' he said. He said he had been navigating migrant boats
since the maritime exodus began booming when the economy plummeted at the end of
the 1990's. He had been arrested six years ago aboard a migrant boat, and fined
$3,000, and his navigator's license had been taken for life.

He got a false license without any trouble, and went back to work. On this trip
alone, he said, he would earn $8,000. He said he had already built a nice house
for his children, and sent them to private schools.

''I do not want to be a millionaire and have a new car every year,'' Captain
Segura said. ''I want a good life. I want to give opportunities to my children,
and I am doing that.''

Then he spotted the flickering red light in the distance. He jumped from the
cockpit and ordered all the passengers below deck, no exceptions.

From Passengers to Hostages

 Everything changed after that. Tension filled the last days of the journey. The
captain snapped at the crew when he caught them giving favors to sick, frail
passengers. He pushed them close to mutiny when he ordered that women could no
longer sleep in the crewmen's bunks.

One of the crew, the middle-aged navigator, Chapulete, quit his post.

''I do not like the way you treat the passengers,'' he told Captain Segura.
''From now on, I am one of them.''

It seemed clear that the crew's kindnesses were only partly genuine, and mostly
a ploy for solidarity. Like the captain, they were also haunted by the red
light. If they were caught, the migrants would be the key to their freedom.

The plan was simple: if the authorities boarded the fugitive vessel, the
migrants would claim that the crew abandoned them at sea. The crew would blend
in and stay silent. If everyone stuck to the story, the crew would be sent back
to Ecuador with the rest of the migrants.

Few migrants, however, seemed willing to give cover to Captain Segura, so
disliked had he become.

''If we are caught,'' Chapulete sneered at him, ''every migrant is going to tell
the police that you are the captain of the boat. Because of you, we will all go
to jail.''

Two days later, the captain let it be known that they were close to their
destination, and the tension eased off.

Cesar Escandon, a guide from the Ecuadorean town of Naranjal, had been hired by
the Zhingri clan to accompany a group of migrants on the William to Minneapolis
and New York. He used Captain Segura's map to show the migrants the long journey
that lay ahead. He coached them how to speak Spanish like Mexicans: a jacket in
Mexico was called a chaqueta, not a chumpa. The president of Mexico is Vicente
Fox.

Then he instructed them to cut the labels from clothing or personal hygiene
products that were made in Ecuador.

The migrants helped the crew paint a new sign on the side of the William,
dubbing it the Blanca Viviana, so the boat would not be recognized if they ran
into the authorities. They sang songs, told jokes and even pulled out their last
hidden stashes of goodies to celebrate a birthday.

Instead of a cake, the migrants presented a 22-year-old named Norma a plate
piled with raisins, nuts and gummy candies. In honor of the new life ahead, they
sang ''Happy Birthday'' in English, and gave the guest of honor a scarf with the
American flag's stars and stripes.

At sunrise on the eighth day, the passengers finally reached dry land, a remote
beach at Puerto Ocos, a short walk from Guatemala's border with Mexico. Their
tongues were parched and their legs were weak. But before they could catch their
breath, they were being ordered to run. A scruffy pack of armed men barked at
the weary travelers and herded them.

''Get up! Let's go!''

Another man, Wilber Guerra, with a buzz cut and white jeans, supervised the
stampede from a shiny red sports car perched on a dune ahead. He got off his
cellphone as the migrants approached and ordered them to stay calm and low.

''If anyone sees you,'' he said, ''you will all be deported.''

An old red cattle truck plowed through the palm trees. Then the barking began
again.

''Get up! Let's go!''

The armed men loaded the migrants onto the back of the truck. Some of the
migrants joked that they would rather ride with guy with the buzz cut.

''Pretty car,'' one man whispered. ''That's the kind I'm going to have after I
find work in the United States.''

In less than 15 minutes, the handoff was complete. The beach was clear. The only
signs of the covert landing were the bottles of Ecuadorean water and wrappers
from Ecuadorean candies left in the sand. Another 205 migrants had moved farther
along the illegal pipeline to the United States.

Guatemala would be but a pause for many of them. They would stay in safe houses
for a few days, and then be passed on to new smuggling cells, whose job was to
sneak them across the largely unguarded border into Mexico.

Police officers, who Mr. Guerra said had been bribed, waved the cattle truck
filled with migrants through a checkpoint at the edge of Puerto Ocos. Half the
migrants were then driven to a ramshackle two-story dwelling behind the
municipal cemetery in Tecun Uman.

It was dank and empty, furnished with only a few plastic chairs and a television
set. The migrants were given sheets and told to sleep on the concrete floor.

Mr. Guerra ran the house with his wife, Yomara. After eight days on the William,
it seemed like paradise. The migrants were thrilled by promises of medicine for
the sick, clean bath water, fresh T-shirts and jeans, food that did not come
from a can and enough space to stretch their legs.

Then the Ecuadorean reporter asked to leave. She stuck to the story that she was
a migrant, and explained that she had paid for transport only as far as
Guatemala, thanked Mr. Guerra for picking her up, and asked to go on her way.

But Mr. Guerra and his wife refused. The reporter then realized that she had in
effect become a hostage, like all the other migrants, until he checked that all
her fees had been fully paid.

There was a heavy lock and chain on the front gate. Security cameras were posted
at the entrance and above each of the bedrooms to monitor the migrants'
movements.

After a telephone call to Ecuador, Mr. Guerra told the reporter she owed another
$500. When she protested, saying she had made full payment, Mr. Guerra stood
firm. She was eventually released after a flurry of telephone calls between
Tecun Uman and Cuenca, where an editor at El Tiempo, the reporter's paper,
delivered the additional money to Mr. Ordonez, the car salesman. He gave the
money to Ms. Zhingri, who took part in some of the negotiations herself. Once
Ms. Zhingri confirmed the payment, Mr. Guerra released the Ecuadorean reporter.

The situation was much the same for the others who had traveled on the William.
Most had paid only half the $2,000 fee for the boat ride. They, too, would be
allowed to continue their journey only after relatives sent the balance to
smugglers in Ecuador. Meanwhile, they belonged to Mr. Guerra.

He charged them for every phone call: two minutes to the United States or
Ecuador cost $5 to $20, depending on his mood. Travel-size bars of soap and
bottles of shampoo cost $1 each. A second-hand pair of blue jeans cost $17 --
three times what the average Ecuadorean earns in a day.

Three days after their arrival in Guatemala, the safe house was still buzzing
with activity. Some hovered by the telephone, waiting for word from their
relatives, while others prepared to leave.

A steady stream of new smugglers arrived to pick up the migrants in groups of
three and four and guide them through Mexico.

The smugglers pulled wads of cash from their socks or pouches inside their
underpants to pay Mr. Guerra for any last-minute incidentals. They inspected
their clients. One migrant was stripped of an Ecuadorean soccer shirt. Another
was scolded for wearing his baseball cap backward. Then they were loaded onto
the back of big tricycle carts that operate as taxi cabs, and carried away.

Treks and Trucks, Then the U.S.

 As several migrants later recounted the remainder of their journey, the leg
through Mexico was not without dangers of its own. Migrants have fallen beneath
moving trains and lost limbs. Last year, an average of one migrant died each day
trying to cross the desert into the United States.

One migrant said she was taken in the back of a tractor trailer with 150 others
to a safe house in the jungle province of Huehuetenango, in Guatemala. The human
load was then broken down into two groups, she said. Hers left at sunset and
walked until dawn through the jungle into Mexico.

From there, she rode in tractor trailers, first to Puebla. She said she and the
other migrants were offered pills so they would not have to go to the bathroom
during the 20-hour ride, and buckets in case the pills did not work. Then they
traveled by truck onto Guadalajara and then to Cananea, on the border with the
United States.

She walked two days and two nights across the desert into Arizona, a trek she
described as ''the most painful part'' of the entire journey. Then she stayed
for several days in a safe house in Los Angeles, before flying to Minnesota.

Others from the William are now working as dishwashers, cooks and maids in
Chicago, Newark and Queens.

The United States 2000 census reported a threefold increase in undocumented
Ecuadoreans in the United States over the previous decade, a rate matched by few
other countries. But since Ecuadorean boat people do not land directly on
American shores, their movements have attracted little attention. Lt. Cndr.
Michael Trevett, the United States Coast Guard attache in Quito, Ecuador, said
that no American patrols had been assigned to intercept migrant boats from
Ecuador, although occasionally cutters on narcotics duty come across them.

Ecuadoreans fleeing their country seem to disappear once they leave their own
shores. Among the hundreds of thousands of undocumented migrants intercepted at
the United States border, fewer than 1 percent are Ecuadoreans, American
authorities say.

But Mexican officials report a surging number of Ecuadoreans intercepted along
their border with Guatemala. They say that often the Ecuadoreans claim to be
Guatemalans, to avoid being deported all the way back to their homeland.

Last month, Gabriela Coutino, a migration spokeswoman in southern Mexico, said
the authorities intercepted 17 Ecuadoreans hidden in a lumber truck. The
migrants initially insisted they were Guatemalans, she said.

''That's why it's important that we stop them here at the source,'' said
Salvador Briceno, the leading immigration officer at the United States Embassy
in Quito. ''Once they get into Mexico and the United States, they're gone. They
disappear.''

Some migrants disappear for good, killed in accidents or in flashes of violence
among smuggling gangs fighting for control of routes and clients in Arizona.
Bloodshed, however, is bad for business, and so there is little of the violence
that has, for instance, become a signature of the drug trade.

Still, unscrupulous behavior takes a heavy toll, as does the callousness of many
of the smugglers who treat their human charges as little more than cargo. To
them the numbers of dead matter less than the numbers on the wadded American
dollars they receive.

Mr. Guerra, at the end of what appeared to be a good business day at his safe
house in Tecun Uman, barely looked up from a stack of $20 bills to bid farewell
to a group of migrants from the William.

''I know you all are going to forget me when you get to New York,'' he said.
''If you are lucky, you will forget everything about this trip.''

About the Reporting

 Sandra Ochoa, a newspaper reporter for El Tiempo of Cuenca, Ecuador, who has
contributed to The New York Times in the past, arranged passage on the fishing
boat William at the request of The Times after its correspondent Ginger Thompson
was told by migrant smugglers that they would not take her. Ms. Ochoa identified
herself as someone seeking economic opportunity in the United States. She was
not asked her profession and did not volunteer her occupation or her Times
connection.

Ms. Thompson reported from Ecuador, Guatemala and Mexico for this article; Ms.
Ochoa reported from Ecuador, the William and Guatemala.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: DANGEROUS PASSAGE: From Ecuador by Sea

GRAPHIC: Photos: The William offers some a perilous passage out of poverty.
(Photo by United States Coast Guard)(pg. 1)
A VOYAGE BEGINS -- Hector Segura, with his daughter, is captain of a dilapidated
fishing boat. He picks up migrants headed north at Playa Palmar, top, near
Pedernales, Ecuador. Some trips end tragically
many bodies wash ashore in Guatemala.
A SMUGGLER -- Rosa Hipatia Zhingri Angamarca, a mother of two, says, ''I am only
trying to help people, not hurt them.'' (Photographs by Janet Jarman/Corbis, for
The New York Times)(pg. 18)
 BUSTLING BUSINESS -- Smuggling has brought something like prosperity to coastal
towns in Ecuador. In Pedernales, the Hotel America, top, is a gathering spot for
migrants waiting for ships going north, and the streets are busy with more
routine commerce. (Photographs by Janet Jarman/Corbis, for The New York
Times)(pg. 19)Map of Central and South America highlighting the route between
Pedernales, Ecuador, and Puerto Ocos, Guatemala.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Immigrants' Arrests Protested

BYLINE: By Nina Bernstein (NYT); Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 124 words


Immigrant advocacy groups gathered outside Gov. George E. Pataki's Midtown
office yesterday to protest the role of state parole officers in helping federal
immigration officials seize 134 immigrant convicts, 115 of whom had green cards.
Unaware that their convictions made them deportable, most were arrested on May
25 by federal agents when they reported to their parole officers. Scott
Steinhardt, a spokesman for the New York State Division of Parole, said its role
was ''solely to ensure the safe and timely transition of offenders to federal
custody.'' But Martin Ficke, special agent with Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said those arrested were ''hard core criminals'' seized in a
crackdown on deportable parolees.   Nina Bernstein (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 20, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ticket to Nowhere

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2299 words

DATELINE: WYANDANCH


HULDA MAZARIEGOS was on the volleyball, softball and track teams at Wyandanch
Memorial High School, was a member of Junior ROTC and was class treasurer. She
joined the French, yearbook and science clubs. She took college-level classes in
science and law, winning a medal as a lawyer in a mock trial. She played the
flute. All that while, she lived with her parents and most of her eight siblings
in a tiny cottage whose living room was lined with mattresses where some of the
children sleep.

''If I had had a desk and some privacy, I could have done even better,'' Ms.
Mazariegos said. Told that a 3.9 average was nearly perfect, she shrugged. ''I'm
really driven,'' she said.

Ms. Mazariegos said she believed that the day she graduated as Wyandanch's
valedictorian would be the happiest of her life. Awarded a full four-year
scholarship to St. Joseph's College in Patchogue, she was just the second person
in her family to receive a high school diploma and would be the first to attend
college.

But Ms. Mazariegos, who graduated in June 2003, has spent the last year working
part time in a deli and volunteering at her church, unable to attend college
because she is an illegal immigrant. Born in Guatemala, she entered the United
States illegally along with her mother and siblings when she was 7. A
deportation order was issued for her family two years later. For a decade now,
they have fended off the authorities, living their lives subject to arrest and
deportation.

''I wanted to get ahead and do something with my life,'' said Ms. Mazariegos,
now 19. ''I wanted to make my parents proud of me.'' But rather than
celebrating, she became depressed. ''I cried and cried because my life, my
dreams, stopped right there,'' she said.

Like many colleges, St. Joseph's does not accept undocumented students. It
deferred her scholarship for a year in the hope that she would obtain legal
residency, said Marion Salgado, the admissions director for the Patchogue
campus. ''She's a good student, and we would love to have her here,'' Ms.
Salgado said. ''We understand her plight.''

Ms. Mazariegos said she could not afford the tuition without a scholarship.
Illegal immigrants are ineligible for government-backed financial aid,
work-study programs and student loans, regardless of academic record.

''You can't blame her for being here,'' said her lawyer, David M. Sperling.
''Her mother brought her here. And she couldn't have left in 1994 even if she
wanted to because her family was here.''

Neither the census nor public schools count undocumented students, but
immigration lawyers estimate that thousands of young Long Islanders are college
material in all but their immigration status. Many have lived here most of their
lives and find themselves with nowhere to go after high school but into menial,
off-the-books jobs, they say.

''We've created an underclass of these students,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''They are
fully Americanized, but after high school they have nowhere to go. They hit a
wall.''

In interviews, several undocumented students said they feared telling anyone
they were illegal, even their guidance counselors. School districts are required
to provide an education to every child in the district, but officials of several
districts, aware of the growing anti-immigrant sentiment on Long Island, said
they had a ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy on students' immigration status. As
a result, they said, some exceptional students don't apply to college, or are
disappointed when they find the doors barred, as Ms. Mazariegos was. And
guidance counselors say that the policy of silence means they don't know which
graduating seniors are having trouble getting into college until it's too late.

''Hulda isn't the first,'' said Dexter Ward, the Wyandanch guidance counselor.
''And she won't be the last.''

Constance Clark, the Westbury superintendent, said that her district had the
same policy but that she knew of 10 graduating seniors, including one in line to
be valedictorian, whose immigration status could pose an obstacle. School
officials are lobbying a private college on the prospective valedictorian's
behalf, she said.

''Every district has a policy of not asking; that's a cop-out,'' said Laura
Anker Grossman, an East Hampton school board member and SUNY-Old Westbury
professor. Latinos, comprising the majority of Long Island's immigrant
population, have the highest dropout rate and the lowest high school and college
attendance rates, she said. ''The point is, they can make a contribution to this
country,'' Ms. Grossman said. ''What happens to kids who have no opportunity?
Crime, low-wage jobs, all the things that kids do to survive when they don't
have the skills to survive any other way.''

Proposed legislation introduced in Congress would qualify some undocumented
students with ''good moral character'' for legal residency if they graduate from
high school or get a general equivalency diploma, opening doors to college
admission and financial aid. The bills are stalled in House and Senate
committees.

Anti-immigration activists are lobbying against them. On its Web site, the
Federation for American Immigration Reform describes the Senate proposal as ''a
massive illegal alien amnesty program disguised as an educational initiative.''

Hulda Mazariegos calls it a potential lifeboat. ''And I'm not the only one,''
she said. In school, she helped tutor other students. ''Jamaicans, Haitians, not
just Hispanics. All of them with nowhere to go after high school, so they didn't
care about their grades. They felt like, what's the point?''

Josh Bernstein, the federal policy director for the National Immigration Law
Center, says that about 65,000 teenagers who would be eligible for legal
residency under the Senate proposal will graduate this year from high schools
around the country.

Walter Barrientos, 19, whose parents brought him here eight years ago from
Guatemala, made Amityville High School's honor roll all four years and ranked
sixth in his class when he graduated in 2002. He said he asked roughly 50
colleges about their admissions policies. A few said they admitted undocumented
students but warned that they are charged a higher tuition rate, Mr. Barrientos
said. Now he commutes by train to Baruch College in Manhattan, where he majors
in industrial and organizational psychology.

''I'm one of the few lucky ones,'' he said. ''I found a college that would take
me and that my parents could afford.'' But when he graduates from college,
uncertainty will loom again. ''I can't apply for jobs or internships,'' he said.
''I don't know what I'll do.''

He said the only reason he could attend college at all was that Baruch is part
of the City University of New York system. In August 2002, just in time to help
Mr. Barrientos, Governor Pataki signed a law allowing immigrants residing in New
York to attend CUNY and SUNY colleges at the cheaper, in-state tuition level,
half the cost for out-of-state residents.

The parents of Gerson Ramirez, 18, a graduating senior at East Meadow High
School, brought him to the United States from Costa Rica when he was a year old.
He maintained a grade average better than 95 and applied to six colleges. Most
rejected him because of his immigration status. He chose SUNY-Albany, ''the
cheapest of the schools that accepted me,'' he said.

''It's horrible to know that your grades are equal or better than your
classmates' but they're going to better colleges and getting financial aid,''
said Mr. Ramirez, whose mother cleans houses and whose father paints them. He
said one college that accepted him required his parents to show a bank balance
of at least $28,000. ''I've lived here long enough to be Americanized, but that
made me feel like a foreigner,'' he said. ''Still, I want nothing more than to
better myself.''

School officials say that guidance counselors in heavily Latino districts must
make an effort to find private colleges that admit undocumented students or
private grants and scholarships not conditioned on legal immigration status.

The Brentwood district is two-thirds Latino and counselors there start talking
to students in 10th grade about the admissions and financial aid processes, said
Nicholas Geraci, the district guidance coordinator. ''We don't wait until
they're seniors because that's too late,'' he said. ''We address it quietly but
don't view it as insurmountable for the kids who are full-scholarship
material.''

Other districts, like East Hampton, now advise students as early as ninth grade.
''They have to be pushed to take the SAT's,'' Ms. Grossman said. ''It takes time
to convince them that they can go to college.''

Arely Lemus, 17, whose family fled El Salvador when she was 6, graduates this
month from Bay Shore High School with an A-plus average. She expects to rank
among the top five students in her class. She said she had applied to 14
colleges and received 14 rejection letters, some of them citing her immigration
status as a problem. One admissions official told her that she would be accepted
only if she paid the tuition up front, something her family could not afford.

''I said 'Thank you for the life lesson,''' she said, chuckling wryly. ''I
worked as hard as I could because I thought I would get what I deserved, but I
learned that the world isn't fair. Now I'm working as hard as I can because
they're not going to get me down.''

Bay Shore school officials lobbied private colleges for her and may have found
her a seat at St. John's University, in Queens. While her best friends are going
to Brown, Cornell and Columbia, her family could afford to send her to St.
John's only if she receives a scholarship. A decision by the St. John's
financial aid office is pending.

Ms. Lemus was also in contention for a highly competitive Gates Millennium
Scholarship, financed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, but she must be
accepted to a college to become a finalist. So she is sweating out final exams
and her second SAT test and won't know for a few weeks whether she is college
bound.

''You have to play the game so the game doesn't play you,'' she said. ''I think
life is going to be good. It can't be anything but.''

Like Ms. Lemus, four undocumented Latino students ranked at the top of East
Hampton High School's graduating class aren't bound for Harvard, Yale or Brown
in the fall as some of their American-born classmates are. Mayra, 17, and
Jhonathan, 18, who asked that their last names not be published because they
feared deportation, will attend Suffolk County Community College. Maritza
Guichay, 17, and Bastian Kuberek, 19, are going to SUNY-Old Westbury. All four
have scholarships from private organizations. Each said they had applied to just
one college known to admit undocumented students.

''We have to accept the fact that we weren't born here and don't have the same
rights,'' said Mr. Kuberek, who left his parents in Brazil three years ago and
lives with an aunt. ''We can only show people what we can do. We can only go
forward; it doesn't matter how fast.''

Mary Marquez Bell, the vice president for enrollment services at SUNY-Old
Westbury, said these students' potential was too great to ignore. ''That student
could be the next teacher, mayor or physician in your community,'' she said.
''Why would we want to lose that? They could benefit the community, the
taxpayers, everyone.''

Recognizing that more of Long Island's immigrants are seeking a college
education, she said SUNY-Old Westbury had Spanish-speaking representatives to
build trust with high school students, as well as Catholic Charities,
immigration lawyers and others who advocate for them.

''We're jumping through hoops to find the private resources, the grants,
scholarships and donations that don't carry the caveat that you have to be a
permanent resident,'' Ms. Marquez Bell said. ''Especially since 9/11, there's a
fear of retaliation if they reveal they're undocumented and, because it's a
touchy issue politically, many school officials don't want to deal with it.''

Ms. Mazariegos said she had no other option after high school. Millie Rios, who
was her teacher in first, second, fourth and fifth grades and is now a Wyandanch
administrator, said her former student was exceptional but her situation was
not.

''She's a very promising young lady, and I still expect great things from her,''
Dr. Rios said. ''It's too bad that no one knew about her immigration status
until it came down to the wire. No one thought to ask.''

Mr. Sperling, her lawyer, recently persuaded immigration officials to join his
petition for reopening the file on Ms. Mazariegos and three of her siblings.
''Once they issue a deportation order, they don't usually agree to take another
look,'' he said. ''Hulda's academic record had a lot to do with it.''

An immigration judge is expected to make a final decision on July 28. Ms.
Mazariegos says she already knows what she will tell him: ''I didn't choose to
come here. But I did my best in school, and all I want is to go to college and
be somebody. All I need is a chance, and only you can give that to me.''

She said she would keep the appointment, despite the risk of deportation for her
and members of her family, because she is determined to get to college. ''I have
hope,'' she said.

Mr. Sperling agreed that there is a risk to drawing immigration agents'
attention to the family. ''They're scared,'' he said. With Hulda translating,
her mother said that no one in the family has been back to Guatemala, even for a
visit, since 1992. Although the civil war there has ended, she said there was
nothing left for the family to return to.

Still, Ms. Mazariegos said her family had encouraged her to stir the waters.
''They said, 'Do it, and let things happen,''' she said. ''But they know this
could mess us all up.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: HULDA MAZARIEGOS, right, with her family in their Wyandanch
home, was valedictorian of her class, but because she is an illegal immigrant,
she cannot attend college and works part time at a delicatessen. (Photo by Phil
Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Maura Lemus, left, and her daughter Arely came from El Salvador when Arely was
6. Arely will be graduating with an A-plus average this month, but her college
choices are limited because she is an illegal immigrant. (Photo by Maxine Hicks
for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 23, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Queens: Arrest In Gun Trafficking

BYLINE: By Michael Wilson (NYT); Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 119 words


An immigrant from Kazakhstan who sold 37 guns to undercover officers in the
Bronx and Queens over the past year was arrested yesterday on charges of weapons
trafficking, the police said. The suspect, Serguei Volochenko, met with officers
several times, always armed, and once pulled his gun in an argument over money,
the police said. He also volunteered his services as a hit man and offered the
use of his boat to dispose of murder victims. He was arrested at his apartment
in Queens, where officers found five weapons, one loaded gun and 1,300 rounds of
ammunition. The detectives purchased 31 handguns, two shotguns, two rifles and
two machine pistols over the course of the investigation.   Michael Wilson (NYT)



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 24, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Limits on Trips To Cuba Cause Split in Florida

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and TERRY AGUAYO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 23


Miriam Verdura could hardly wait to visit family in her native Cuba next month,
her second trip since immigrating to southern Florida in 1999. But the Bush
administration has dashed her plans with restrictions that start next Wednesday.

''It's inhuman,'' said Ms. Verdura, who was at the airport Wednesday morning
seeing off friends who managed to book round-trip flights before the rules take
effect and who were checking baggage with dozens of other travelers.

Because she last visited in 2002, Ms. Verdura will be ineligible to return until
next year.

''Bush's priority should first of all be to not keep Cuban families apart,
because we suffer a lot,'' she said.

The rules, published over the last week, have been promoted by President Bush as
a way to hasten the end of the Castro government and were formulated at the
urging of Republican Cuban-American lawmakers and others here. They limit
Cuban-Americans to one trip home every three years and make it nearly impossible
for most other Americans to visit the Communist island. They also restrict cash
transfers and gift packages to Cubans.

''The only way to get rid of Fidel is to get tight on him,'' said Mario Guzman,
75, who immigrated here in 1973 and was waiting to play dominoes in a park in
the Little Havana section. ''The main reason why he's still in power is because
the very Cubans he forced out are bringing him dollars back.''

But if supporters of a hard-line position toward Havana are applauding the
measures, other Cuban-Americans are not. The regulations have sent travel agents
and many travelers spinning as they try to rearrange plans by next Wednesday,
when the government-issued licenses that Cuban immigrants have used will become
invalid, and violators of the rules will face up to $4,000 in fines.

Charter companies are adding flights this week between Miami and Cuba, and
travel agents are scrambling to find customers who have already left and warn
them to return before Wednesday. Colleges and universities face canceling dozens
of Cuban travel programs, and boaters can no longer dock there, even if they
spend no money.

''People are crying, saying, 'Please, can't you put me on a plane?''' Tessie
Aral, vice president and chief executive of ABC Charters, said. ''One said, 'I
have to go because my mother is dying.' They can't wait another three years.''

The measures are part of a broader plan that President Bush announced last month
to be tougher on President Fidel Castro and speed a transition to democracy in
Cuba. Democrats and even some Republicans say the election-year crackdown is a
nakedly political move to bolster Mr. Bush's support among Cuban-Americans in
southern Florida, a crucial segment of his base in this swing state.

A debate is raging about whether Mr. Bush went too far and whether the crackdown
could in fact hurt his re-election prospects.

''It's very important for people to vote against him because of this policy,''
Ms. Aral said. ''When we were helping check people into a flight last weekend, I
said: 'Are you registered to vote? Then you need to vote this November.' Eighty
percent said they would.''

On the other side of the debate are older Cuban-Americans like Mr. Guzman who
arrived here decades ago, who take a much harder stance than their younger
counterparts against Mr. Castro and press Washington do the same. Many are more
affluent and educated than recent immigrants, far more likely to vote and less
likely to visit Cuba. They are steadfast Republicans who helped ensure Mr.
Bush's 537-vote victory over Al Gore here in 2000.

A spokesman for Mr. Bush's campaign, Reed Dickens, said the rules were not a
vote-getting tactic but an effort to free Cubans from Mr. Castro's hold. ''No
one has a stronger record than President Bush in fighting the Castro regime
while at the same time helping the oppressed people of Cuba,'' Mr. Dickens said.

Under the changes, United States residents will be allowed to visit relatives
once every three years instead of once a year. They will be able to spend $50 a
day, down from $167, plus $50 a day for transportation, if needed. Visitors will
need a special license that will let them visit immediate family members only,
for up to 14 days at a time.

Until now, a ''general license'' has allowed them to visit relatives like
cousins and aunts.

Another change limits gifts sent to the island to food, medical supplies, radios
and batteries. Although any American older than 18 can now send up to $1,200 a
year, the rules will allow only people with immediate family members in Cuba to
send money, and just to those relatives.

Sergio Bendixen, a pollster here, said the changes might benefit Mr. Bush,
because most Cuban-Americans who vote are rigidly anti-Castro. More recent
immigrants, who tend to hold more moderate views, make up 15 percent of the
Cuban-American electorate even though they make up half the Cuban-American
population in Florida, Mr. Bendixen said. Of the 600,000 Cuban-American voters
here, more than 80 percent supported Mr. Bush in 2000.

Joe Garcia, executive director of the Cuban American National Foundation, the
most prominent exile group, said he would not be so sure, pointing to a survey
by Telemundo that showed a 50-50 split among local viewers on the new rules.

''I don't know if we are standing on strong moral ground here,'' Mr. Garcia
said. ''Someone who has been as pro family as President Bush should not be
affecting family relationships between exiles and Cubans on the islands.''

Mr. Garcia said his group did, however, support other proposals that Mr. Bush
made last month, including adding millions in spending to support Cuban
dissidents and beaming anti-Castro broadcasts financed by the United States from
a specially equipped plane.

Mr. Bush made his announcement seven months after he appointed a panel to
recommend tighter sanctions and after Republican Cuban-American lawmakers
complained that he should do more to bring down the Castro government. At the
time, the lawmakers warned that Cuban-Americans might withdraw their support for
Mr. Bush if he did not act boldly.

Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Miami Republican who is one of the
strongest anti-Castro voices here, said Cuban-Americans should not return to the
island at all because they are political refugees.

''In any other country in the world,'' Mr. Diaz-Balart said, ''if you're an
asylee, you cannot go back until the political conditions change.''

As part of the crackdown, Mr. Bush is also prohibiting college students from
visiting for courses that last less than 10 weeks and secondary school students
from going at all. The change will eliminate dozens of short educational trips
sponsored by American colleges and universities in conjunction with cultural
groups.

''We are all writing letters and urging that these measures be rescinded because
they are a violation of academic freedoms,'' Wayne Smith, director of the Cuba
Exchange Program at the Johns Hopkins University, said.

Last year, Mr. Bush banned cultural visits to Cuba organized by museums and
other charitable groups, visits that President Bill Clinton began allowing in
1999. The United States has imposed a trade embargo against Cuba since 1962,
three years after Mr. Castro seized power, though food and medicine sales are
allowed case by case. Congress voted to end the travel ban to Cuba last fall,
but removed the provision from an appropriations bill after Mr. Bush threatened
to veto it.

In a sign that the government is beefing up enforcement, federal prosecutors on
June 10 charged the organizers of several sailboat races between Key West and
Cuba with violating the embargo and ''trading with the enemy.''

''This is simply an abuse of nautical rights,'' Commodore Jose Miguel Diaz
Escrich, founder of the Hemingway International Nautical Club, said in a
telephone interview from Havana. In a typical June, he said, at least 40
American boats docked there at a time. Now, Mr. Diaz said, there are none.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brenda Garcia and mother, Adicsa Pacheco, at Miami on way to
Cuba. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 Passengers at Miami International Airport yesterday for a flight to Cuba before
new travel limits take effect. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York
Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

City of Immigrants Begins to Find an Identity of Its Own

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Hong Kong Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 27


With green, sloping roofs and overhanging eaves imitating Chinese imperial and
temple architecture, the sprawling King Yin Lei Mansion is one of this city's
best-known landmarks. It has been the setting for Hollywood classics like ''Love
is a Many-Splendored Thing,'' starring William Holden, and ''Soldier of
Fortune,'' starring Clark Gable.

Down the hill and around a corner stands the Wan Chai Market, one of two
Bauhaus-inspired fresh-food markets known to survive in Asia. Built in the late
1930's, like the mansion, the market has harmoniously curving walls free of
ornamentation, and has been a hub of the densely packed Wan Chai neighborhood
ever since.

Though each building is beautiful in its own way, neither would have been likely
to survive the wrecking ball if developers had tried to tear them down just a
few years ago.

But when developers made moves recently to raze the mansion and the market, they
encountered fierce resistance from neighborhood activists; the mansion was
pulled off the market last Tuesday, and will remain a private home, while the
market's future is still being contested.

The struggle over historic preservation, in a city where only 4 percent of the
homes were built before 1960, shows a new sense of identity in Hong Kong. A
pride and sense of community is emerging in what has been a city of immigrants.
This sense of identity is manifesting itself in everything from a new interest
in old buildings to a willingness to call for free elections.

Yeung Fai, 30, sells bok choi, a Chinese cabbage, and other vegetables in the
market at the same stall that his family has operated for 40 years. Mr. Yeung
said that before Britain turned Hong Kong over to China in 1997, he thought of
himself as Chinese, in contrast to the Europeans running the city.

But now that China is in charge, Mr. Yeung sees himself differently. ''I feel
proud of Hong Kong, and of being a Hong Kong person,'' he said.

That sentiment seems to be spreading among this territory's nearly seven million
people, a population a little larger than Switzerland's. The stirrings of a
local identity -- no one here dares call it a national identity -- has nourished
this city's democracy movement, which plans another huge march on Thursday. And
it has unnerved Beijing, which sees parallels to the much more developed
movement in Taiwan, which wants the island to declare formal independence.

Last Friday, China's Foreign Ministry denounced the Senate's passage in
Washington of a resolution supporting democratic reforms here as interference in
China's internal affairs.

While mainland officials recently said Hong Kong would be included in new
legislation being drafted to ban secession, and have warned against any advocacy
of independence, there is virtual unanimity in Hong Kong that independence would
be both impractical and impossible for a peninsula and scattering of islands
with a combined land area half that of Luxembourg.

Unlike Taiwan, Hong Kong lacks 100 miles of sea separating it from the mainland,
or an unspoken security guarantee from the United States to limit Beijing
officials' actions here. Much of Hong Kong's fresh water and food come across
from the mainland every day.

But while independence may not be the goal, loyalty to Hong Kong is clearly
growing among its residents, with consequences that are hard to predict.

The British were fond of portraying Hong Kong as little more than a barren rock
before they captured it in 1841. Yet there were fishing and trading villages and
even some fortifications when the British arrived, while human habitation went
back at least 6,000 years. This history is seized upon here as evidence that
Hong Kong has had a long cultural and political tradition and is more than just
a center of commerce.

When another mansion near downtown seemed doomed this spring to be torn down to
make room for a skyscraper, public protests forced the government to buy the
building and convert it into a museum. The museum will describe the history of
Sun Yat-sen, the revolutionary who developed many of his ideas in Hong Kong a
century ago before overthrowing China's monarchy.

Hong Kong's population has grown tenfold since the end of World War II, mostly
from people fleeing Communism on the mainland. One popular theory for why local
pride is emerging now is that many assumed in the years leading up to Britain's
handing the colony back that they would have to move elsewhere when the People's
Liberation Army arrived.

Now they have concluded that it is safe to remain and take a longer-term
interest in their homes. ''People realize it's where they live, it's where
they're going to stay,'' said Jason Wordie, a local historian.

Paul Yip, a 61-year-old former adviser to Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief
executive, perceives a generational split. Old age is claiming an earlier,
pro-China generation that either emigrated from the mainland or grew up with the
anticolonial sentiments that remained common here at least into the 1960's.

At the same time, local schools increasingly portray Hong Kong as part of China,
so today's children may have a sense of Chinese nationalism. But stuck in the
middle is a broad segment of society, ages 18 to 55, that is struggling for an
identity and now finding it in Hong Kong's traditions.

Yet for all the growing enthusiasm for the past, there remains an appreciation
of the benefits of the present. Vendors in the Wan Chai Market were divided one
recent morning about the building's future.

Old hands, inured to the humid tropical heat in a building with nothing more
than fans for ventilation, wanted to save it. Younger workers spoke
enthusiastically of the government's promise to build a new, air-conditioned
market next door if the current one was torn down.

Near a butcher's stall, where a large rat scurried back and forth repeatedly,
Mr. Yeung wanted to have it both ways. ''The government should move us,'' he
said, ''but keep this building for the tourists.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hong Kong residents are taking more pride in their city, as is
evident in efforts to save historic buildings like the King Yin Lei Mansion.
(Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 3, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Immigrants Find Parallels With Changes in Home Country

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Russians Look at Iraq, and See
Their Reflection; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words


The American occupation of Iraq may seem far away for most New Yorkers. But for
one small group of new Americans, talk of building democracy in a broken country
sounds all too familiar.

They are newcomers from Russia.

Consider their recent history. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, a
feisty, young Russian government, with help from American advisers, set about
tearing down the totalitarian system. It rewrote laws, placed state property in
private hands and expected democracy to follow.

It didn't.

Instead, the new freedoms and subsequent efforts to change unleashed a political
and economic chaos that many of the people interviewed for this article came to
America to escape. And as they prepare to celebrate Independence Day, some for
the first time as American citizens, they remain skeptical about the prospects
of transplanting American democracy.

Viktor Lushin of Sheepshead Bay, a radio host for WSNR-AM, a Russian-language
station in Brooklyn, has heard many American speeches on Iraq. ''People are
finally free,'' he said, paraphrasing them. ''Give them some money, pass some
laws, and you will have a democracy.'' To him, it sounds just like the American
view of Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union.

''But freedom,'' Mr. Lushin said, ''is a very tricky matter.''

The early days after the fall of Communism were full of heady optimism. Mr.
Lushin and his friends tried to start a book publishing business in his native
St. Petersburg. Zoya Vernik of southern Brooklyn, who is now at WSNR, went to
work at a start-up news agency run by young people in Odessa, in Ukraine. Her
husband turned his skills as a telecommunications technician into a small
business.

''There was a feeling that Russia would become Great Britain in three months,''
said Yan Vizinberg, a filmmaker and television journalist, who became an
American citizen in May.

In Moscow, young political leaders were working to revamp the old Soviet system.
They embraced Western models. A number of Western economists and other experts
advised them.

''The general assumption was they would just copy wholesale the Western economic
and political systems the way they were advised,'' said Ekaterina Razoumova, a
doctoral candidate at the University of Rochester, who lives on the Upper East
Side. The government's attitude was, '''Look, everything is going wonderfully,
so just shut up and let us do our thing,''' she said.

But transplanting Western-style democracy proved difficult, she said. Judges and
police officers, who used to serve Soviet leaders, were easily controlled by
politicians and businessmen. Inflation soared. Salaries shrank. The news media
were being bought up -- and used -- by wealthy businessmen.

Democracy was starting to get a bad name.

In St. Petersburg, Mr. Lushin abandoned books and went into real estate, a
business heavily controlled by new criminal groups. Two of his former business
partners were killed. In Odessa, Ms. Vernik's husband went into hiding after a
powerful former client threatened him.

''Court?'' said Ms. Vernik, who immigrated to New York with her family in 2000.
''To even say the word raises very loud laughter. Everything was decided through
money and connections.''

Laws were remarkably pliant. The legal maneuvering was baffling to foreigners,
but came as no surprise to Russians. For centuries, a combination of conflicting
laws and random enforcement has caused Russians to come up with elaborate ways
to avoid compliance.

Regina Khidekel, who moved to New York from St. Petersburg in 1993, recalled a
Russian folk saying that describes the law as a wagon axle: it goes in any
direction you want to pull it.

Then came privatization. The Russian government drew up plans to parcel out
state-owned companies, from bakeries to the oil industry. Advisers at the United
States Treasury Department urged speed.

The idea, said Joseph E. Stiglitz, who was on President Bill Clinton's Council
of Economic Advisers from 1993 to 1997, was to quickly create a broad class of
property owners who would have a stake in building institutions and obeying
laws.

But the state was weak, and a politically connected elite hijacked the process,
buying up the most valuable companies for very little money.

Historians will debate Russia's state property sales for years to come.
Supporters of the process argue that there was no better alternative at the time
and that it did eventually lead to an improved economy. Indeed, the country's
economy has been growing steadily since 1999. Professor Stiglitz, who has
criticized United States policy toward Russia in his book ''Globalization and
Its Discontents,'' is an opponent.

''It was blind faith in markets,'' said Professor Stiglitz, now at Columbia.

Whatever the case, ordinary Russians felt left out of a process that they saw as
corrupt. The experience served to further sour them on the idea of democracy.

''Democracy was very good for those who had money,'' said Boris Kraytman, a
soccer coach in southern Brooklyn, who immigrated to the United States from
Ukraine in the mid-1990's.

In February, Professor Stiglitz wrote in a syndicated article that a quick
privatization in Iraq, talked about briefly by the Bush administration before
the recent explosion of violence took priority, would lead to results similar to
those in Russia: a rich elite and a bitter populace. Beyond their many
differences, he wrote, both countries are oil powers, have economies that are
sagging after years of neglect and have extremely weak legal institutions.

Despite Russia's painful wrangling with aspects of the American system,
Russian-Americans interviewed for this article said they deeply appreciated the
opportunities offered by life in the United States and admired its system of
democracy.

Most of the 240,000 Russian immigrants in the New York City region supported the
war in Iraq, according to Nargiz Shekinskaya, in charge of polling at RTVI, a
Russian-language television network based in Manhattan. Most left Russia when it
was still the Soviet Union, many as refugees from anti-Semitism, so they have
warm feelings toward the United States and its policies.

Those who immigrated later have warm feelings too, although many say they view
their new home with more skeptical eyes. On a recent Sunday night on the terrace
of Anyway Cafe, a popular East Village hangout for young Russians, Yulia
Florinskaya discussed the benefits of American life with two friends.

Ms. Florinskaya, who came to this country as a teenager in the early 1990's,
said she values the stability in America and the confidence that it brings.

Yet Americans themselves sometimes show a shallow understanding of their own
system, she said. In many respects, America has been lucky with its patchwork of
history, culture and traditions.

''Their democracy is freedom of speech,'' Ms. Florinskaya said. ''It's Michael
Moore being able to get up there and make fun of Bush.''

Mark Rasstanny, a screenwriter in upper Manhattan who is about to receive his
green card and is married to an American citizen, thinks that the key is the
rule of law. ''I like the American model,'' he said. ''Intellect is stronger
than might. You can go to court. It is part of people's consciousness that they
are not defenseless.''

But even though the American system may be easy to appreciate, it is not so easy
to transplant to other countries. ''There is not a universal blueprint for
democracy,'' Mr. Rasstanny contended.

Anna Aunon, 25, of Midtown, who came to the United States in 2001, agreed. ''So
much depends on tradition and culture,'' she said. ''Socialism was in people's
consciousness for so many years. Our people are trying to take things from the
West. But without the past experience, it's very difficult to catch up.''

Most of the immigrants interviewed agreed that conditions in Russia were
gradually improving.

In fact many said that time is the answer, for Russia's problems and for Iraq's.
''Things will eventually change in Iraq, but not because the Americans came,''
said Mr. Vizinberg, the filmmaker. ''Iraqis will go through their own historical
process.''

Leon Aron, the author of ''Yeltsin: A Revolutionary Life'' and a scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, said Russia was making
progress, but acknowledged that Western policy makers had expected too much too
soon. ''We all believed it would be easy in many respects,'' he said. ''But what
we found was that liberty was not democracy.''

''Democracy proved difficult because it was going against the grain of the
previous 75 years, and arguably, the previous 400.''

''And you cannot,'' he added, ''fast-forward history.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Viktor Lushin and Zoya Vernik of WSNR-AM, a
Russian-language station in Brooklyn, have not-so-fond memories of the effort to
establish democracy in Russia. Above, Yulia Florinskaya, who immigrated as a
teenager in the early 1990's, said Americans sometimes show a shallow
understanding of their own system. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New
York Times)(pg. B1)
 Regina Khidekel recalled an old saying: The law is like a wagon axle, going in
any direction you pull it. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg.
B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

First, Get a Green Card. Next, Hire a Publicist.

BYLINE: By Gary Shteyngart.

Gary Shteyngart is the author of ''The Russian Debutante's Handbook,'' a novel.

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1318 words


Lately I haven't been a good immigrant. I can't get myself to work an 80-hour
week. I won't walk 20 blocks to save a subway fare. And I don't have that
crazed, adrenaline-driven certainty that life will soon get better for me or
mine. Maybe it's the gloomy times we live in. Maybe it's the economy. Maybe it's
the war. But most likely it's that I'm sated -- the young immigrant's hunger and
worries are gone. I'm not fat and doughy just yet, but my midriff looks, to
quote an old friend, ''prosperous.''

Want and fear drive America: the want of security, dignity and wild affluence,
the fear of coming up short on all counts, the fear of extinction in an
unforgiving market economy that rewards only the tireless and the unblinking.
''Remember the lesson of the . . . dodo bird,'' Monette Adeva Maglaya cautions
the newcomer in her remarkable new book, THE COMPLETE SUCCESS GUIDE FOR THE
IMMIGRANT LIFE: How to Survive, How to Thrive, How to Be Fully Alive (PDI Books,
paper, $19.95). ''One must learn to adapt or else, perish.''

I say Maglaya's book is ''remarkable'' not because it is a compendium of bizarre
clip art, well-worn inspirational cliches, practical advice and religious
hoo-ha, all of which it is, but because few books have come closer to telling me
what it means to be an immigrant in America today. And if Maglaya is to be
believed, it means living in a land of turbo-Darwinism that would shock the
likes of Huck Finn and Augie March, a landscape of hucksters and dreamers, of
work-at-home schemes, fake children's modeling contests and rampant identity
fraud. It means, for the most part, living in Southern California amid tribes of
Cambodian doughnut tycoons and Chinese laundry empires. It means believing in
God (and preferably Jesus Christ), and making him (them) a part of everything
you do. Religious, resourceful, highly flexible and yet essentially
conservative, the immigrant is the most reliably American of all Americans, the
indispensable citizen, the bedrock of the American dream with all its tainted
pleasures and millennial lunacies.

That said, the face of immigration, or at least the face of immigration
guidebooks, is unrecognizable to me today. When my family came to the United
States from the Soviet Union around 1980, we were given a slim instructional
volume from a resettlement agency. Aimed squarely at the Soviet immigrant, the
book stressed the prodigious use of deodorant and the need to grin painfully
whenever an American was present (''smell-'n'-smile'' is how I committed this
advice to memory).

As far as Maglaya is concerned, the modern superimmigrant has no need for such
obvious instruction. Instead, he should gain quick proficiency with MapQuest and
Google. Once these are mastered there are ''very strong arguments'' in favor of
learning English, ''apart from the usual benefit of being able to read road
signs.'' With English and the yield sign under his belt, the immigrant faces the
quandary of finding a good house servant. Watch out, Maglaya warns, for they
don't come cheap in this country. Immigrants who have had ''domestic help to do
things for them'' will be ''in for a shock.'' Now that the tempest-tossed
refugee has secured the services of a reputable manservant, it is time to find a
suitable activity to occupy his time. ''Should he go into business? Should he
pursue the arts?'' These are all difficult decisions to make for someone who has
just sneaked across the Rio Grande, but if one finally settles on
entrepreneurship it is often helpful to ''get a professional spokesperson or a
mascot.'' You know, to help out with publicity.

The author, who came to the United States in the 1980's from the Philippines
with a master's degree in communications, leaves us with a list of recommended
books, including Pat Buchanan's ''Death of the West: How Dying Populations and
Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization'' and other examples of
''the boat is full'' philosophy. Maglaya's assessment of the way immigrant
groups perceive and treat other immigrant groups is yet another remarkable
aspect of this book. We learn, for example, that ''Jews and Armenians have long
histories of being involved in business in every area around the world where
they settle,'' while Koreans have ''a somewhat hardy resistance to
acculturation.'' Mexicans, despite being abundant in the author's adopted
Southern California, are suspiciously absent from the list of enterprising
immigrant groups. Possibly they have little of value to impart to Maglaya's
''bright, bushy-tailed eager beaver of a newcomer.'' The world rightfully looks
to America as the nation most welcoming to immigrants -- and yet what many
highly educated immigrants do not know, or do not care to know, about one
another's struggles could fill a book. This one, for instance.

But I couldn't help learning from Maglaya. She has compiled so many facts about
living in America that by the end of this book I felt genuinely indebted to her.
Were you aware, just for example, that disreputable modeling schools are a big
draw because ''one of the hot buttons among immigrant parents is their dreams of
success for their children''? Or that the policy of the United States is not to
admit ''terrorists, Nazis and people likely to become dependent on welfare,''
possibly in that order? Or that you can stop credit bureaus from selling your
name by calling 1-888-5OPT-OUT? Or that ''when pumping gas,'' you should
''prefer to do it yourself . . . rather than give your card to the attendant,''
who can ''steal your number at random''?

After learning the difference between Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcy and
the importance of stuffing every piece of financial mail into a good paper
shredder, I felt more ready than ever to participate in our nation's rich
economic life. Also, I felt scared -- scared like an immigrant; scared that in
this capricious land everything I have worked for could be taken away with the
click of a computer mouse or by my enrollment in the wrong modeling school.

Between meditations on immigrant fear and immigrant striving, the author keeps
our spirits up with inspirational quotations from the likes of Shakespeare
(''Rest, rest, perturbed spirit'') and Jenny Craig (''Self-love is the only
weight-loss aid that really works in the long run''). There are also some
exquisitely strange, naive, almost moving, illustrations -- including a homemade
collage of Jesus floating above the earth. For Maglaya, being an immigrant means
finding solace in religion. There are few paragraphs devoted to an immigrant's
natural propensity toward ''homesickness, loneliness and despair,'' the
debilitating feelings that crushed many members of my parents' immigrant
generation, but lots of talk about craning one's neck toward Eternity. ''Look
heavenward,'' the author instructs us. ''Put God first in your life and
everything falls into place.'' ''Coming to America may have been part of God's
Grand Design in order for you'' to fulfill your purpose. And for the harried,
multitasking immigrant, this advice: ''Jesus Christ was stressed too.''

Along with the Father and the Son, there is a worship of Country. At a time when
most of the world is learning to despise us, the immigrant's faith in America's
promise remains staggering and, to many, inspiring. Why else would millions of
people regularly give up their mother tongue, their childhood friends, their
elderly parents, their native hills and mesas and, of course, their cooks,
chauffeurs and houseboys to come here? Maglaya puts it all into perspective:
''Barring unforeseen catastrophic circumstances induced by humans and extremely
rare cosmic collisions like a comet or asteroid scoring a direct fatal hit on
earth . . . America will continue to hold a prime position in world geopolitics
for some time.''

I don't know if she's right on that one. But I am going to get that paper
shredder.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Antsandwich)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israel Sees a Surge in Immigration by French Jews, but Why?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 1


More French Jews have been immigrating to Israel or buying properties here as
potential havens, and the Israelis and the French are debating whether the trend
is a result of a surge in anti-Semitic attacks in France or just a cyclical
oddity.

The Jewish Agency, the quasi-governmental body responsible for settling
immigrants, reported a doubling in the number of French Jews who arrived last
year and in 2002, to more than 2,000 each year, compared with about 1,000 a year
in the previous three years. By contrast, worldwide immigration to Israel has
sharply declined during the Arab-Israeli violence.

Michael Jankelowitz, a spokesman for the Jewish Agency, said that as a result of
attacks against Jews in France in the past three years, many Jews, particularly
those whose religion is evident from their clothes, were feeling increasingly
uneasy. Much of the tension has centered in working-class suburbs of Paris where
Jews and Muslims mingle.

''If they're made to feel uncomfortable, this is the place they've always
dreamed of coming to,'' he said.

Some Jewish leaders in France contend that the Jewish Agency has sent squads of
''emissaries'' to recruit Jews for aliyah, or the return to Israel. The agency
denied the charge, saying that it has the same staff of eight recruiters and
that they merely try to persuade Jews thinking of emigrating to the United
States or Canada to consider Israel instead.

France has 500,000 to 600,000 Jews, the largest population in Europe.

Gerard Araud, the French ambassador to Israel, played down the influx,
suggesting in an interview that emigration is cyclical. He noted that during the
''golden years'' of quiet after the Oslo accords between Israel and the
Palestinians, there were years when the number of French Jews who immigrated to
Israel was quite high, once hitting 1,800. ''It's a flow, not a flight,'' he
said.

He also contended that there had been as many anti-Semitic incidents per capita
in Italy and Belgium, but that France got the most attention because of its
larger Jewish population. He also noted that most recent attacks had been by
North African Muslims angered over Israeli treatment of Palestinians and
therefore could not be linked to historical incidents of French anti-Semitism
like the Dreyfus affair or the Vichy government's collaboration with the Nazis.

The rash of attacks was the basis of a major finding in a report last month on
the state of world Jewry by the Jewish People Policy Planning Institute, a group
led by Dennis Ross, the longtime American mediator in the Middle East. In an
interview here, Mr. Ross said Israel needed to anticipate how its Palestinian
policies might reverberate in the diaspora and better coordinate with the
governments affected.

Alex Losky, a 44-year-old real estate agent in Jerusalem, said French Jews had
bought 1,000 apartments a year in Israel in the last couple of years, compared
with 100 or so three and four years ago. He said, though, that most of his
customers seemed to be buying apartments as vacation retreats and as potential
refuges in case there was a sharp explosion in violence in France. Such
purchases are sweetened by the fact that the value of the euro has risen against
the shekel, making Israeli real estate a bargain.

But he said, ''If there weren't a wave of anti-Semitism in France, they wouldn't
be buying.''

Chaim Spiller, a 42-year-old Orthodox Jew from Paris, immigrated with his wife
and two children in March 2003 and bought a $400,000 apartment here, even as he
held on to his men's clothing business in Paris. He said he had long felt a
''latent anti-Semitism'' from some neighbors and said the waves of attacks by
Muslims confirmed his decision.

''You feel you are not welcome,'' he said. Referring to his skullcap, he added,
''You can't put on a kipa in Paris because it's too dangerous.''

Mr. Spiller, the son of a survivor of the Buchenwald concentration camp, said
that several years ago, a neighbor in his apartment house complained about the
Spillers' mezuza -- a doorpost marker containing Torah passages -- and asked him
to move it inside.

''I cannot raise my children in an atmosphere when I feel the latent
anti-Semitism, which is worse than the Arabs who shout, 'Dirty Jew,''' he said.
''With the Arabs, we know they are our enemies and we know what we can expect.''

A more secular Jew, Phillipe Bensoussan, a 48-year-old filmmaker who arrived in
December, gave a complex tangle of reasons. He said he found that French
political life no longer roused his ideological fervor in the way that Israel's
did. ''Here every moment is essential,'' he said.

But a less tangible motivation, he said, was his distress at what he saw as the
slanted coverage of Israel in the French news media. He came to Israel because
he wanted to create a Web-based television news outlet about Israel in French.

Mr. Araud also said the French government had reduced assaults against Jews with
tougher laws against racist violence, protection for religious sites and
programs in schools to encourage tolerance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Subway Virtuosos Keep Traditional Sounds Alive

BYLINE: By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Asian Music, Accompanied
By the A Train; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1585 words


Zhisheng Zhang, the 10th-generation descendant of a Chinese court musician,
descended into the Times Square subway station and unfolded his stool on a
platform. He took out a Chinese mouth organ, called a sheng, wiped it carefully
with a piece of clean cloth and closed his eyes.

As notes from the prelude of ''Carmen'' pierced the humid air, Mr. Zhang --
whose great-great-grandfathers played for Manchu emperors, whose father
performed for Communist army generals and who was himself a member of China's
best traditional music orchestra -- began another workday, playing for the
subway riders of New York.

There are many like Mr. Zhang, established musicians from China who perform
daily in the city's bowels. Convinced that the best music, Western or Asian, is
truly borderless and that their own talents are sufficient to make ends meet
anywhere, these artists have converged on New York like the philosophers and
poets who swarmed to Athens in classical times. They feel not just lured, but
pushed; China, in their view, has turned its back on traditional music in favor
of the pop dazzle of Britney Spears.

''I want to try my luck in New York,'' Mr. Zhang, 42, said, speaking in
Mandarin. ''In China serious artists like us aren't as respected as pop singers.
That's not right. Maybe Americans can see the true appeal of Chinese music, and
I can make my way to the grand concert halls in New York.''

Though many of the underground musicians dream of fortune and homes in the
suburbs, or at the least of bringing their children to the United States after
gaining footholds themselves, for now most of them live in simple apartments in
Chinatown or Flushing, Queens, and barely eke out a living. Before the attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001, many of the musicians said, an eight-hour day of performing
at a subway station fetched an average of $70. Since then their income has
dropped by roughly a third because of the economic doldrums and, they speculate,
increased suspicion of foreigners.

Besides the subway, they often perform concerts at universities, community
centers, parks and at the Asia Society in Manhattan.

''We have some very high-caliber Chinese artists here,'' said Rachel Cooper,
director of performing arts and public programs at the society. ''We have a very
discriminating audience here in New York, and there is a real hunger, openness
and appreciation for fine music, including Chinese music. There is a real hunger
to understand it.''

Cultural organizations in Chinatown and Flushing also know many of the musicians
and invite them to play. Occasionally New Yorkers who have met them at subway
stations ask them to perform at weddings or birthday parties. Some of the
musicians have tried to supplement their incomes by working in restaurants but
have found the work too tedious for the small wages.

Mr. Zhang lived in Beijing until January, when he was invited by the Wossing
Center for Chinese Arts, Language and Culture in Chinatown to play in a concert
tour at universities and public libraries in the northeastern United States.
Soon after the tour he decided to stay in New York and apply for permanent
residency. Many other Chinese musicians of similar rank have become legal
residents and American citizens by proving their exceptional talents to the
federal immigration agency.

Unlike most professional musicians in China who studied in formal
conservatories, Mr. Zhang learned as a child from his father how to play the
sheng, a multipiped instrument invented at least two millennia ago. Mr. Zhang's
family, originally from a village outside Beijing, has passed the secret
knowledge, possessed only by top performers, from fathers to sons for 10
generations, he said.

''I love this stuff, playing the sheng,'' Mr. Zhang said. ''It's in my blood. I
don't want to give it up. If traditional Chinese music gets fashionable in
America, maybe it will become more popular in China, too.''

Often, though, the musicians have a dim view of their art form's future in
China, and they blame the flood of Western and Hong Kong pop music for its
dwindling popularity.

''When a young child expresses some interest in studying music, the parents
would say: 'You learn to do the pop stuff. That brings you money and fame,' ''
said Hao Qian, a well-known performer on a two-string instrument, the erhu, who
used to travel in the same musicians' circles in Beijing as Mr. Zhang.

''It's the music from our 5,000-year civilization that's now worthless,'' added
Mr. Qian, who now also makes his living at Manhattan subway stations.

The relentless destruction across China of temples, monasteries and nunneries
under Mao Zedong's rule between 1949 and 1976 added to the musicians' woes.

''Most of the old Chinese music is really meant to be played in temples,'' Mr.
Zhang said. ''Without the temples, how can one perform true Chinese music?''

Since the early 1980's government subsidies to music troupes have gradually
dried up with China's embrace of a market economy, and private donations have
not picked up the slack. While most pop music groups take in extra income by
playing at clubs and parties, some traditional music ensembles, particularly
those based outside major cities like Shanghai and Beijing, sit idle for months
on end.

Huadong Liu, who played yang qin, a dulcimerlike instrument, in a prestigious
troupe in northeastern China, said he made just over $100 a month -- less than
most urban residents -- before coming to the United States three years ago. Now
he races to claim a choice spot in underground New York.

''Sometimes I spend two to three hours in the morning just to find the right
platform,'' said Mr. Liu, who calls his wife and 17-year-old son in China twice
a week as he saves money to send for them. ''If you get stuck at a platform with
little foot traffic or lots of hurried people, you cannot even make $20 a day.''

Julie Tay, director and founder of the Wossing Center, said such musicians can
find the adjustment to the United States hard. ''Since their language is muted,
their art tends to be muted, too,'' she said. ''The worst thing is to see them
come here, get frustrated, start driving a limo two or three years down the
road, and the traditional Chinese music goes down the drain.''

Mr. Zhang is divorced and has a 15-year-old son back home. In China he performed
mostly in grand concert halls like the People's Great Hall in Beijing. He was
designated as a ''national first-class performer'' on the sheng by the Chinese
government, the highest level available and an honor won by only 10 other
performers.

At first he had a great deal of trepidation about playing his sheng at subway
stops.

''The Chinese have always seen street musicians as beggars,'' he said. ''Where
would I put my face if somebody from home -- or worse, somebody from the
orchestra -- finds out?''

He has overcome that anxiety now, he said, after running into other subway
musicians he considers top-notch. ''It looks to me that many musicians from
other countries come here to New York, and everybody starts from the subway
station,'' he said. ''I figured out that it's a New York tradition.'' Mr. Zhang
says he sends $200 home to his son and former wife whenever he can.

For many of the transplanted musicians the day starts at 8:30 a.m. They hurry to
their favorite subway platforms lugging their instruments, stools and sometimes
amplifiers. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority allows musicians to
perform at subway stations without permits so long as they do not interfere with
traffic. ''It's a protection of their First Amendment rights,'' said Mercedes
Padilla, an M.T.A. spokeswoman.

There is a pecking order of subway stations understood by almost everybody in
the trade. The Columbus Circle stop and the station at Lexington Avenue and 59th
Street top the list. The Times Square station and those close to New York
University can also bring brisk business. Stops at Pennsylvania Station and
Grand Central Terminal are all right on weekends. But whatever the location, the
platforms are humid in summers and frigid in winters.

Many musicians change locations from day to day so as not to bore commuters,
most of whom, the artists say, have showed them proper respect.

''When I put my heart into the performance,'' said Xuanpei Ge, a player of the
di, a one-pipe Chinese flute, ''I get really warm, prolonged applauses. I could
see the audience's respect from their eyes, the attentiveness when they listen
and the way they bow after you finish. Some even give me water and fruit in hot
summers. It's just very moving.''

Mr. Zhang speaks little English and is taking night lessons to catch up. Some
subway riders have tried to speak with him, he said, and he could only speculate
whether they have asked him about his instrument, invited him to perform at
parties or said something else entirely.

''If I want to seize opportunities to advance my career,'' he said, ''I must
learn to speak English.''

Like many musicians, he has discovered that Western music adapted (often by him)
for Chinese instruments draws the warmest response. Although the Chinese scale
differs from the Western scale, lacking some half notes, the musicians have
adapted pieces as different as Mozart's nocturnes and the soundtrack of ''The
Godfather.''

''The subway riders seem to really like the tunes they are familiar with,
particularly the fast, happy ones,'' Mr. Zhang said. ''Once I played a slow, sad
Chinese song, and it made one old lady cry. She made a gesture to ask me to
stop.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zhisheng Zhang, left, and Hao Qian, performing in the Times
Square subway station. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Li Yu, left, and, on the erhu, Gang Zhao performing at the Asia Society, which
sometimes offers concerts featuring traditional Chinese music. (Photo by
Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times)(pg. E6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2004 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Study of Taxi Drivers Finds More Immigrants at Wheel

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words


A new study on the people who drive New York City's taxicabs paints a rare
portrait of this harried work force and reveals that extraordinary numbers of
the city's newest immigrants continue to flock to the industry.

Anyone who rides yellow taxicabs or livery cabs regularly knows that many of its
drivers are immigrants, but no one had broken down the numbers using recent
data. The previous study on the driver population, done by Bruce Schaller, a
taxi industry consultant based in Brooklyn, used information taken from 1991.

The new report, released yesterday by Mr. Schaller, analyzes 2000 census data
and Taxi and Limousine Commission licensing records. Currently, 99,400 drivers
are licensed by the commission to drive yellow cabs.

Among the report's findings:

$(6$)Eighty-four percent of taxi and livery drivers in the city are now
immigrants, up from 64 percent in 1990 and 38 percent in 1980.

$(6$)Drivers from the West Indies (Dominican Republic or Haiti) make up the
largest portion of yellow cab and livery drivers, 23 percent, according to 2004
licensing data. They are followed closely by drivers from South Asia (Pakistan,
India or Bangladesh), who make up 20 percent of drivers over all.

$(6$)The ranks of yellow cab drivers, however, are dominated by South Asian
immigrants, who make up about 38 percent of drivers (14 percent from Pakistan,
14 percent from Bangladesh, 10 percent from India). The next largest group is
Haitians at 9.6 percent.

$(6$)Bangladeshi drivers have supplanted Pakistanis as the largest percentage of
newly licensed drivers of yellow taxicabs. Of those who entered the business in
the last two years, 18 percent were from Bangladesh, 15 percent from Pakistan
and 9 percent from India.

The trends in the industry largely correspond with the changing face of the
overall immigrant population, Mr. Schaller said yesterday.

The growing number of new Bangladeshi drivers, for example, reflects a sharp
increase in Bangladeshi immigration to the city, from 400 per year in the 80's
to 3,900 per year in the mid-90's. But beyond the general increase in their
numbers in the city, Mr. Schaller said, there is also a word-of-mouth phenomenon
among Bangladeshis.

''Certain immigrant groups have chosen to make taxi and limousine driving their
niche business,'' he said. ''Just as you have Korean grocers, you have South
Asian taxi drivers.

''It's the classic immigrant story. A few newcomers get started in the business.
Their friends and relatives come over and join them in the business.''

Another trend that is beginning to show up in driver ranks, Mr. Schaller said,
is the growing population of Africans in the city. The number of yellow taxicab
drivers from Egypt, Morocco, Ghana and Nigeria has crept up over the past
decade. The percentage of newly licensed drivers from those four countries rose
from 9.2 percent in 1991 to 14.5 percent today.

The cab industry is attractive to immigrants because it is relatively easy to
get into and offers opportunities for people who may not speak English fluently,
Mr. Schaller said, though they do have to pass an English exam to become
drivers.

Mr. Schaller also looked at national data on taxi and limousine drivers. Among
his findings: 38 percent of drivers nationwide are immigrants, according to the
2000 census. Only tailors and farm laborers had a higher percentage of
immigrants in occupations with at least 50,000 workers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2004



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about a study
of the ethnic makeup of New York City cabdrivers misstated the number licensed
to drive yellow cabs. It is 41,624; the 99,400 figure included drivers of livery
cars.



GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Changing Cabbies''Bangladeshis are now the most numerous
nationality among newly licensed drivers of yellow cabs.COUNTRY OF BIRTH OF NEW
YELLOW CAB DRIVERS, 2002 TO 2004Bangladesh -- 18.3%Pakistan -- 14.8India --
9.5United States -- 9.0Egypt -- 6.1Haiti -- 3.9Morocco -- 3.8(Source by Taxi and
Limousine Commission records via Schaller Consulting)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Art of Old Mexico Steps Into New York

BYLINE: By ELAINE ARADILLAS

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1054 words


Three times a week in the basement of a Bronx church, the scuffed tile floor
normally used as a basketball court becomes a dance studio, complete with
instructor and music.

Made up mostly of Mexican immigrants and their American-born children, the
Ballet Folklorico de Refugio meets at Our Lady of Refuge Rectory in Kingsbridge
to practice the traditional dances of home, usually the coastal regions of
southern Mexico.

The group, which has about 40 members, started seven years ago with five
couples' celebrating the Virgin Mary of Guadalupe, Mexico's most common
representation of Mary. It is a chance for some to reconnect with their pasts,
but for most it is a chance to explore their culture.

''It's my tradition,'' said Damaris Enriquez, 10, who was born and raised in
Kingsbridge. ''I wanted to know what tradition my dad had. It has different
types of clothing, dancing and feeling.''

Ballet folklorico, a form of traditional dance, has been popular for decades in
the border states from Texas to California. Now groups have been sprouting
across New York City, as more Mexicans rapidly arrive.

The 2000 census showed that the number of Mexicans living in New York City had
tripled since 1990, to nearly 187,000. With no sign that immigration is slowing,
the Hispanic landscape is altering to include one of Mexico's oldest traditions.

Ignacio Enriquez, Damaris's father, who moved from Mexico to the Bronx about 15
years ago, said he would watch his two older sisters perform while he was
growing up. He is not a dancer, but he says he is proud that Damaris has taken
up the tradition.

''A long time ago I remember my sisters dancing,'' he said, clasping his hands
together. ''It keeps the Mexican community as a union. I'm proud that the
children are dancing and not going crazy outside.''

Damaris recently graduated into the adult group of dancers, a transition similar
to moving to the grown-up table at a family function. Most of the members her
age perform in the children's group, which rehearses less complicated routines.
But when Damaris recently grew several inches, she looked out of place dancing
with the other children.

At practice she wrapped a floor-length green peasant skirt trimmed with pink
ribbon around her waist. She shared a packed dance floor, preparing for a
performance. Between routines the dancers took a break and gulped down Gatorade
and VitaminWater. Meanwhile some people turned practice into social hour.

''I come here to watch,'' said Osvaldo Toledo, 18. ''I like to see them, but I'm
not into dancing too much.''

Ballet folklorico is not for everyone. The dances are energetic, and the
costumes can be cumbersome. At a recent practice, the dancers' legs tired, and
their faces became flushed. The instructor, Jesus Cortez, yelled out the steps.
Finally the last horn blared from the speakers, and it was over. The dancers
plopped down in a circle and discussed their schedule and the costumes for a
coming folklorico festival in East Harlem.

Annabella Gonzalez, who has presided over her own modern-dance company in
Manhattan for 20 years, has watched the number of ballet folklorico groups
multiply from none to about a dozen in the last decade, and she added that there
were probably more.

Each Mexican state and village has its own dance, and some estimate that there
are about 40,000 dances unique to Mexico, said Ms. Gonzalez, who studied
traditional Mexican dance at Columbia Teachers College.

Traditionally, ''when you lost a battle, you would hand over your dance
repertoire to the enemy, which meant your identity,'' said Ms. Gonzalez, who
earned her master's in dance education in 1994.

She said there were celebratory dances as well as sacred ones. Some people
thought certain dances possessed magical or healing powers. But for the groups
across the city, dancing is a part of life.

''We start dancing at a very young age,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''It's like
walking. Dance is life. When you're dead, you don't dance.''

On a Sunday afternoon last month, Jessica Ramirez, 19, was getting ready
backstage for the folklorico festival at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church on
117th Street in East Harlem. She learned six years ago that she had lupus, and
said she felt that every performance was a blessing. There is no cure for this
autoimmune disease, which can affect the skin, blood and joints.

''When I was little, I didn't want to dance because I was shy,'' Ms. Ramirez
said. But after she decided to try dancing, she added, her group turned into a
family. ''We're all in it because we like it,'' she said. ''We don't feel
obligated.''

The women preparing for the performance were in elaborate lace dresses in a
rainbow of pastel colors. The men reached into their garment bags for crisp
white shirts and pants. Their handkerchiefs matched the women's dresses.

At St. Paul's, where Mass is celebrated bilingually, in English and Spanish,
nine dance groups were preparing to perform. A woman was selling enchiladas,
tostadas and chicken with rice. The children were playing tag; the music was
blaring.

Alicia Gomez, who volunteers at the church, said this was the second year she
had organized the folklorico festival, where Ballet Folklorico de Refugio could
share its performances and show off to people who were unfamiliar with the
traditions. She pointed to her own children, who were born and raised here, as
examples of those interested in learning about their culture.

''This is heritage,'' Ms. Gomez said. ''Maybe when they go to Mexico, they will
know something about it and see what our parents passed on.''

For three hours the groups alternated performing onstage. They showed off their
elaborate costumes and footwork, and the audience cheered with an occasional
shout of ''grito,'' a festive cry. Ms. Ramirez's dancers arrived in a school bus
from the Bronx because their group is so large. Onstage, they shimmied faster,
twirled wider and stomped louder.

Afterward they were exhausted. They were also exhilarated because Ms. Ramirez
said they had not made any mistakes. Their next performance is next month.
Instead of taking a break in their rehearsal schedule, they will use the time to
learn a new routine.

''Every day, we learn something different,'' Ms. Ramirez said. ''Every time we
learn something new, we learn something new about the culture.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Folklorico festivals attract many Mexican immigrants, whose
numbers in New York are growing.
Members of a ballet folklorico troupe performing traditional dance in a recent
festival at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church in East Harlem.
 Maria Partida, left, and her sister, Denise, dancers having their hair done in
preparation for the St. Paul's performance. (Photographs by Hiroyuki Ito for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Changing Nation, Smith Is Still King

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 491 words


IMMIGRATION is changing America's face, but not necessarily its name. When the
Census Bureau unveils its list of most common surnames later this year, Smith is
expected to remain in first place, as it has for at least half a century.

''Smith is the ultimate catchall for linguistic naturalization,'' Justin Kaplan
and Anne Bernays wrote in ''The Language of Names.'' ''It takes in Schmidt,
Schmitt, Schmitz, Smed, Szmyt, Schmeider, Smidnovic, Seppanen, Fevre, Kalvaitis,
Kovars, Haddad, McGowan, and other variants that in their original language mean
someone who works with metal.''

Many foreigners were given the name by immigration officials when they arrived
or legally adopted it themselves to sound more American. In addition, millions
of Americans named Smith are blacks, descendants of slaves who took their
masters' name.

Still, the new list, drawn from the 2000 census, is expected to include Hispanic
surnames among the top 10 for the first time. (In 1990, Garcia, Martinez and
Rodriguez were among the top 25.)

Nationwide, Jose, the most common non-Anglo-Saxon first name among newborns,
ranked 28th last year, about where it was in 1990. But since 1997, it has been
the most popular name for boys born in Texas (it ranked fourth in 1990). Jose
ranked second in Arizona and fourth in California, where, for the first time
since the late 1850's, a majority of newborns are Hispanic.

Anecdotal evidence suggests that ethnic first names endure for a generation at
most. ''People are very conservative when it comes to surnames,'' Mr. Kaplan,
the author, said, ''and very inventive when it comes to first names.''

In Texas, the top five names among Hispanic boys born in 2002 included Daniel,
Jonathan, David and Christopher; the top five for girls were Ashley, Jennifer,
Emily, Samantha and Maria. In New York City, the top names for newborn Hispanics
were Justin, Christopher, Kevin, Anthony and Brandon for boys and Ashley,
Jennifer, Emily, Brianna and Samantha for girls.

The potential for more non-Anglo-Saxon last names among the most common is
growing. In 1980, nearly three in four Americans said their families were
originally German, English or Irish.

By 2000, according to a new analysis, the proportion who said their families
hailed from those countries had dwindled to about one in three.

For the first time, more Americans now describe their ancestry as African or
African-American than English, more as Mexican than Italian and nearly as many
Vietnamese as Cuban. But no group grew more in the 1990's than those who
described their ancestry only as ''American'' -- up to 20 million in 2000 from
12 million in 1990.

What's an American, anyway? The census relies mostly on self-identification,
which seems fitting since America itself is named for an Italian explorer who
became a Spanish citizen, whose last name has been largely forgotten and whose
given name was, well, Americanized.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Missionaries Reverse a Path Taken for Generations

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; New York, Prime
Conversion Ground; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2016 words


The Church of the Pentecost has been a hard sell for the Rev. Andrews Donkor.

It seems that the three-and-a-half-hour services, colorful African dress and
exuberant clapping and singing are not drawing many of the non-African New
Yorkers whose souls he wants to save. Few have joined the church in the past two
years.

But Mr. Donkor, 38, from Ghana, is undaunted in his mission. ''I believe if you
don't enjoy, you can't do it,'' he said softly in a recent interview at his
church, just north of Central Park on West 110th Street.

Mr. Donkor is one of a recent generation of religious men and women who see New
York City as prime conversion ground. Missionaries with a twist, they are
reversing the path that for generations has sent Americans and Europeans to
Africa, Asia and Latin America to convert the local people to Christianity.
Instead, these envoys are traveling to New York to evangelize their compatriots
as well as to convert members of other immigrant groups.

They include people like Darcy Caires, a Brazilian Presbyterian pastor who is
helping to establish a multiethnic church in Astoria, Queens; Joel Magallan, a
Jesuit brother from Mexico who has become one of the city's best known advocates
for Mexican immigrants; and Jae Joon Lee, a Methodist minister who came from
Seoul 20 years ago to study and was quickly drafted to lead or found Korean
congregations in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York State.

Such emissaries are drawn to the city's vast and growing ethnic populations, to
its reputation as a salvation-needy capital of sin, to its status as a major
metropolis. Tony Carnes, a sociologist of religion who directs a seminar on
immigration at Columbia University, has identified the reverse missionary
phenomenon; he calls it the Sinatra-ian effect. ''There's an idea that if you
can make it in New York, you can make it anywhere, and if you can make it for
your faith, your faith can make it anywhere,'' he said. Many of these messengers
come from cultures that were themselves the objects of 19th- and early
20th-century European or American missionaries, who combined hospital building
with church building, often adding a dose of what they considered a civilizing
influence.

Like their earlier counterparts, they preach in public (on street corners, in
some cases), establish churches, help educate and try to improve lives.

In the background is a larger movement in Christianity that has been identified
by many scholars: a shift in vitality from the Northern to the Southern
hemisphere.

''Wherever there's vitality, there's a tendency to 'missionize,''' said Donald
E. Miller, director of the Center for Religion and Civic Culture at the
University of Southern California. ''That's where this reverse missionary
phenomenon is coming from, this perception that the Northern Hemisphere,
particularly in the West, is in need of the Christian Gospel.''

Sometimes, the new ethnic missionaries also have a cultural mission, but in this
case it is to reinforce the culture of home. Like traditional missionaries, they
help care for the people in their communities, but usually that care takes the
form of English classes and help with immigration paperwork, instead of clinics
and schoolrooms in the bush.

''A lot of religious leaders who come here are in a sense 'remissionizing' their
people, who have loosened their faith,'' said Matthew Weiner, director of
programming at the Interfaith Center of New York. ''It is maintaining and
deepening that group's tie to their religion.''

Others, like Mr. Donkor, are trying to branch out. The Church of the Pentecost,
the largest Pentecostal denomination in Ghana, has 57 churches in the United
States, including 5 in New York City. In 2000, the church established the
Pentecost International Worship Center, between Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
Boulevard and Lenox Avenue on West 110th Street, specifically to reach out to
non-Ghanaians. Mr. Donkor was put in charge two years ago and has increased the
congregation to 165 from about 135.

''It all started like in the Acts of the Apostles,'' Mr. Donkor said, ''where
people traveled to bring the Gospels to foreign lands. That's what we are doing
with our own people, with the hope to bring this to indigenous Americans and
other nationals who come to the U.S.''

Scores of other African pastors have done the same; African immigrant
congregations have rapidly increased in New York over the past 15 years, with
more than 100 new ones.

Most of Mr. Donkor's congregants are Ghanaian, but they also include a number of
Francophone Africans, from Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast, as well as a smattering
of Latinos and African-Americans.

To make the services more inviting, he has shortened them by an hour and allows
men and women to sit together, unlike the more traditional arrangements in the
Church of the Pentecost. And unlike other pastors of the Church of the Pentecost
here, he preaches in English, not one of Ghana's languages.

Mr. Donkor says that more outsiders might be attracted to the church if there
were more congregants in Western-style dress, but he does not want to impose a
dress code. The congregation meets in a building that belongs to Seventh-day
Adventists. The lack of their own church building is another drawback in
attracting outsiders, he said.

Tradition is strictly adhered to in some respects at the Pentecost International
Worship Center: the church's precepts, like a ban on alcohol, tobacco,
premarital sex and same-sex marriage; and its practices, including speaking in
tongues, the laying on of hands, and baptism by immersion.

Dale T. Irvin, professor of world theology at New York Theological Seminary,
said that ethnic missionaries were ''shifting significantly the North American
theological spectrum.''

''They tend,'' he said, ''to be much more conservative on social issues.''

Two weeks ago was revival time at Mr. Donkor's center, where there were daily
sessions of prayer and praise. At a session during the day, there were a
half-dozen people, but the evening meetings are better attended. ''The Lord will
set you free!'' the pastor proclaimed, as a small boy in a Kobe Bryant jersey
ran through the aisles clutching a sippy cup.

The only worshiper not from a recent African immigrant family was Georgina
Verley, 28, an African-American from the Morrisania section of the Bronx. She
said she was a member of the large, interdenominational Times Square Church, but
was brought to center prayer sessions by a couple for whom she works, providing
rehabilitative services for their child.

Ms. Verley stayed quiet while the others sang a chorus typically found in
Ghanaian churches and she sat out a babble of glossolalia, speaking in tongues.
But she said the church's small size, its welcoming atmosphere, the cohesion of
the Ghanaians and ''the spirit of the people'' drew her to it. She said she was
leaning toward joining permanently, ''if that's what God's plan is.''

The other great ethnic church engine in New York City is the Korean population.
Several hundred Korean churches dot the boroughs, and have become a major center
of social services and cultural continuity, said Wontae Cha, a professor of
ministry at New York Theological Seminary.

Jae Joon Lee was a minister with the independent Korean Methodist Church when,
in 1985, he left Seoul to study theology at Emory University in Atlanta. A
bishop from the United Methodist Church, a sister to the Korean branch, quickly
tapped him to start a Korean congregation in West Paterson, N.J. He arrived at
the United Methodist Korean Church of Astoria, at 30-44 Crescent Street, by way
of pastoral positions in Buffalo; Stamford, Conn.; and Livingston, N.J.

Competition for Korean congregants can be fierce, he said. He sends church
members out to distribute fliers in Korean markets in Queens and advertises in
Korean-language newspapers. The flow in and out of the neighborhood keeps his
congregation changing. To serve different generations, he offers services in
Korean and English. The church provides English classes for recent arrivals, and
Korean classes for immigrant children.

''I'm trying to be a bridge builder, in a broader sense, between cultures,
between languages, even between generations,'' he said. ''I see myself as a
domestic missionary, because traditionally missionaries go to another country. I
do this for my people.''

Some reverse missionaries follow their people, like Pastor Darcy Caires, a
Presbyterian who came from Brazil to build up churches for Brazilians in the New
York area.

Mr. Caires was pastor at one of the oldest Presbyterian churches in Brazil,
founded in Sao Paulo in 1859 by the American missionary Ashbel Green Simonton,
who brought the denomination to the country. In 1988, Mr. Caires came to the
United States. ''Since when I was a child, I had a dream to live in America, to
be here,'' he said. He assisted at a church in Newark, and moved on to establish
the Presbyterian Christian Community church for Brazilians in Mineola, on Long
Island, building the congregation to about 80 people.

''My goal was to share the Gospel, to make them have an opportunity to decide
what they wanted in life,'' he said, ''but at the same time to introduce them to
a new culture in America and to comfort them.''

Two years ago, he and David Ellis established the Astoria Community Church,
which is affiliated with the Presbyterian Church in America, the more
evangelical branch of the denomination.

The idea in Astoria, Mr. Caires said, was to create a cross-cultural church,
bringing in people from the Queens ethnic cauldron. About 20 nations are
represented in the small congregation, which meets in space rented from a
synagogue, at 27-35 Crescent Street. The church is beginning its social mission
with programs in English.

''We have a long way to go,'' he said, ''but God has been good in terms of
differences, people from different places coming in and feeling welcome.''

On the other end of the spectrum is Joel Magallan, the Jesuit brother from
Mexico.

The American Roman Catholic Church, of course, has always been an immigrant
church, with a long tradition of immigrant priests ministering to ethnic blocs.
In New York, Mexicans constitute a recent Catholic wave. The Archdiocese of New
York welcomed Brother Magallan nine years ago to serve them. He established the
Tepeyac Association, an immigrants' rights organization that takes its name from
a hill in Mexico where a vision of the Virgin of Guadalupe was reported.
Cardinal John O'Connor provided a former convent, on 14th Street off Eighth
Avenue, for the group's use, and Catholic Charities provided financing.

In a warren of offices, Mexican newcomers -- mostly from the Mixteca
Indian-speaking region of Oaxaca, Guerrero and Puebla -- can learn about
computers, or take English and G.E.D. classes. They receive counseling and legal
help. Tepeyac runs a summer soccer program for children and gathers their
parents into workshops on the sidelines.

A Jesuit university in Guadalajara, known as Iteso ( for the Instituto
Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores de Occidente), supplies young interns who
often take on staff positions.

Inside the Tepeyac building, there is little evidence of a religious mission
except for a large statue of the Madonna in a hallway. Volunteers visit Mexican
households in the city to lead families in prayers. Mexican Catholics venerate
the Virgin of Guadalupe, and one of the association's major activities is the
relay of a torch from Mexico City to St. Patrick's Cathedral in her honor.

Brother Magallan was studying for a master's degree in education at Loyola
University in Chicago when a group of priests from the New York Archdiocese
asked him to visit and study the needs of a rising number of Mexican immigrants
in the mid-1990's. He came and he stayed.

''We thought that it was a kind of mission for us to come here to the City of
New York instead of going to Africa or Latin America or some poor place,'' he
said. ''Every Jesuit has to be a missionary. Our place is any place where we
have something to do to serve our people.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2004



CORRECTION: A picture caption on July 11 about missionaries who see New York
City as prime conversion ground misidentified the man laying hands on a
congregant's face. He was Samuel Owusu, an elder at the Pentecost International
Worship Center in Harlem, not its pastor, the Rev. Andrews Donkor.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Brother Joel Magallan founded the Tepeyac Association, an
outreach group named for a Mexican hill where a vision of the Virgin of
Guadalupe was reported.
The Rev. Andrews Donkor of the Church of the Pentecost, Ghana's largest
Pentecostal denomination, laying hands on a congregant in Manhattan.
(Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 29)
 Exuberant singing and clapping are drawing few non-African New Yorkers to the
Church of the Pentecost. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 32)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant, a Terrorist List and a Day Trip Gone Wrong

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 641 words


At 12:01 Thursday morning, Irfan Ahmed, a 35-year-old Indian immigrant living in
Forest Hills, Queens, left on a bus to Montreal for a whirlwind visa renewal
tour. His plan was to arrive at the United States Consulate for his 8:30 a.m.
appointment, wait for his paperwork, then take the 4:15 home to New York and be
back at his city job the next day. He had done it twice before, with no glitch.

But yesterday, four days later, Mr. Ahmed was still in Montreal, hoping to clear
up an apparent case of mistaken identity after his name came up as a match on a
government watch list. That delayed the renewal of his work visa, which can be
issued immediately only by an American consulate in a foreign country.

At the consulate, a visa officer handed him a letter that stated, ''Please be
aware that this review may take one month or more to complete,'' and he was
advised not to leave Montreal.

His story is hardly extreme -- he was not thrown in jail, just stranded in a
French-speaking city that he barely knows but that is home to the foreign
American consulate that is closest to New York.

He is exasperated and panicked, however, to be away from work as a computer
consultant for the city's Human Resources Administration and to miss classes at
Mercy College, where he is studying education.

''What's the big deal having a name Irfan Ahmed?'' he said in a phone interview.
The name is common among South Asian Muslims. ''Everyone has this name. Irfan
Ahmed is like John Smith.''

To Monami Maulik, the director of Desis Rising Up and Moving, a South Asian
immigrant group in Queens where Mr. Ahmed volunteers, it is distressingly
unsurprising.

''What's happening with Irfan is something that's happening pretty frequently
since Sept. 11, especially to Muslim men like him,'' she said. His problem seems
particularly ironic, she said, because of his volunteer work for her
organization and for the Internal Revenue Service, where he helps low-income
residents file tax returns. (To make matters worse, he could have simply filed
the renewal application by mail, but he said he thought that would take too
long.)

On Thursday, when the visa officer told him that his name was on a terrorist
watch list, he smiled knowingly, he said. This had happened before, at Kennedy
International Airport, in 2002. Officials there told him that an Irfan Ahmed who
also had a mother named Begum (in fact, a respectful form of address for women
in Urdu and Hindi) was on a watch list.

He said he had joked with the officers that he could prove his identity by
showing them an unusual scar on his buttocks, burned in a lentil-splattering
pressure-cooker incident in India when he was 5. He was released in a few hours.

Gary Sheaffer, an officer at the United States Consulate in Montreal, said over
the weekend that in some cases, waits are inevitable. ''Sometimes the name is
incomplete, sometimes it's an exact match, and you've got to find out if that
person is the same person,'' he said.

Mr. Ahmed said he told the visa officer about the 2002 airport incident, and
could not believe that State Department officials would not clear him by simply
looking up those records. ''We're the No. 1 country in the world, and this is
acceptable?'' he said. ''This is their own inefficiency.''

His stay in Montreal began with a flurry of phone calls on a dying cellphone.
Someone in New York found him a temporary home in the one-bedroom apartment of a
sympathetic Pakistani named Arshad, where he has slept since.

The incident has been a lesson for Mr. Ahmed's sister Mahmooda Farooqi, who also
lives in Forest Hills and who teaches high school chemistry in Manhattan. She
also must soon renew her visa, and said she would take the mail-in option. A bus
trip to Montreal is out of the question.

''Never ever,'' she said. ''I don't want to crucify myself like this.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2004



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about an Indian immigrant from Queens who went
to Montreal to renew his work visa and became stranded there, because his name
matched one on a terrorist watch list, referred incorrectly to an alternative
application process he could have used. Starting tomorrow, the State Department
will no longer accept mail-in applications; work visas can be renewed only
abroad, at United States consulates or embassies.





GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials at the United States Consulate in Montreal advised
Irfan Ahmed, an Indian immigrant who lives in Queens, not to leave the city.
(Photo by Robert J. Galbraith for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 14, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's Latino Parents Speaking Out On Bilingual Education Failures

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman.

E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1075 words


ON a sultry night in late June, when the school term was nearly over, two dozen
parents gathered in a church basement in Brooklyn to talk about what a waste the
year had been. Immigrants from Mexico and the Dominican Republic, raising their
children in the battered neighborhood of Bushwick, they were the people
bilingual education supposedly serves. Instead, one after the other, they
condemned a system that consigned their children to a linguistic ghetto, cut off
from the United States of integration and upward mobility.

These parents were not gadflies and chronic complainers. Patient and quiet, the
women clad in faded shifts, the men shod in oil-stained work boots, they exuded
the aura of people reluctant to challenge authority, perhaps because they
ascribed wisdom to people with titles, or perhaps because they feared
retribution.

With the ballast of one another's company, however, they spoke. Gregorio Ortega
spoke about how his son Geraldo, born right here in New York, had been abruptly
transferred into a bilingual class at P.S. 123 after spending his first four
school years learning in English. Irene De Leon spoke of her daughter being
placed in a bilingual section at P.S. 123 despite having done her first year and
a half of school in English when the family lived in Queens. Benerita Salsedo
wondered aloud why, after four years in the bilingual track at P.S. 145 in
Bushwick, her son Alberto still had not moved into English classes. Her two
other children were also stuck in bilingual limbo.

''I'm very angry,'' Ms. Salsedo said in Spanish through an interpreter. ''The
school is supposed to do what's best for the kids. The school puts my kids'
education in danger, because everything is in English here.''

And the children had no trouble expressing their own frustration lucidly enough
in English. ''I ask the teacher all the time if I can be in English class,''
said Alberto, a 9-year-old who will enter sixth grade in the fall. ''The teacher
just says no.'' For the time being, Alberto added, he learns English by watching
the Cartoon Network.

Listening to this litany, I experienced the sensation that Yogi Berra memorably
called ''deja vu all over again.'' Five years earlier, in the rectory of another
church only a few blocks away, another group of immigrant parents voiced the
identical complaints about bilingual education -- that the public schools
shunted Latino children into it even if those pupils had been born in the United
States and previously educated in English, and that once the child was in the
bilingual track it was almost impossible to get out. An association of Bushwick
parents, virtually all of them Hispanic immigrants, had gone as far as suing in
State Supreme Court in a futile attempt to reform the bilingual program in local
schools.

Back then, the school system's many critics ascribed the bilingual fiasco in
Bushwick largely to the failed policy of decentralization. What ''community
control'' meant then in Bushwick was a school district dominated by the
neighborhood's City Council member, Victor Robles ( now the city clerk). School
jobs, including those in bilingual education, were patronage plums.

For years, bilingual education coasted along on its perception as a virtual
civil right for Hispanics. Maybe such a reputation was deserved 30 years ago,
when the Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund sued and won a consent decree requiring
that New York City offer bilingual education. But as the innovation hardened
into an orthodoxy, and as a sort of employment niche grew for bilingual
educators and bureaucrats, the idealistic veneer began to wear away.

The grievances of Bushwick's parents point at an overlooked truth. The foes of
bilingual education, at least as practiced in New York, are not Eurocentric
nativists but Spanish-speaking immigrants who struggled to reach the United
States and struggle still at low-wage jobs to stay here so that their children
can acquire and rise with an American education, very much including fluency in
English.

As a candidate for mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg assailed the status quo in
bilingual education and called for its replacement with English-immersion
classes. His pledge rested on firm ground. Reports commissioned by Chancellor
Ramon Cortines in 1994 and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in 2000 concluded that
children qualified for mainstream classes more rapidly coming from English as a
Second Language programs than from bilingual ones. E.S.L. classes take place
largely in English; bilingual education in the students' native language.

With decentralization dismantled in 2002 and a hand-picked school chancellor
installed the next year, Mayor Bloomberg seemingly backed away. Diana Lam, the
top aide to Chancellor Joel I. Klein until her ouster, was both a product and
proponent of traditional bilingualism. The mayor now emphasizes improving the
existing bilingual program, despite its demonstrable shortcomings.

WITH Ms. Lam gone, perhaps the mayor and Mr. Klein can fulfill their erstwhile
pledges. Carmen Farina, the new deputy chancellor, yesterday promised
large-scale reforms beginning next September. What she means by that is not
junking bilingual education or even curtailing its use as much as improving
teacher training and incorporating clear performance standards and oversight.
Yet the Department of Education already has a highly successful model of E.S.L.
instruction in two existing high schools, Bronx International and La Guardia
International.

''Bushwick is a test case of how bilingual programs are actually being
implemented,'' said Michael Gecan, a national organizer for the Industrial Areas
Foundation, which has worked closely with parents there for more than a decade.
''We have great confidence in Klein. We've found him to be very responsive and
very aggressive. But we've been concerned about the bilingual effort. This is a
large vestige of the old school culture. It remains in the system. And it's
intensively guarded by the local politicians and the teachers' union.''

In one respect, though, the bilingual program in Bushwick did subscribe to the
English-immersion approach. Parent after parent in the church basement last
month remembered receiving, and then naively signing, a letter from school that
apparently constituted their agreement to having a child put into bilingual
classes. The letter, recalled these Spanish-speaking parents, was written only
in English.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 15, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Group Helps U.S. Jews Move to Israel

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: LOD, Israel, July 14


With immigration to Israel down sharply in recent years, a charter flight
delivered nearly 400 new arrivals from the United States and Canada on Wednesday
as part of an expanding program that has been luring middle-class Jews from
North America.

In a sweltering ceremony that filled a huge hanger at Ben-Gurion International
Airport, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and two of his cabinet ministers greeted
the immigrants moments after they stepped off an El Al jumbo jet from Kennedy
Airport in New York.

''We have to bring hundreds of thousands of Jews from America to Israel,'' Mr.
Sharon said. ''We need them here. It is important for you. It is important for
us.''

The immigrants are among 1,500 from the United States and Canada, almost a third
of them from New York State, who are arriving this summer under the sponsorship
of a private group, Nefesh B'Nefesh, or ''soul to soul.''

North American Jews, most of whom are comfortably middle-class at home, have
traditionally migrated to Israel in small numbers, averaging 3,000 to 5,000
annually for the last quarter-century, according to Israeli government figures.

But Nefesh B'Nefesh is seeking to raise those figures substantially. In its
first try, the group brought in just over 500 immigrants in the summer of 2002.
More than 1,000 came last year, despite the continuing Middle East violence and
an Israel economy that was just beginning to crawl out of a recession.

Dr. Jonathan Paley, an orthodontist from Cedarhurst, N.Y., on Long Island,
landed with his wife, Sarah, and their five children, ages 11 years to 4 months.

Dr. Paley, 33, will quickly settle his family in Jerusalem and then commute to
New York for two weeks each month to keep working at his old practice until he
can establish himself in Israel.

''It's not easy, but this is something very important to all of us,'' Dr. Paley
said. ''I first came to Israel when I was 11, and I've been dreaming about this
ever since.''

The immigrants said the violence in the Middle East was not a deterrent to
immigrating, and in some cases it motivated them to show solidarity with Israel
during a time of turmoil. Most of the young men will be required to perform
military service.

''At some point I expect to serve in the army, which I'll do gladly,'' said
Jason Silberman, 25, who was living in Queens and working at a Manhattan law
firm.

While the new arrivals cited personal reasons for coming, the immigration issue
is also linked to the demographic battle between Israelis and Palestinians.

In the combined areas of Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Jews
outnumber Arabs by about 5.4 million to 4.9 million, according to figures from
the Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority. But the Arab birthrate is
significantly higher, and under the current trends, Arabs will outnumber Jews
within the next 10 to 20 years, according to demographers.

Israel's Jewish population rose with a wave of immigration that began in 1990 as
the Soviet Union was collapsing. A year earlier, Israel had just 24,000
immigrants. In 1990, a record 200,000 came, the vast majority from the Soviet
Union.

Immigration has fallen in recent years, because many Jews in economically
distressed countries, like the former Soviet republics and Ethiopia, have
already left. Last year, immigration fell below 25,000, hitting a 15-year low.

This year's crop of North American immigrants comes from 33 states and 4
Canadian provinces, and 98 percent of the families have at least one member with
an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.

''We promise we are going to bring many more planes in the future,'' said Rabbi
Yehoshua Fass, one of the leaders of Nefesh B'Nefesh.

Many will be living in Jerusalem or Beit Shemesh, about 20 miles to the west. At
least a few new immigrants will be moving to Jewish settlements in the West
Bank, a practice that strikes a nerve among Palestinians.

In recent years, new immigrants from India, Peru and elsewhere have been placed
in West Bank settlements on their arrival. On Thursday, 50 French families will
be arriving and moving to the West Bank while studying Hebrew,  the newspaper
Yediot Aharonot reported.

The Middle East peace plan known as the road map calls for Israel to suspend
''all settlement activity.'' Israel has interpreted this to mean that the
development of existing settlements is permissible.

The Palestinians call for the dismantling of all settlements, which have been
built in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip on land that Israel captured in the
Arab-Israeli war of 1967. The Palestinians want those territories for a future
state.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After arriving yesterday at Ben-Gurion Airport with his wife,
Pnina, and their four children, Nachum Eilberg, from Baltimore, held a Torah he
brought along. They are going to settle in Kochav Yaakov on the West Bank.
(Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 18, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An American Life, Please. To Go, and Fast.

BYLINE: By THOMAS STAUDTER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1934 words


AUTO repair shops, landscaping companies, clothing boutiques, grocery stores:
many county businesses have living evidence of family ownership -- as in
children -- helping on the premises or driving the truck. The presence of
offspring, after all, is mutually beneficial: They learn life lessons and the
parents get extra assistance.

But how many poor immigrant children working in their parents' shops grow up to
hold high-powered positions at I.B.M., as Peggy Chan does? A 28-year-old
financial analyst who now lives in Pittsburgh, Ms. Chan spent her youth at the
Magic Wok in Pleasantville and recently took 10 days off work to run it during
her parents' absence.

Although she described working for her parents, Alice and Man Keung Chan, as a
great exercise in learning self-discipline, Ms. Chan said: ''I also feel like I
missed out on part of my childhood. I started really helping out at the
restaurant when I was in sixth grade, and was there about 30 hours a week by the
time I was in high school.''

Conversely, how many shopkeepers -- even fairly recent immigrants -- do business
here without even a rudimentary knowledge of English, as Zihe and Huizhen Zhang
do? Owners of the New China Kitchen in Ossining, the Zhangs came to America 16
years ago but still rely entirely on the translation skills of their three
children, Emily, Steve and Kevin -- without whom there would be no customer
contact, and certainly no orders for General Tso's Chicken.

Through his daughter, Emily, who interpreted from the Fukienese dialect, Mr.
Zhang explained recently: ''It's expected that our children would be here to
help us, and there's really nothing else we can do, because we have to make a
living. If we had to hire more employees, we wouldn't make enough to stay
open.''

In the Chans, the Zhangs and other Chinese immigrant families serving up food at
the more than 200 restaurants and takeouts throughout the county, experts see
the American Dream of upward mobility being achieved more rapidly than in other
groups, yet with a greater degree of interdependence.

The business's very survival may depend on the involvement of the children, for
example, demanding long hours and years of personal sacrifice. Yet these
children end up with the benefit of a disciplined work ethic and, often academic
success and a promising career -- backed, of course, by proceeds from the
restaurant.

''The kind of discipline and work ethic that Chinese children develop when they
participate in the family business will always help them later on, no matter
what field they go into,'' said Bob Chow, past president of the
Westchester/Mid-Hudson Valley Chapter of the Organization of Chinese-Americans
and a former board chairman of the Chinese-American Academic and Professional
Society.

''There are no clear statistics,'' Mr. Chow added, ''but when you look at the
top high school graduates in the county, you probably see a lot of Asian faces,
and these kids are then going on to selective universities.

''Or look at the number of Asians in the Westchester Youth Symphony. Parents are
pushing their children at a very young age because they see a lot of
opportunities here in the U.S. compared to where they've come from, and they
want their kids to have the right attitude to succeed from the start.'' But a
wish to give the children the right attitude isn't the only reason Chinese
immigrant parents have them at work.

''The competition in this business is never ending,'' Ms. Chan said, ''and the
margins just aren't that great. You make all your money on turnover -- lots of
takeout, and table after table.''

And because Chinese restaurants stand as popular family dining destinations, she
noted, normally big profit generators like wine and liquor don't contribute
much.

''Having to hire someone who can speak English means paying a larger salary, and
that's what keeps these kinds of business family-run for the most part,''
explained Ms. Chan. ''Parents take an attitude that they work hard to raise
their children, so the children should help them in return.''

Another factor in the equation is that so many young would-be immigrants in
China, born into grinding poverty, are trained as cooks for lack of any other
saleable skill. Both Mr. Zhang and Mr. Chan followed that path, the latter
calling it ''the best way for an immigrant to find a job over here.''

Both families work at that job 364 days a year. They have Thanksgiving Day off.
And their similarities don't end there.

Each has three children: a daughter followed by two sons. Both daughters have
prestigious careers, Emily Zhang's as a software developer for Morgan Stanley.

The Chan and Zhang sons have followed comparable achievement patterns as well,
although the Chan family arrived 13 years earlier so has had more time to
thrive.

That prosperity is borne out in the fortunes of Wei Chan, the youngest child.
The salutatorian of Pleasantville High School's class of 2002, he attended
classes at the Northern Westchester Chinese School every Saturday for 12 years.
Two years ago he was accepted at Harvard (for a while, his acceptance letter was
on the restaurant wall).

But he instead chose M.I.T., where he studies chemical engineering and physics.
This summer Mr. Chan, 20, is taking part in a 10-weeklong internship program at
Merck Pharmaceuticals in Philadelphia.

In a telephone interview, he said he enjoyed working at the Magic Wok, even
though he had never been paid for his efforts, which ''took up most of my free
time'' and left him without much social life.

He pointed out that his parents are paying the bulk of his college tuition,
''and that's a lot of money.''

''We're a pretty close family, and probably would have been still even if we
hadn't owned the restaurant,'' said Mr. Chan. ''Along with the expectations that
were placed on us children came respect; we were treated like young adults early
on.''

The youngest Zhang son, Kevin, 22, behaves with similar motivation but has in
some ways had a harder time. At 17 he dropped out of high school to help his
parents at the restaurant. Three years later he went back and earned a Regents
diploma. Now studying conveniently nearby at Pace University in Pleasantville,
he has recently shifted his major to accounting from computer engineering.

''I don't see that I have any choices for myself until after graduation from
college,'' Mr. Zhang said, adding that even then, if his parents needed him, he
would continue helping them at the restaurant.

The middle sons in each family have seemingly been less driven. Jason Chan never
liked coming to the restaurant when he was younger, said his mother, who added,
''He always wanted to stay home and play instead.''

Mr. Chan, 24, studied graphic design and took some community college courses. He
is now weighing whether he should make a career of managing the Magic Wok for
his parents.

''I haven't decided what I'm going to do yet,'' he said with a wry smile.

As for Steve Zhang, he is awaiting the results of the New York Police Department
officer's test, which he took on June 12. An admittedly lackadaisical student at
Ossining High School, Mr. Zhang, now 24, spent more time helping his parents
than attending classes. He never graduated, but at 18 received his G.E.D.

IT has been 10 years since Peggy Chan regularly worked at the Magic Wok; what
was hardest about her high school years, Ms. Chan recalled, was being at the
restaurant when ''everyone else was dating and hanging out.''

Nonetheless, she said: ''I saw my parents working so hard, and it felt perfectly
natural to want to help them. That's part of the old-fashioned Chinese values
ingrained in me, I guess. A sense of duty to my family.''

She cut back her involvement at the restaurant once she began her business
administration studies at Pace --purposely close by so she wouldn't be gone too
long with the family's lone sedan.

On a recent evening, though, as she was heading out to dinner with a friend from
I.B.M., she stopped by the Magic Wok to say hello to her parents. When her
mother stepped away momentarily from the command module at the front of the
restaurant, Ms. Chan, without missing a beat, answered the phone and took a
takeout order, which she sent via computer back to the kitchen, and then rang up
a customer's dinner check on the register.

At the New China Kitchen in Ossining, the Zhangs' day begins about 11 a.m.,
although Mr. Zhang usually walks over earlier to begin making the sauces he uses
to prepare the meals. The family works until around midnight.

Early on a Saturday evening when many of her professional peers at Morgan
Stanley may have been dining out, Emily Zhang was unconsciously showing off her
multitasking skills behind the counter.

A takeout order was ready. Ms. Zhang was loading the containers of food into a
small shopping bag and double-checking the order while totaling it all up on the
register -- all while talking on the phone with a customer and filling out
another order on a printed menu sheet.

Two men walked in and approached the counter to order their dinners; Ms. Zhang
spun around and, in Fukienese, sharply called out the main entrees of the phone
order to the restaurant's two cooks, her father and a family friend named Chung.

As if on cue, Steve and Kevin Zhang appeared at the counter to lend a hand. For
the next several minutes the three siblings, in close proximity, executed a
ballet sequence of tasks.

Steve, just back from making a delivery across town, jotted down one of the
men's orders and slid it over to his sister, who was filling yet another brown
bag with food and condiments -- while Kevin, having heard the orders, rolled
back a few feet to drop chicken into the frying baskets and check on pork spare
ribs sizzling under the broiler.

Kevin then returned to the back of the kitchen to help prepare food for his
father, as Steve scooted out to the family's badly dented car for another
delivery. Four diners at one table finished their meals and disappeared out the
front door, and suddenly, like an apparition, Huizhen Zhang was there to clear
the trays and dishes, wipe tables clean and refill napkin canisters.

Another customer walked in to place a takeout order: egg rolls and dumplings;
Szechuan Beef, Moo Shu Pork and General Tso's Chicken. Emily yelled back the
customer's order over the din of noise from the kitchen's ventilation fans.

What else would she be doing on a Saturday night? These are siblings who have
never had a weekend off, let alone been to a beach or a camp.

''No boyfriends,'' Ms. Zhang explained in answer to a question. ''I haven't
found anyone who can keep up with me yet.''

Ms. Zhang's success in the business world has enabled the family to buy a house
in Ossining, and she is also paying the boys' college tuitions.

''They probably think I'm too bossy,'' she said of her brothers, whom she
trained over the years to run the front of the restaurant.

ON the rare half-days they have off from school or the restaurant, the Zhang
brothers take turns traveling to the Chinatown in Flushing, Queens, for special
pastries and other delicacies as well as videotapes of Chinese television
dramas. (Flushing is much more appealing than Chinatown in Manhattan, which they
described as ''smelly and too crowded.'')

But it's not often that anyone feels like watching television at the end of the
night's work, according to Mr. Zhang.

As for Mrs. Zhang, when she was asked how she would feel when (or if) her
children embarked on careers away from the restaurant, she answered, through her
daughter, ''It's too far away for me to think about it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Chans, minus one, at the Magic Wok in Pleasantville. From
left: Alice
Man Keung
Peggy
and Jason. The children are living proof that speedier upward mobility often
comes at great personal cost. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York
Times)(pg. 1)
The Zhang family, minus two, at the New China Kitchen in Ossining. From left:
Huizhen, who speaks no English
Kevin
and Emily, whose job at Morgan Stanley has helped the family buy a house and
paid her brothers' college tuition. Above, Man Keung Chan in his element behind
the scenes at the Magic Wok. Trained in cooking before his arrival from China,
he called it ''the best way for an immigrant to find a job over here.''
 Peggy Chan, a financial analyst at I.B.M., slips seamlessly back into her role
as the Magic Wok's manager. Steve Zhang rushes hot takeout to the family car.
(Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hispanic Electorate With Many Variations

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: NEW MEXICO; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 1630 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE


The crowd was cheering wildly as John Kerry, John Edwards and their spouses
danced around one another on the open-air stage at the National Hispanic
Cultural Center. Then Teresa Heinz Kerry took her turn at the microphone and
said, ''I am an immigrant, too,'' clearly making a bid for the many Hispanics in
the audience.

This time the applause was lukewarm and there was some head-shaking; many
Hispanic families have been in New Mexico for generations and some take a dim
view of immigrants.

''You know what the problem is with this state?'' said Erlindo Castillo, a
librarian in Santa Fe, in an interview afterward. ''Too many Mexicans.''

''They come here for the free services and to take our jobs, and then they send
all the money back across the border,'' said Ms. Castillo, an American flag in
one hand, a Kerry poster in the other.

With a population of just 1.8 million people spread across 121,666 square miles,
New Mexico has the largest percentage of Hispanic residents -- 42 percent -- of
any state. And at a time when both major political parties are struggling to
attract Hispanics, who make up the country's fastest-growing voter demographic,
New Mexico is prized as a laboratory for how to get that done.

Indeed, that experiment may well hold the key to this year's presidential
election in this swing state.

So despite its mere five electoral votes, New Mexico has become a focus of both
parties. President Bush and Senator Kerry have both been here several times this
year, and Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards included the state in their first joint
campaign swing.

The commercials on New Mexico television started almost as soon as the primaries
wound down. Between March 13 and early June, the Bush campaign spent $883,538 on
them, compared with $829,224 for the Kerry campaign and about a half-million
dollars more for Democratic-leaning political groups.

Recently, both the Kerry and Bush campaigns announced a round of
Spanish-language advertising to run in key states, including New Mexico.

But courting Hispanics is complicated and nuanced in a state where some families
of Spanish heritage trace their lineage back to the 17th and 18 centuries and
others are more recent arrivals from Mexico and other Latin American nations.

Issues like immigration or bilingual education, which candidates can use to
appeal broadly to Hispanic voters in other states, do not always hit the mark so
neatly here. Voters in New Mexico from old-line Hispanic families can share a
cultural identification with newcomers, but have very different views on such
touchstone issues.

The Hispanic vote here has gone solidly Democratic in recent decades, and is
expected to do so again. But Republicans hope that a strategy of appealing to
more conservative old-liners with a message of traditional family values and to
bedrock Roman Catholics by stressing opposition to abortion will peel away
enough votes to make the difference.

When he was governor in neighboring Texas, Mr. Bush embraced his state's growing
Mexican-American population and ran better among Hispanics than Republicans
usually do.

Republicans say their hope is not to win the Hispanic vote here, but to woo
enough from the Democrats to supplement the party's white conservative base. In
2000, Al Gore carried New Mexico by a slim 366 votes, making it a blue island in
a sea of Rocky Mountain red.

''I think about that number all the time,'' said Sheriff Darren White of
Bernalillo County, who is running President Bush's campaign in the state's most
populous county. ''We don't intend to let it happen again.''

Of course, many Hispanic voters here are firmly Democratic, like John P.
Sanchez. Recently retired after 25 years as a law enforcement officer in the
impoverished Rio Grande Valley, Mr. Sanchez had his medal-studded Vietnam
Veterans cap pulled tight across his forehead as he watched Mr. Kerry address
the crowd in Albuquerque.

''For me, this is about us having kids over there in Iraq, dying for no good
reason,'' Mr. Sanchez said. ''Republicans are crazy if they think they're going
to get the Hispanic vote in New Mexico this year. They come here and say a
couple of words of Spanish? What is that to me, you know what I mean?''

But there are pitfalls for the unwary, involving questions of identity and
self-perception.

To many Hispanic families in New Mexico, especially in the northern mountains,
the English speakers who trickled down the Santa Fe Trail in the 19th century
were using the new highway. Their ancestors had come up the Camino Real, from
Spanish colonies to the south.

''What makes us most unique is that we have this very old group of Hispanics
whose ancestors came here starting in the 1600's,'' said F. Chris Garcia,
formerly president of the University of New Mexico and now a political scientist
there.

''The old-line families, even those who are still living in poverty, have very
ambivalent views about these newcomers, and it shows in views about border
issues and other things,'' Professor Garcia said.

Until the New Deal, the predominantly Roman Catholic, Hispanic community here
voted solidly Republican. Since then, Hispanics have been steadfast Democrats,
voting 62 percent for Mr. Gore in 2000. But Hispanic turnout, in all age groups,
has consistently been significantly lower than turnout for whites, blunting the
impact they might otherwise have.

For Republicans, the strategy here is to appeal to the conservatism of the
Hispanics by speaking of traditional family values and abortion.

Nazarena Martinez and her husband own a 132-acre horse ranch called Cielito
Lindo, or Beautiful Sky, on the eastern slopes of the Manzano Mountains. Her
family has been in New Mexico for three centuries.

''My grandpa was a Republican, and when a lot of other families turned Democrat
under Franklin Roosevelt, we stayed Republican,'' she said. ''In their heart, I
believe, the Spanish people in New Mexico share with Republicans the values of
faith, family and property rights. We believe that you do what you want with
your own land. And I think once this is made clear to people, there will be many
more Hispanics for President Bush.''

Elsewhere, one hears a different story. Christine Trujillo lives in Albuquerque
but was born and raised in Taos County on land granted to her family in the late
1600's. ''We're pretty typical,'' she said. ''Land rich and dirt poor.''

Now, she is the president of the New Mexico Federation of Education Employees,
and a strong supporter of Mr. Kerry. ''Only in the last 10 years have the party
people begun to realize that we are a huge voting bloc,'' Ms. Trujillo said.
''But the truth is that the Republican Party here has never had a place at the
table for us. And now they want to attract us with single-issue appeals like
abortion? That is such garbage.''

New Mexico is the nation's fifth-largest state, in terms of area, but 36th by
population. This translates into vast stretches of nothing, a high and dry
landscape of parched scrublands and mesas covered with mesquite, sagebrush and
ponderosa pine.

A third of the state's population is in Bernalillo County, home to the state's
largest city, Albuquerque, and its nearest suburbs. And Albuquerque's political
influence is even greater when fast-growing suburbs in neighboring counties are
included.

Albuquerque's politics are fluid; the richer neighborhoods of the Northeast
Heights tend to go Republican, while the working-class South Valley,
predominantly Hispanic, goes heavily Democratic. In 2000, the metropolitan area
went to Mr. Gore, but also elected a Republican to Congress, Heather A. Wilson.

The Democratic stronghold in New Mexico is in the north, along both sides of the
Sangre de Cristo Mountains, from Santa Fe to Taos to the Colorado line, an area
of liberal activism and vacation homes that one local historian called the
''movie star and mysticism belt.'' But Democrats, buoyed by a growing Hispanic
vote along the Mexican border, have also done well in recent elections in Dona
Ana County, home to Las Cruces, the state's second-largest city.

For Republicans, the stronghold is in the east, the ranchlands called Little
Texas whose landscape, population and voting patterns are barely distinguishable
from those of neighboring West Texas. Republicans also see hope in growing
suburban areas like Rio Rancho, northwest of Albuquerque, and more distant
exurbs in adjacent Sandoval County.

The question is, who are the people who have moved into Rio Rancho and Las
Cruces and Santa Fe since the last election? Are they the same conservative
retirees from elsewhere in the Sun Belt who have been moving here for decades,
or are they, as Democrats hope, part of a new wave of more liberal refugees from
the Northeast and the West Coast?

At a recent Republican barbeque, Barbara Longeway, chairwoman of the Sandoval
County Bush campaign, wore a T-shirt reading, ''Friends Don't Let Friends Vote
Democrat.''

''I see a few bumper stickers around here for Kerry, but not too many,'' she
said. ''So I'm pretty confident.''

The Democrats also feel confident. Recent voter registration data shows a rise
in the proportion of Democrats since 2000, said Moses Mercado, Mr. Kerry's state
campaign director, now 52 percent, up from 47 percent. And while an April poll
by the American Research Group found Mr. Bush's and Mr. Kerry's popularity tied
at 47 percent, a June poll taken by the group just prior to Mr. Kerry's
selection of Mr. Edwards as his running mate saw some movement in Mr. Kerry's
direction.

The key, leaders from both parties say, will be how well the Democrats turn out
the Hispanic vote. ''It's absolutely pivotal for us,'' said John Wertheim, the
state Democratic chairman.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: STATE BY STATE: New Mexico -- A Series exploring the presidential race
in swing states

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Sanchez, left, a Democrat, exemplifies just one point on
the state's Hispanic political spectrum. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York
Times)Chart: ''A Close Race in a Bellwether State''Of all the swing states, none
may be harder to call than New Mexico, whose five electoral votes Al Gore won in
2000 by a mere 366 votes.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares
are sized according to the total number who voted and shaded by the winning
candidate.Chart shows total votes casted for Gore and Bush in each county.MARGIN
OF VICTORYIn percentage points in past presidential elections.2000DEMOCRATIC:
0.1 VICTORY1996DEMOCRATIC: 71988REPUBLICAN: 51984REPUBLICAN: 201980REPUBLICAN:
18NEW MEXICO'S ECONOMYGraphs track New Mexico's economy in the following areas
since 1999:Change in real household income versus year earlier.Change in median
home price versus year earlier.Unemployment rate.Percentage without health
insurance. (tracked since 1997)ELECTED OFFICIALSGOV.REPUBLICAN: 0DEMOCRAT:
1SENATORSREPUBLICAN: 1DEMOCRAT: 1REPS.REPUBLICAN: 2DEMOCRAT:
1DEMOGRAPHICSBLACKN.M.: 2%U.S.: 12HISPANIC:N.M.: 42%U.S.: 13INDIANN.M.: 9%U.S.:
1MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOMEN.M.: $35,251U.S.: $43,052(Sources by Dave Leips Atlas
of U.S. Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)Map of New Mexico highlighting the following
counties:AlbuquerqueRio RanchoSanta FeFarmingtonLas
CrucesAlamogordoRoswellClovis

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Who's Getting the New Jobs?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT.

E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 727 words


A startling new study shows that all of the growth in the employed population in
the United States over the past few years can be attributed to recently arrived
immigrants.

The study found that from the beginning of 2001 through the first four months of
2004, the number of new immigrants who found work in the U.S. was 2.06 million,
while the number of native-born and longer-term immigrant workers declined by
more than 1.3 million.

The study, from the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University
in Boston, is further confirmation that despite the recovery from the recession
of 2001, American families are still struggling with serious issues of
joblessness and underemployment.

The study does not mean that native-born workers and long-term immigrants are
not finding jobs. The American workplace is a vast, dynamic, highly competitive
arena, with endless ebbs and flows of employment. But as the study tallied the
gains and losses since the end of 2000, it found that new immigrants acquired as
many jobs as the other two groups lost, and then some.

Andrew Sum, the director of the center and lead author of the study, said he
hoped his findings would spark a long-needed analysis of employment and
immigration policies in the U.S. But he warned against using the statistics for
immigrant-bashing.

''We need a serious, honest debate about where we are today with regard to labor
markets,'' said Professor Sum, whose work has frequently cited the important
contributions immigrants have made. The starkness of the study's findings, he
said, is an indication that right now ''there is something wrong.''

The study found that the new immigrants entering the labor force were mostly
male and ''quite young,'' with more than one-fourth under the age of 25, and 70
percent under 35.

''Hispanics formed the dominant group of new immigrants,'' the study said,
''with migrants from Mexico and Central America playing key roles. Slightly
under 56 percent of the new immigrant workers were Hispanic, nearly another
one-fifth were Asian, 18 percent were white, not-Hispanic, and 5 percent were
black.''

Those most affected by the influx of new immigrant workers are young, less
well-educated American workers and so-called established immigrants, those who
have been in the U.S. for a number of years.

Simply stated, there are not enough jobs being created to accommodate the wide
variety of demographic groups in need of work. With that being the case, and
with some employers actively recruiting new immigrants, the inevitable result
has been the displacement of previously employed workers, especially in the less
skilled and lower-income categories.

College-educated middle-class workers appear to be holding their own in the
current employment environment, although significant numbers are underemployed.
The situation is much bleaker for high school graduates and dropouts, especially
for men, both black and white, and teenagers.

The new immigrants are not spread evenly across the U.S. The study identified 16
states that each had 50,000 or more new immigrants in the civilian labor force,
ranging from slightly fewer than 55,000 in Colorado and Pennsylvania to 276,000
in Texas, and a high of 555,000 in California.

Professor Sum said he used data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics household
survey, as opposed to its payroll survey (which is preferred by many
economists), because it includes a number of categories of employment --
contract workers, farm labor and others -- that attract substantial immigrant
labor but are not monitored by the payroll survey.

But even in the traditional area of manufacturing, for example, the employment
of new immigrants has been significant. Referring to the period from 2000 to the
fall of 2003, the study said, ''Nearly 320,000 new immigrants obtained
employment in the nation's manufacturing industries at a time when total wage
and salary employment in these industries declined by more than 2.7 million
positions.''

If we are going to continue to encourage immigration, it's essential that we
move once again toward full employment. Let the discussions begin now on how to
get there. In the absence of full employment, an ugly face-off between American
workers and newly arriving immigrants will be inevitable. That is not something
we want or need to see.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

French Strive to Be Diverse Without Being Less French

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1108 words

DATELINE: PARIS, July 23


After 15 years of soul-searching, France has decided to create a Museum of
Immigration. Why now? For generations, France successfully absorbed waves of
Poles, Russians, Italians, Spaniards and Portuguese -- and remained French. Then
over the past 30 years millions of migrants flooded in from the third world, and
it was France that changed.

A Museum of Immigration is a fairly typical French response, one financed by the
government and intended by politicians and bureaucrats to address a social
problem through culture. Yet while willing to open a museum, France's cultural
elite continue to resist embracing the creative energy represented by French
artists, writers and performers of African, Arab and Asian descent.

The energy is certainly there -- in stand-up comedians and above all in pop
music, the art form where performers and public can most readily connect without
the mediation of cultural institutions. But in theater, movies, television and
the visual arts, this ''other France'' is far less visible.

Will a Museum of Immigration change this? The museum is to open in 2007, but its
purpose is still not clear. Will it simply demonstrate that millions of the
French have foreign roots or will it acknowledge that, by becoming French,
immigrants actually change and enrich French culture and society?

That said, France is hardly alone in confronting what is a relatively new
dilemma: whether to resist outside cultures or to incorporate them? The United
States has struggled with the same question, as new issues of bilingualism and
multiculturalism, brought on by large Hispanic immigration, have come up.

By contrast, Britain, Germany and the Netherlands had little experience of
immigration, except for Jews from Eastern Europe and Russia, until after World
War II. And countries like Spain, Italy, Portugal and Ireland, long
''exporters'' of people, have begun to receive third world immigrants only in
the past decade and still view them as potential menaces to national identities.

Yet the evidence suggests there are few better tools of integration than
culture: it empowers minorities and immigrants and helps persuade nationals that
ethnic diversity is a good thing. The Irish and Jewish input in American
literature, for instance, has been no less crucial than the Afro-American
contribution in music and dance. And while Hispanic influence is new, it has
accelerated erosion of Protestant Anglo culture as the dominant American model.

The very process of immigration creates new generations who carry two or more
cultures, say, Algerian and French, Turkish and German or Indian and British.
And this hybrid is a powerful tonic.

It is certainly one secret to the lively arts scene in Britain, where black and
Asian artists and performers have fought for and won a place in the cultural
mainstream. For Adrian Lester, a black actor, to portray Henry V at the National
Theater or Anish Kapoor, an Indian-born British artist, to win the Turner Prize
is no longer news. Many Britons now accept an integrated cultural world as a
true reflection of their multiracial country.

The change dates back to the 1980's, yet it is now seemingly irreversible.
''When I was casting 'My Beautiful Laundrette,' '' the British-Asian novelist
and screenwriter Hanif Kureishi said of the landmark 1985 movie about Asians in
Britain, ''there were few Asian actors around. Today 200 kids would show up. I'd
say that, even with some racism, this is a success story. The notions of
integration and assimilation are no longer useful here. We're too intermixed for
that.''

Music led the way, with Caribbean steel bands already popular in the 1960's and
the annual Notting Hill Caribbean carnival long a fixture. Today that calypso
music has fused with reggae, rap and British pop to create a new sound. The BBC,
too, has contributed, not only with black and Asian anchors and reporters, but
also with first- and second-generation immigrant families in soap operas.
British-Asian movies like ''Bend It Like Beckham,'' in turn, act as bridges
between British and immigrant communities.

Again, immigrants not only infiltrate British culture; they also change and
invigorate it. Take literature: V. S. Naipaul was followed first by Salman
Rushdie from India and Ben Okri from Nigeria and now by British-born writers of
foreign parentage like Zadie Smith and Monica Ali. In the visual arts, Mr.
Kapoor was followed by Chris Ofili and Steve McQueen.

Language is an important variable: until recently, most immigrants came from
former British colonies and were English-speaking. In contrast, in Germany, home
to 2.5 million Turks, the language barrier as well as German indifference were
long obstacles to crossfertilization of German and Turkish culture. If there was
an exchange, it worked in only one direction: Turks were influenced by German
culture. Now that, too, is slowly changing.

This winter ''Head On,'' directed by Fatih Akin, a Hamburg-born moviemaker of
Turkish parentage, became the first German film in two decades to win the Golden
Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival. And last month it won five
Lolas, as the German Oscars are known. Further, Mr. Akin is just one of several
Turkish-German directors -- Buket Alakus, Thomas Arslan, Kutlug Ataman and Zuli
Aladag are others -- whose films are now winning German audiences.

In the 1990's, Mustafa Gundogdu, known as Mousse T., injected life into the
German pop music scene, while several Turkish-German novelists writing in German
are being noticed. ''Turkish artists are increasingly being accepted even by the
German public, not only as Turks, but also as this country's creative artists,''
Faruk Sen of the Essen-based Center for Studies on Turkey recently told the
German news agency, D.P.A.

In France, home to some five million Muslims, multiculturalism is seen as a
threat, because the French view their culture as part of their identity.Thus,
while black and Arab singers like MC Solaar, Khaled and Cheb Mami or comedians
like Djamel Debbouze and Fellag are popular, the cultural establishment often
treats them as outsiders.

The Museum of Immigration is unlikely to address this issue. ''We must urgently
recognize that immigration forms part of the history of France,'' Jacques
Toubon, a former culture minister, said of the new museum. But what about
reflecting France's cultural diversity today in the mainstream media, like
television? ''Every year, I deplore the near-absence of French black and Arab
presenters,'' said Zair Kedadouche, a French-Arab politician. ''Should
television exclude people only because the color of their skin and their names
are different?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Like MC Solaar, many black and Arab performers are treated as
outsiders by France's cultural elite. (Photo by Pav Modelski/Retna)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 25, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Art Imitated Life, And Life Loved It

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT:
JACKSON HEIGHTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 409 words


The film ''Maria Full of Grace'' opened last weekend in Jackson Heights, a
largely immigrant neighborhood not accustomed to seeing major movies open on its
streets, much less to seeing its streets portrayed in those movies.

But Jackson Heights is in fact one of the stars of the film, which is about a
17-year-old Colombian girl who, pregnant and desperate for work, takes on the
perilous job of drug mule, transporting capsules of heroin to New York within
her digestive system.

On July 16, the night of the first public showing at the pleasantly ragged
Queens Circuit Jackson Heights Triplex, the crowds oohed to images of the
Colombian countryside. They aahed to local scenes, like the Casa Colombia and
Los Arrieros restaurants on Roosevelt Avenue. And they cheered when the drug
mule, named Maria and played by Catalina Sandino Moreno, made it through an
airport interrogation.

Art and life blurred in an even deeper way in the film, written and directed by
Joshua Marston. Some of the faces on screen are drawn from the streets of
Jackson Heights. Sheyla Tubert was stunned to see a cameo by the ''oblea lady,''
who frequently sells Maria two wafers filled with caramel-like arequipe.

''I was like, 'I know her! I buy from her all the time!''' said Ms. Tubert.
''She's very sweet.''

Amparo Diaz saw an even more familiar person on the screen: her son, Oscar
Bejarano, who plays Carlos, a drug trafficker. Ms. Diaz was sporting her bright
red ''No sea mula,'' or ''Don't be a mule,'' T-shirt given out at the premiere
earlier in the week.

One woman, Mariluz Villada, was confused enough by the indistinct border between
art and life to refer casually to the film as a documentary. She was
particularly struck to see Orlando Tobon, a local businessman, play a character
in the film named Don Fernando, who does what Mr. Tobon is known to do in real
life: help immigrants and even send drug smugglers' bodies back to Colombia for
burial.

''What you see there,'' Ms. Villada said about the film, ''is what he has
done.''

Mr. Tobon, it just so happened, was nearby that evening, and when he wandered
over to the cinema he was hugged and congratulated by the exiting crowd.

He, too, seemed struck by portraying a character who is essentially himself.
''That wasn't cinema,'' he said. ''What they did was take reality and put it on
a screen.''

And vice versa. Since the film came out, many have taken to calling Mr. Tobon
Don Fernando.   SETH KUGEL


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above left, Orlando Tobon acted in the film ''Maria Full of
Grace.'' Left, the leading lady. (Photo by Rebecca Cooney for The New York
Times)
 (Photo by Christobal Corral Vega HBO Films/Fine Line Features)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 25, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Urbanization Of Suburban Classrooms

BYLINE: By MARC F. BERNSTEIN.

Marc F. Bernstein is the superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School
District.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 619 words

DATELINE: VALLEY STREAM


WHEN I came to Long Island as an assistant superintendent of schools in 1977,
practically all of the students were white and spoke English as their primary
language. Today, as I walk down the halls of schools both in my district, Valley
Stream, and in neighboring districts, I see faces from 40 nations. Changes in
immigration and ethnic groups have reshaped Long Island schools. Teachers and
educators know this. Sadly, government support, financing and school curriculums
haven't caught up to the demographics.

How significant are these changes? Well, in less than a decade, Long Island's
school districts bordering New York City have experienced a growth of 7 to 14
percentage points in their nonwhite student populations as immigrants have
arrived and minorities have moved in from the city.

Unfortunately, no governmental entity has dealt with the predictable urban-like
challenges that have been reshaping Long Island. Though school superintendents
are aware of these changes, we are powerless to address the nonacademic factors
that accompany these issues. Each school district is too small to have seen and
acted upon the trend. The counties have done little.

Meanwhile, the state Education Department has mandated tests to monitor student
achievement, but it has done so in a vacuum -- without taking into account the
social changes that are occurring. We're asking more of our students at a time
when, especially in new immigrant families, there is less supervision because
both parents often have to work. And we're asking teachers to do their jobs
without providing them with special training to nurture young immigrants who are
struggling to assimilate.

One result has been been increasing violence and gangs in many communities,
including at the schoolhouse doors. When the Nassau County Youth Board offered
grants for gang prevention and intervention programs, it received more than 20
proposals from approximately 50 communities. Only a handful were financed. With
aging adult voters and almost total reliance on already high property taxes,
school districts must choose between providing security and needed remedial
programs for their immigrant student population.

It has also given Nassau County a school system of academic haves and have-nots.
Nassau is one of the wealthiest suburban counties in the United States. Many of
its students are ranked among the best in the nation. We have Intel Science
Talent Search winners and high scores on Advanced Placement tests. Significant
numbers are admitted to the most competitive colleges. But that academic
achievement is far from uniform. One Nassau district, Roosevelt, has been taken
over by the state and is operating with a state-appointed board of education,
and many other schools are struggling.

So what do we do? Ensure success for all students. Money is one answer: we need
more of it to provide special classes for struggling students, to offer
anti-bullying and gang prevention programs and to expand efforts to reach
parents. In addition to financing, we need to adapt our training programs. Many
of our teachers require professional development programs that would help them
deal with the cultural backgrounds of their current students. Instructional
strategies and groupings can place students of different ethnicities in common
groups. Such programs would help teachers use diversity as a catalyst for all
students to learn. The methods that worked well for past generations may not
work as well for today's students.

Huge demographic changes are not going to stop. Immigration and urban flight to
the suburbs will continue. Our schools had better be ready.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Sacred Cow Of Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 125 words



To the Editor:

''Who's Getting the New Jobs?,'' by Bob Herbert (column, July 23), is a welcome
breath of fresh air in an arena dominated by conservatives promoting cheap labor
and politically correct liberals who insist on accommodating a large yearly
influx of more than a million legal and illegal immigrants, oblivious to the
impact they have on the opportunities for those already here.

Moreover, the inevitable effects that newcomers have on wages, social services,
sprawl, cultural norms, local and national politics, the environment and
population growth are ignored by both political wings, as they appear to believe
that the United States should welcome a significant portion of all the world's
immigrants.

Ronald Bleier
New York, July 23, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 27, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Rewriting Citizenship Test

BYLINE: By JASON PESICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26


In an effort to improve the quality and fairness of the citizenship test taken
every year by hundreds of thousands of immigrants, the government is overhauling
the naturalization exam.

Like the current exam, the replacement will test applicants in two areas:
proficiency in English and knowledge of United States history and government. A
major intent is to make sure the exams are administered uniformly. The new test
will also try to ensure that prospective citizens understand basic concepts of
American democracy and are not merely reciting facts by rote.

''We're looking to standardize the process,'' said Chris Bentley, a spokesman
for the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Currently, the difficulty of the history and government test depends on which 10
questions the proctor chooses from an exam book. To pass, an applicant has to
get six right. Sample questions on the current exam include: What are the colors
of our flag? Who said, ''Give me liberty or give me death''? and Who is the
chief justice of the Supreme Court?

A review of the citizenship exam began in September 2001. The immigration agency
is working on a study guide for the history and government part. When that is
done, there will be a 60-day period for public comment. Then the agency will
revise the exam and test its effectiveness. It plans to begin using the new exam
in 2006.

Gerri Ratliff, the director of the test design project, said those involved in
devising the test included civics experts, educators and groups that aid
immigrants, as well as the National Academy of Sciences.

The current exam requires applicants to demonstrate proficiency in English by
reading a single sentence out loud and then writing a sentence dictated by the
test giver.

On the new test, applicants will have to talk about what two photographs show
and write a description of another. They will also read a paragraph and answer
four or five multiple-choice questions about it.

In the government section of the new test, a question might ask an applicant to
select from a short list a right guaranteed by the Constitution.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 28, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 25 words


An article on Saturday about a drug rehabilitation center for Hispanic
immigrants in Queens misstated the age of Nelson Pavon, a patient. He is 43, not
31.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


An article on Monday about a Korean family's struggle with the United States'
health care system misstated the affiliation and title of Adam Gurvitch, an
advocate for immigrants. He is director of health advocacy for the New York
Immigration Coalition -- not director of a group called Health Advocacy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Housecleaner In New York

SECTION: Section 14; Column 6; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 97 words



To the Editor:

In ''The Maid's Tale,'' Jill Eisenstadt seems to assume that all your readers
have middle-class homes that are cleaned by immigrant housecleaners.

Writing about ''our Rosas,'' she wonders, ''Given the time, would they lie down
on our 300-count sheets? Do they lust after our heirloom credenzas or find them
too hideous even to wipe with Pledge?'' Has it occurred to Ms. Eisenstadt that
some Rosas, as well as some of the cabbies, doormen, museum guards and coffee
cart guys she calls ''fixtures'' of New York life, may even read The Times?

ANN RAE JONAS
Washington Heights





URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sudanese Immigrants See the Strife in Darfur, and Feel the Pain at Home

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; BROOKLYN UP CLOSE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 670 words


When catastrophic events unfold halfway around the globe, it seems there is
always a phone-card-buying, satellite-TV-watching immigrant community in New
York that is keeping a close, anxious and passionate eye on its homeland.

Or, in the case of the violence in the Darfur region of Sudan, two communities.
One group, the Sudanese Arabs, live in and around Prospect Heights, Brooklyn;
the other, the Sudanese Africans from Darfur, live in and near Flatbush.

Neither Brooklyn group is big, with the 2000 census finding a total of only 859
Sudanese citywide. Both groups practice Islam and both denounce the violence in
their country, but, generally, they have sharply different perceptions of the
Sudanese conflict, in which Darfur's African villagers have been displaced by
Arab militias supported by the Sudanese government.

Khalda Ibrihim Ali, dressed in an elegant black tob, or traditional Sudanese
robe, is a Sudanese Arab who covers New York for Alray Alaam, a daily newspaper
in Khartoum, the Sudan capital. In an interview in her modest one-bedroom
apartment on Grant Avenue in Prospect Heights -- three of the seven families in
her building are Sudanese -- she said, as translated by her husband, that she is
obsessed with Darfur and would head there tomorrow if she could.

''It makes you involved in the news like it is a personal thing,'' she said, as
Al Jazeera, the Arabic news network, played on her television and her
6-month-old daughter slept on the couch. ''It did not only affect me as a
Sudanese, but it affects my international conscience.''

She and her husband, Salah Eldin Idris, blame the government for a brutal civil
war, and go no further in their condemnation. ''The rights of the Darfur tribes
were violated by the Sudanese government, but it is not genocide,'' Mr. Idris
said.

Arab workers and shoppers at the nearby Al Huda Halal Market -- which has stacks
of Arabic newspapers full of Sudan coverage and a rare satellite hookup to
Sudanese state television -- agreed. ''I don't think it's true about genocide,''
said Shahab Ahmad, 37, a taxi dispatcher from Bushwick. ''There's killing
happening from civil war.''

But Yayha Osman, 36, a used car dealer from Flatbush who is a member of the
Tunjur people, one of the groups that has been attacked, is one of the many
Darfur natives who say the killings in the region indisputably are genocide.
''The government is siding with Arabs. They organize and supply them with
whatever they need to kill African people,'' he said. His own cousin, a lawyer,
was shot in the leg in the Darfur city of Kutum. (The United States Congress
last week called the situation in Darfur genocide though the United Nations has
resisted applying that term.)

Mr. Osman, who has counted 58 people from Darfur in his Brooklyn neighborhood,
is doing more than debating the issue. He is the secretary general of a
fledgling group, the Darfur Rehabilitation Project, which hopes to provide aid
for the region and to promote the ouster of the current government, perhaps with
the help of Sudanese Arabs. Getting the news is crucial to his mission, of
course, and Mr. Osman said he and other members of his group get theirs from a
Kutum businessman who has an illegal satellite phone. They buy him phone cards,
and he calls in the dead of the Sudanese night. (Sudan's time zone is six hours
ahead of New York during Eastern Daylight Time.)

The misconceptions of his Arab countrymen, Mr. Osman said, are in part the fault
of the Sudanese government. He said that the Sudanese press, including Ms. Ali's
own paper and the satellite feed in the Al Huda market, are little more than
government mouthpieces.

He has been to the Al Huda store, but said he feels like an outsider there.
''When you talk to somebody from your own group with your own tongue, they look
at you like, he is not a Sudanese, he is supposed to speak Arabic,'' he said.

For this, too, he blames the state. ''This government is really creating
animosity among the Sudanese themselves,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Darfur looms large for Khalda Ibrihim Ali, a journalist, above,
and Gamar Elmakki, top. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2004 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Thriller Draws On Oppression Of Italians in Wartime U.S.

BYLINE: By BILL TONELLI

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words


A dying father summons his daughter, a lawyer, to reveal a terrible secret:
before she was born, her immigrant grandparents were declared enemy aliens by
the federal government. F.B.I. agents raided their home and confiscated items
that could be used to signal invading troops.

What does the daughter do now?

It sounds like the start of a legal thriller, except it happened in real life --
to an author of best-selling legal thrillers, Lisa Scottoline, who incorporated
the incident in her latest book, ''Killer Smile'' (HarperCollins). The encounter
with her father took place in the summer of 2002, in his suburban Philadelphia
home. ''It was humid and hot outside,'' said Ms. Scottoline, 49, ''but he was
chilled and completely bald from chemo. We ate provolone hoagies, our favorite
-- sweet peppers for me, hot for him -- which I had brought for lunch.''

He handed her three aged-looking documents, she said, recalling the events of
that day. One was the deed to the family plot. ''You might be needing this,'' he
told her. The others, though, were the real shocker.

''This is what's left from your grandparents,'' he said. Enclosed in tattered
pink cardboard covers were enemy alien registration papers, issued by the
federal government in February 1942 to Giuseppe and Maria Scottoline, natives of
Ascoli Piceno in east-central Italy but residents of a West Philadelphia row
house for the previous 29 years and nine months. The documents included
thumbprints and grim-faced headshots.

She was stunned, Ms. Scottoline said, until her father explained a little-known
footnote to the history of World War II: nearly 700,000 Italians living in the
United States were required to register as enemy aliens, and 10,000 were
forcibly relocated away from the coastlines, put under curfew or interned in
camps. She knew, of course, about the more than 100,000 Japanese-Americans and
Japanese resident aliens in California who had been imprisoned without due
process during the war. At University of Pennsylvania Law School, where she
graduated cum laude, she had studied the United States Supreme Court's Korematsu
decision that ruled favorably on the roundups. But she was unaware that Italians
and Germans had received similar treatment.

As her father told it, one night two F.B.I. agents came to the Scottoline home
and searched it for weapons, contraband or anything that could be used to
communicate with enemy warships. They confiscated a flashlight and a radio --
not a shortwave, just the standard model. Her grandparents didn't speak much
English and so couldn't follow exactly what was going on. During the search,
''They just sat there in their bedclothes on the sofa in the living room,'' she
recalled him telling her, ''and I can still picture that sofa.'' At the time,
her father, an only son, was serving in the United States Army Air Force in
Italy.

Once she heard the tale, Ms. Scottoline (pronounced Scot-to-LEE-neh) remembered,
''I asked him two questions. The first was why they had kept it such a secret,
and he said it was because they were ashamed. What they got from the experience
was that if you are Italian, American men in suits will come to your house in
the middle of the night and take small appliances, and they won't tell you
why.''

Her second question was why, then, had they bothered to keep the documents after
the war ended. ''And he said it was because they were afraid not to -- in case
the men ever came back.''

At that moment she said to herself, ''This is my next book.''

It turned out to be the book after that, but the incident inspired the backdrop
of ''Killer Smile,'' published this summer. As do most of her 10 books, this one
centers on an all-female, mostly Italian-American law firm. Her protagonist,
Mary DiNunzio, a South Philadelphia native (like Ms. Scottoline), solves a
murder by unraveling the mystery of an Italian immigrant's death in an
internment camp.

Ms. Scottoline, twice divorced, lives near the Main Line with horses, dogs, cats
and, until now, her teenage daughter, who is leaving for college. For five years
she was a trial lawyer with a top Philadelphia law firm. In 1986 she quit law to
write full time. Each book has sold better than its predecessor, and she is in
the top rank of HarperCollins's commercial fiction brand names.

That summer day in 2002, she left her father's house and began her search,
scouring Web sites devoted to the internments and reading books on the subject.
Most of what she found had been in existence less than a decade. That it was
known at all was mainly due to the work of Rose Scherini and Lawrence DiStasi,
California academics and authors.

What started as a modest exhibition at an Italian-American museum in San
Francisco in 1994 snowballed into a landmark book edited by Mr. DiStasi (''Una
Storia Segreta: The Secret History of Italian-American Evacuation and Internment
During World War II,'' published by Heyday Books) and a campaign to teach the
story and gain official acknowledgement of what had taken place. (As a result of
the effort, on Nov. 8, 2000, President Bill Clinton signed the Wartime Violation
of Italian-American Civil Liberties Act.)

In December 1942 President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed executive orders
permitting restrictions on anyone living in this country who was born in Japan,
Germany or Italy. The greatest effect was in California because Lt. Gen. John
DeWitt, head of the Western Defense Command, was a gung-ho enforcer of
Roosevelt's edicts. Treatment of the Japanese was by far the harshest, but
hundreds of Italians and Germans were also arrested.

Ms. Scottoline filed a dozen Freedom of Information Act requests with the
National Archives, seeking documents on Italians who had been held at the 41
camps dotting the country. She learned that one internment camp, in Missoula,
Mont., still stood and housed a small museum commemorating the period. She spent
a week there, talking with locals who remembered the era. ''The Italians were
beloved'' in Montana, she discovered. ''In the museum they have the programs
from musical performances the Italian internees would put on. It was so
stereotypical -- all the people in Missoula told me the Italians were so
happy-go-lucky. Of course, they were also slave labor, so they were
happy-go-lucky slaves.''

This relatively benign view of the Italian internees was apparently shared even
by President Roosevelt. Discussing how severely to restrict enemy aliens,
Attorney General Francis Biddle quoted President Roosevelt as saying: ''I don't
care so much about the Italians. They are a lot of opera singers.''

Once Ms. Scottoline got the files, she scoured them for details to create a
character for her book. Favored Italian internees had been permitted to work
unguarded in the sugar beet fields, she found. When it was time to invent a
character who would die there, she mused, ''In the beet fields there would be
hoes. Ropes. Trees.'' Thus was created Amadeo Brandolini, an immigrant living in
Philadelphia who was interned at Fort Missoula and found dead, hanging from a
tree.

In an afterword she explained the genesis of its subplot and showed her
grandparents' enemy alien papers. As a result, the book is enjoying an afterlife
with readers who attend her in-store appearances or e-mail her through her Web
site (scottoline.com). Some fans, she says, bring their own family members'
registration papers, explaining that until they read the book, they, too, were
mystified by the documents.

To Ms. Scottoline, the contemporary relevance of the book's backdrop seems
obvious. ''Imagine if tomorrow the federal government decided to order every
Iraqi-born person living in America to register, and then we took them out of
their houses, confiscated their property and detained them in camps, all without
trials because they haven't actually been charged with a crime,'' she said.
''Can you lock up a whole group of people because they scare you?''

Uncovering her grandparents' secret also revealed the roots of what she had
always perceived as a vague uneasiness among her elders about their ethnic
background.

''Now I know why my first name is Lisa, and why my family didn't want me to
study Italian in school,'' she said. ''It's because they were afraid to be
Italian, and they didn't want me to be Italian. Or too Italian. Or Italian
outside of the house.''

She sits back and grins. ''Of course, the kicker is that my books are published
in Italy,'' she said. ''But over there my name is Lisa Scott, because my Italian
publisher says that Italians prefer to read books by Americans.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2004



CORRECTION: An article in The Arts on Aug. 2 about the author Lisa Scottoline,
whose family history during World War II inspired the backdrop of her new
thriller, ''Killer Smile,'' misstated the month that President Franklin D.
Roosevelt signed an executive order permitting restrictions on people in the
United States who were born in Japan, Germany or Italy. (Ms. Scottoline's
grandparents were from Italy.) It was February 1942, not December. The article
also misstated the timing of Ms. Scottoline's father's military service in Italy
as a member of the United States Army Air Forces. He was there after the Allies
invaded Sicily in 1943, not when F.B.I. agents raided her grandparents' home in
1942.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lisa Scottoline, author of ''Killer Smile,'' at her farm in
Chester County, Pa. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Lisa Scottoline included a copy of the 1942 enemy alien papers of her
grandparents in an afterword. (Photo by Lisa Scottoline)(pg. E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Ending Haven for Those Fleeing a Volcano

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words


The volcano on the tiny Caribbean island of Montserrat had been slumbering for
centuries when it awoke in 1995. Amid the banana groves and breadfruit trees of
their tourist paradise, the islanders hoped that its eruptions would soon
subside. Instead, within two years, 7,000 people -- roughly two-thirds of the
population -- had to flee escalating explosions of rock, ash and toxic gas.

Most went to other Caribbean islands or to Britain, which colonized Montserrat
in the 17th century and still governs it. Fewer than 300 ended up in the United
States, mostly living with relatives in New York and Boston. Since it was unsafe
to send them back after their visitors' visas expired, the United States granted
the Montserratians ''temporary protected status,'' renewed year by year so they
could legally stay and work until the worst was over.

Now, in a startling twist that reflects a major change in immigration politics,
the Department of Homeland Security is ordering the 292 Montserratians to leave
by the end of February -- not because it is safe to go home again, but because
it is not going to be safe anytime soon.

''The volcanic activity causing the environmental disaster in Montserrat is not
likely to cease in the foreseeable future,'' Homeland Security officials
explained in a June 25 notice ending Montserratians' temporary protected status
effective Feb. 27, 2005. ''Therefore it no longer constitutes a temporary
disruption of living conditions that temporarily prevents Montserrat from
adequately handling the return of its nationals.''

The decision has stunned islanders who rebuilt their lives in America from
scratch. ''It's devastating,'' said Sarah Ryner, 59, a public health nurse
supervisor who lost her home and career in the volcanic aftermath and now works
night shifts at a New Jersey hospital. ''I'm just frozen, and my children are
the same. We are saying: What can we do? Where can we go?''

Homeland Security officials have an answer: Move to England.

Montserrat is one of Britain's last overseas territories, many of its people
descendants of the African slaves and Irish penal deportees sent to toil there
400 years ago. Citing scientific estimates that dangerous volcanic activity is
likely for at least 20 years, and for perhaps as long as a couple of centuries,
the Homeland Security notice advises those who choose not to return to the
devastated island to consider exercising their claim to British citizenship and
relocating to the motherland.

The notice also took the British government by surprise. At the British
Consulate in New York and the United Kingdom government office on Montserrat
last week, press officers said they were not prepared to answer questions about
the prospects of British residency for Montserratians like Mrs. Ryner; her son
Craig Ryner, 35, now a New York subway station agent raising three Brooklyn-born
children; or her divorced daughter, Pearl Ryner, 39, a teacher turned medical
technologist. British officials are asking the United States government for more
information, press officers said.

Pearl Ryner's 14-year-old son, Khorri Silcott, who was 7 when he left the
island, remembers half a dozen terrifying evacuations from the encroaching
volcano before he and his grandmother could join his mother and uncle in New
York. When his grandfather tried to follow, it was too late, the family said;
the window for ''temporary protected status'' had closed, and Khorri's
grandfather was repeatedly denied a visa to the United States before he died of
stomach cancer at 60, alone in England.

''I'm really worried right now,'' Khorri said. ''It's like they're just kicking
you out after you worked so hard.''

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, William Strassberger,
acknowledged that in other cases, temporary protected status ended only when a
crisis was over -- for Bosnians after the genocidal war stopped, for example, or
for Salvadorans when hurricane damage was cleaned up. Protected status is in
place for people from Burundi, Honduras, Liberia, Nicaragua, Somalia and Sudan.

''The fact is, temporary protected status is not meant to be a permanent
solution,'' Mr. Strassberger said. ''In this particular case there is no end in
sight.'' Except for a handful of Montserratians already sponsored for green
cards through marriage to a United States citizen, he said, those losing
protection have no way to convert to legal residency before the February
deadline.

No one is more upset by this turn of events than Vera E. Weekes, who worked on
Montserrat as director of education in the 1980's before moving to New York and
becoming a United States citizen. She spent years lobbying for a bill that would
permanently legalize the Montserratians, only to see it stall when immigration
policy changed after Sept. 11, 2001.

''It's heartless,'' said Ms. Weekes, the assistant director of the Caribbean
Research Center at Medgar Evers College at City University of New York. ''It's
unbelievable. We're talking about 292 people who have been here for eight years,
who have settled, who are working.''

The sponsor of the bill for the Montserratians, Major R. Owens, a Democratic
representative from Brooklyn, reintroduced it last year. But he said the bill
was unlikely to emerge from a subcommittee in the current political climate.

Before the volcanic eruptions of Soufriere Hills began, Montserrat was a
favorite vacation spot of the rich and famous. When its dormant volcano turned
deadly, the world watched in prime time as paradise met inferno. Now, with
two-thirds of the 7-by-11-mile island buried in volcanic rubble and color-coded
volcano alerts warning of new eruptions, there is little enthusiasm on the
island for the return of the 292 expatriates and their children, some of whom
were born in the United States and are therefore American citizens.

''That certainly would be a problem,'' said Keith Stone-Greaves, press officer
for the local government, ''given that housing is critical.'' He and his
counterpart at the British government office on the island, Richard Aspin,
agreed that the Homeland Security decision took everyone by surprise.

Mr. Aspin said he himself had to inform the British, after stumbling on the
notice on the Internet the day after it was posted. ''I couldn't believe my eyes
when I read it,'' he added. ''What do they want us to do, send these people into
shelters?''

Whether Montserratians who fail to leave the United States before the deadline
will be deported to the island or sent elsewhere is unclear. Dan Kane, a
spokesman for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which controls
protected status, referred the question to Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
another Homeland Security branch responsible for deportation; there, a
spokeswoman said the issue had not yet come up.

But Mr. Strassberger warned that after Feb. 27, the Montserratians would begin
to accrue ''illegal presence,'' a status that could bar them from future
readmission to the United States for years. A better option for those with
American relatives, he suggested, might be to apply for a green card through a
relative's sponsorship and ride out the 12- to-20-year wait in Britain,
returning when permanent residency comes through.

Though 3,500 island residents moved to Britain by the late 1990's, England was
not quick to open the door, Ms. Weekes and others pointed out. Eventually
evacuees from Montserrat were granted special aid and residency waivers for
access to national health care and other benefits in England, but only for
people who went directly to Britain from Montserrat. Citizens of British
overseas territories were not automatically entitled to British residency until
2002. The Monserratians in the United States do not automatically have British
passports.

Sarah Crichton, a spokeswoman at the British consulate in New York, said those
special waivers were up for review next year, and she could not say whether they
would apply to islanders who had been ''temporarily'' living in the United
States.

She suggested, however, that any Montserratian rendered homeless by the
unexpected Homeland Security ruling would get a sympathetic hearing from British
authorities.

To Americanized Montserratians like Pearl Ryner, who is working nights in a
medical lab while raising Khorri, Kherel, 11, and 16-month-old twins, that
discussion adds insult to injury.

''We who came here, we wanted to start a life on our own,'' she said. ''I'm not
trying to say that those who went to England are less ambitious. But those of us
who came here took a harder route. And now they're telling us to throw it all
away.''

Her brother Craig Ryner, the subway station agent, also works nights, as a fare
booth attendant on the A and R stations all over New York. He visited England in
1987, and said he saw it was not for him.

''It's not really moving like America is,'' he said. ''Here there are more
chances to better yourself. I'm praying every day that something will work
out.''

Ms. Weekes is still trying. ''I wrote the president a letter,'' she said. ''And
I said surely, this is not what America is all about.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: U.S. officials urge Craig Ryner, who started a family in New
York after leaving Montserrat, to go to Britain. (Photo b Ruby Washington/The
New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Vera E. Weekes has been lobbying for the right of 292 evacuees from the volcano
to stay in the United States. Khorri Silcott, 14, and his brother Kherel, 11, at
far right, Montserrat natives in Brooklyn. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New
York Times)(pg. B6)Map of Montserrat highlighting Soufriere Hills: Soufriere
Hills began erupting in 1995 and has remained active. (pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Brooklyn: Former F.B.I. Clerk Arrested In Green Card
Fraud

BYLINE: By William Glaberson (NYT); Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 88 words


A former F.B.I. clerk was arrested yesterday on federal charges of pretending to
be a government official in a scheme to defraud immigrants of more than $43,000.
Roslynn R. Mauskopf, the United States attorney in Brooklyn, said the former
clerk, Rosana Frederick, 57, of Brooklyn, left, falsely claimed that she could
help people get alien registration ''green cards.'' Ms. Frederick was convicted
of a similar scheme in 1992 while she was an F.B.I. employee and was sentenced
to 18 months imprisonment.   William Glaberson (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Videotapes Were Souvenirs Of Trip, Man's Brother Says

BYLINE: By OREN YANIV

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: INTELLIGENCE;
Pg. 16

LENGTH: 443 words


The brother of Kamran Shaikh, the Pakistani who was arrested in North Carolina
after videotaping buildings and transit systems, denied yesterday that Mr.
Shaikh had any connections to terrorism.

Speaking at Mr. Shaikh's apartment in Elmhurst, Queens, the brother, Irfan
Akhtar, said Mr. Shaikh was not religious but was a family man who loved the
United States and he contested every accusation against Mr. Shaikh.

''If I was them, I would have been suspicious, too,'' Mr. Akhtar said of federal
authorities. ''But he did nothing wrong.''

Mr. Shaikh, 35, was arrested on July 20 in Charlotte, N.C., after police
officers saw him videotaping the downtown area. Other videos in his possession
showed buildings and transit systems in Atlanta, New Orleans, Dallas and Houston
as well as Mansfield Dam in Austin, Tex. He was charged Tuesday with immigration
violations, and the authorities said a terrorism investigation was continuing.

Mr. Akhtar said that his brother stayed in the United States illegally but that
the bulk of the videos were innocent films taken during an eight-day bus tour he
took to New York after visiting his cousin in Austin.

''That was his biggest mistake -- taking those photos,'' Mr. Akhtar said.

Mr. Shaikh's wife, Surama, and other relatives had told him to refrain from
videotaping buildings because of the heightened security alert, Mr. Akhtar said.
''But he said he wanted to live free,'' Mr. Akhtar said. ''That's why he's
living here, not in Pakistan.''

Mr. Shaikh arrived in the United States in 1989 on a student visa, his brother
said, and worked for a variety of businesses, including a candy store and a
newsstand. He was laid off in June from his last job, at the Eastside Photo
store in Manhattan. He married in 1997 and began the process to obtain a green
card but missed his scheduled interview because he was afraid of being deported
in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Akhtar said. He started to use the
last name Shaikh, the name of his Pakistani clan, for the same reason, the
brother said.

In July, Mr. Shaikh traveled with his wife and three children, ages 1, 4 and 5,
to Las Vegas and then proceeded by himself to Austin. The family has suffered
since Mr. Shaikh's arrest, said Mr. Akhtar, 33, who teaches medical assistants
and lives in Astoria, Queens. He said he and Ms. Shaikh were interrogated for
more than seven hours last week by the F.B.I.

Mr. Akhtar said he had spoken to his brother frequently since his arrest and
described his mood as subdued and said Mr. Shaikh was worried about the fate of
his children. ''My brother doesn't want to be in this country now; he's too
upset,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and the Vote

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 181 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Immigrants Raise Call for Right to Be Voters'' (news article, Aug. 9):

My grandparents immigrated to America with grade-school educations -- healthy,
employable and willing to work. They learned English and attended citizenship
classes to understand the history of the United States and how our government is
supposed to work. Proud American citizens, they assimilated into the culture
while keeping some ''old country traditions'' and discarded others that
adversely set them apart.

America should welcome healthy immigrants who intend to become citizens, have
sponsors and will not become burdens on our social system.

Immigrants and resident aliens are granted the privilege of living here, may own
property and pay taxes. This does not give them shared values and a right to
determine the government leaders of the United States, its laws and its future.

The future of the United States is determined by its voting citizens, natural
born and naturalized. This is our right and responsibility. Let's not give it
away!

Gini Cervone Hyman
Sarasota, Fla., Aug. 9, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ashcroft's Quiet Prisoner

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT.

E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: Miami


David Joseph is a little guy, about 5-foot-5, maybe 115 pounds. He's 20 years
old, looks younger, and has the sluggish demeanor and sad expression of one who
is deeply depressed. He has nightmares and headaches. He spends his days dressed
in the blue fatigues of detainees at the federal Krome Detention Center, washing
dishes at mealtimes, staring listlessly at television images broadcast in a
language he doesn't understand, and praying.

''I thought I would come here for a few days and be released,'' he told me in a
soft voice, his words translated by an interpreter. ''But I watch the other
people come and go, and I am stuck here.''

Mr. Joseph is a refugee from Haiti who is seeking asylum in the United States.
He is not a terrorist, and no one has even suggested that he is a threat to
anyone. And yet he's been in federal custody for nearly two years.

An immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals have ruled that he
should be freed on bond, pending a final ruling on his asylum request. But the
attorney general of the United States, John Ashcroft, won't let him go.

Playing his ever-present, all-encompassing terrorism card, Mr. Ashcroft
personally intervened in Mr. Joseph's case, summarily blocking his release.
According to the attorney general, releasing this young Haitian would tend to
encourage mass migration from Haiti, and might exacerbate the potential danger
to national security of nefarious aliens from Pakistan and elsewhere who might
be inclined to use Haiti as a staging area for migration to the U.S.

Mr. Ashcroft has been out in the Washington sun too long. Terrorism is not an
issue here. Mr. Joseph is a nervous, nail-biting young man who has an uncle in
Brooklyn who's a U.S. citizen and would be only too happy to take in his nephew.
Keeping Mr. Joseph imprisoned for years is inhumane.

What's really at work here is the Bush administration's unwillingness to budge
even an inch from its unfair and frequently cruel treatment of Haitians seeking
refuge in the United States.

Mr. Joseph and a younger brother, Daniel, were among more than 200 Haitians
aboard a boat that landed at Key Biscayne, Fla., in October 2002. The boys'
immediate family had been viciously attacked in the political turmoil that
wracked their homeland, and David Joseph still does not know whether the mother
and father he left behind are alive. (Daniel, a teenager, is reportedly in
foster care in New York.)

The United States may be a beacon of liberty, but when someone like David Joseph
sails toward that beacon he can find himself perversely embraced in the barbed
wire of a place like Krome.

''He was fleeing persecution,'' said Selena Mendy Singleton, a vice president of
TransAfrica Forum, a research and policy group that is among several
organizations supporting Mr. Joseph's request for asylum. ''He is not a threat
to the community. He is not a terrorist. And he meets the criteria to be
released on bond. David needs to be let out.''

Mr. Ashcroft was pointedly questioned about the Joseph case by Senator Arlen
Specter during an appearance before the Senate Judiciary Committee in June.

''On April 17 of last year,'' said Mr. Specter, ''an issue came before you where
there was a young Haitian refugee where there had not been any showing of a
problem with respect to terrorism. And you overruled both the immigration judge
and the Board of Immigration Appeals. And then the inspector general of the
Department of Justice criticized the department for the failure to distinguish
between immigration detainees who are connected to terrorism and those who don't
have any reason for detention.''

Senator Specter urged Mr. Ashcroft to consider a policy in which the Justice
Department would address cases like Mr. Joseph's on a less sweeping, ''more
individual'' basis, which would enable officials to determine whether there was
any real basis for concern about terrorism.

Mr. Ashcroft was unmoved. He told Senator Specter: ''Sometimes individual
treatment is important. Sometimes it's important to make a statement about
groups of people that come.''

So David Joseph, a threat to no one, sits and waits and prays at Krome.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Arrested Over Photos After 9/11 Is Deported

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Aug. 13


The Pakistani immigrant who was detained on suspicions of terrorism in the fall
of 2001 after he took a photograph near a water-treatment plant near Hudson,
N.Y., has been deported, officials confirmed on Friday.

Ansar Mahmood, 27, was escorted on Thursday from the Buffalo Federal Detention
Facility in Batavia, N.Y., to Kennedy International Airport, where he was put on
a commercial flight to Pakistan, officials said.

Mr. Mahmood's deportation ended a three-year legal battle during which he gained
the support of peace advocates and several United States senators who said he
had been the victim of unnecessarily rigid immigration laws.

''It's a disgrace,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, who had lobbied on behalf
of Mr. Mahmood. ''Mahmood wanted to be an ideal citizen, and he's the kind of
person America should embrace. There is no reason he should be deported.''

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an agency
within the Department of Homeland Security, said that Mr. Mahmood arrived in
Pakistan around 5 p.m. on Friday. Efforts to reach Mr. Mahmood by telephone and
e-mail were unsuccessful.

Mr. Mahmood, who had come to the United States on a green card he won through a
lottery, was detained four weeks after 9/11 after he was spotted taking pictures
near a water-treatment plant located on a bluff overlooking the Hudson River.

Federal agents interrogated him, searching for any ties he might have had to the
Sept. 11 attacks and for evidence of a plot to contaminate the region's water
supply.

Mr. Mahmood was cleared of any ties to terrorism, but investigators uncovered
evidence that he had helped a Pakistani couple with expired visas obtain housing
and a car and charged him with harboring illegal aliens, which is a felony,
immigration officials said.

Though he said he did not know the couple was in the country illegally, he
pleaded guilty to the charge in early 2002, triggering deportation proceedings.
Aided by grass-roots advocates, he made a series of failed challenges.

Susan Davies, a member of the Chatham Peace Initiative of Chatham, N.Y., which
supported Mr. Mahmood, said she last spoke with him on Wednesday night when he
called her from the detention center. When he did not call the next day, as was
his custom, she suspected that the authorities were moving him.

''I kept thinking about it all day, that he said he would call and didn't,'' she
said on Friday. ''He used to wake me up most mornings!''

Ms. Davis and other members of the grouphad grown close to Mr. Mahmood, adopting
his cause and visiting him at the detention center.

But in the end, the advocates were unable to see him one last time.

''We wanted to go down to the airport and say goodbye to him,'' said Bob
Elmendorf, a member of the peace initiative. ''This was orchestrated so we would
not be able to do that.''

Mr. Knocke explained that the agency does not publicize deportation schedules in
order to provide protection for its officers. He said the agency did not
purposely try to slight Mr. Mahmood's supporters.

Aarti Shahani, a member of the New York-based deportee-support group Families
for Freedom, was told of the deportation on Thursday afternoon and raced to the
airport by foot, subway and borrowed car. But when she arrived, she was unable
to find Mr. Mahmood.

She wrote a note to him and gave it to another passenger.

Mr. Knocke said Mr. Mahmood might one day be able to return to the United
States. Mr. Mahmood had been ''extremely cooperative'' while in the agency's
custody, he noted, and his good behavior would be taken into account should he
apply for re-entry.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 19, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Net Snags 64 Sex Crime Convicts

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 493 words


Federal and city officials said yesterday they had arrested scores of immigrants
in New York City, who were facing possible deportation to their home countries
because of their convictions in sex crimes.

Deportation proceedings had not begun against the felons and they continued to
live in New York for as long as two years, before their arrest yesterday
morning.

In what officials called the largest dragnet of its kind to date, 64 immigrants
from 19 countries were arrested. Three men are still being sought. The largest
number of arrests were for immigrants from the Dominican Republic, Ecuador and
Mexico.

The felons were convicted of crimes against children, including sexual abuse,
sodomy and rape. One was convicted in the rape of a 6-month-old girl. Many of
the young victims were their relatives.

''These are the worst of the worst,'' said Martin D. Ficke, a special agent in
charge for the Department of Homeland Security, which helped organize the sweep.
Richard E. Levy, first deputy commissioner for the City Department of Probation,
which took the felons into custody, added, ''When the probationers arrested this
morning are deported, New York City will be a safer place.''

So far, however, few have been deported. In the program begun in July 2003 and
called Operation Predator, officials have arrested more than 3700 immigrants
nationwide. But the government has succeeded in deporting only about 500.

Officials attribute the roughly 14 percent deportation rate to lengthy appeals
and other legal reviews. ''This is not a slam dunk in every particular case,''
said Mr. Ficke.

Officials said that the 66 men and one woman who had been sought were legally
vulnerable to deportation hearings as soon as they received probation. But it
took months for officials to verify the immigrants' legal status and build cases
against them.

Forty-seven were legal permanent residents and the rest illegal immigrants, said
officials, who declined to name those arrested or detail their crimes in order
to shield the identities of their underage victims. The felons were all given
probation instead of prison time, officials said. Most of them answered notices
to report to their probation centers.

''Some were absolutely shocked,'' Mr. Ficke said, ''because they think that when
they get a green card they have carte blanche to stay in the United States no
matter what they do.''

About 250 felons, most convicted of crimes against children, have been arrested
in New York State in the operation. None of those immigrants have anything to do
with terrorism, officials said. But protecting the United States includes
sweeping up sexual predators, officials argued.

''After 9/11, things changed,'' said Hector Benitez, a supervisor at the city's
probation department, which helped round up the felons. ''Homeland Security
approached us and indicated this is the target population they wanted to look
at.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 20, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

License Crackdown Stirs Sharp Debate at Hearing

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 892 words


The public hearing room was jammed. There were Mexican laborers with children in
tow, some in orange T-shirts demanding ''Driver's Licenses Now!'' There were
relatives of people who died on 9/11, handing out flyers opposing driver's
licenses for terrorists. Some speakers praised a crackdown that had caught scam
artists and dangerous drivers, while others protested an effort they said would
victimize hard-working immigrants and make New York State poorer and more
dangerous for everyone.

At issue at the hearing yesterday, held in Lower Manhattan by the State
Assembly's Transportation Committee, was a sweeping move by the State Department
of Motor Vehicles to crack down on drivers who provide inaccurate Social
Security numbers. The move is expected to lead to the suspension of more than a
quarter-million driver's licenses. But the participants -- including the
lawmakers asking the questions -- often seemed to be talking about different
policies, affecting completely different populations.

Raymond P. Martinez, the state motor-vehicles commissioner, began his
hour-and-a-half-long testimony by reminding the audience that 18 of the 19
hijackers on 9/11 held valid driver's licenses.

''These license documents, issued in states where requirements were less
stringent than those here in New York State, allowed the hijackers to board
airplanes and execute their acts of terrorism against our nation,'' he said.
Then he enumerated the thousands of so-called deadbeat dads, hundreds of cabbies
hiding bad driving records, and numerous bank-fraud artists who he said had been
caught this year as a result of the agency's effort to verify 10 million Social
Security numbers collected from driver's license applicants over the last
decade.

But in one of several sharp exchanges, Assemblyman Noah Nicholas Perry, a
Democrat from Brooklyn, challenged the commissioner's references to the 9/11
terrorists, calling the assertion that they had been allowed to board planes
because they had licenses ''blatantly false,'' since the men also had valid
passports. Other speakers, including Deborah Notkin, president-elect of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, noted that since the hijackers had
entered the country legally, they would have been able to obtain valid driver's
licenses even under New York's restrictions.

Ms. Notkin, who said she had lost a cousin and clients in the terrorist attacks,
pointed instead to American citizens hurt by the state policy. A working mother
in Westchester County, she said, is frantic because her devoted Uruguayan
babysitter, who has lived in New York since she was 12, will lose her license
for lack of a Social Security number or valid visa; an elderly woman is going to
lose the immigrant home health care aide who drives her to her doctor.

To some waiting to testify on behalf of organizations that favor more
restrictions on immigration, the issue was simple: the state has no business
granting a driver's license to anyone here illegally, they said, because driving
is a privilege, not a right, and the license has become the most widely used
form of identification in the nation.

But Assemblyman Barry Grodenchik, a Democrat from Queens, spoke of the more
complicated considerations that have prompted legislatures across the country to
try to come up with other ways for illegal immigrants to document who they are,
where they live and that they can drive. He said he had met with Korean
greengrocers and florists whose businesses are heavily dependent on immigrant
truck drivers now losing their licenses.

''Has the D.M.V. given thought to the several hundred thousand people who are
not going to be able to drive anymore?'' he asked.

Commissioner Martinez agreed to think about it. But he rejected as dangerous or
unreliable some alternatives that other states are trying, like issuing a
driving certificate, not to be used for identification, or accepting a federal
tax identification number or consular identification documents in place of a
Social Security number. He said that since 9/11 and the advent of a quick means
to verify Social Security numbers online, many states have begun to check the
numbers as soon as applicants submit them for new licenses or renewals.

State officials have said they are only enforcing a 1995 law requiring that
driver's license applicants who have Social Security numbers must provide them.
But Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
umbrella group for more than 200 groups serving newcomers, said the agency's new
administrative policies, not state law, were causing the problem.

New York law allows people without a Social Security number, including illegal
immigrants, to substitute a letter from the Social Security Administration
saying that they are ineligible, she said. But, as the commissioner confirmed ,
the Motor Vehicles Department has begun requiring noncitizens without Social
Security numbers to show immigration documents issued at least a year before and
valid for at least six more months of residence.

That requirement jeopardizes even some legal immigrants like a law student at
Columbia University who said she was denied a driver's license because her green
card would expire in five and a half months -- even though the card will be
extended because she is married to an American citizen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Plea In Border Crossing Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 104 words


A South African woman pleaded not guilty to immigration charges in a case that
raised concerns about whether terrorists could enter the country by way of
Mexico. The woman, Farida Goolam Mahomed Ahmed, 48, was arrested July 19 after
being stopped by the Border Patrol at McAllen-Miller International Airport as
she tried to board a plane bound for New York. She carried a pair of muddy, wet
pants in her baggage, $7,300 in various currencies and a passport with three
double-sided pages missing. She was charged with illegally entering the United
States, using an altered passport and making a false statement to a federal
agent.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 22, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hostile Welcomes

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 95 words



To the Editor: I am neither a journalist nor a politician, but a British subject
who has been a United States resident alien since 1956, traveling to the United
Kingdom at least once a year. I would like to express my dissatisfaction with
the somewhat hostile attitude I usually encounter when going through the
airport-arrival immigration procedure.

Having worked in the travel business for a number of years, I understand that
dealing with the public can be a test of one's patience at times. However, a
little civility would not be amiss.

DOREEN S. HOWARD
New York, N.Y.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 24, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Finds Most Border Officers Feel Security Ought to Be Better

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23


More than 60 percent of Border Patrol agents and immigration officers surveyed
for a study issued on Monday said the Department of Homeland Security could do
more to stop potential terrorists from entering the country, and more than a
third said they were not satisfied that they had the tools and training to do
so.

The survey, of 500 border agents and immigration inspectors, was conducted for
the unions representing them by Peter D. Hart Research Associates. It found them
sharply divided on whether the country was safer now than before the 9/11
attacks: 53 percent said it was, but 44 percent said it was no safer or was less
safe.

''Prior to Sept. 11, 2001, it was extremely easy to enter the United States
illegally,'' said T.J. Bonner, president of one of the unions, the National
Border Patrol Council. ''Incredibly, this has not changed in any meaningful
way.''

The survey also found low morale to be pervasive.

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security dismissed the survey as biased
and inaccurate, saying it offered only a limited snapshot of the views of the
department's 42,000 employees. They cited a number of strides, among them
airport inspectors' collection of digital fingerprints and photographs from more
than six million foreign visitors since January, the first move toward creating
a comprehensive system to screen travelers.

In the last six months, the officials said, the department has turned away
hundreds of criminals, travelers with fake documents, including fraudulent
passports, and others barred from entry to the United States.

The study did include some positive findings. Sixty-four percent of the
employees surveyed described themselves as very satisfied or fairly satisfied
with their workload, and 59 percent said they received the support they needed
from their immediate supervisors.

The study, conducted from July 30 through Aug. 7, had a margin of sampling error
of plus or minus five percentage points.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 25, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Draft G.O.P. Platform Backs Bush on Security, Gay Marriage and Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE REPUBLICAN
AGENDA; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1122 words


A draft Republican Party platform distributed last night to delegates takes
conservative stands on several social issues that sometimes divide the party,
including abortion, stem-cell research and a constitutional amendment to ban
same-sex marriage.

But it also supports the expansion of legal immigration, a position that is
already drawing opposition from some in the party's conservative base.

Roughly half of this year's Republican platform is devoted to foreign policy and
national security. ''President Bush has confronted unprecedented challenges,
including a world scarred by terrorism,'' its preamble begins. ''The president's
leadership has achieved successes once deemed impossible to realize in so short
a period of time.''

The platform also makes the creation of private investment accounts within the
Social Security system a priority on its domestic agenda as part of Mr. Bush's
call for an ''ownership society.'' The draft declares, ''Each of today's workers
should be free to direct a portion of their payroll taxes to personal
investments for their retirement.''

Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Senate Republican leader and co-chairman of the
platform committee, said in an interview that this year's platform addressed a
host of new ''hot button'' issues that did not emerge four years ago, both on
the domestic front and on combating terrorism.

On immigration, the platform supports Mr. Bush's call for a new temporary worker
program that would also be open to some current illegal immigrants.

Republican strategists say that although the president's proposals on
immigration have largely fallen out of the headlines, the subject remains a
delicate issue within the party. Loosening immigration restrictions offers an
opportunity for Republicans to court the rapidly growing number of Hispanic
voters while pleasing some big employers. But the measures face stiff resistance
from cultural conservatives.

Dr. Frist said, ''The president has spoken, and there has been a reaction, and
this is the first forum to debate it.''

''There is a lot of misrepresentation of the president's policy, that people can
take shortcuts to citizenship,'' he said. ''There will be a lot of clarification
of that.''

Carlos Espinosa, a spokesman for Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado
Republican who has helped lead the fight against loosening immigration rules,
said Mr. Tancredo and other opponents hoped to force a debate on the plank when
platform hearings began today.

''These conventions are for the base to figure out who we are and where we stand
and what we stand for,'' Mr. Espinosa said.

''Tom is doing everything he can to make sure we do have a debate on
immigration,'' he added.

Other social issues are not expected to generate the same debate. Moderates said
they had few hopes of changing the party's direction at this year's convention.

On national security, the draft platform repeatedly refers to the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and commends the president for his ''steadfast
resolve'' in the aftermath. It describes Mr. Bush's foreign policy as ''marked
by a determination to challenge new threats, not ignore them, or simply wait for
future tragedy -- and by a renewed commitment to building a hopeful future in
hopeless places, instead of allowing troubled regions to remain in despair and
explode in violence.''

This year's draft is in sharp contrast with the platform of the convention that
nominated Mr. Bush four years ago, in which national security was vastly
overshadowed by a domestic agenda. Criticizing the Clinton administration as
running down the nation's defenses, in part though ''promiscuous commitments''
abroad, the 2000 platform had said that ''the administration constantly enlarges
the reach of its rhetoric,'' making the United States a ''global social
worker.''

It added: ''We propose our principles; we must not impose our culture,'' and,
''The military is not a civilian police force or a political referee.''

Asked about the contrast with the 2000 platform, Senator Frist acknowledged the
shift in the party's stand toward foreign interventions, saying, ''I think that
9/11 transformed the world, and that is going to be reflected in this
document.''

Despite the continuing turmoil in Najaf and other parts of Iraq, the draft
describes the situation in that country as one of Mr. Bush's notable
achievements, saying Iraq ''is now becoming an example of reform to the
region.'' The draft acknowledges that ''the stockpiles of W.M.D.'' -- weapons of
mass destruction -- ''we expected to find in Iraq have not materialized,'' but
says ''the best intelligence available at the time indicated that Saddam Hussein
was a threat'' and ''our nation did the right thing.''

On abortion, the platform retained from previous conventions a call for a
constitutional amendment banning abortion, expanding its discussion of the issue
to a five-paragraph section on the ''culture of life'' from just two paragraphs
in the 2000 platform in a section titled ''Upholding the Rights of All.''

On same-sex marriage, the draft says the party ''strongly supports President
Bush's call for a constitutional amendment that fully protects marriage,''
calling heterosexual marriage ''the most fundamental institution of
civilization.''

Republican dissenters from the party's conservative stands on social issues have
tried in recent weeks to persuade the staff drafting the platform to modify some
planks. Christopher Barron, political director of the Log Cabin Republicans, a
gay group, said that given the slim chances of eliminating the endorsement of a
constitutional ban on same-sex marriage from the platform, his group pushed for
a ''unity plank'' to acknowledge that some party members might disagree about
the subject. Abortion-rights advocates have tried without success for similar
provisions in years past.

Representative Michael N. Castle of Delaware, who supports abortion rights and
is president of the Main Street Partnership, an organization of moderate
Republicans, said his group had given up on trying to dissuade this year's
convention from its opposition to abortion.

Instead, Mr. Castle said, the organization pushed to persuade the party to take
a more open position toward research using embryonic stem cells. Some opponents
of abortion believe that taking stem cells from embryos amounts to taking human
life, and President Bush has restricted federally financed research to using
stem cell lines already in laboratories. The platform applauded that decision.

In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Castle said he held out little hope of a
fight in the platform hearings. ''I don't intend to even present this,'' he
said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Janet Creighton of Canton, Ohio, met yesterday with
Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, center, and Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado. (Photo
by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thailand Detains 1,500 Refugees Who Seek Resettlement in U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Aug. 25


Thai soldiers have detained more than 1,500 Hmong refugees from Laos who have
been living in a camp in central Thailand for almost two decades and now hope to
join their families in the United States, officials and refugees said Wednesday.

Thai officials and Hmong refugees, some of whom fought alongside American forces
during the Vietnam War, gave conflicting accounts of the detentions.

An army colonel at the Tham Krabok refugee camp said the refugees who were
detained had failed to meet the registration deadline to move to the United
States but had walked to a nearby police station to demand permission to join
the exodus anyway.

''They've heard officials from the U.S. Embassy would be here today, so they
walked in large groups, like going to a fair, to meet them,'' said the colonel,
who declined to be identified. ''We know that many of these people are not
qualified to go to the United States and have entered the country illegally. So
we've asked the police and immigration to send them back to where they used to
live.''

But Hmong refugees said they were rounded up in the camp at dawn and taken by
truck to a nearby police station. ''We've been rounded up by the soldiers and
now we would like to ask for justice from the authorities to help us live with
our families in the United States,'' said Soua Sue Chao, 36, who missed the
August 2003 registration deadline.

There are about 15,000 Hmong at the Tham Krabok camp, built around a Buddhist
temple, and the Thai government said last year the United States was willing to
take half of them, provided that they were registered inhabitants of the camp.

Mayor Randy Kelly of St. Paul, Minn., visited the camp in March, but he did not
say how many Minnesota, home to one of the largest Hmong communities in the
United States, would be able to take.

Under the plan, 1,457 Hmong from the camp have been resettled in the United
States and another 700 were due to fly out this week, said a spokesman for the
International Organization for Migrations. The Thai and American governments say
they hope all those eligible will be moved this year, but resettlement officials
say it may take longer.

Soua Sue Chao said he had been away working in northern Thailand during the
registration period and wanted either to go to the United States or to remain in
Tham Krabok, which Thailand plans to close once those eligible have been moved.

''We have nowhere to go,'' he said.

During the Vietnam War, some American-backed Hmong fought against Communist
forces in Laos and Vietnam. When the Communists took over those countries in
1975, about 130,000 Hmong fled to the United States via Thailand, leaving behind
about 400,000 in Laos.

Only those registered at the Tham Krabok camp, which is the only official center
in Thailand for Hmong refugees, and which the Laotian government regards as a
base for rebel activities, were eligible for the resettlement program.

Gen. Pallop Pinmanee, one of the senior Thai officers in charge of the
resettlement plan, said the camp's population included nearly 2,000 unregistered
Hmong. ''These people have failed to register with Thai authorities for the
repatriation scheme, but they want to sneak along with those who have
registered,'' he said.

In Washington, a State Department spokesman, Adam Ereli, responded to reports
that Hmong migrants were being detained by saying the United States was working
closely with Thailand to ease the migrants' resettlement, Agence France-Presse
reported. ''The Hmong in Thailand are an important focus of our attention, and
we've been very active on their behalf for some time,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Wins Back Pay For Janitors

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 769 words


The United States Department of Labor announced yesterday that it had reached a
$1.9 million settlement with a contractor for the Target Corporation after
finding that the contractor had not paid overtime to hundreds of immigrant
janitors who often worked seven nights a week cleaning Target stores.

Several janitors said in interviews that the Target contractor was doing much
the same as contractors for Wal-Mart had done before an immigration raid at
Wal-Mart stores last October -- making late-night janitors work nearly 365 days
a year, without paying overtime or Social Security and other taxes.

The Labor Department announced its back-pay settlement with Global Building
Services of Newhall, Calif., after a two-year investigation found that Global
had not paid overtime to 775 immigrant janitors who cleaned Target stores in
California, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas.

The Labor Department was tipped off to the violations by a Los Angeles group,
the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund, that monitors whether employers are
breaking the law when they use janitors.

''We investigated 50 Target stores, and we saw that janitors were being paid in
cash, a flat rate with no overtime, no payroll taxes, no workers comp,'' said
Lilia Garcia, the trust fund's executive director. ''It's a cancer in the
industry; too many of these big retailers are using problematic contractors.''

Ms. Garcia said her group found that a half dozen of the late-night cleaners
were only 15 or 16 years old. She said Global Building Services fired them soon
after the federal inquiry started largely because state law bars teenagers so
young from working so late at night and so many hours a day or a week.
California officials participated in the inquiry.

Last October, federal agents raided 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states to arrest
250 cleaners who they said were illegal immigrants. The immigrants were employed
by various Wal-Mart contractors, and as at the Target stores, they usually
worked seven nights a week and were paid in cash without receiving overtime.

Labor Department officials declined to say whether they were investigating
Wal-Mart or its contractors, although Wal-Mart has acknowledged that a federal
grand jury in Pennsylvania is investigating whether it illegally cooperated with
its contractors to use illegal immigrants as cleaners. Lawyers in New York have
filed a class- action lawsuit against Wal-Mart charging various labor violations
on behalf of what they estimate are thousands of illegal immigrant janitors.

Felipe Aguilar, who said he cleaned at five Target stores in Southern
California, said in a telephone interview: ''In my three years there, they gave
me very few days off. And when I came back after being out injured for two
weeks, the company said, 'We can't take you back. Someone else is working in
your place.'''

Mr. Aguilar said that he worked about 80 hours a week, from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m.
daily, and was paid $525 or $625 every 15 days. That came to less than $4 an
hour, well below the federal minimum wage of $5.15.

His wife, Claudia, who also worked at Target, said, ''We felt bad about the pay;
sometimes we felt rage, but we were scared to complain because we needed the
job.''

In a statement, Global Building Services said that after these problems were
brought to its attention in November 2002, it cooperated fully with the
investigation and changed its pay practices.

''We are pleased that we were able to reach an agreement with the Department of
Labor to compensate our employees,'' Global said. ''The company is fully
compliant, and we look forward to serving the needs of our retail customers. We
feel this is all behind us now.''

Target said in a statement last night that it ''does not tolerate unethical
business practices in any form, including on the part of our vendors.'' Target
said it had a tightly controlled process to manage its dealings with cleaning
contractors.

Target added that it required all contractors, including Global Building
Services, to comply with federal and local laws and to investigate and respond
appropriately to charges that laws were being violated.

''As a result of Global Building Services' recent agreement, we are in the
process of collecting more information and will be taking appropriate action,''
the company said..

Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao said the settlement showed ''our commitment to
protecting the overtime rights of workers.''

Ms. Garcia of the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund said she was pleased that
the settlement called for her group to monitor Global Building Services to help
ensure compliance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Conservatives Mount Stem Cell and Immigration Challenges

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PLATFORM;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1084 words


Daylong negotiations between representatives of the Bush campaign and
conservative Republicans to forestall challenges to planks of the party platform
that back President Bush's positions on stem cell research and immigration fell
through last night, leading to an unexpected debate in the platform committee,
two people involved in the talks said.

The debate, though brief, was a sharp contrast with the carefully choreographed
displays of unity at the Democratic Party platform hearing or at the Republican
subcommittees earlier in the day.

With an impassioned plea to protect what one delegate called the weakest form of
human life, embryos, delegates proposed amending the platform to call for laws
to block all research using embryonic stem cells.

The draft of the platform supported Mr. Bush's decision to block federal
financing for research using newly obtained embryonic stem cells while allowing
privately financed research or research that uses pre-existing embryonic stem
cell lines.

The amendments quickly failed on a yea or nay vote after a lengthy speech by
Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, head of the platform committee and a medical
doctor, about the moral complexity of the president's decision and the potential
power of stem cell research.

Disappointed by the failure to work out a compromise, conservatives said they
planned an even stronger push today to amend the plank that supports Mr. Bush's
proposal for a ''guest worker'' program that would be open to some illegal
immigrants. Conservatives critical of the plan say it amounts to an amnesty for
lawbreakers, which the platform says the party opposes.

People involved in the talks said they linked compromises on both issues,
seeking to exchange concessions.

Phyllis Schlafly, the longtime social conservative organizer, led efforts to
revise the support for the immigration plan and to strengthen the language
opposing research that uses stem cells.

Matt Schlapp, a White House political aide, was on hand in an effort to foster
unity. But the talks broke off shortly before the delegates reconvened for their
evening session.

Ginny Wolfe, a spokeswoman for the platform committee, said the relative
unanimity of the subcommittee's meetings in the morning reflected the extent of
consensus in the party. Ms. Wolfe also said an ''open door'' provision, allowing
for disagreement, was a successful effort at compromise.'' Are there still
differences of opinion?'' she asked. ''Yes, sure. But we are really working
through them.''

Although party moderates had largely given up hope to soft the stance on issues
like abortion, conservatives pressed for more, grumbling in hallways at the
Javits Convention Center in Manhattan about a host of other planks, including
federal spending and the military action in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In a statement, Richard Lessner, executive director of the American Conservative
Union, called the platform ''a bland and uninspiring document'' that lacked
''solid conservative meat.'' Although most conservatives enthusiastically
support the lengthy platform section on fighting terrorism, Mr. Lessner said,
its ''open-ended commitment'' to keeping troops in Iraq and Afghanistan is
troubling.

His harshest criticism fell on President Bush's plan for the new temporary
worker program.

''This unfortunate initiative allows those who enter America illegally to become
legal residents and apply for citizenship,'' he said. ''This idea was D.O.A.
among conservatives when the president first broached it, and it is still
offensive.''

In a private e-mail message that circulated among conservatives at the platform
hearings and on Capitol Hill, Paul S. Teller, legislative director of the
conservative House Republican Study Committee, forwarded Mr. Lessner's
statement, adding:

''It confirms, as was made so clear to me during the time of President Reagan's
funeral and laying in state, that President Bush has no broad vision -- and
certainly no conservative vision -- for the United States of America. All he has
is a random assortment of policy prescriptions, many of which contradict one
another. And let's not forget his primary goal on federal spending, to cut the
deficit in half in five years. Wowwee.''

Last night, Mr. Teller declined to comment on the message, except to say it was
a private communication to trusted friends.

The potential effects of conservative discontent on the election remain to be
seen. No conservative third-party candidate has gathered much momentum, and few
conservatives are likely to pull a lever for Senator John Kerry on Election Day.

Bush campaign spokesmen often say the party is more united than ever, with
support for the president comparable to their backing in Mr. Reagan's first
term. Still, many Republican strategists argue that in a tight race motivation
and turnout among the base voters could be decisive.

Richard A. Viguerie, the dean of its direct-mail operations, said the motivation
of the Republican base was not as strong as the Democrats' this year.

''On a scale of 1 to 10,'' Mr. Viguerie said, ''the Democrats are at an 11, and
I put the Republicans at about an 81/2 in terms of their enthusiasm and their
motivation.''

Even though conservatives firmly dominate the party, he said, a movement could
not become complacent.

''You never want to remain silent,'' he said. ''You always want to roar. After
the lion has eaten his fill, he still roars to let everybody know that he is the
king of the hill.''

The Republican subcommittees earlier indeed included little discord, to
conservatives' frustration.

''This committee appears to be stacked,'' Ms. Schlafly said as one panel quickly
passed the stem cell and immigration planks to the full committee.


 (From the draft distributed to delegates on Tuesday)

Vice President Dick Cheney
''I made clear four years ago . . . that my view was that's appropriately a
matter for the states to decide . . .''

(At a campaign forum on Tuesday)

President George W. Bush
''Marriage is a sacred institution between a man and a woman . . . If activist
judges insist on re-defining marriage by court order, the only alternative will
be the constitutional process.''

(In a White House statement on Feb. 3)

Log Cabin Republicans
''The antifamily constitutional amendment targets part of the American family
for discrimination. There are many reasons this amendment must be defeated.''

(From the Republican gay and lesbian rights groups Web site)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''One Party, Many Views''A look at the spectrum of
Republican views on gay marriage.Republican Party Platform 2004, Draft''. . . a
few judges and local authorities are presuming to change the most fundamental
institution of civilization, the union of a man and a woman in marriage. . . .
anything less than a constitutional amendment, passed by Congress and ratified
by the states, is vulnerable to being overturned by activist judges.''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 28, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  New England: Massachusetts: War Crimes Case

BYLINE: By Katie Zezima (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 109 words


Federal prosecutors say that a Bosnian man who became a permanent alien in 2001
took part in a military unit that carried out the killing of thousands of
Muslims in the former Yugoslavia in 1995. Officials charged the man, Marko
Boskic, 40, of Peabody, Mass., with two counts of immigration document fraud.
Mr. Boskic was arrested Wednesday in Peabody, where prosecutors said he had
lived for four years. Officials say Mr. Boskic lied on his refugee application,
claiming he had served in the Yugoslavian army only in the 1980's. Mr. Boskic
faces up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count; he could also
be deported.   Katie Zezima (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'African-American' Becomes a Term for Debate

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2111 words

DATELINE: SILVER SPRING, Md., Aug. 27


For a moment, the Ethiopian-born activist seemed to melt into the crowd,
blending into the sea of black professors, health experts and community leaders
considering how to educate blacks about the dangers of prostate cancer. But when
he piped up to suggest focusing some attention on African immigrants, the
dividing lines were promptly and pointedly drawn.

The focus of the campaign, the activist, Abdulaziz Kamus, was told, would be
strictly on African-Americans.

''I said, 'But I am African and I am an American citizen; am I not
African-American?''' said Mr. Kamus, who is an advocate for African immigrants
here, recalling his sense of bewilderment. ''They said 'No, no, no, not you.'''

''The census is claiming me as an African-American,'' said Mr. Kamus, 47, who
has lived in this country for 20 years. ''If I walk down the streets, white
people see me as an African-American. Yet African-Americans are saying, 'You are
not one of us.' So I ask myself, in this country, how do I define myself?''

That prickly question is increasingly being raised as the growing number of
foreign-born blacks in this Washington suburb and elsewhere inspires a quiet
debate over who can claim the term ''African-American,'' which has rapidly
replaced ''black'' in much of the nation's political and cultural discourse.

In the 1990's, the number of blacks with recent roots in sub-Saharan Africa
nearly tripled while the number of blacks with origins in the Caribbean grew by
more than 60 percent, according to demographers at the State University of New
York at Albany. By 2000, foreign-born blacks constituted 30 percent of the
blacks in New York City, 28 percent of the blacks in Boston and about a quarter
here in Montgomery County, Md., an analysis of census data conducted at Queens
College shows.

In recent years, black immigrants and their children have become more visible in
universities, the workplace and in politics, with Colin L. Powell, the son of
Jamaican immigrants, serving as secretary of state, and Barack Obama, born to a
Kenyan father and an American mother, leading the polls in the race for a United
States Senate seat in Illinois and emerging as a rising star in the Democratic
Party.

The demographic shifts, which gained strength in the 1960's after changes in
federal immigration law led to increased migration from Africa and Latin
America, have been accompanied in some places by fears that newcomers might
eclipse native-born blacks. And they have touched off delicate musings about
ethnic labels, identity and the often unspoken differences among people who
share the same skin color.

This month, the debate spilled into public view when Alan Keyes, the black
Republican challenger for the Senate seat in Illinois, questioned whether Mr.
Obama, the keynote speaker at the Democratic National Convention, should claim
an African-American identity.

''Barack Obama claims an African-American heritage,'' Mr. Keyes said on the ABC
program ''This Week'' with George Stephanopoulos. ''Barack Obama and I have the
same race -- that is, physical characteristics. We are not from the same
heritage.''

''My ancestors toiled in slavery in this country,'' Mr. Keyes said. ''My
consciousness, who I am as a person, has been shaped by my struggle, deeply
emotional and deeply painful, with the reality of that heritage.''

Some black Americans argue that black immigrants, like Mr. Kamus, and the
children of immigrants, like Mr. Obama and Mr. Powell, are most certainly
African-American. (Mr. Obama and Mr. Powell often use that term when describing
themselves.) Yet some immigrants and their children prefer to be called African
or Nigerian-American or Jamaican-American, depending on their countries of
origin. Other people prefer the term black, which seems to include everyone,
regardless of nationality.

Mr. Keyes's comments reflect the views of a number of black Americans, including
those who challenged Mr. Kamus at the meeting on prostate cancer earlier this
year. Many argued that the term African-American should refer to the descendents
of slaves brought to the United States centuries ago, not to newcomers who have
not inherited the legacy of bondage, segregation and legal discrimination.

Bobby Austin, an administrator at the University of the District of Columbia who
attended the meeting in Washington, said he understood why some blacks were
offended when Mr. Kamus claimed an African-American identity. Dr. Austin said
some people feared that black immigrants and their children would snatch up the
hard-won opportunities made possible by the civil rights movement.

Several studies suggest that black immigrants and their children are already
achieving at higher levels than native-born blacks. A study based on 2000 census
data conducted by John R. Logan and Glenn Deane at SUNY Albany found that
African immigrants typically had more education and higher median incomes than
did native-born blacks.

And earlier this year, officials at Harvard pointed out that the majority of
their black students -- perhaps as many two-thirds -- were African and Caribbean
immigrants or their children, or to a lesser extent, children of biracial
couples. Sociologists say foreign-born blacks from majority-black countries are
less psychologically handicapped by the stigma of race. Many arrive with higher
levels of education and professional experience. And sociologists say they often
encounter less discrimination.

''We've suffered so much that we're a bit weary and immigration seems like one
more hurdle we will have to climb,'' said Dr. Austin, 59, who traces his
ancestors back to slavery. ''People are asking: 'Will I have to climb over these
immigrants to get to my dream? Will my children have to climb?'

''These are very aggressive people who are coming here,'' said Dr. Austin, who
is calling for a frank dialogue between native-born and foreign-born blacks. ''I
don't berate immigrants for that; they have given up a lot to get here. But
we're going to be in competition with them. We have to be honest about it. That
is one of the dividing lines.''

Mr. Obama says such arguments do not reflect the views of black Americans who
have joined forces over the years with Africans and people from the Caribbean to
fight colonialism and poverty. He says black descendants of slaves share more
similarities than differences with black immigrants and their children. He says
his grandfather worked as a servant in Kenya and was described as a ''house
boy'' by whites even when he was a middle-aged man.

''Some of the patterns of struggle and degradation that blacks here in the
United States experienced aren't that different from the colonial experience in
the Caribbean or the African continent,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview.

''For me the term African-American really does fit,'' said Mr. Obama, 43. ''I'm
African, I trace half of my heritage to Africa directly and I'm American.''

Shifting ethnic labels have long inspired fierce debates and discussions among
blacks in this country, reflecting changes in socioeconomic circumstances,
political strategies and evolving views of identity since Africans were first
brought here as slaves.

The term ''African'' was used sporadically during the 17th and 18th centuries,
said Michael Thornton, a professor of Afro-American studies at the University of
Wisconsin who has studied the issue. In the 1800's, ''colored'' started gaining
popularity because it was viewed as more inclusive, referring to those of
mixed-race as well as full African heritage, Mr. Thornton found.

Often several terms were in use simultaneously. In the 1890 census, for
instance, blacks were asked to choose among four ethnic labels: black, mulatto,
quadroon and octoroon, depending upon the degree of white blood in their
ancestry.

And in the 20th century, many black Americans shifted from colored to Negro to
black and, most recently, to African-American, sometimes within one generation.

''I've had to check several different boxes in my lifetime,'' said Donna
Brazile, 44, Al Gore's campaign manager in the 2000 presidential race. ''In my
birth certificate I'm identified as a Negro. Then I was black. Now I readily
check African-American. I have a group of friends and we call ourselves the
colored girls sometimes, to remind ourselves that we ain't too far from that,
either.''

The term African-American has crept steadily into the nation's vocabulary since
1988, when the Rev. Jesse Jackson held a news conference to urge Americans to
use it to refer to blacks.

''It puts us in our proper historical context,'' Mr. Jackson said then, adding
in a recent interview that he still favored the term. ''Every ethnic group in
this country has a reference to some land base, some historical cultural base.
African-Americans have hit that level of cultural maturity.''

Since 1989, the number of blacks using the term has steadily increased, polls
show. In a survey that year conducted by ABC and The Washington Post, 66 percent
said they preferred the term black, 22 preferred African-American, 10 percent
liked both terms and 2 percent had no opinion.

In 2000, the Census Bureau for the first time allowed respondents to check a box
that carried the heading African-American next to the term black. In 2003, a
poll by the same news organizations found that 48 percent of blacks preferred
the term African-American, 35 percent favored black and 17 percent liked both
terms.

The term has become such a fixture in the political lexicon that many white
politicians, including President Bush and Senator John Kerry, his Democratic
rival, favor it in their political speeches these days. In fact, Mr. Kerry's
wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, who is white, has referred to herself on occasion as
an African-American. She was born to Portuguese parents in Mozambique.

Many whites use the term for all blacks. But among blacks there is much less
agreement, particularly in places like Silver Spring where Africans, Haitians
and Dominicans mingle in the town's coffee shops, nightclubs and beauty salons,
or in neighboring Washington, where the City Council voted this year to include
the Ethiopian language Amharic as an official language to accommodate the
growing Ethiopian community.

Even adherents of African-American acknowledge that shifting demographics have
made the term's meaning more ambiguous.

''It's a comfortable term for me personally and for people like me who are of
African descent and have been in this nation for a long time,'' said Michael
Lomax, the president of the United Negro College Fund, which raises money for 38
historically black colleges. ''But it gets more confusing when you recognize
that this nation is full of all kinds of people of African descent.''

''It's a much richer and more complex variety than when we started asserting
that we were African-American,'' said Mr. Lomax, who argues that recent black
immigrants from the Caribbean and elsewhere should feel free to use the term.

Foreign-born blacks are also divided. Angelique Shofar, the Liberian-born host
of a weekly radio program in Washington called ''Africa Meets Africa,'' prefers
to call herself an African, even though she has lived in the United States for
28 of her 39 years.

Phillip J. Brutus, the first Haitian-born state legislator in Florida, favors
the term black because it includes foreign-born immigrants and black Americans.
Mr. Brutus lives in Miami, where more than a third of the blacks are foreign
born.

''African-American has become the politically correct term to use, but I still
say black,'' Mr. Brutus said. ''I say I'm black and American. That's what's most
accurate. I think, by and large, black is more encompassing.''

Here in Silver Spring, Mr. Kamus is still searching for the right label. He says
he would like to be described simply as a universal man, but he knows that the
United States, like many countries, has a long history of categorizing its
people. And he would like to find a way of stitching his twin identities -- one
Ethiopian, one American -- into a whole.

With that in mind, Mr. Kamus and some of his Ethiopian-born friends plan to sit
down next month with Dr. Austin and Dr. Austin's American-born friends over a
meal of savory meats and Ethiopian bread. They want to start a dialogue about
their similarities, their differences and issues of identity at a time of
demographic change.

''We are in a critical stage of defining ourselves, who we are as Americans,''
Mr. Kamus said of African immigrants and their children here. ''But one thing is
clear. We are here and we are not going home. This is our home now. That is the
reality.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bobby Austin, in his Washington home with a portrait of a
forebear, calls for dialogue between foreign-born and native-born blacks. (Photo
by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Abdulaziz Kamus, an Ethiopian-born American citizen, said blacks whose ancestors
were slaves did not see him as African-American. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for
The New York Times)
 Descendents of slaves have much in common with recent immigrants, says Barack
Obama, a Senate candidate whose father was from Kenya. (Photo by Spencer
Platt/Getty Images)(pg. 20)Chart: ''Debating Heritage''As the number of blacks
born in other countries grows, a quiet debate is occurring on who can call
themselves African-American.United StatesNUMBER OF BLACKS, 2000*:
36,216,207PERCENTAGE FOREIGN-BORN1990: 4.9%2000: 6.7%CHANGE, 1990-2000 IN
PERCENTAGE POINTS: +1.9New YorkNUMBER OF BLACKS, 2000*: 2,265,870PERCENTAGE
FOREIGN-BORN1990: 26.22000: 30.2CHANGE, 1990-2000 IN PERCENTAGE POINTS:
+4.0BostonNUMBER OF BLACKS, 2000*: 165,297PERCENTAGE FOREIGN-BORN1990: 20.72000:
27.9CHANGE, 1990-2000 IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +7.2Montgomery County, Md.NUMBER OF
BLACKS, 2000*: 140,870PERCENTAGE FOREIGN-BORN1990: 20.02000: 25.3CHANGE,
1990-2000 IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +5.3MiamiNUMBER OF BLACKS, 2000*:
101,938PERCENTAGE FOREIGN-BORN1990: 33.52000: 33.8CHANGE, 1990-2000 IN
PERCENTAGE POINTS: +0.3MinneapolisNUMBER OF BLACKS, 2000*: 77,802PERCENTAGE
FOREIGN-BORN1990: 3.62000: 16.2CHANGE, 1990-2000 IN PERCENTAGE POINTS:
+12.6*Includes those listing black in combination with some other race.(Source
by Census Bureau data analyzed by Susan Weber, Queens College Sociology
Department)(pg. 20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 1, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant's Search for a Heart Is Frustrating

BYLINE: By EDDY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words


In an intensive care unit at Bellevue Hospital Center, Isidoro Jimenez drifts in
and out of sleep as anguished relatives watch nervously at his bedside. Days
earlier, his heart had started beating irregularly for several minutes, to the
point where his life was in danger.

''Quiet. Don't try to talk,'' says his wife, Edelmira Lopez, following with her
eyes the intravenous lines that trail his frail body. ''Your heart is still too
weak.''

Mr. Jimenez, 47, has been hospitalized on and off for two years. He has
congestive heart failure and unless he receives a transplant, doctors say, he
will die.

But Mr. Jimenez's journey is more than one of illness and time, more than the
story of an illegal immigrant who cannot get a transplant operation because he
is not a citizen. His journey is also one of miles: he has traveled from New
York City, back to his native Mexico and to New York again -- this time aided by
smugglers -- all the while getting sicker, in his search for a new heart.

Until a transplant center agrees to assume responsibility for him, Mr. Jimenez
will not be placed on the national waiting list. Misunderstandings, a false
rumor of a possible transplant in New York, and distrust have brought him to the
brink of death.

Doctors at Bellevue are trying to stabilize Mr. Jimenez with medicine to ease
the swelling and the coughing. He breathes through a tube, and an implanted
pacemaker helps regulate his heartbeat.

Two years ago, Mr. Jimenez was in decent health. He liked to arm wrestle and
kick around a soccer ball. He worked in construction and lived with relatives in
a cramped two-bedroom apartment in East Harlem. His wife and four children lived
in Tabasco, a small rural state in southeastern Mexico.

He developed a nagging cough that kept him up at night. His mother, Columba
Jimenez, took him to a clinic, where a doctor found signs consistent with
congestive heart failure. He was given medicine to ease the coughing and the
fatigue. But after several visits without feeling any better -- each costing $25
-- Mr. Jimenez stopped going to the doctor.

Mr. Jimenez collapsed onto the staircase of a subway station in December 2002
when he had trouble breathing. He was taken to Metropolitan Hospital Center,
where, relatives said, doctors told him he would need a heart transplant. But
when hospital officials found out he was an illegal immigrant, relatives say, he
was told to return to Mexico on the chance that at least there he might get on a
waiting list for transplants.

In March 2003, Mr. Jimenez called his wife and children in Mexico and told them
he was coming home. He looked thin and pale when they greeted him at the
airport. The next day, his wife said, she drove him to see a team of cardiac
specialists in the capital city of Tabasco.

Ms. Lopez says doctors there soon gave up on her husband and even discouraged
him from seeking a transplant in Mexico City. She says doctors told her that he
would die waiting for a donated heart, and that even if one became available in
time, the family would never be able to afford the operation.

This year, with little money left for medicine, Mr. Jimenez took a turn for the
worse. A doctor gave him less than a month to live.

''I started sobbing when he told me that it was best if I just bought him an
oxygen tank and left him on his bed to die,'' Ms. Lopez said. ''But I told him
that I was going to keep fighting for my husband until it is God's will that he
be left alone.''

Meanwhile, family members in New York had heard a rumor that a woman with heart
trouble had had a no-cost operation at a Manhattan hospital even though she was
an illegal immigrant.

''We thought it would be easier this time,'' Columba Jimenez said, although the
family learned later that operation was for a heart valve replacement, and not a
transplant.

In any case, the couple packed a suitcase and headed for the American border,
where Mr. Jimenez's brothers had arranged for a smuggler to lead them across by
car. From there, an eight-day drive to New York City began. It ended at 42nd
Street and Eighth Avenue, near the Port Authority Bus Terminal, where the
remainder of the $8,000 that relatives had agreed to pay smugglers exchanged
hands.

The trip had taken a toll on Mr. Jimenez. He arrived barely able to breathe; his
feet and legs were so swollen that his brothers had to carry him.

On March 3, 2004, Ms. Lopez said, she took her husband to Metropolitan Hospital,
which in turn referred him to Bellevue, where he spent the next two weeks in
intensive care. Bellevue does not perform transplants, and a spokesman there
said Mr. Jimenez's case was referred to New York-Presbyterian Transplant
Institute, the largest organ laboratory in the country. But doctors and
officials familiar with the case said the institute determined he was ineligible
for a transplant.

Bryan Dotson, a spokesman for New York-Presbyterian Hospital, declined to
comment on Mr. Jimenez's case specifically. But he said that in determining
eligibility, the hospital considers a variety of factors including the patient's
ability to return for follow-up care and to obtain post-transplant medication.
This would apply to illegal immigrants.

''In those cases where the patients cannot provide adequate assurances in regard
to these and other acceptance criteria,'' Mr. Dotson said, ''the hospital may be
forced to decline them as a transplant candidate.''

The Jimenez family was devastated. ''We had come such a long way,'' his wife
said. ''And now they were telling us to turn back? I told them no. We are
staying here.''

The Jimenez family turned to the Spanish-language television station Telemundo,
Channel 47, and area businessmen set up a bank account to raise money. But no
one donated, family members said, because many people feared it was some kind of
fraudulent enterprise.

The family also appealed to the Mexican Consulate in New York. Norberto
Terrazas, consul for legal protection to Mexican citizens, said last week that
the consulate did all it could to help the family, including offering to pay for
Mr. Jimenez's flight to the National Institute of Cardiology in Mexico City.

''He was not going to receive a transplant in one or two weeks,'' Mr. Terrazas
said. ''But at least no one there would have abandoned him.''

But relatives dispute that account.

''In the end, they told us they didn't have the funds,'' Ms. Lopez said.

Now, Mr. Jimenez is too weak to travel outside the United States. Even if his
condition improves, his family says they will not return to Mexico.

''We came here to save his life,'' his wife said, tears welling in her eyes.
''There is no way we're going back.''

Mr. Jimenez awakes and leans forward. He reaches for his wife's hand and in a
slow, raspy voice says, ''Here I am.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Isidoro Jimenez, 47, in a bed at Bellevue Hospital Center, with
his wife, Edelmira Lopez, at his side. Mr. Jimenez has congestive heart failure.
(Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Compassionate Conservatism' and Its Discontents

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 173 words



To the Editor:

''Schwarzenegger Takes to Limelight Again'' (news article, Sept. 1) illustrated
the major role that Arnold Schwarzenegger can play in the November election.

America is a land of immigrants. Democrats have traditionally done a better job
than Republicans in reaching out to these millions of new voters.

Governor Schwarzenegger has a history that any immigrant can relate to. He came
to America with little money, but with determination and the work ethic, and
became successful.

This is a story emulated by many other immigrants of different nationalities.

His appeal to immigrants, young first-time voters, independents, moderate
Democrats, Hispanics, Asians, African-Americans and other middle-class voters
allowed him to move beyond the narrow California Republican base to become the
governor of that state.

The G.O.P. would be wise to ask Governor Schwarzenegger to speak on behalf of
President Bush and other Republican candidates for elected office in the
November election.

Larry Penner
Great Neck, N.Y., Sept. 1, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Pumping Iron (Pickax, Rake)

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words


YESTERDAY morning, a few hours after Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California
waxed ecstatic about the American dream and assured immigrants that they could
realize theirs just as surely as he has realized his, about 100 men stood on
Roosevelt Avenue in Queens, waiting. They waited not for a dream, but for a day
job as a painter, a sander, a plasterer.

If they were lucky, a contractor would cruise by in a van and offer them a day's
work for $60, $80 or $100. Just before noon yesterday, scores of these
unemployed immigrants, mostly from Ecuador, Colombia and Mexico, were still
waiting.

''There is not a job,'' said Angelo Castro, who immigrated from Ecuador three
years ago. He is 34 now, and still working day to day.

As he spoke, about 15 more men ran over from across the street and as far as two
blocks away, expectant looks on their faces. ''A job?'' they asked, seeing a
woman dressed in business clothes, writing in a notebook. ''You have a job?''

The five-block stretch on Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson Heights -- under the
tracks of the No. 7 train, the traffic of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway
whizzing below -- is a shape-up site. That's an outdoor hiring hall, commonly
associated with migrant farmworkers. But with the growth in immigration and
renovation, the shape-up phenomenon has come to New York City, becoming a
significant if mostly unnoticed part of the underground economy.

Outdoor job markets are scattered around the city, operating at least every
weekday morning. The largest, the one on Roosevelt Avenue, operates all day long
and on weekends, peopled by young, poor, mostly new immigrants who mill quietly
about the streets and command low pay.

The more experienced laborers gravitate to the daily morning shape-up in front
of the Janovic Plaza on Third Avenue at 67th Street in Manhattan. They tend to
speak a little more English and earn up to $150 for a day's work, if they are
lucky. Some make semi-permanent arrangements with contractors, but most depend
on the vagaries of the market.

''It depends,'' said Rodrigo Parra, a Colombian who has been in the United
States for 16 years. ''Sometimes no, sometimes si. Yesterday I work in Queens, I
install, what is it? -- a porch. Today -- no.''

Workers are paid in cash and get no benefits, vacation or sick leave. But they
have known worse. Here, they will tell you, is better than there, especially for
the children.

''Here is a little bit better, but hard,'' said Ricardo, 47, an illegal
immigrant from Colombia. In New York for 17 years, he is still working as a day
laborer, in part because he has no Social Security number. That has made getting
a driver's license -- which he is sure would get him a better job -- almost
impossible. Several states, citing post-Sept. 11 security concerns, have gotten
tough about licenses for illegal immigrants, including California, where Mr.
Schwarzenegger made cracking down a part of his campaign.

Most of the workers interviewed yesterday are here illegally, which would surely
annoy many Americans. Others might note that they came here for the same reason
Mr. Schwarzenegger did: opportunity.

Though under quite different circumstances.

WHEN he immigrated from Austria in 1968, Mr. Schwarzenegger was already a
celebrity, the youngest man to hold the Mr. Universe title. His entry path was
so smooth as to be greased, which might explain his cheerful observations at the
Republican convention on Tuesday:

''In this country, it doesn't make any difference where you were born. It
doesn't make any difference who your parents were. It doesn't make any
difference if, like me, you couldn't even speak English until you were in your
20's. America gave me opportunities, and my immigrant dreams came true. I want
other people to get the same chances I did, the same opportunities. And I
believe they can.''

Danko Boroja, a Serb who came to New York four years ago, was one of the few
workers who knew of the governor's speech. He smiled. ''He came a world
champion,'' said Mr. Boroja, 28, a part-time student at a community college.
''If you are successful, America shows an interest in you. If you come as just
an immigrant, it's different.''

Not that he is complaining. ''I can use my hands, I can use my brain,'' he said.
''Yes, America is a better place.''

That it surely is. But as many a New Yorker could tell Mr. Schwarzenegger, for
many an immigrant that place is much more Roosevelt Avenue than it is Rodeo
Drive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stark, Sketchy Portraits Of Dubious Detentions

BYLINE: By NED MARTEL

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM
REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 811 words


The tired and poor whom the Statue of Liberty welcomes describe the pain of
disinvitation in ''Persons of Interest,'' a tenderhearted series of
incarceration horror stories. After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, many Arabs or
Muslims living in the United States had their immigrant status checked in ways
that seemed often arbitrary, sometimes systematic and mostly inhumane.

In this soft-spoken documentary, a dozen immigrant stories from the New York
area come into focus, with the detainees or their relatives describing
out-of-nowhere arrests. In one instance federal agents mistook a son's
flight-simulator game on the family hard drive for evidence that the man of the
house was preparing to commandeer planes for terror attacks. Interrogators asked
another man whether he prayed at a mosque and how often, all to find proof of
fundamentalism.

The testimonials are each recorded in the same spare white room, illuminated by
what looks like a window but turns out to be a piece of stagecraft. Each
immigrant speaks to heard-but-not-seen filmmakers. As the subjects face the
camera, their personalities are revealed by their gestures and comportment
instead of their homes and neighborhoods, where they might otherwise have been
interviewed.

One mother struggles to control her restless, furniture-tipping sons, who have
not seen their father, who was deported to Jordan, in 17 months. ''My kids need
their father,'' explains this tearful mother, who now works full time and
agonizes about whether to uproot her immediate family and head for Jordan when
it would mean abandoning her extended one in Albany. ''I have three sons. I
can't wrestle with them. It hurts.''

Former detainees describe long months of confinement with food pushed through
slots, windowless cellblocks that were always fully illuminated and weepy
cellmates with contagious anxiety. One woman describes her first look at her
imprisoned husband, who had not been allowed any outside contact -- not even
with a lawyer -- for months. Gaunt, he had a long beard and long hair and could
not walk without assistance.

''I saw him and I could not speak, and he could not either,'' she recalled.

The emotion of such sagas is indisputable, but a full set of facts on each case
is elusive. The perplexing laws, the secondhand storytelling, the language
obstacles all complicate a viewer's comprehension of each alleged injustice.
Before the film hits its halfway mark, the presentation feels like a frustrating
day at an immigration legal clinic where you can never look at the dossier or
get to the bottom of the case.

Adding to the one-sidedness are clips of Attorney General John Ashcroft, whose
carefully chosen round-'em-up comments seem frank in their aim to jail first and
justify later. But his is the only voice of authority heard in the pleading,
plaintive hour, and the question arises whether unfairness is being fought with
unfairness.

More than 5,000 Arab or Muslim detainees were corralled into custody after the
terror attacks, the film asserts. Clearly, for the 12 families profiled here,
horrid mistakes harmed the innocent or at least punished minor violators of
complicated and selectively enforced immigration laws.

The geopolitical mess has meant that deportation will send some back into
intractable dilemmas or violent conditions that they once fled. The film, at the
very least, helps put a human face on an unresolved and seemingly un-American
agony. According to the documentarians, the war on terror has compounded the
terror for some who had obeyed United States rules and found the nation's
individual rights suspended when they needed them most.

The documentary, which opens today in Manhattan, will run with a high-adrenaline
compilation of minicam shots of an Australian prison break. In the film,
''Through the Wire,'' human rights advocates can't quite believe their own
strength when they pull down a fence topped with razor wire. They then greet
Arab and Muslim detainees close up, with a second set of metal slats between
them. The protesters comfort the startled prisoners, who make a hole in the
fence, leaping over guards and into the throng of protesters to make their
escape.

The documentary short never makes clear who is charged with what or how many
broke out of their confinement, but it presents a supercharged sense that many
desperate detainees had sat without interaction with the outside world and
without a clear sense of when their cases would be heard.

PERSONS OF INTEREST

Directed by Alison Maclean and Tobias Perse; director of photography, Richard
Rutkowski; edited by Sandrine Isambert; music by Stewart Wallace; produced by
Lawrence Konner; released by First Run/Icarus Films. Shown with Pip Starr's
''Through the Wire'' at the Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich
Village. Total running time: 76 minutes. These films are not rated.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammed Irshaid with his wife, Afaf, and child. The family's
story is told in ''Persons of Interest,'' about those detained after 9/11.
(Photo by First Run/Icarus Films)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Burning Issue for Workers in a Melting Pot

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN
NEW YORK -- IMMIGRANTS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 772 words


They were grabbing a bite at a Ray's Pizza before heading to Madison Square
Garden, two women with Republican Convention V.I.P. tags on display, when the
talk turned to immigration.

One, Diana Rains, a businesswoman and Republican Party official in Manatee
County, Fla., acknowledged that she disapproved of a guest worker plan proposed
by President Bush. ''I have nothing against immigration,'' she said. ''What I
have a problem with is coming illegally and then demanding rights.''

Joanne March Souchek, first vice president of Republican Women of Tracy, Calif.,
countered that her state needs agricultural labor. ''Citizens don't want those
jobs,'' she said. ''The illegal aliens do all the work.''

A few feet away stood the illegal Ecuadorean immigrant who had cooked, sliced
and sold them their $2.90 pieces of pepperoni pizza. Across West 58th Street, at
the Essex House, luxury service to match their Central Park views depended on
hotel room attendants like Sukai Mahmud of Gambia.

Downstairs at Ducasse, the four-star French restaurant where they had dined a
few nights earlier, Bangladeshi waiters send their elegant uniforms to be
laundered, by Mexicans, at the Korean dry cleaner down the block.

All around the Republican visitors this week, the complicated reality of
immigration was at work, even if they were not always aware of it. As the party
adopted a platform supporting a three-year guest worker status for some illegal
immigrants and opposing permanent amnesty, the issue burned for immigrants doing
the work of a New York welcome, even when they held their tongues.

Outside Ducasse, Henry Aguilar, a floor captain from Ecuador via Europe, did not
mince words in his critique of both parties on immigration.

''The Bush policy is a mess,'' said Mr. Aguilar, 34. ''For me, Kerry, he goes to
the pool, he puts his feet in, and all of a sudden he pulls his feet out because
it's too cold.''

The Democrats oppose the temporary worker program, instead promising ''a path to
citizenship'' for those who have worked and paid taxes in the United States for
five years, and who pass security screening.

Mr. Aguilar went on to denounce Gov. George E. Pataki for a state crackdown on
driver's licenses that affects thousands of immigrant residents. But when asked
if he had revealed such sentiments this week to Republican diners who sampled
the lobster gazpacho and caviar on Ducasse's $225 tasting menu, Mr. Aguilar
looked scandalized. ''I've served three presidents,'' he said.

Ms. Mahmud, the Gambian room attendant at Essex House, also practiced discretion
-- up to a point. As she told it, the hotel management distributed
campaign-style buttons to the housekeeping staff before the arrival of 300
Republican guests. Despite what looked to her like a Republican logo, and her
allegiance to Democrats, she dutifully pinned one on.

''Other workers asked me, 'Are you Republican?''' she recalled. ''I said, 'I'm
not Republican, but I want their money.'''

But by Monday, she added, no one on the housekeeping staff was wearing a pin.
''We're international,'' she said. ''Asia, Africa, South America, Russia, China,
you name it. We're all members of the union, like family. And that Bush
immigration plan, that's a terrible thing.''

One delegate at the Essex House tried hard to engage Nomani Choudhury, a room
service waiter, in a political discussion. Mr. Choudhury, 54, a naturalized
citizen from Bangladesh with a son serving in the United States Air Force in
South Korea, said he chose not to voice his view that the Bush guest worker plan
is a ploy that favors the rich, hurts unions like his -- Unite Here -- and
exploits workers. But he did not play dead, either.

''He was asking me, 'What do you think, is Bush going to win this election?'''
Mr. Choudhury recalled. ''And I said, 'Not in New York.'''

Down the block, Sam Kim, 40, the manager of the dry cleaner shop, said both
parties were ducking the real issues. A permanent resident born in South Korea,
he said he paid $10,000 for the birth of his first child for lack of insurance,
and understands why some poor, native-born workers with Medicaid do not want to
take a low-paid job without health insurance.

If all illegal workers were deported, as hard-liners demand, ''then nobody will
want to work 12 hours for little money,'' he said. ''New York City is not going
to be working without immigration, but we are working without health insurance,
with school problems, and most illegal immigrants are not paying taxes.''

And on a pizza man's wages of $400 a week, he added, ''Honestly, they can't.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can a Label Sum Up a Heritage?

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 150 words



To the Editor:

Since the early 1990's, when the United States began granting diversity visas to
people from African countries, a large number of Africans, including me, have
come to this country as legal aliens (never mind that the word alien is
offensive to most people).

We stay as green-card holders, carrying the passports of our home country,
until, if lucky, five years later we can become Americans. In the meantime, we
are in legal and cultural limbo.

We can't claim we are Americans, because legally we are not. And yet on every
form where race is required, the term African-American is all we have to
identify ourselves.

We are neither Africans nor Americans, and if our African-American brothers and
sisters think they have a problem with identity, they should see what we go
through to identify ourselves. Nevertheless, we are glad to be in America.

John Wanda
Arlington, Va., Aug. 29, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 8, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: North Carolina: Pakistani Pleads Not Guilty

BYLINE: By Ariel Hart (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 109 words


A Pakistani man who was arrested in July after the Charlotte police saw him
videotaping buildings downtown pleaded not guilty to six offenses unrelated to
terrorism. Federal prosecutors say the man, Kamran Akhtar, lied to the
authorities about his name and his immigration status, possessed false
identification and refused to leave the country after he was denied asylum in
1997. Tapes in Mr. Akhtar's possession included images of buildings and transit
systems in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and New Orleans, and the building in
Charlotte where the F.B.I. office is situated. Mr. Akhtar's family has said the
tapes are innocent tourist ones.   Ariel Hart (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 9, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In California, Davis and Schwarzenegger Split the Pronunciation Vote

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 8


Gray Davis, the embattled governor of California, is getting an unwanted lesson
in speech pathology. Namely, how difficult it is to say you're sorry with your
foot in your mouth.

On Saturday, during a union rally, Governor Davis took a swipe at the chunky
Austrian accent of his Republican rival, the actor Arnold Schwarzenegger. "You
shouldn't be governor unless you can pronounce the name of the state," Mr. Davis
wisecracked to a supporter, according to a report in The Sacramento Bee.

The comment has caused a stir in a state that is home to nine million
immigrants, many of whom support Mr. Davis, a Democrat. The governor, asked to
explain himself Sunday after the Mexican Independence Day parade in East Los
Angeles, said, "I was just joking around with someone in the crowd."

Still, he has not issued an apology and his wife, Sharon, said on television
this morning that Mr. Schwarzenegger should just take it as a joke and move on.

Mr. Schwarzenegger was also supposed to attend the parade as grand marshal, but
the invitation was withdrawn at the request of some prominent Democrats who
believe he is hostile toward illegal immigrants.

Speaking instead at a youth awards ceremony in a Latino neighborhood on Sunday,
Mr. Schwarzenegger turned Mr. Davis's remarks to his advantage. "He doesn't like
the way I say the word California because I say Cal-ee-fornia rather than
Cal-a-fornia," Mr. Schwarzenegger said. "But there's many other words that he
doesn't like. Lost jobs -- he doesn't like that word. He doesn't like blackout.
He doesn't like energy crisis. And he definitely doesn't like recall. So those
are words that he just doesn't like, you know."

Actually, Mr. Schwarzenegger enunciates the word California more closely to its
true Spanish root than does Mr. Davis, a native New Yorker, who uses the
Anglicized version.

While Mr. Schwarzenegger did not call for an apology, the state Republicans did.

"Gray Davis owes every Californian an apology for his insensitive remarks about
immigrants who come to this country speaking with an accent," said Mario
Rodriguez, vice chairman of the California Republican Party. "It is preposterous
to suggest that nonnative English speakers and those with accents are
unqualified to lead our state."

Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, the grandson of Mexican immigrants, felt it was better
today to say nothing than defend Mr. Davis.

The bilingual Mr. Bustamante, who says he will vote no on the recall and yes for
himself as the replacement governor, has in recent appearances spoken like a man
who wants Mr. Davis's job.

"I need your vote for governor," Mr. Bustamante told a hometown crowd in Fresno
on Sunday. He has also at times criticized the governor's leadership abilities.

For the record, Mr. Bustamante pronounces it Cal-a-fornia when speaking English
and Cal-ee-for-nee-a when speaking Spanish.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

For President: My (Foreign-Born) Child

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 204 words


To the Editor:

Re "A Constitutional Anachronism" (editorial, Sept. 6), about the provision that
does not allow naturalized citizens to run for the presidency:

I am the parent of three internationally adopted children. Allowing foreign-born
citizens to run for president is an issue that many of us in the international
adoption community feel passionately about.

The ability to run for president is very symbolic: in homes, schools, TV and
movies, over and over again, one hears, "Anyone can grow up to be president."

But our children learn the hard truth: they cannot.

Because of the location of their birth, no matter how long they've been a United
States citizen, no matter how "American" they are, no matter what values they
live by or how well they do in school, they can never run for president of the
United States.

It is time that this last remnant of ethnic bias be removed from our
Constitution. It is unnecessary, unfair and hurtful to our children.

Most important, it denies to a small group of people something meaningful and
symbolic -- something that should be the right of every United States citizen:
the right to dream of and perhaps one day become president.

JUDITH RINEARSON
Montclair, N.J., Sept. 9, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 14, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
In California, White Men Are the Silent Plurality

BYLINE:  By PETER SCHRAG; Peter Schrag is a columnist for The Sacramento Bee and
the author of "Paradise Lost: California's Experience, America's Future"
(University of California).

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif.


FROM the beginning of California's unpredictable recall election, Arnold
Schwarzenegger has tried to separate his moderate politics from his "Terminator"
screen persona.

His R-rated movies and X-rated personal history are causing him particular
problems with women voters, his support for abortion rights and after-school
programs notwithstanding.

But for every problem, there may be a political strategy. Mr. Schwarzenegger's
could lie in the sudden emergence of illegal immigration as an issue in the
California campaign.

Although he is himself an immigrant, his core box-office constituency -- young
males -- may not look kindly on Gov. Gray Davis's recent decision to sign a bill
allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

With Californians facing a shrinking number of high-paying blue-collar jobs, a
huge state deficit and reduced access to the state colleges, the immigration
issue has never gone away, even if mainstream politicians avoided talking about
it. But when Governor Davis, trolling for Latino votes, signed the driver's
license bill, he put the issue on the political front burner.

Mr. Davis vetoed the bill last year, because, he said, it lacked safeguards to
stop criminals from changing their identities. This time, he said, the law had
more safeguards. But his shift reinforced the widespread view that he's an
unprincipled opportunist. According to a poll released last week, Californians
oppose the new law by 59 percent to 34 percent.

California Republicans have been reluctant to tackle the immigration issue head
on; they still have not recovered from the fallout of Proposition 187, passed in
1994, which sought to deny public services to illegal immigrants and their
children.

Pete Wilson, the Republican governor, used the initiative to help his own
successful re-election campaign, running commercials showing shadowy figures
running across a road with the refrain "They just keep coming." But the measure
was overturned by a federal court, and it helped bring a million new Latinos to
the voter rolls, nearly all as Democrats. Immigration became an issue relegated
to radio talk shows, which were the only forums impolitic enough to allow
residents to argue that California wouldn't be suffering its severe budgetary
problems if it weren't for "all those Mexicans."

Today, the state's conservative Republicans are not shrinking from the issue.
Tom McClintock, a state senator and the only other major Republican in the race,
has vowed to seek a referendum overturning the driver's license law.

And Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, the leading Democratic candidate in the race, has
been explicitly appealing to Latino voters by lauding the contributions of
immigrants, legal and illegal. He has also tried to link Mr. Schwarzenegger with
Proposition 187 and Mr. Wilson.

Mr. Schwarzenegger tries to walk a politically safer path. He is against the
driver's license law, but approves of a policy allowing illegal immigrants to
pay in-state tuition for California universities. He says that he voted for
Proposition 187, but is against it now. At campaign appearances, he often says
he supports immigrants "who do it the right way" -- those who enter legally,
work hard and pay taxes.

Such a stance may not rile the opposition -- some of his publicists even boast
that he is a favorite of young Latino men -- but it may be enough to cement
supportamong white male voters. In polls, Mr. Bustamante has the edge over Mr.
Schwarzenegger among all female voters: 35 percent to 22 percent. But according
to a survey last week by the Field Poll, a nonpartisan group, Mr. Bustamante is
losing the men's vote, by 29 percent to 26 percent, with 16 percent favoring Mr.
McClintock, who has been under intense pressure from Republican leaders to drop
out.

Could the immigration issue lure men to the polls? Young men "are the hardest
group to drag into the voting booth," said Ken Khachigian, a Republican campaign
strategist.

And as pollsters point out, the California election is not like Minnesota's in
1998, when rebellious male voters came out to vote for Jesse Ventura, giving him
the 37 percent plurality he needed to win.

In July, a Field poll found that 54 percent of registered voters who firmly
stated they intended to vote were women. In the September poll, those numbers
started to favor men, 52 percent to 48 percent. The poll also found that the
proportion of voters in the 18-39 age group had increased from 24 percent in
July to 33 percent now.

Because of the extraordinary nature of this election, all predictions are risky.
Yet even Governor Davis's pollster, Paul Maslin, acknowledged that young men
supporting Mr. Schwarzenegger could make some difference.

Although fewer than half of all Californians are non-Hispanic whites, they make
up 70 percent of the voters. And Californians, besides expressing their
opposition in 1994 to services for illegal aliens, also voted against
affirmative action in 1996 and against bilingual education in 1998.

The issue of illegal immigration, then, may be a pivotal one for Mr.
Schwarzenegger, and create a volatile chemistry that goes well beyond this
election.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Latinos celebrated the signing of a law allowing illegal
immigrants in California to get a driver's license. But Arnold Schwarzenegger's
fans and most voters oppose it. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images);
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 14, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
There's Still a Chill in New York For Arab-Americans, Poll Says

BYLINE:  By MARJORIE CONNELLY

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 405 words


Two years after the Sept. 11 attacks, two-thirds of New Yorkers say
Arab-Americans, Muslims and immigrants from the Middle East are still likely to
be unfairly singled out, according to the latest New York Times Poll. That
sentiment is stronger among those who count Arabs among their close friends.

Typical of those who think Arabs are targets for discrimination is Shirley Haq,
who came to the United States from Pakistan as a child. "As soon as people hear
you are a Muslim," Ms. Haq, a 38-year-old real estate agent who lives in Manor
Heights, Staten Island, said in a follow-up interview, "you hear comments about
who Muslims are and what they do."

Most of the New Yorkers polled -- 976 adults were surveyed by phone from Aug. 31
to Sept. 4 -- do not know anybody from an Arab country. The survey shows that 34
percent know an immigrant from an Arab country, and 12 percent are close friends
with an Arab immigrant. The poll's margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3
percentage points.

New Yorkers who do have close friends who are Arabs are particularly inclined to
say Arab-Americans, Muslims and others from the Middle East are at risk for
unfair treatment.

"A friend of mine feels under pressure because he is a Muslim," said Renzo
Balducci, a computer scientist who lives in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn. "When
meeting people, he looks obviously like a Middle Eastern man and feels a bit of
coldness." But Mr. Balducci regards such singling out as unavoidable these days.
"It's quite natural," he said. "In the news, Muslims are seen daily as being
connected with acts of violence in all the current events in Iraq, Afghanistan,
Israel and so on."

The poll found New Yorkers divided on the question of whether Arab-Americans
look upon terrorists with understanding. About a third of New Yorkers said
Arab-Americans were more sympathetic to terrorism than other American citizens,
while 44 percent said they were not. A citywide poll taken a month after the
Sept. 11 attacks found virtually the same result.

Mrs. Haq said that she considered Americans very prejudiced right now, but that
things are better than they were two years ago. "It's not the same as it used to
be when it first happened," she said, referring to the days right after 9/11.
Then, "I was afraid every time I got out of my car that somebody was going to
break into my car. I was afraid to leave the house with a scarf on."   MARJORIE
CONNELLY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New Yorkers' View of Arab-Americans"How likely do youthink it
is that Arab-Americans, Muslims and immigrants from the Middle East will be
singled out unfairly by people in this country? VERY LIKELY: 34%SOMEWHAT LIKELY:
37NOT TOO LIKELY: 15NOT AT ALL: 8NO OPINION: 6 Compared with other American
citizens, do you think Arab-Americans are more sympathetic to terrorists? YES:
32%NO: 44NO OPINION: 24 Do you personally know anyone who is an immigrant from
an Arab country? YES, CLOSE FRIEND: 12%YES, BUT NOT CLOSE: 22NO: 65NO OPINION:
-- Based on telephone interviews with 976 adults throughout New York City
conducted Aug. 31 to Sept. 4.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 17, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON EDUCATION;
2 English Tests Speak Very Different Tongues

BYLINE:  By Michael Winerip; E-mail: edmike@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1055 words


THREE years ago, when Ammar Naeem immigrated to Queens from Pakistan and
enrolled at Richmond Hill High School, he did not speak English. But he has
learned much since then. He has maintained an 87 average, and was named to the
school honor society. Through long hours of study, he has passed all the state
Regents tests required for a high school diploma in New York, including science,
global studies, math and English. His English Regents score was his best, 78.
"Now I know how to speak," said Ammar, who hopes to study engineering in
college.

But as Ammar enters his senior year, there are many courses he would like to
take yet cannot, because he is still stuck taking E.S.L. (English as a Second
Language) classes. He cannot get the advanced math or business courses he wants.
"E.S.L. classes are boring for me," he complained.

Ammar is stuck because he failed to pass the state's new E.S.L. test, introduced
in May. He is hardly alone. In 2002, under the old test given by the city, known
as LAB, (Language Assessment Battery), 35 students at Richmond Hill passed; this
year, under the new state test, 4 passed.

At Manhattan International, a public high school for immigrants, 28 of 48
seniors passed the old test in 2002; this year 2 of 36 did. A New York City
official called the failure rate on the new test "many, many times higher" than
that of previous years. Dr. Eric Eversley, superintendent in Freeport, N.Y.,
agreed, saying, "A dramatically higher number failed."

What is more amazing, and confusing, is that -- like Ammar -- many of the same
students who failed the new E.S.L. test passed their English Regents diploma
test. At Richmond Hill, 69 students who failed the new E.S.L. test passed the
English Regents test this year. At Manhattan International, 15 who failed the
E.S.L. passed the English Regents.

"I don't understand," Ammar said. "Passing the English Regents is supposed to
mean I know enough English to graduate. How come I can't get out of E.S.L.
classes?"

His E.S.L. teacher, Melanie Fordin, agrees. "It's ludicrous," she said. "One
state test says he's proficient in English. The other state test says he's not.
It's such a waste to keep students like Ammar segregated in E.S.L. classes." Ms.
Fordin questions the scoring of the new state test. "Something's wrong," she
said.

If so, it would not be the first time. In June, after two-thirds of students
failed the Math A test required for graduation, there was such an outcry that
the education commissioner, Dr. Richard P. Mills, threw out the results. A blue
ribbon commission last month ordered that the scoring scale be substantially
lowered.

Last week, the State Board of Regents ordered a review of the scaling of the new
physics test. Until 2002, about 15 percent of physics students -- typically the
brightest in the state -- failed the physics Regents. Since the new physics test
was introduced in June 2002, 40 percent have been failing.

Tom Dunn, a state spokesman, noted that a student did not have to pass the
E.S.L. test to get a diploma and said the consequences of failing were actually
positive because students got more language services. He pointed out that the
E.S.L. test included a speaking section, and the Regents test did not. "Students
can do better on reading, but poorly on speaking," he said, which might explain
why they passed one English test but not the other.

But Ms. Fordin said that the speaking and writing sections were corrected by
teachers at the local schools and estimated that at Richmond Hill, as many 100
students passed those sections. Reading and listening sections were multiple
choice and sent out to be scored. "We'd like to see the actual tests," she said.
"I can't believe only four at our school passed."

There are now so many tests and accountability systems that they often send
conflicting messages, and it is not just in New York and not just students like
Ammar, who are proficient in English, but not proficient in English. Hundreds of
schools in Florida that received "A" grades under Gov. Jeb Bush's state rating
system have recently been cited as failing under President George W. Bush's
federal rating system.

Dr. Daniel McCann, deputy superintendent in Rye, one of New York's richest,
highest-achieving suburbs, recently wrote to Dr. Mills, complaining about how
out of whack the state testing system was. He noted that 79 percent of Rye
students scored mastery (85 percent or higher) on the state English test; 75
percent scored mastery on the state history test; and 3 percent scored mastery
in physics. "The disparity in standards is not reasonable or rational," he
wrote, adding that Rye would no longer require the state physics test.

The 56 school districts in Nassau County are now planning to create their own
physics final to replace the state test. Upstate, Fairport, Skaneateles, Oswego,
Auburn and Jordan-Elbridge are doing the same.

If there is to be so much testing, local officials like Dr. Eversley of Freeport
would at least like the results back promptly for planning purposes. He finds
that scores arrive months after the tests, often too late to identify students
who need extra help or to deploy teachers effectively. Lori Mei, a senior
manager for the city schools, wrote in an e-mail message that the results of the
old LAB test had been available by June. This time, Dr. Mei wrote, results
arrived so late that city officials did not get them to schools until after
classes had started and E.S.L. assignments were made.

Sylvia Hernandez, a senior at Manhattan International, is another who passed her
English Regents with a 78, but failed the new E.S.L. test. A Colombian
immigrant, Sylvia works at a pizzeria after school, takes a college course on
Saturdays and hopes to attend New York University next year. "I don't understand
how they're grading this," she said.

At Richmond Hill, names of the four students passing the new test were posted in
the guidance office this week. At the bottom was the comment, "That's all
folks."

"Like it was a Warner Brothers cartoon," Ms. Fordin said.

And while at times it does seem that the state testing system was thought up by
Bugs Bunny, Ms. Fordin, who has devoted her career to helping children like
Ammar and Sylvia become Americans, thinks she deserves at least as much say
about who needs E.S.L. as the new state test.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Teaneck to the West Bank: a Tale of 2 Emigrants

BYLINE:  By JOEL RUBIN

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1903 words


LATE on a Tuesday night last spring, Hillel and Chana Schuster stood at the El
Al check-in counter at John F. Kennedy International Airport, surrounded by
piles of their possessions Close by, their two children slept in strollers.

For the Schusters, boarding an Israeli-bound plane that night was the
culmination of years of planning, waiting and sacrifice. Since they were married
six years ago, their lives in Teaneck had revolved around the dream of moving to
Israel.

And yet the moment did not arrive without many questions and considerable
anxiety.

In moving , the Schusters turned their backs on a safe and comfortable life in
the New Jersey suburbs and chose instead to endure the lifeless Israeli economy
while living in a place mired in a bloody conflict with the Palestinians.

Still, the young couple believed they would not truly be home until they had
arrived in Hashmonaim, a settlement in the West Bank.

"It has nothing to do with a logic," Mr. Schuster said. "How many generations
behind us have been praying to able to live there? As bad as the situation is
now, how many Jews who have died dreamed of having a place like Israel? It's not
just one or two generations, it's 50 generations."

Given this sentiment, the Schusters do not understand why so few American Jews
make aliyah, the morally infused Hebrew word for immigration that translates
literally as "to ascend."

In particular, they harbor deep frustrations about the extensive Jewish
community in Teaneck that they left behind. It is a community, they say, that
suffers from fading passion and dedication to Israel and Judaism.

"People just don't want to think about it," Mr. Schuster said about many of
Teaneck's Jews. "They say, 'Look at my nice house. Look at my beautiful little
Jerusalem right here in Teaneck. What do I need in Israel?' And it is true,
Teaneck is a fabulous place, but it isn't Israel."

But American Jews have never bought, en masse, into the Zionist ideal of aliyah
that, since the creation of Israel in 1948, has called on world Jewry to return
to the homeland it lost in biblical times.

While 1.3 million Jews flooded into Israel, most from postwar Europe and Arab
nations, during the country's first 20 years, only 10,000 arrived from the
United States. In total, only 100,000 Americans have made aliyah since 1948, of
whom approximately 40 percent eventually decide to return to the United States,
according to Chaim Waxman, a sociologist at Rutgers.

Jeffrey Gurock, a professor of Jewish history at Yeshiva University, said: "It
is just too comfortable here. The fleshpots of America are very attractive."

But the Schusters, with their modern Orthodox upbringing that planted in them
both a deep religious belief and a passionate connection to the land of Israel,
are very typical of the handful of American Jews actually making aliyah today.

"It is pure ideology," said Dan Biron, who, as a recent executive director of
the Jewish Agency's Aliyah Center, helped organize most American immigration
over the past two years. "They have a love of Israel."

Mr. and Mrs. Schuster, both 30, say the strength of their religious convictions
were part of the force that pulled them to their new home. Talk of religion,
however, quickly melts into expression of a passionate, almost desperate, desire
to contribute to Israel as a country and to be among its people. To the
Schusters, the reasons for moving lie not so much in God's commandments as in
the soil of Israel.

When their daughter, Sarit, was born, they resolved to be in Israel before she
turned 6, concerned that if they waited longer it would be difficult forher to
adjust.

Each year they watched friends move from their humble apartment complex to large
homes on the other side of Teaneck. And even though the six-figure salary that
Mr. Schuster said he earned at a major investment firm would have allowed them
to follow, the Schusters remained in the cramped apartment and made do with a
1987 Honda Civic. They were, Mr. Schuster said, not only intent on saving money
to subsidize the inevitable pay cut that would come with a move to Israel , but
determined to avoid setting down roots in Teaneck that would make leaving any
more complicated.

"If you don't go and at least give it a shot, you're going to be asking yourself
a lot of questions," Mr. Schuster said. "And your kids will be asking, too."

The Schusters did not simply move to Israel, but to a settlement on the West
Bank, and "settlement" is a word loaded with controversy in the Middle East.

Hashmonaim, the settlement the Schusters now call home, rests just outside the
Green Line that marks Israel's pre-1967 border and delineates the West Bank from
Israel proper. Roughly 20 miles up the road from Jerusalem and west of the West
Bank city of Ramallah, it is home to 500 modern Orthodox families, about 60
percent of whom are immigrants from the United States and Western Europe. A
fence runs along the settlement's perimeter, and Israeli soldiers maintain a
military checkpoint on its far side. Beyond the checkpoint, three small
Palestinian villages Al Midya, Ni'Lin and Deir Qaddis hem in Hashmonaim to the
north and east. Every day, from the house they lease on the settlement's outer
ring road, the Schusters hear the Muslim call to prayer from the villages'
minarets.

The Schusters chose Hashmonaim because Mr. Schuster wanted to live in a house.
They have recently bought property and begun building a home --an affordable
undertaking in the West Bank largely because of government subsidies. But
equally important, Mr. Schuster said, was that he wanted his family to
experience the intense social intimacy fostered by the settlements.

The first few months in Hashmonaim have not been without frustrations and
anxieties. Most difficult, the Schusters said, was adjusting to the changes in
the standard of living that came with the substantial pay cut Mr. Schuster took
at his new job with the Israeli branch of an international investment firm. In
their old life, Mrs. Schuster said, they did not think twice about buying
clothes or taking vacations. Now, however, money is a concern at every turn.

All in all, though, the couple said that life in the settlement has been what
they hoped and that they have already made an impact. "It's a small community,"
Mr. Schuster said, "and we're important parts of it already. I've given classes
and read the Torah in the synagogue. It's been amazing."

A man whose family moved in the opposite direction from Israel to Bergen County
three years ago scoffed at the Schusters' hope of contributing to Israel and
bonding with its people. Most Israelis would mock them, said the man, who asked
that his name not be used because he did not want to cause controversy in the
interwoven Jewish community.

Mr. Schuster said such sentiment, from a nonreligious Israeli, did not surprise
him. "It makes sense," he said, "that people who aren't driven by faith and the
laws of the Torah would ask: 'Why would you want to be in Israel during a war?
Why would you want to be poorer than you could be?"' And he rejected the idea
that most Israelis would mock his family's decision to make aliyah. When
Israelis hear "the way we speak about the land of Israel and how much we care
for it," Mr. Schuster said, "I have no doubt that our presence here strengthens
their presence here."

BUT the Schusters did more than move. By choosing to live on the far side of the
Green Line, they have injected themselves and their children, Sarit, 4, and Max,
2, directly into the passionate debate over the role of the settler population
in the bloodshed between Israelis and Palestinians. "You would have to totally
suspend reality to think the increase in the settler population hasn't
contributed to the collapse of the peace process," said Lewis Roth, an assistant
executive director at Peace Now, a lobbying group that views the settlements as
not only an obstacle to peace, but also as a major burden that Israel should
abandon for its own well-being. "Just as Israelis point to the Palestinian
terror as a sign that in a land for peace deal the Palestinians are not offering
peace, the Palestinians point to this land grab as a sign Israel is not offering
land."

Morton Klein, the president of the Zionist Organization of America, dismisses
such arguments. Mr. Klein has contened for years that there will never be peace
in the Middle East until people stop obsessing about Jews' right to settle in
Judea and Samaria the biblical names for the north and south of the West Bank.

Referring to the land on both sides of the Green Line, Mr. Klein said in a
telephone interview: "Israel is our holy land, given to us by God. We should be
making a moral, religious and legal claim that that land is ours."

The issue for the Palestinians has never been control of the West Bank, he said.

"They don't care about a country," Mr. Klein said. "They care about destroying
Israel."

Mr. Schuster makes a distinction between Hashmonaim and what he calls "the hot
spots," like the Israeli settlements amid Hebron, where a few hundred Jews live
"in the faces" of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians. He also sees a
distinction between Hashmonaim, with its proximity to the Green Line, and
settlements scattered deep in the West Bank, which will have to be dismantled if
there is ever to be a contiguous state of Palestine.

Mr. Schuster admires the passion that the Hebron settlers have for the land, but
he cannot accept that the land is worth losing lives over.

"Giving Judea and Samaria away is crushing, crushing," he said in a conversation
before moving. "To have this land in our control, land that God gave us, and to
give it back, is terrible. But are suicide bombs less terrible? Is holding down
two million people any less terrible?"

Mrs. Schuster is significantly more hawkish than her husband, although she says
that listening to him over the years has tempered her views. Still, she says she
is shocked that the Israeli government has not acted more decisively in its
handling of the conflict.

When asked what should be done, however, she struggled to find her words and
sighed deeply, exasperated by a sense of hopelessness.

"What's the long-term solution? I don't even see it anymore. I think of the word
'deportation,"' she said of Palestinians, "and that's horrible it brings back
connotations of the Holocaust. But we have to defend ourselves and we have to
make sure our country continues to exist and we have to go to whatever measure
to do that. No other country would tolerate being scared to send their children
to school. It's ridiculous."

With each day, Mr. and Mrs. Schuster said, their family is becoming more rooted
in Israel. Each Sabbath and Jewish holiday celebration, they said, reminds them
that theyare finally living among their own people.

Mr. Schuster added, however, that it is too early to tell whether the family
will fulfill his hope of making some lasting, significant contribution to their
new country. Mrs. Schuster says she believes it is enough simply to be among
Israelis and living in their promised land, but Mr. Schuster disagrees.

"It is not enough just to live here," he said. "I want us to do something
special. The seeds are being planted, but two years from now if I don't see a
sapling growing from those seeds, then I'll have to ask whether we're doing
enough. But we're not even at the point of asking that yet."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillel and Chana Schuster left Teaneck, where they had lived.;
The Schusters select flowers for their Sabbath table. Their new home, in the
background, at right, is rising inside a settlement of about 500 families. Mrs.
Schuster believes it is enough to be among Israelis, but Mr. Schuster says: "It
is not enough just to live here. I want us to do something special"; The
Schusters are building a house in Hashmonaim, a West Bank settlement protected
by soldiers, where their daughter, Sarit, attends preschool. (Photographs by
Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants on the March in Queens

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 43

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group of immigrants hoped to draw attention to various issues
during a march in Queens, from Jackson Heights to Corona, neighborhoods that
have attracted many recent immigrants. It was the first of three marches leading
up to a rally planned for Oct. 4 in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. (Photo by
Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Fire's Out, but the Mystery Is Thriving

BYLINE:  By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 565 words


The blackened, boarded-up building stood like a stain on a sparkling Brighton
Beach boardwalk, drawing crowds of Russian immigrants who compared, in hushed
voices, their theories about the ruin.

Maybe homeless people were cooking under the boardwalk -- as has happened before
-- on Wednesday night and accidentally set the fire that destroyed the area's
most popular restaurant and nightclub, Tatiana, as well as the six floors of
apartments above it. That was the theory heard on Russian radio, several
passers-by said yesterday.

Maybe it was arson at the hands of a jealous business rival, said others. Or,
the least popular theory: maybe it was just an accident.

Most people agreed on one thing: the fire seemed a touch too perfect to have
been accidental.

"I don't understand how the fire could be so equally distributed," said Bob
Shnayderman, 49, a Russian immigrant who said he helped build the restaurant six
years ago. He looked at the wreckage and shook his head. "Everybody was
jealous," he said. "It was one of the best restaurants. It's probably the
competition."

The mystery has yet to be solved by the New York City Fire Department, which
lists the Brooklyn fire as suspicious and under investigation. The blaze injured
17 firefighters and three other people, displaced 21 families and caused about
40 people, Tatiana's employees, to lose their jobs.

Waitresses and bartenders at other restaurants along the boardwalk who were
asked for interviews yesterday shook their heads or said they did not know
anything. A man who identified himself only as Alex, the manager of the nearby
Winter Garden restaurant, said people had been gathering by the ruins for days
and staring in awe.

"It just went up in flames so fast, I don't think it was an accident," he said.
Ten feet away, in a Dumpster, were the charred remains of Tatiana: twisted metal
chairs, tables and doorframes.

Tatiana Varzar, the owner of Tatiana, said she planned to rebuild the restaurant
immediately and would be meeting with insurance agents to survey the damage
today. Ms. Varzar was at the restaurant on the night of the fire, which began
around 10:20 p.m., she said.

She smelled smoke, she said, and went to the kitchen to fill buckets of water.
She even joked to herself that the homeless people beneath the boardwalk were
cooking again, she said. Thirty seconds later, when she turned around, she saw
flames and ran out through a fire exit.

"I don't even have the words to describe it, in my wildest dreams," said Ms.
Varzar, 45. "It's the only thing I have. What else?"

Still, Ms. Varzar refrained from speculating about the fire's cause.

"I don't want assumptions," she said. "I would like to know exactly what
happened because it's scary."

The theory that homeless people were to blame seemed unconvincing to several
residents.

"I think they're a scapegoat," said a 51-year-old nurse who asked that her name
not be used.

Another woman stopped and stared nearby while her boyfriend described the scene
to someone on his cellphone, switching between Russian and English.

Gabrielle Shnayderman, the 15-year-old daughter of Mr. Shnayderman who
celebrated her bat mitzvah at Tatiana, folded her arms and stared hard at the
building.

"When I saw it on the news, I said, 'Oh, my God, I can't believe it happened," '
Gabrielle said. She and her family dined at the restaurant weekly, she said,
adding, "I miss it already."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials are still investigating the fire that gutted
apartments and the restaurant Tatiana on the Brighton Beach boardwalk on
Wednesday. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Rights Drive Starts

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1084 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Sept. 24


Ninety immigrants and supporters left their buses and marched outside the Roman
Catholic cathedral here today, carrying foot-high crosses to commemorate people
from south of the border who died in the desert as they sought a better life in
the United States.

At St. Augustine Cathedral, the immigrants were greeted by more than 400
parishioners, students and others who marched alongside them and joined in
singing, "We Shall Overcome."

Outside the cathedral a woman carried a large sign that said "How Many Must Die:
Arizona Deaths This Year 146. Change Our Border Policy."

The ceremony was part of an elaborate spectacle, the Immigrant Workers Freedom
Ride, in which 18 buses carrying hundreds of immigrants are stopping in more
than 100 cities to promote immigrants' rights. Inspired by the 1961 freedom
rides that sought to integrate buses in the South, the new ride aims to turn
immigrants' rights into a new civil rights movement.

"Then, as now, let the freedom buses roll," the Rev. John M. Fife, pastor of the
Southside Presbyterian Church, said in the eucharistic celebration at the
cathedral. "Then, as now, vigilantes terrorized and discriminated with guns.
Then, as now, there is a moral and ethical issue that must unite church and
synagogue and mosque and labor and civil rights and mainstream America in a
movement to change the course of history."

As they visit Tucson, Las Vegas, Dallas, Detroit and other cities, the riders
are saying the United States needs a more humane immigration policy, one that
makes it easier to reunite families, that stops immigrants from dying in the
desert, that prevents employers from preying on long-time workers who do not
have legal documents.

The riders hope for nothing less than to move immigrant rights, especially
gaining legal status for more than eight million illegal immigrants, to the
forefront of legislative and political debates. Leaving from 10 cities, the
riders are scheduled to converge on Oct. 1 in Washington to lobby Congress and
proceed to Flushing Meadows, Queens, for a giant demonstration on Oct. 4.

"The idea of legalization is very important," said Angelica Soto, a farm worker
from Mexico on a bus from Los Angeles. "Legalization is important to stop
employers from exploiting workers. It's important to help reunite families. I
have a friend who couldn't go to his mother's funeral back in Mexico, because he
was worried he'd never be allowed back into the United States."

The two buses that arrived here today left Los Angeles on Tuesday morning after
a huge good-bye party. They stopped in Palm Springs, Calif., for a rally and
proceeded to Phoenix for a demonstration at the State Capitol where priests,
politicians, African-American leaders and union presidents spoke. The buses
carry immigrants, some legal and some illegal, from China, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Mexico, the Philippines and other countries.

In the rally in Palm Springs, more than 300 immigrants, parishioners and union
members joined the bus riders at Our Lady of Solitude Church. The signs said
"Immigrants are today's slaves" and "I cut your grass, I make your bed, I wash
your dishes, I pick your fruit. I refuse to be invisible."

The Rev. Miguel Ceja, a graduate of Stanford University who entered the United
States illegally from Mexico at 14 to work on farms, presided over the ceremony
as he strummed a guitar.

In a skit that students from Coachella Valley High School performed, Steve
Aquino, a senior, said: "I work for minimum wage to put food on your table. But
you don't know if I have food on mine."

Mr. Aquino, whose father is a landscaper, said he wished the ride had occurred
years ago.

"I'm so glad they're here," he said after the skit. "Immigrants work so hard.
Too many immigrants don't get paid right for what they do."

The organizers said they hoped the effort focused President Bush and Congress on
expanding immigrants' rights because the issue dropped off the public radar
after the Sept. 11 attacks. Before then, the push to reform immigration laws was
receiving a serious hearing from Mr. Bush and Congress as President Vicente Fox
of Mexico and many immigrant groups pushed the issue.

"Our message of changing immigration laws is a message to Democrats and
Republicans as they try to attract Latino voters," the chairwoman of the ride,
Maria Elena Durazo, said. "There is hardly a Latino family who doesn't currently
or didn't very recently have a family member who was undocumented."

The Congressional Black Caucus, the N.A.A.C.P., the Coalition of Black Trade
Unionists and other African-American groups back the ride. Not only do those
groups see it as a valuable tribute to the 1960's freedom rides and civil rights
movement, but they also recognize that the push for immigrants' rights will help
immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean.

The main sponsors are immigrant advocacy groups and unions. In urging union
leaders and members to rally around the riders, labor is seeking to increase its
visibility among the fast growing immigrant population and to convince
immigrants that unions can improve their economic lot.

The groups have asked powerful and visible friends, including clergy members of
Congress and state senators, to appear with them.

"The vast majority of these people are working, and many of them face
unscrupulous employers who take advantage of them," said Antonio Villaraigosa, a
Los Angeles City Council member and former mayoral candidate. "We need a humane,
sensible immigration policy that takes into account that these people have
worked here for years, they pay taxes, their children are living here."

Anti-immigrant groups have denounced the ride, heckled the rallies and sent
threatening e-mail messages.

"There's something almost Orwellian for people violating the laws of the country
to go en masse to Congress to demand their rights under the law," said Ira
Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform in
Washington.

The riders want Congress to approve an amnesty for illegal immigrants like the
one enacted in 1986. The demonstrators also want stronger protections for
immigrant workers, additional visas to reunite families and fewer violations of
immigrants' civil liberties.

"I think the people in the United States are fair minded," said Dolores Huerta,
a rider who founded the United Farm Workers with Cesar Chavez. "When you have
people who are being oppressed, who are not being paid fairly, whose children
suffer, this is not fair, and we have to change that."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators on Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride leaving Los
Angeles for Washington. Protester, at left, at a stop outside St. Augustine
Cathedral in Tucson. The bus riders will converge on Oct. 1 in Washington.
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times); (Photo by Terry Moore for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Florida: Conviction Of Ex-University Head

BYLINE:  By Ariel Hart (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 107 words


A former president of the University of South Carolina, James B. Holderman, was
convicted in Miami of conspiring to launder money and sell false immigration
documents. Mr.

Holderman, who left the university in a financial scandal in 1990, said he had
planned to take part of the money offered him in an F.B.I. sting last year and
buy treatment for his mental illness without providing the fake visas in return.
He said he would obtain the papers through his influence with former Senator
Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee and the White House chief of staff, Andrew H.
Card Jr., according to the prosecutor, Richard Gregorie.   Ariel Hart (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Arkansas: Sex Charge For Immigration Agent

BYLINE:  By Ariel Hart (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 87 words


An immigration agent has been charged with sexually assaulting a detainee, the
Springdale police said.

The agent, Curtis Hall of Nashville, was taking a Turkish detainee being held on
a felony charge and awaiting deportation back to jail from a doctor's
appointment on Monday when they stopped at his hotel room in Springdale for sex,
the police said. There is no evidence the sex was forced, but an inmate is not
in a position to consent to sex with an officer, Lt. Richard Farris of the
police said.   Ariel Hart (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Funds For Immigrant Services

BYLINE:  By Colin Moynihan (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 91 words


Gov. George E. Pataki announced yesterday that $2.5 million in state funds had
been allocated for services for immigrants. Speaking at the Dominican Women's
Development Center, at West 189th Street in Washington Heights, the governor
said money for 19 community groups would help immigrants seeking naturalization.
The largest grant, $660,000, will go to the Catholic Charities of the
Archdiocese of New York, which operates an 18-language telephone line that gives
advice on topics like immigration law and discrimination.   Colin Moynihan (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreigners' Rights In the Post-9/11 Era: A Matter of Justice

BYLINE:  By DAPHNE EVIATAR

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1434 words


More than 5,000 citizens of foreign countries have been detained by the
government since 9/11 in connection with anti-terrorism measures. Only a handful
have been charged with a terror-related crime. Many were held initially without
charges, denied access to lawyers, judged in secret and locked up for months
without any showing that they had committed crimes or otherwise posed any
danger. More than 500 were deported for immigration violations.

The Bush administration's anti-terrorism campaign has set off a fierce legal and
philosophical debate over what rights foreigners have compared with Americans.
When is it permissible to treat noncitizens differently? Are there some rights
-- whether to a speedy trial or a formal charge -- that transcend nationality,
and should be accorded to every human being?

Treating foreigners differently, of course, is nothing new for the United States
government. Debates over everything from federal benefits and public school
education to identification cards have bubbled up at various times. But since
Sept. 11, 2001, the consequences for some foreigners have become much more
severe.

Prof. John Yoo of the law school at the University of California at Berkeley
points out that while the Bill of Rights applies to "persons" rather than
citizens, it's not unconstitutional to treat aliens differently in certain
contexts. The Supreme Court has said in many decisions: "In the exercise of its
broad power over naturalization and immigration, Congress regularly makes rules
that would be unacceptable if applied to citizens." The Fifth Amendment may
guarantee everyone a right to due process, but it does not say what process is
due.

So while a criminal defendant, for example, has a right to a lawyer and a public
trial before a jury, immigration cases are decided by administrative judges, may
be held behind closed doors and can occur without legal counsel.

The gap is even wider for the more than 650 foreign citizens at the United
States military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Suspected of having ties to
terrorists, most were picked up during the Afghanistan war, none has had a
hearing, and most will never get a day in a regular court. Although the
administration has said it will soon start military tribunals, the American Bar
Association, among others, has declared the proposed procedures unfair,
objecting to restrictions on defense lawyers' access to evidence, government
monitoring of attorney-client communications, and limitations on appeals.

In a letter published in The New York Times last month, Paul W. Cobb Jr., deputy
general counsel at the Department of Defense, wrote that the Guantanamo
prisoners have been designated "enemy combatants in the global war on
terrorism," and they can be "lawfully detained until the cessation of
hostilities." They are not considered prisoners of war, because this isn't
considered a regular war. Therefore, they are not protected by the Third Geneva
Convention, which mandates humane treatment and an impartial trial.

Such distinctions between citizens and foreigners are justified, says Viet D.
Dinh, a law professor at Georgetown University and a former assistant attorney
general at the Justice Department, where he was a principal author of the USA
Patriot Act. Quoting the philosopher Edmund Burke, Mr. Dinh argues that order is
a preconditionto liberty, and that the war on terrorism is a means of defending
liberty. "This war is fundamentally about an effort to restore international
civil order toward people who would disrupt that order," he told an audience on
Tuesday at the university during a debate with his Georgetown colleague David
Cole. "When you adopt a way of terror, you've excused yourself from the
community of human beings."

Some legal philosophers and critics hotly dispute this reading, however. "The
rights of political freedom, due process and equal protection are among the
minimal rights that the world has come to demand of any society," Mr. Cole
writes in his new book, "Enemy Aliens: Double Standards and Constitutional
Freedoms in the War on Terrorism" (New Press). He argues these are "fundamental
rights" that are "owed to persons as a matter of human dignity;" they are, he
continues, quoting the Supreme Court, "implicit in the concept of ordered
liberty."

Whether everyone is born with certain "unalienable rights" or whether rights are
bestowed by a particular government in a particular place and time is, in some
ways, at the heart of the current debate. It has also been at the center of
American constitutional history.

The founders believed that individuals possess "natural rights" granted by God.
Still, the United States has repeatedly denied certain rights to foreigners.
Beginning with the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, Congress declared immigrants
from "enemy" nations ineligible for naturalization, and authorized deportation
of those "dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States." The Enemy
Alien Act of 1798 authorized the president to detain, deport or otherwise
restrict the liberties of citizens of countries with which the United States is
at war. And since the early 1900's, Congress has enacted a range of laws
restricting the speech and political association of foreigners.

Some scholars like Mr. Cole reject the idea that certain rights are merely
privileges that a government can grant to some and deny to others. Indeed, the
international human rights movement and the treaties that have grown out of it
over the last 50 years depend on a conception that all human beings share
certain rights regardless of nationality or citizenship.

Ronald Dworkin, a professor of philosophy and law at Oxford and New York
University, argues that the view that rights are solely the result of a
particular government action is too narrow. "It says that these traditional
guarantees are just somehow contracts, and there are not principles behind
them," he said in an interview.

To Mr. Dworkin, the rights of outsiders cannot be jettisoned based on some
speculative benefit for the larger community. "The government is saying that any
gain to our own safety, even if it's marginal, is a good justification for doing
anything to foreigners," he said. "If that's not a violation of shared humanity,
then what could be?"

As he writes in a forthcoming article on the topic for the 40th anniversary
issue of The New York Review of Books, "Among the most fundamental of all moral
principles is the principle of shared humanity: that every human life has a
distinct and equal inherent value."

Just what that means in practice, though, is unclear. Hannah Arendt noted in
"The Origins of Totalitarianism" in 1951 -- a time when the establishment of
universal rights had taken on a new urgency -- that "no one seems able to define
with any assurance what these general human rights, as distinguished from the
rights of citizens, really are."

And even Mr. Dworkin accepts some distinctions between citizens and aliens --
the right to vote, for example.

Michael Walzer, a political philosopher at the Institute for Advanced Study at
Princeton and co-editor of the left-leaning Dissent magazine, defends a
community's right to choose its members and treat outsiders differently. In his
1983 classic in the field, "Spheres of Justice," he wrote: "Admission and
exclusion are at the core of communal independence. They suggest the deepest
meaning of self-determination."

In a recent interview, Mr. Walzer added that to combat terrorism, the government
may well be justified in treating certain foreigners differently -- for example,
by increasing surveillance or by police profiling in certain circumstances.
"When they were stopping vans going into New York right after 9/11, it made
sense to look for young Arab men of a certain age," he said. "A van driven by
two 70-year-olds -- you wouldn't want to insist on a policy that requires the
police to stop them, too."

He added, however, that this doesn't mean the government can do anything it
pleases. "You have to distinguish between inconveniences and violations of
rights like being denied lawyers, being held incommunicado or being held without
any specified point of release," he said. "What we're doing at Guantanamo seems
to me to be both immoral and crazy."

Even if it is lawful to hold prisoners until the "the cessation of hostilities,"
since it is unclear when or if the "war on terrorism" will ever be over, some
could conceivably be held indefinitely. Universal rights may be hard to define,
Mr. Walzer said, but "the right not to be locked up and have the key thrown away
has got to be one of those."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A prisoner at the Guantanamo military base in Cuba being
escorted by guards. More than 650 foreign citizens are being held there as part
of the anti-terrorism campaign. (Photo by Getty)(pg. B7); Profs. David Cole,
left, and Viet D. Dinh of Georgetown University. (Photo by Jay Talbott for The
New York Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 6, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Saving Kids From Lead Poisoning

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 140 words


To the Editor:

Lead poisoning of children in New York City is a homegrown, not foreign-born,
problem that we must address immediately.

Your Sept. 30 news article suggests a "blame the immigrant" approach.

Medical experts uniformly agree that the most serious source of childhood lead
poisoning in our city is deteriorating lead-based paint in homes. I have
introduced a bill, supported by the top medical experts in the field, that would
help save thousands of children from possible brain damage.

It is time to enact real solutions, not pass the buck. To do otherwise appears
to support the position of irresponsible landlords who prefer to blame the
victim and foreigners instead of assuming their responsibility for poisoning
children.

BILL PERKINS
New York, Oct. 1, 2003

The writer is deputy majority leader of the New York City Council.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 7, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Work Permits For Smuggling Accident
Survivors

BYLINE:  By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 101 words


Forty survivors of a smuggling accident in which 19 other Hispanics died of heat
exhaustion have been granted permission by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service toremain in the country for one year to try to find work.

As many as 100 illegal immigrants were in an enclosed trailer in May when the
driver abandoned it near Victoria, 80 miles north of Corpus Christi. Fourteen
people, including five still at large, were charged in the smuggling case, which
is scheduled for trial in June. The immigrants given work permits were
considered potential witnesses for the government.   Steve Barnes (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 8, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: North Carolina: Police Arrest 62 In Gang Sweep

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 98 words


Sixty-two people suspected of being members of Charlotte-area gangs were
arrested in an effort to stop a surge in gang violence, federal officials said.

Investigators say they have linked 11 killings over the past two and a half
years to a traditionally Salvadoran gang, Mara Salvatrucha 13. Of those
detained, 53 were held on immigration charges and will have deportation
hearings, said Bob Conrad, the United States attorney. Six suspects were
arrested and released pending a hearing. The other three were held on federal
criminal charges, including illegal possession of firearms.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 15, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

About New York;
Tales Sweet As Ice Cream, Salty as Tears

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


"YOU tell the ice cream story."

"No, you."

"No, you. You tell it best."

The daughters of Ran Kim want to share the ice cream story because it says so
much about their mother. The story is well known among Korean immigrants in New
York, they say, and is very funny -- but also very sad. With no daughter eager
to cry in public, they set the story aside for a while.

Instead, the daughters toss other stories like flowers onto a corner table in a
Korean restaurant in Flushing, creating a bouquet of loving words for their
mother, who sits beside them, smiling, understanding more English than she lets
on. She is wearing a black outfit with a purple blouse, and a purple ribbon in
her bun of black hair.

Strangers to Flushing might not give Mrs. Kim and her purple highlights a second
look. But many Koreans know that this petite woman, who sells flowers in a
mini-mall on 39th Avenue, is the Purple Lady, whose published writings --
including a memoir -- about her family's travails in New York give voice to
their own immigrant experiences.

"Many people identify with her," said Yong Il Shin, an associate editor at The
Korea Times. Elizabeth Lauriello, Mrs. Kim's youngest daughter, agreed, saying,
"She's the ideal example of how to overcome the hardships of immigration."

Mrs. Kim and her four daughters arrived in Queens on the Fourth of July, 1974.
She was so certain of the fine living that awaited them that she had formal
gowns custom-made for herself and her girls, with matching gloves and purses.
Proper attire, she thought, for all those nights to come at the opera.

Life, though, was not so fine. The family lived for a while in a one-bedroom
apartment in Sunnyside. The father, a high school teacher who had come to New
York a year earlier, ran a small grocery store, while the mother, a floral
designer, could not prettify the racism her children experienced. Playground
fights were common.

But at least the girls were able to wear their formal dresses on those Sunday
visits to feed the ducks in Central Park. "The tourists were taking pictures of
us," recalled Sunny Kim, another daughter.

All the while, at night, with her husband and children in bed and her only
companion a cup of green tea, Mrs. Kim was writing.

After winning a newspaper's essay contest, she began to file dispatches from
Queens about one Korean family's New York journey. She recorded every up and
down, from the success of a manufacturing business that allowed the family to
buy a house in Whitestone, to the business collapse that forced the family to
move to a rented apartment in Flushing.

Her stories, and the memoir that followed, turned her daughters into characters
in a long-running soap opera. Daughter No. 1 is Suzanne, a social worker and a
divorced mother, who defended her younger siblings in all those childhood
fights. No. 3 is Sunny, a gifted fashion designer, and single. No. 4 is
Elizabeth, a married business whiz now, but the baby then, always by Mama's
side. And the memoir ends with the wedding in Paris of Daughter No. 2, Jasmine,
a Mount Holyoke graduate.

THE daughters hear from their mother's fans all the time. The cabdriver, for
example, who peered at Suzanne for a long time before asking, "Did your mother
write a book?" and the woman who related how she laughed and wept on the subway
while reading the ice cream story.

Aah, the ice cream story. Suzanne says she can tell it.

One hot August day, shortly after the Kim family's arrival, the electricity went
out in a relative's grocery store in Jamaica. Mrs. Kim decided to collect the
ice cream before it melted, figuring that she could treat the kids of Sunnyside.
Off she went on the 7 train, with little Elizabeth wailing by her side.

She balanced one large pot of ice cream on her head, grabbed another by the
handle, and headed home -- but boarded the express, not the local. Soon she and
Elizabeth were many stops from Sunnyside, unable to ask for directions, while
ice cream dripped down her head in streams of chocolate, strawberry and vanilla.

It took her two hours to get home, where her panicked husband scolded her. But
at least some kids in Sunnyside got something sweet.

As Suzanne wipes tears from her eyes, Mrs. Kim begins to speak animatedly in
Korean. She tells her daughters to emphasize that life is not a movie; that
there are no retakes. Then -- in English -- the Purple Lady says, "Just one
chance."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Many Immigrants Decide to Embrace Homes for Elderly

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 19


The weekly activities at a retirement home here include bingo, shuffleboard and
"ice cream social with shoulder massage."

But also listed on the crowded schedule are Howa Kai (a Japanese Buddhist church
service), rummi kub (a Japanese version of gin rummy played with plastic tiles),
shuji (calligraphy) and kokoro kai (a program held three times a week and
loosely translated as "a meeting of hearts and minds").

Nikkei Manor, where 46 Japanese-Americans are spending their old age, is one of
a growing number of assisted-living facilities and nursing homes across the
nation that cater to first- and second-generation elderly immigrants. It is a
fast-growing population that has begun to embrace the very American tradition of
living the last years with peers, not family. That phenomenon is driven by
two-career families that have little time to care for their parents, increasing
wealth for some immigrant populations and gradual acceptance of a lifestyle that
was unheard of a generation ago.

Assisted-living facilities, which allow the elderly to live independently with
some supervision, became popular in America beginning in the 1980's. For many
immigrants -- and their children -- the move into nursing homes or
assisted-living facilities runs counter to deeply held beliefs about elders and
family. And for some, experts on elderly immigrants say, the decision to send a
parent away is clouded with shame and ambivalence.

Still, places like Nikkei Manor -- where miso soup, soba noodles, red ginger and
dark-roasted tea are staples of the daily lunch and dinner menus -- are
sprouting up at a rapid pace, from Seattle to the Lower East Side of Manhattan,
signaling a major shift in how immigrants in this country care for their elders.

Assisted-living facilities are becoming especially popular with Asian
immigrants, who, along with Pacific Islanders, made up 2.2 percent of the
country's 65-and-older population in 2000, or about 800,000 out of 35 million,
according to census figures. By 2010, the number is expected to rise to 1.4
million.

Marie Fujii, 82, moved into Nikkei Manor three years ago, after a year at a
mostly Jewish facility near Seattle, where she felt uncomfortable. Her two
daughters and son agonized for months over whether she could live with one of
them, but in the end the children decided it would not work because of Mrs.
Fujii's health care needs and their busy work schedules, said Joy Caldwell, one
of her daughters.

"The family got together and discussed it," said Ms. Caldwell, who was working
full time as a sales assistant for a financial services company here as her
mother's health was deteriorating. "We said, 'O.K., we'll try, and if it doesn't
work out, we'll take it from there.' But we have been thrilled."

Immigrant groups that have been here the longest, like the Japanese, are the
most likely to accept living in an assisted-living facility, according to Namkee
G. Choi, a gerontologist and professor of social work at the University of
Texas, who specializes in elderly immigrants.

"The family norms are changing," Dr. Choi said. "The elders are thinking, 'We
should enjoy our lives,' and many would rather spend it with peers. It doesn't
mean they don't want to see their families, but I would call it independence
with lots of support from children. And it's going to be more this way in the
future."

Mrs. Fujii, who has Parkinson's disease, said she was relatively happy living at
Nikkei Manor, although over a lunch of beef and sticky noodles recently she
said, "I still get homesick."

Mrs. Fujii lives down the hall from one of her childhood friends, Tomiko Suyama,
80, who moved into Nikkei Manor two months ago. The two, who dine together often
and refer to each other as "Buddha head," know almost everyone who lives at
Nikkei Manor, having met them over the years in the Seattle area.

Mrs. Fujii frequently coaxes Mrs. Suyama out of her room for activities, and
Mrs. Suyama's son Scott, who runs the Seattle flower shop his parents opened
decades ago, visits his mother four times a week, he said, because he is
concerned about her adjustment.

At lunch last Wednesday Mrs. Suyama said, "I like being with the family the
most." But after the meal, she agreed to join a singing class and even went back
to her studio apartment to freshen up her lipstick for the occasion.

Dr. Choi, who is a Korean immigrant, said that assisted-living centers and
nursing homes were becoming especially popular with most Asian-American groups,
but that Hispanic immigrants have been more reticent.

Hispanics made up about 5 percent of the United States population 65 and older
in 2000, according to census data. That percentage is expected to rise to 7.5
percent by 2010.

"Latinos tend to hold on and avoid doing that," said Maria Martinez-Montes,
outreach coordinator for On Lok Senior Health Services, a federally financed
program in San Francisco that provides medical care and social services to
elderly immigrants, allowing them to remain in their homes.

"In my eyes, I would never put my mom in a nursing home, ever," Ms.
Martinez-Montes said. "It would kill me. It would totally kill me. I would not
sleep -- and it was the same with my grandmother."

There is also the question of what the elderly and their children can afford.
Experts say Asian immigrants, particularly those who have been here longest,
tend to have a stronger financial base than newer immigrants.

The newer Hispanic immigrants are likely to be among the working poor, so they
and their children may not be able to afford the high cost of a nursing home or
assisted-living facility, Dr. Choi said.

While many of the assisted-living facilities accept Medicaid clients -- and
under federal law cannot discriminate based on race if they do accept them --
some immigrants who do not have legal status or who face language barriers or
other obstacles to enrolling in Medicaid would probably not seek out an
assisted-living facility or a nursing home, even if it were culturally
acceptable.

The type of care provided at assisted-living facilities like Nikkei Manor is
expensive. At Nikkei Manor -- where the residents live in either studio or
one-bedroom apartments -- the cost is $2,700 monthly. That is relatively
inexpensive compared with some other assisted-living facilities, which can run
residents as much as $10,000 a month.

Still, even among those who were brought up to believe that children took care
of their parents no matter what -- which also meant housing them -- many welcome
the move toward independent living.

As much as many children feel pressure to take care of their parents, many
elderly parents fear being a burden on their busy children and spending too much
time alone.

June Takeshita, 92, and Mitsu Kato, 96, are among many pairs of friends at
Nikkei Manor. They live across the hall from each other, on the third floor, and
Mrs. Takeshita often calls for Mrs. Kato, who has affixed a sign to her door
that says "Knock and Wait." The two eat meals together, and virtually every
night they play rummi kub, their favorite game.

Helen Kubo, 92, who also lives on the third floor, frequently joins them for the
game, unless Mrs. Kubo's daughter, Fran Nishimoto, who visits two or three times
a week, comes to take her mother on a gambling outing to a nearby casino.

Mrs. Kubo moved into Nikkei Manor soon after it opened in 1998, with her
husband, Frank, who died two months ago. She was born in the United States but
spent much of her childhood in Japan, where, she said, children were taught to
take care of their elders. It was a time when sending elderly parents into
either an assisted-living center or a nursing home was unheard of, she said.

"We were taught to look after the parents," Mrs. Kubo said, while her daughter
was visiting her studio apartment the other day. "We were taught to be good to
our parents. But I like it here. Better than with family. It's more free."

She added: "We're all getting old together, anyway. We're lucky this place
exists."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: June Takeshita, left, and Mitsu Kato at Nikkei Manor, an
assisted-living facility in Seattle catering to elderly Japanese-Americans. Such
places are becoming increasingly popular among immigrants, especially Asians.
(Photo by Karie Hamilton for The New York Times)(pg. A10) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK:
Aging Asians in America"The populations of most Asian-American groups* have
grown larger and older in the last 20 years. Chart shows percent of growth of
the Asian-American groups since 1980.*Includes American-born and foreign-born.
(Source by Susan Weber-Stoger, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Surge in Money Sent Home by Mexicans

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 27


Nearly one Mexican in five regularly gets money from relatives employed in the
United States, making this country the largest repository of such remittances in
the world, according to a poll sponsored by the Inter-American Development Bank.

The pollster, Sergio Bendixen, estimates that the payments helped feed, house
and educate at least a quarter of Mexico's 100 million people.

The poll was part of a report on Monday by the bank, which said money sent home
by Mexican emigrants will soar to $14.5 billion this year, exceeding tourism and
direct foreign investment to become this country's second most important source
of income. Oil remains No. 1.

Mr. Bendixen said the poll offered forceful evidence that remittances not only
sustained the rural poor but have also become important to urban working-class
households.

Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, estimated that annual
remittances to Mexico and Central America could reach $25 billion by the end of
the decade, a vast sum made of countless tiny payments by America's lowest-paid
workers.

"This is not necessarily something to celebrate," said Don Terry, manager of the
Multilateral Investment Fund. "It means that the Mexican economy is not
expanding and so people have had to leave."

Indeed, in addition to showing a significant jump in remittances, the report
opened a window onto the shifts in illegal immigration to the United States
since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

In the wake of the attacks, the United States almost immediately dispatched more
people and machinery to bolster law enforcement operations on its border with
Mexico, and it was believed that the heightened security would discourage
immigrants from their illegal crossings.

With fewer immigrants heading north, experts on both sides of the border
predicted, remittances to Latin America would sharply decline. And the shrinking
American economy was expected to force immigrants out of work, leaving them less
money to send to relatives back home.

Those forecasts, according to the Inter-American Development Bank and
immigration experts, have proved wrong.

Despite the increased risks of crossing the border, United States population
estimates show that the northward flow continued to surge, and experts said the
immigrant laborers had proved themselves resistant to a stormy economic climate.

Mexican immigration experts, including Rodolfo Garcia Zamora of the Autonomous
University of Zacatecas, estimated that some 450,000 Mexicans entered the United
States illegally last year. Mr. Suro said other evidence indicated that the
American population grew last year by nearly one million people from Latin
America. More than half, he estimated, had no legal status.

"For most Mexicans, the increased risks of crossing the border have had no
impact on their willingness to migrate," Mr. Suro said. He recalled a focus
group interview in which he asked a conference room full of Mexican men and
women how many of them were considering migrating to the United States. They all
raised their hands, he said.

The $14.5 billion in remittances reported by the bank marked a significant
increase over the estimated $9 billion that emigrants reportedly sent home three
years ago. The Mexican government estimated that remittances this year would
reach $12 billion, but authorities at the bank said they had adjusted their
figures to include money that had come into Mexico through informal channels.

Most of the money is spent on food, clothing and housing. But Mr. Suro said a
growing portion was invested in small business or helped to pay for high school
and college educations.

Across much of central Mexico, where men and women have migrated to the United
States for so many decades that crossing the border has become more a rite of
passage than an escape from poverty, remittances exceed state public works
budgets and pay to build roads, schools, water systems and baseball stadiums.

In recent years the United States and Mexico carried out reforms aimed at making
it easier and more affordable for migrants to transfer money home. Companies
like Western Union cut the fees they charged for wire transfers, halving the
cost of transferring money, and American banks have begun allowing illegal
immigrants to open accounts so relatives at home can withdraw funds from
automatic teller machines.

Those changes have begun to ease the negative attitudes that Mexicans have long
held toward financial institutions. Some 45 percent of people polled by the bank
said they received their remittances from a bank or other credit institution,
compared with only 7 percent in Guatemala and 17 percent in Ecuador.

The opening of more formal channels has made it easier to measure the cash flow,
Mr. Terry said. And he said at least a part of the significant jump in
remittances could be attributed to better accounting.

The figures have been the focus of an emerging debate among Mexican experts. At
a conference last weekend in Zacatecas, several charged that the Mexican
government had inflated remittance figures to help brighten an otherwise dreary
economic report.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 3, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Back to Kabul, With a Queens Accent;
Many Immigrants Returning to a Remade Afghanistan, Some to Stay

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words


Zikria Nazamy lost almost everything when he fled Afghanistan. Born into a
wealthy family with houses in Kabul, Logar, and Kunduz, he left at age 9 with
his parents and seven siblings, and spent his adolescent years working the
checkout counter in a supermarket in Flushing, Queens.

But recently Mr. Nazamy -- known as Jack in this country -- began a reverse
journey few immigrants ever undertake. During a trip to Afghanistan in August
and September, he and his father were able to reclaim their houses from
squatters after a 23-year absence, along with the family's farm and fields in
Logar. He married an Afghan woman in a ceremony attended by hundreds of his
relatives. Now he is facing the surreal prospect of moving back to Kabul and
assuming his father's old life.

"I never dreamed this would happen," said Mr. Nazamy, a stoop-shouldered
32-year-old who speaks with a strong Queens accent.

After American-led forces drove the Taliban from power in Afghanistan two years
ago, Afghans in Flushing began rediscovering a country many thought they would
never see again. Some are renting out or selling their reclaimed houses in
Afghanistan, some have started businesses there and many are making money as
they shuttle back and forth.

"It's been a great opportunity for us financially," said Ahmad W. Afzali, who
runs a Muslim funeral parlor in Flushing.

Not all the news is good. Many returning Afghans find relatives dead and houses
destroyed or taken over by squatters. The country is still relatively lawless
outside Kabul, and most Afghans in Queens are hedging their bets until the
government gains a firmer control.

Still, outside the marble facade of the Masjid Hazrat-i-Abu Bakr, the largest
Afghan mosque in New York City and a gathering place for many of the city's
20,000 Afghan immigrants, tales of loss and redemption can be heard every Friday
after prayers.

Hashmat Farooqi, 32, opened a cement-mixing plant in Kabul last month, and now
divides his time between Flushing and Afghanistan.

Ghulam Yousufi, a 52-year-old taxi driver, returned to his home in
Mazar-i-Sharif in September and became engaged for the first time.

Akbar Yunusi, 27, a short-order cook, finally got his old Kabul house back after
a three-month search for the profligate cousin who had run off with the deed.

But few reversals of fortune are as sudden or as complete as Mr. Nazamy's.

Growing up in Flushing, he thought of Afghanistan only as the place in the
photographs on his parents' living room walls. As a student at Intermediate
School 25 and Francis Lewis High School, he quickly mastered English and
refashioned himself as an American, worshiping the New York Giants and working
at Waldbaum's. After high school, he decided not to go to college and took a job
at a hotel reception desk in Manhattan.

He had only dim memories of the family's regal life in Kabul, where his father
had run the city's only ice factory and an import-export business. A business
owner and religious man, his father, Ghlum Nazamy, was an obvious target when
the Communists came to power. On the advice of a Russian trading partner, he
left for the United States in 1978, bringing his family two years later.

None of the Nazamys thought they would ever see Afghanistan again. Even after
the Taliban were forced from power in late 2001, Mr. Nazamy and his father
hesitated.

"I was scared," he said, sitting in a coffee shop in Flushing. "You hear a lot
about how dangerous it is over there."

Mr. Nazamy and his father finally left in mid-August, after assurances from
relatives that it was safe. Mr. Nazamy's mother has died, and his siblings were
busy with their own families and could not come along.

The day after the men arrived in Kabul, several cousins accompanied them to
their two-story concrete house, which, amazingly, was still in good condition.
But they found a man living there with his own family and brothers, about 15
people in all.

"We said to him, 'Are you the owner of this house?' " Mr. Nazamy recalled. "He
said no. My father said, 'It's good you're honest, because I am the owner, and I
want to come back.' "

Far from being angry, the man said he was grateful for being able to stay so
long without paying rent. He agreed instantly to move out, and asked for 10
days, Mr. Nazamy said.

Stunned at their good luck, father and son went on to Logar and Kunduz, where
they found sweet melons ripening in the fields. The people the family had
entrusted the land to were still working it, and they said the Nazamys were
welcome to return. Even the ice factory is still there, though it is not yet
clear whether the family will be able to reclaim it.

Tribal connections helped: Mr. Nazamy and his father belong to the Ahmad Zai, an
influential Pashtun group. So did the fact that Ghlum Nazamy had held onto his
title deeds, and that no one challenged them.

The Taliban issued new deeds, making life more difficult for many returning
Afghans, said Nisar A. Zuri, who published a news bulletin in Queens called
"Agenda for Afghanistan" until he returned to Kabul last year.

Back at the house in Flushing that he shares with his father, Zikria Nazamy
still looked incredulous as he leafed through photographs of the family's
houses, lush fields and flocks of relatives at his wedding.

Mr. Nazamy grew up expecting to marry an American. But after a few relationships
that ended badly during his 20's, he was willing to listen when his father
offered to set him up with an Afghan woman last year. He saw videotapes of her
and spoke to her a few times by phone. His Farsi is rusty, and her English is
poor, but they managed to understand each other.

"I wanted to get to know her better," he said shyly. "But I took a chance."

Now, he says, he finds himself unsure whether he is American or Afghan, or both.
Since the trip, his job at the Manhattan hotel has begun to seem onerous, the
hours long. He dreams of the melons growing in his family's fields in Logar, and
imagines a new life as farmer or factory owner. And he misses his wife, whom he
is trying to bring to the United States before they decide whether to move to
Afghanistan for good.

He still hesitates. "It's not easy over there," he said. "They need a lot of
rebuilding, and the roads -- forget about it."

"But we want people to know these thing are ours," he added. "We are coming
back."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imam Mohammad A. Sherzad and worshipers at the Masjid
Hazrat-i-Abu Bakr, the city's largest Afghan mosque, in Flushing. (Photo by
Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 10, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gore Criticizes Expanded Terrorism Law

BYLINE:  By CATE DOTY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9


Former Vice President Al Gore called on Sunday for a repeal of the law expanding
counterterrorism powers, calling it a "terrible mistake" for itseffect on civil
liberties.

During a speech in which he condemned President Bush's fight against terror, Mr.
Gore said: "I want to challenge the Bush administration's implicit assumption
that we have to give up many of our traditional freedoms in order to be safe
from terrorists. It is simply not true."

Speaking before a crowd of about 3,000 at Constitution Hall, across the street
from the White House, Mr. Gore admonished the Bush administration for what he
called "unprecedented secrecy and deception" in dealing with the Congress and
the public.

But his sharpest remarks focused on how the administration was dealing with
civil liberties for immigrants and foreign citizens. He said the administration
needed to stop detaining American citizens indefinitely without charges. He was
also critical of the treatment of immigrants, like Anser Mehmood, a Pakistani
who had overstayed his visa, who was arrested less than a month after the Sept.
11 attacks and deported eight months after his detainment.

"Such a course of conduct is incompatible with American traditions and values,"
Mr. Gore said.

Saying the detainees at Guantanamo Bay should be given hearings, Mr. Gore asked,
"If we don't provide this, how can we expect American soldiers to be treated
with equal respect?" He also said President Bush should seek Congressional
approval for military commissions that would replace civilian courts.

In the speech, which was sponsored by the progressive group MoveOn.org and the
American Constitution Society, a liberal lawyers organization, Mr. Gore spoke
with animation, wagging his finger at the audience and shaking his head when
audience members yelled, "Run, Al!" imploring him to seek the presidency again.

He said President Bush had used the fight against terrorism and the war in Iraq
as political bargaining tools, saying, "They have exploited public fears for
partisan political gain and postured themselves as bold defenders of our
country."

Congressional Democrats have repeatedly called for a softening of the
antiterrorism law, the USA Patriot Act, or the repeal of parts of it. But Mr.
Gore, who referred to himself as a "recovering politician," is one of the few
high-profile Democrats to call for a complete elimination of the act.

"I have studied the Patriot Act and have found that along with its many
excesses, it contains a few needed changes in the law," he said. "And it is
certainly true that many of the worst abuses of due process and civil liberties
that are now occurring are taking place under the color of laws and executive
orders other than the Patriot Act.

"Nevertheless, I believe the Patriot Act has turned out to be, on balance, a
terrible mistake."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore admonished the Bush administration yesterday for
"unprecedented secrecy and deception." (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit by Wal-Mart Cleaners Asserts Rackets Violation

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 650 words


Lawyers filed a class-action suit against Wal-Mart yesterday in New
Jersey,saying it violated federal racketeering laws by conspiring with cleaning
contractors to cheat immigrant janitors out of wages.

The suit, in Federal District Court in Newark, seeks to represent thousands of
workers who washed and waxed floors nightly in Wal-Mart department stores. It
says the company and its contractors violated RICO, the Racketeering Influenced
Corrupt Organizations Act, by conspiring not to pay the workers overtime. The
suit says the cleaners at hundreds of stores generally earned $325 to $500 for
working seven nights a week, usually for 56 hours or more each week.

The case was filed 18 days after federal agents raided 60 stores in 21 states to
round up 250 janitors described as illegal immigrants. Last week, executives at
Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, acknowledged that federal prosecutors
had sent a target letter saying the company faced a grand jury investigation
over the immigrants.

"This case is about the most powerful and richest company in the world taking
obscene advantage of the poorest and most vulnerable people in the world," said
a lawyer filing the suit yesterday, James L. Linsey.

In the suit, Wal-Mart and its contractors are also accused of failing to make
required workers' compensation and Social Security payments and failing to
withhold federal payroll taxes. Wal-Mart and its contractors are also accused of
mail fraud, wire fraud, bringing in and harboring illegal immigrants and
engaging in a "pattern of racketeering activity" to prevent officials from
enforcing wage and immigration laws.

"Wal-Mart and the contractor defendants," the suit says, "have engaged in and
profited from a nationwide fraudulent scheme designed to defraud the United
States government through the nonpayment of taxes and injure and exploit the
plaintiffs and those similarly situated through wide-scale violation of
protection of federal and state labor and employment law."

A spokeswoman for the company, Mona Williams, said, "We do not feel there is
merit to the plaintiffs' claim and plan to move quickly for the dismissal."

Executives of Wal-Mart, of Bentonville, Ark., have repeatedly said since the
raids on Oct. 23 that executives of the chain did not know about the illegal
immigrants or the contractors' not paying time and a half for overtime. The
executives said they had a strict policy that contractors not hire illegal
immigrants.

The plaintiffs say that Wal-Mart and the contractors were in effect joint
employers and that Wal-Mart is therefore responsible for the misdeeds.

Maximino Mendez, 19, a Mexican who worked in a Wal-Mart in Old Bridge, N.J.,
said he was one of the nine plaintiffs in the suit because "Wal-Mart violated
our rights." Mr. Mendez said he worked every night for eight months, earning
$325 for 60-hour weeks and never received time and a half for overtime. He faces
deportation after being seized on Oct. 23.

Gilberto Garcia, who filed a suit last week in Superior Court in Freehold, N.J.,
on behalf of nine Mexican janitors, said he had withdrawn that suit and merged
it into the new one. The new suit maintains the claim in the first suit that
Wal-Mart and its contractors violated state antidiscrimination laws by treating
the janitors worse because of their origins.

The case resembles a suit that the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund and private lawyers brought against three supermarket chains in
California two years ago, accusing them of conspiring with cleaning contractors
to deprive 2,100 janitors of overtime pay.

In an unrelated case, a judge in Superior Court in Alameda County, Calif.,
granted class certification on Friday to more than 100,000 Wal-Mart workers in
California after lawyers said the company did not give them their full rest and
meal breaks and did not pay them when they worked off the clock.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Finds Few Benefits for Mexico in Nafta

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 838 words


As the North American Free Trade Agreement nears its 10th anniversary, a study
from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace concludes that the pact
failed to generate substantial job growth in Mexico, hurt hundreds of thousands
of subsistence farmers there and had "minuscule" net effects on jobs in the
United States.

The Carnegie Endowment, an independent, Washington-based research institute,
issued its report on Tuesday to coincide with new trade negotiations aimed at
the adoption of a Nafta-like pact for the entire Western Hemisphere. Trade
ministers from 34 countries in the Americas are gathering now in Miami.

The report seeks to debunk both the fears of American labor that Nafta would
lure large numbers of jobs to low-wage Mexico, as well as the hopes of the trade
deal's proponents that it would lead to rising wages, as well as declines in
income inequality and illegal immigration.

Though sorting out the exact causes is complicated, trends are clear. Real wages
in Mexico are lower now than they were when the agreement was adopted despite
higher productivity, income inequality is greater there and immigration has
continued to soar.

"On balance, Nafta's been rough for rural Mexicans," said John J. Audley, who
edited the report. "For the country, it's probably a wash. It takes more than
just trade liberalization to improve the quality of life for poor people around
the world."

The Carnegie findings strike a much more pessimistic note than those of a World
Bank team that concluded in a draft report this year that the trade accord "has
brought significant economic and social benefits to the Mexican economy."

The bank's economists argue that Mexico would have been worse off without the
agreement as the country struggled to recover from a deep financial crisis in
the mid-1990's and that the income gap between Mexico and the United States is
smaller than it would have been otherwise.

Luis Serven, research manager for Latin America at the bank, said in an
interview that he disagreed with the Carnegie report's contention that the trade
agreement had hurt small subsistence farmers. He also said that the higher
productivity Mexico had achieved in the Nafta years was ultimately the only
route to higher wages there.

The intensity of the debate about the agreement's consequences is likely to grow
with the approach of the pact's 10th anniversary in January as pro- and
antiglobalization forces marshal arguments to influence negotiations for a Free
Trade Area of the Americas and for a new bilateral trade deal between the United
States and Central America.

Carnegie's policy experts stop short of contending that Mexico would have been
better off without the agreement. "Mexico would have been better off with a
better Nafta," said Sandra Polaski, a senior associate at Carnegie who was
director of economic research at the Nafta labor secretariat from 1996 to 1999.

The authors of the report say developing countries have much to learn from
Mexico's mistakes in the Nafta deal.

Trade negotiators for Central and South American countries, they said, should
bargain for more gradual tariff reductions on corn, rice and beans -- the
staples of subsistence farming -- to give peasants time to adjust to tough
competition from large, highly efficient and heavily subsidized American
farmers.

Carnegie's researchers also say developing countries should push international
donors and rich countries to finance transitional assistance for the retraining
of workers and farmers displaced by global competition.

Developing countries should also seek greater leeway to promote the use of
domestic suppliers in manufacturing over imported components -- a step that
would increase job creation, the authors say.

The Carnegie report argues that the growth in manufacturing resulting from the
trade agreement was largely offset by lost employment among rural subsistence
farmers, who were adversely affected by falling prices for their crops,
especially corn -- a problem intensified by the Mexican government's decision to
lower tariff barriers to American-grown corn even more rapidly than the
agreement required.

"This is a trade pact which opened the U.S. economy to Mexico very profoundly,
including years when the United States experienced its best growth in decades,"
Ms. Polaski said. "Yet we can't see a clear net increase in jobs in Mexico.
You'd expect strong growth. You wouldn't have expected to need a magnifying
glass to find it."

The trade agreement also reinforced and magnified changes in Mexico's rural
economy -- brought on by a broad array of other policies -- that are damaging
the environment, according to Scott Vaughan, an economist who recently left
Carnegie to head the environmental unit at the Organization of American States.
For example, he contends that the agreement has accelerated the shift to
large-scale, export-oriented farms that rely more heavily on water-polluting
agro-chemicals and use more irrigated water compared with producers of similar
crops for the Mexican market.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Free Trade, Less Work"A Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace report finds Nafta did not bring job growth to Mexico. Avg.
annual employment change by sector in Mexico AgricultureBEFORE NAFTA
(1984-1993): +2%AFTER NAFTA (1993-2002): -2% ManufacturingBEFORE NAFTA
(1984-1993): +6AFTER NAFTA (1993-2002): +4 Services*BEFORE NAFTA (1984-1993):
+6AFTER NAFTA (1993-2002): +4 *Includes financial and social services,
transportation, utilities, trade, communications

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2003 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Accused Nazi Guard Speaks Out, Denying He Had Role in Atrocities

BYLINE:   By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words


For more than a half century, Jakiw Palij has lived a quiet life in New York
City, working as a draftsman until he retired.

Now, the Polish-born Mr. Palij, who immigrated as a war refugee in 1949, is
being pursued by federal investigators who say he was a Nazi guard who was
complicit in some of the worst atrocities of the Holocaust.

In July, a federal judge stripped him of his American citizenship, setting up
his deportation.

And on Wednesday federal officials announced they would begin proceedings to
deport Mr. Palij (pronounced PAH-lee), "based on his participation in the
persecution of Jewish civilians."

The officials, from the federal Justice Department, say Mr. Palij, 80, worked at
the notorious Treblinka death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland during 1943, when
some 6,000 Jews were killed and buried in pits. They say he also worked at the
nearby Trawinki training camps for secret service troops trained to carry out
the extermination of Polish Jews.

"I know what they say, but I was never a collaborator," Mr. Palij said Wednesday
night when told the news about the decision to deport him. He stared into the
rain and told his version of the story.

He and many other young men in his town, Piadyki, were forced by the Nazis to be
guards, he said, noting they were kept on a troop base converted from a farm and
made to work night tours patrolling roads and bridges.

"They came and took me when I was 18," he said. "We knew they would kill me and
my family if I refused. I did it to save their lives, and I never even wore a
Nazi uniform. They made us wear gray guards' uniforms and had us guarding
bridges and rivers."

Mr. Palij insists he never set foot in any camp and never took part in any
killings or atrocities during the war. And indeed, federal officials do not
accuse him of that. Rather, they say that he, by cooperating as a Nazi guard,
"directly contributed to their eventual slaughter" by either forcing prisoners
to work or preventing them from escaping.

Eli M. Rosenbaum, director of a special investigation unit for the Justice
Department, called Mr. Palij "an essential component in the machinery of
annihilation" at the camps.

"He took part in the persecution of Jewish inmates at Treblinka and ensured that
they could not escape, and the end result was that as many as 7,000 people were
individually massacred," Mr. Rosenbaum said.

"He was very loyal and very capable and served until April 1945, the last weeks
of the war, while other soldiers were deserting right and left," he said.

In 1949, Mr. Palij emigrated here at age 26 as a refugee of World War II. In
1957, he was granted United States citizenship. Mr. Palij, a retired draftsman
with no children, lives in a rear rental apartment on 89th Street in Jackson
Heights, a quiet Queens street lined with old brick row houses. He lives on
Social Security checks. After two strokes, he is in frail health and takes care
of Maria, 72, his wife of 43 years, who now has Alzheimer's disease.

In recent months, however, he has gone from being seen by neighbors as a polite
old chap who constantly tinkers with his 1980 Oldsmobile, to a man being
portrayed as a Nazi death camp guard with blood on his hands. Jewish
demonstrators marched outside his home, calling him a butcher. "There were 200
Jewish kids out there," he said. "I called the precinct, and the cop told me:
'Leave them alone, and they'll leave. Don't say anything, or you might get a
rock through your window.' "

He has begun entering his home by the alley behind it.

"We get phone calls, people yelling, 'You Nazi!' It scares the hell out of my
wife," he said.

In July, a federal judge stripped Mr. Palij of his citizenship for falsely
claiming in his immigration papers in 1949 that he worked on his father's farm
in Poland and at a German factory during the period when he was actually serving
the Nazis. Mr. Palij insists that he did this to enter the United States "to
save my life."

"I spent five years in a refugee camp in Germany, and I had nowhere else to go
but America," he said.

"These Jewish groups want to hunt down all the living Nazis, and I don't blame
them," he said, "but they know I never worked in a camp. They have proof of
that."

Rabbi Marvin Hier, dean and founder of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, which helps
bring former Nazi war criminals to justice, dismissed Mr. Palij's denials.

"Every time they find a guard like this, he says he was forced into service," he
said. "To work at those camps, you had to be eager to be there. They only took
people they knew were loyal and brutal and not sympathetic to pleas of the
inmates.

"The most vicious guards at these camps, they all have this line that they were
just the short-order cook or something, when they were actually trained to do
nefarious and horrible things."

Justice Department officials say that since 1979, their investigations have
resulted in 73 former Nazis' being stripped of United States citizenship, with
59 of them deported.

But Mr. Palij said Wednesday, "Let them come and get me."

"I'm not running. What will they do? Shoot me? Put me in the electric chair?
Where are they going to deport me to? What country is going to take an
80-year-old man in poor health?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2003



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about Jakiw Palij, a Queens resident who faces
deportation over accusations that he was a guard at Nazi camps in Poland,
included a location incorrectly among those at which he was accused of having
been a guard at a Nazi training camp and a slave labor camp for Jews and,
because of an editing error, misspelled the name of the correct location. Both
camps were at Trawniki, not Trawinki. And the accusations did not involve the
death camp at Treblinka. A quotation on this point from Eli M. Rosenbaum, a
federal investigator, was rendered incorrectly. He gave the location as
Trawniki, not Treblinka.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jakiw Palij, 80, a retired draftsman, has been accused by
federal investigators of serving as a Nazi guard at the Treblinka death camp in
Poland during World War II. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Special Registration for Arab Immigrants Will Reportedly Stop

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21


The Homeland Security Department has decided to stop a program that required
thousands of Arab and Muslim men to register with immigration authorities after
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, officials said on Friday.

Hoping to hunt down terrorists, immigration officials fingerprinted,
photographed and interviewed 85,000 Muslim and Arab noncitizens from November
2002 to May 2003 under the program. The effort, the largest to register
immigrants in decades, required annual reporting. Men from Iran, Iraq, Libya,
Sudan and Syria began going to immigration offices for a second round of
registrations this month.

Officials have acknowledged that most of the Arabs and Muslims who have complied
with the requirements had no ties to terrorist groups. Of the 85,000 men who
went to immigration offices early this year, as well as tens of thousands
screened at airports and border crossings, 11 had links to terrorism, officials
said.

The program was sharply criticized by civil liberties groups and advocates for
immigrants. The critics said it did little to find terrorists and alienated the
very communities that could help uncover terrorists. Advocates for immigrants
have also complained that immigration officials have done little to publicize
the second round, touching off waves of confusion and anxiety.

Government officials said questions had arisen about the effectiveness of the
program. They said an announcement about ending it might be made as early as
next week.

A spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, William Strassberger, would
not confirm any decisions on program, but acknowledged that it was being
reviewed to determine whether it should end. The decision to discontinue the
program, known as special registration, was first reported in The Washington
Post.

"We're continuing to evaluate the special registration program for its
effectiveness and efficiency and whether this is the best use of resources," Mr.
Strassberger said.

He said the program might be superseded by an effort in which immigration
officials at 115 airports and 14 seaports will begin collecting digital
fingerprints and photographs from foreign visitors who enter the United States
with visas. That program, which is scheduled to begin in January, is not be
specifically directed at Muslims and Arabs, he said.

Advocates for immigrants said they were relieved to hear that the special
registration program would end, but said many immigrants remained uncertain
about complying with the second round of reporting.

"It's definitely a good sign that homeland security is looking into the matter,
but people are still very confused," said Kareem Shora, a legal adviser for the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.

Lucas Guttentag, a senior lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, called
the decision an admission of failure.

"The government's plan to terminate special registration for Arab and Muslim
immigrants," Mr. Guttentag, head of the Immigrants' Rights Project at the
A.C.L.U., said, "is an implicit acknowledgement that this was a failed,
discriminatory program."

The government began registrations at airports and border crossings in October
2002, focusing on visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria, as well as
other people who seemed suspicious or had unusual itineraries. The special
registration program was announced in November.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cubans on Trial in Case That Led to Crackdown by Castro

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Dec. 1


Federal prosecutors outlined a meticulous yearlong plot by six Cubans accused as
hijackers as their trial started here on Monday. The case involves the first of
several such incidents that heightened tensions between the White House and
Cubans in both Havana and Miami.

The six men are accused of using knives and an ax to take control of a flight
from the Isle of Youth, off the southern coast of Cuba, to Havana on March 19.
American fighter jets intercepted the plane and escorted it to Key West
International Airport. None of the 31 passengers or 6 crew members were injured.

But the incident and two others that followed led President Fidel Castro to
crack down on hijackings and accuse the United States of encouraging illegal
immigration. In April, three Cubans who hijacked a ferry in a failed bid to
reach the United States were executed.

Cuban exile leaders have said that the federal government is too worried about
refuting Mr. Castro's accusations and that it should be lenient with the
defendants because they were seeking freedom. Under the "wet foot, dry foot"
policy, Cubans who arrive on American soil can stay in the United States. Those
intercepted en route are returned.

Exile groups have pressured the Bush administration to ease the policy. They
were particularly critical of a White House decision to return 12 Cubans
suspected of hijacking a government boat in July.

Federal prosecutors said on Monday that the six accused of hijacking the
airplane had worked for more than a year to develop a plan to overwhelm the crew
and passengers of an old DC-3 by force, intimidation and threats. The men
scouted the route and choreographed their actions, prosecutors said. Minutes
into the flight to Havana, they charged the cockpit and broke down the door.

In an opening statement, John Delionado, an assistant United States attorney,
said the man thought to be the group's ringleader, Alexis Norneilla Morales, 31,
held a knife to the pilot's throat and demanded that he fly north toward Miami.
Another hijacker guarded the cockpit door, Mr. Delionado said, while two others
tied crew members up at the back of the plane. A fifth defendant, he said,
warned passengers: "Don't be heroes. Stay seated. We're going to America."

When one passenger tried to stop the hijackers from breaking down the cockpit
door, they threatened him with a knife, Mr. Delionado said.

All the defendants confessed to the hijacking, but three confessions were
rejected because F.B.I. agents did not read the men their Miranda rights. If
convicted, the six, ages 21 to 31, could face 20 years to life in prison. They
are charged with conspiracy, trying to take over a plane forcefully and
assaulting a flight crew.

In a hijacking shortly after the one in March, the defendant, a Cuban architect,
was convicted here and received the minimum sentence of 20 years in federal
prison.

Defense lawyers painted a sharply different version of the March 19 case in
their statements, saying the crew had helped plan the hijacking. Mr. Morales's
lawyer, Stuart Abrams, said that the knives were on the plane before the
passengers boarded and that the cockpit had landing charts for airports in Fort
Lauderdale, Key West and Miami.

Mr. Abrams added that when the pilots radioed Cuba and the United States, they
did not immediately report a hijacking, only that they had a "political
situation," he said.

The presiding judge, James Lawrence King of Federal District Court, ruled last
month that defense lawyers could not refer to Cuba's political or economic
conditions.

Still, a defense lawyer, Reemberto Diaz, alluded to Cuban politics, asking, "Was
this a hijacked plane or a freedom flight?" Mr. Diaz added that the United
States had granted asylum to nearly half the passengers on the plane. "For once
in their life," he said, "they are free."

The prosecutors objected, and Judge King agreed, saying, "We are not trying a
political issue about freedom or lack thereof."

The prosecution called the pilot, who said that while the defendants threatened
him with a knife, they did let him radio air traffic controllers in Havana to
report the hijacking.

The pilot, Daniel Blas Corria-Sanchez, said there was not enough fuel to reach
Miami, the defendants' destination, and they let him fly here.

Cuba let Mr. Corria-Sanchez and a steward on the flight attend the trial as
prosecution witnesses. Defense lawyers were not sure whether Cuba would agree to
witnesses they sought, the co-pilot and the flight mechanic. The defense also
seeks permission to fly to Cuba and depose more witnesses who were not allowed
to attend the trial.

In the last trial in the United States for hijacking a commercial plane, in
1997, three Cubans were acquitted of seizing a plane that ran out of fuel and
crashed near Fort Myers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban planes at the Key West, Fla., airport in April. Six men
hijacked the one on the left on March 19; the right plane was seized on March
31. (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

6 Cubans Are Found Guilty in Hijacking Case

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Dec. 11


A jury on Thursday found six Cuban men guilty of hijacking a passenger flight
from their country to South Florida last March, in what federal prosecutors
called an unequivocal rebuke of using violence to reach the United States.

The six had been accused of using butcher knives and duct tape to commandeer a
DC-3 as it flew from the Isle of Youth, off Cuba's southern coast, on its way to
Havana on March 19. During the trial, prosecutors said that the leader of the
group had pressed a knife to the pilot's throat after charging the cockpit,
while other defendants tied up crew members in the rear of the plane.

The incident and two others that followed led President Fidel Castro of Cuba to
crack down on hijackers and to accuse the United States of encouraging illegal
immigration by violent means. In April, three Cubans who hijacked a ferry in a
failed bid to flee were executed by a firing squad.

"But for the cool head of the pilot, who knows what could have happened," said
Harry C. Wallace, one of the government prosecutors. "Today's verdict sends a
clear message that our goal here is sympathetic to people wanting to come to the
United States, but that we will not tolerate the use of violence or the threat
of violence in order to do it."

Defense lawyers had depicted the incident as a "freedom flight" in which the
flight crew was complicit. They said that the crew and an airport security guard
had helped plant knives on the plane before the flight and had recruited the six
men to make it look like a hijacking.

But Judge James Lawrence King of Federal District Court blocked the defense from
painting the incident as political. Nor would he let defense lawyers travel to
Cuba to depose witnesses whom Mr. Castro would not let attend the trial.

The five women and seven men of the jury deliberated for a total of six hours
after the eight-day trial wrapped up on Wednesday. The defense moved for a
mistrial at the last minute, after one juror greeted and tried to shake hands
with Mr. Wallace in the federal courthouse on Thursday morning. But Judge King
rejected the request, saying the action had not been egregious enough.

"Our clients are extremely heartbroken and disappointed but still have faith in
the system," said Mario Cano, the lawyer for Eduardo Mejia Morales, who
prosecutors said guarded the cockpit door during the hijacking. Mr. Cano said
the defendants would appeal their convictions.

The men, Alvenis Arias Izquierdo, Miakel Guerra Morales, Alexis Norneilla
Morales, Neudis Infantes Hernandez, Eduardo Mejia Morales and Yainer Olivares
Samon, range in age from 21 to 31. They face a minimum of 20 years in prison,
Mr. Cano said. All were convicted of air piracy, and all but one were convicted
of conspiring to commit air piracy and conspiring to interfere with a flight
crew. Three were also found guilty of interfering with a flight crew.

In a second plane hijacking that took place shortly after the March incident, a
Cuban architect was convicted and received 20 years in federal prison.

Mr. Cano said that while he could not discuss his clients' feelings about the
convictions, the general consensus of the defendants' relatives was that "they'd
rather spend 20 years in an American jail than walk around and have so-called
liberty within the Cuban territory."

The verdict came days after Mr. Castro called members of the Bush administration
"idiots" for appointing a committee to draw up a "transition to freedom" plan
for Cuba. President Bush has been seeking ways to assuage Cuban immigrants in
South Florida who have accused him, with growing anger, of making it difficult
for Cubans to escape here.

Under the "wet foot, dry foot" policy, Cubans who make it to American soil can
stay, while those intercepted en route are returned home. Many of the 31
passengers on the March flight -- including several of the defendants' wives --
stayed in this country after landing in Key West.

Lisandro Perez, a Cuban expert at Florida International University, said the
aggressive prosecution of both recent hijacking cases and the subsequent
convictions set a new precedent in Cuban-American relations. "The nation
post-9/11 has much less tolerance to this kind of act," Mr. Perez said, adding
that this country had treated Cuban hijackers far more leniently in past
decades.

The Cuban American National Foundation, the most powerful organization
representing Cuban-Americans in the United States, condemned the verdict, saying
that Mr. Castro "will continue to destroy lives and heap trouble upon America as
long as U.S. policy remains directed at the promotion of the status quo."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alvenis Arias Izquierdo, Miakel Guerra Morales, Alexis Norneilla
Morales and Neudis Infantes Hernandez were among the six men convicted yesterday
of hijacking a passenger flight from Cuba in March. (Photo by Rob O'Neal/Key
West Citizen, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 27, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Far Fewer Immigrants Apply in Computerized Version of Green-Card Lottery

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1615 words


For years it has been the annual wild card of American immigration policy: a
worldwide lottery in which millions gamble on winning a green card, and with it
the chance to live and work legally in the United States. But this year, with a
Dec. 30 deadline looming and 55,000 green cards at stake, the lottery has
attracted fewer than half the usual number of applications, falling to 5 million
from as many as 13 million.

The startling drop-off, everyone agrees, results from the fact that for the
first time applications are being accepted only by computer, and government
officials say that has curtailed duplications and fraud.

But immigrants and their advocates say the falloff, while linked to the
computerization, results from a variety of other factors: fear of giving
information to the government online; lack of access to computers; and new
opportunities for immigrants to be defrauded.

The falloff, and the different explanations, show that like so much else
involving immigrants and government the lottery is being transformed by new
perceptions of fear and uncertainty.

State Department officials insist that the apparent decline is misleading. For
the first time, the officials said, they can electronically compare
applications, automatically disqualify anyone who applies more than once, and
store information about applicants. In the past, they say, multiple applications
often went undetected including many from immigrants desperate to legalize their
undocumented lives in New York.

But immigrants themselves say other reasons are also depressing the numbers.
Some people simply lack access to the tools to apply: a digital photo scanner, a
computer and an Internet connection. Some already in the United States fear that
leaving a computer trail could make them targets of deportation. And hundreds of
thousands of others who thought that they were applying were tricked instead, by
official-looking Web sites run by a Fort Lauderdale couple living their own
version of the American dream.

The couple, John Romano and Hoda M. Nofal, bought a $1.5 million waterfront
home, paid off more than $739,000 in credit card debt and amassed a $3.5 million
bank account by fraudulently collecting fees for Internet lottery applications
that were never submitted, according to criminal charges filed against them in
October by federal authorities.

Now, with only a week to go, upstart businesses in computer shops, tax offices
and basements all over New York are offering to help would-be applicants play
the new odds. Some are scams, New York City officials warned last week. But many
are just part of the age-old self-help network of former greenhorns.

A currency trader from Northern Ireland, for example, recently found aid at a
tiny copy shop run by Bangladeshis on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, after
discovering by chance that he was one of those conned by the Florida couple's
Web site.

The copy shop, on West 77th Street, is so small that it offers only
standing-room use of its two computers, for $6 an hour. But two of the three
Bangladeshi men behind the counter are past green-card lottery winners, and they
were already trying to help one of their own countrymen convert a passport
photograph into digital pixels when the Irish trader confided his troubles.

"After about a dozen tries, we got it in," the trader said, pleading for
anonymity after disclosing that he had overstayed temporary visas for seven
years. "It was the blind leading the blind."

Word spread, and in recent days a small stream of local deliverymen has come to
the copy shop for similar help for about $15 -- "black people, Chinese people,
Yemeni, Egypt," said Sanu Sheak, the shop's Bangladeshi owner, whose
brother-in-law is another lottery winner.

"Everybody has a dream to come to America -- the golden dream," added Mr. Sheak,
39, who sold flowers in the street and cleaned offices at night when he first
arrived in 1986. "They think that it's easy, but then they come here and find
out."

No immigrant group in New York City has played the green card lottery better
than Bangladeshis. They began winning their way to America in 1990, when
Congress established the program, officially called the Diversity Visa Lottery,
as a permanent reincarnation of smaller lotteries in 1986 and 1989.

The number of lottery green cards is small compared with the 620,000 others
available yearly, but those are reserved for the close relatives of citizens and
people sponsored by employers. The ostensible purpose of the lottery was to
encourage ethnic diversity in the American population, but it was widely seen as
a means of increasing European immigration. The lottery programs in the 1980's
were dubbed "the Irish sweepstakes," because the biggest winners were immigrants
from the Republic of Ireland living illegally in the United States.

"This was part of the story of wrong assumptions in our immigration policy
debate," said Muzaffar Chishti, a senior policy analyst at the Migration Policy
Institute, a research and advocacy group. "They thought, more Irish. No one knew
the principal beneficiaries were going to be Bangladeshis."

Intense press coverage, high levels of literacy amid poverty, and large families
help explain why so many Bangladeshis applied, officials say, adding that
identity fraud was also a factor.

In New York, where about half the Bangladeshis in the United States have
settled, their numbers grew to 107,000 from 9,000 during the 1990's.

Stuart Patt, a State Department spokesman, said that so far the flow of
electronic applications (through dvlottery.state.gov) mirrors past patterns,
with Bangladesh, Nigeria and Ethiopia in the lead, and more than 170 countries
represented. But the official estimate of 5 million applicants by the end of the
month is well below the 13 million mailed in 1999 and 2000, and even the 8.7
million sent immediately after Sept. 11, 2001. Last year, 10 million
applications were received.

The lottery is open only to those from countries that have sent fewer than
50,000 people to the United States in the past five years. From millions of
applicants, the State Department randomly selects about 110,000 "winners,"
sending them invitations to apply for a visa at the closest consular office.
About half fail to complete the process in time or are disqualified. The supply
of diversity visas goes to the rest first-come, first served.

In the past, applications that were not selected were discarded unopened, Mr.
Patt said. To improve the odds, some people applied in multiple names, and when
one of their identities "won," brought in false documentation.

Digitized photographs willmake such fraud far more difficult. "We will be using
facial recognition software to weed out people in multiple identities," Mr. Patt
said. Another benefit, he added, is that the Internet bypasses corrupt and
incompetent postal systems that sometimes dumped thousands of undelivered
applications.

Bangladeshis here readily agree that the old way encouraged fraud, and some
praised the new process for greater fairness. "One per person -- this is a very
good system," said Bishawjit Saha, owner of a Bangladeshi bookstore in Jackson
Heights, Queens, where two college students set up shop recently to help with
electronic applications.

But Mr. Saha and one of the college students also said that the ease of merging
and searching such computer databases is frightening away some would-be
applicants.

"A lot of people are fearful about how this is going to be used," said the
student, Hamidul Hoq, who already has a green card.

Mr. Saha cited the case of an illegal immigrant grocery worker who has wavered
about applying. The worker fears that if he enters identifying information
online he could be giving himself up for deportation to the successors of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in the Department of Homeland Security.

Similar concerns reduced applications by the Irish in New York, said Siobhan
Dennehy, executive director of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center in Queens.

"People are being cautious this year, more than any before," Ms. Dennehy said,
noting that since Nov. 1, when this year's lottery opened, only a few hundred
have showed up to apply online. Last year more than 2,500 applications forms
were collected from the center.

But Mr. Patt, the State Department spokesman, said there were no plans to share
the data with other agencies.

"The information is not being collected to look for people to deport," Mr. Patt
said. "It's not being done as a tool for enforcement, it's being done for
administrative improvement." When pressed, he added: "Would we make that
information available if Homeland Security would make the request? I'm not
saying we would deny it."

The Bangladeshi student, Mr. Hoq, was not reassured. "That's my fear," he said,
"they don't rule it out."

In recent years some applicants used a family address abroad, hoping to collect
the visa overseas without disclosing that they had lived in the United States
illegally. But in October 2002, as part of tightened security after 9/11, the
government began keeping track of exits as well as entries, Ms. Dennehy noted.
More immigrants now fear that if they leave America, they will be unable to
return.

Still, there will always be people who dream of striking it lucky, said Mr.
Sheak, whose copy shop is now a neighborhood fixture -- "like family," broke in
one regular customer, an elderly woman whose rich Hungarian accent seemed
undiluted by more than 50 years in New York.

Mr. Sheak grinned under his Knicks cap, as his two lottery winners sprang to
serve her. "In Bangladesh, you have to be lucky to be alive," he said. "Miss, I
keep telling you, everything depends on luck."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Monir Hossain, left, the manager of a copy center, and Abdul
Mannan, an employee, sell time on computers to immigrants seeking green cards.
Both are from Bangladesh. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 28, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Neediest Cases;
As Chinese Immigrants Struggle in a Strange Land, Just Asking for Help Is a
Challenge

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2368 words


Pei Li Tsang sipped from a cup of tea as she sat on a couch in her Sheepshead
Bay apartment. Her shy daughter, Anny, 10, a professed bookworm, read a Harry
Potter novel while her brother, Jason, 7, laughed at a car chase on television.

It was a good moment. Peaceful. Satisfying. They had left China to come to
America for moments just like this one.

Mrs. Tsang and her husband, Man Ful Tsang, married in 1989 in Guangzhou,
Guangdong Province, and they often thought about the promise America held.

"In China, the material life was very poor," Mrs. Tsang said in Mandarin,
through a translator, Christine Wong. "My father lived in Singapore, and he'd
bring back gifts. I thought in foreign countries, life would be so much better."

That year, Mr. Tsang moved to New York, found work in Chinese restaurants, saved
money and petitioned for his wife to join him. Mrs. Tsang, now 41, stayed behind
working in a toothpaste factory in Guangzhou until she was granted a visa in
1992 and joined Mr. Tsang in their apartment in Brooklyn.

And then, in a new, unfamiliar land far from all they were used to, they started
a family. While it grew, Mr. Tsang worked 10 hours a day, six days a week in
various restaurants for $1,200 a month; Mrs. Tsang stayed home to watch the
children.

Many other Chinese immigrants have followed the same dream, leaving behind
homes, families and cultural touchstones for the promise of a better life.
According to census figures, from 1990 to 2000, the Asian population of the five
boroughs of New York grew by more than 50 percent, to 787,047, making it by far
the fastest growing major racial group. Those of Chinese descent make up the
largest group in that category, and their numbers grew at a rapid pace, although
the population of Asian Indians increased at an even greater rate.

Caught Between 2 Cultures

In some respects, the experience of Chinese newcomers mirrors that of wave after
wave of immigrants who have come to the United States through the years. But
there are also differences: the Chinese, who come from multiple regions, speak
varied dialects with no roots in European languages.

In addition, many Asian immigrants "are rural-based and have not necessarily had
any urban experience," said Lilliam Barrios-Paoli, senior vice president and
chief executive for agency services of the United Way of New York City.

"The skills that they bring are different," she added. "People coming from China
have lived under an incredibly different kind of government system with very
limited access to resources, very limited choices you could make."

All that adds up to an arduous transition for some Chinese immigrants, who
despair of figuring out how to tap an unfamiliar bureaucracy for help with
essentials, like shelter or employment.

But they can find a friend in The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, if they
are willing to seek the help. The Neediest Cases, in the middle of an annual
fund-raising campaign that runs through Jan. 31, has been aiding and comforting
New Yorkers in distress since 1912. Among those it has helped are America's
newcomers, who are often so vulnerable during their transition from There to
Here.

For many Asians, however, asking for help can be harder than it sounds.

One problem is learning English. According to the census, more than 200,000
Asians in New York City spoke English either "not well" or "not at all."

Another hurdle is learning about the organizations that offer help, filling out
the necessary paperwork and communicating with social workers.

This task can be complicated by the reality that some Chinese immigrants resist
asking for assistance in order to save face.

Even when they learn English, make progress understanding cultural nuances and
discover that there are places to turn, the choice of whether to accept that
help is not always an easy one.

The Tsang family was confronted with just such a choice in 1997, when Mr.
Tsang's health began to deteriorate. "At the beginning, it was cancer inside of
his nose, but in 2001 it was in his kidney," Mrs. Tsang said. "The doctor told
me it was too advanced. There was no way to save him."

By 1999, Mr. Tsang was too ill to work, and Mrs. Tsang took a low-paying job in
a laundry. But the family lost even that small income when Mr. Tsang lost his
sight and Mrs. Tsang quit work to care for him.

With no knowledge of social services and no English skills, Mrs. Tsang turned to
her church, through which she found help filling out forms for public
assistance.

Each month she received $320 in public assistance and $300 for the children from
the Children's Development Center. "I was ashamed to take the money," Mrs. Tsang
said.

In 2000, the city's welfare-to-work effort required her to return to work. Her
limited English left her with few options. But in October 2002, a social
services caseworker referred her to Pride 2000, an employment program run by the
Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of the seven charities supported by
the Neediest Cases Fund.

Mrs. Tsang began taking classes in English as a second language four days a
week, seven hours a day, at Pride's office in Downtown Brooklyn. "They've helped
me a lot," she said. "They always explain everything to me."

In some matters, the bureau could do only so much. While Mrs. Tsang progressed
with her English, Mr. Tsang's health worsened until last March, when he died at
52. "I kind of lost direction," Mrs. Tsang said. "I didn't know where to start."

The Pride program, however, had some ideas. It helped Mrs. Tsang learn how to
handle herself in a job interview, something she and many others living in
Communist China never had to do. "They don't have such things as interviews,"
she said.

Mrs. Tsang used those skills in October to get a job as a maid at the Chelsea
Grand Hotel, which is planning to become a Four Points Sheraton next year, and
she hopes to get more work if that happens. She is now working there part time
and continuing English classes at the bureau. The job helps with the monthly
rent, $800, and gives her hope of eventually leaving public assistance.

But some uncertainties linger. To Mrs. Tsang, these are important matters of
language and culture.

With the family's fate resting on Mrs. Tsang's shoulders during her husband's
illness, she had to rely on her children's native knowledge of English. Though
she has tried to improve her own English, she has developed a new fear: that as
her children join American culture, they may lose their Mandarin and their
connection to their past.

The bureau has offered help in that regard, too. It secured $500 to provide
Jason and Anny with after-school Mandarin classes. "They can become bilingual,
and when they grow up they can help other people, new immigrants," Mrs. Tsang
said.

Training for a New World

For many Chinese immigrants, Mrs. Tsang's new job at the hotel is seen as a
prize, especially after Sept. 11, 2001. The terrorist attack wrought havoc with
several industries, including the garment industry, which employs many Chinese
people, just as it has been a major employer of previous immigrant populations.

"The garment industry has unions; the union provides the fringe benefits," said
David S. Chen, executive director of the Chinese-American Planning Council, a
nonprofit social service agency. "That's a link to health insurance. When the
garment shops shut down, you no longer have unions supporting people in that
sense."

"They usually have no English," Mr. Chen added. "Usually they're middle-aged, 45
to 55. It makes it very difficult to train them for high-skill jobs."

Even among the community-based Chinese organizations, where social workers help
immigrants register for social service benefits, serving a diverse population
can be a frustrating challenge. For example, agencies have been struggling to
handle a recent increase in Fujianese immigrants because few social workers
speak their dialect.

To help Chinese immigrants overcome such challenges, a number of charities
supported by the Neediest Cases Fund provide English classes and job training.
Some of these students go on to get jobs at the agencies, where they can use
their bilingualism to help others.

The Educational Alliance, a beneficiary agency of one of those charities,
UJA-Federation of New York, offers these classes at its office on the Lower East
Side. The office was established in 1889, when the immigrants then crowding into
the city were Irish, German and Italian.

The alliance's day care and Head Start programs serve about 250 Chinese
children. Its civic education and English classes offer high school equivalency
programs, computer workshops, classes in English as a second language, and
civics lessons to more than 200 Chinese adults.

"What you want to do is help them maintain a sense of self while they come into
the larger culture," said Rosa Agosto, chief program officer of the alliance.

Complicating this mission is the fact that Chinese immigrants are increasingly
fanning out beyond Chinatown. New communities have been growing in other
neighborhoods: Flushing and Woodside, in Queens, for example, and Bensonhurst
and Sunset Park, in Brooklyn.

Like the alliance in Manhattan, Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and
Queens, another Neediest Cases beneficiary, has been helping Chinese immigrants
in Brooklyn adjust to a new culture while holding fast to their old one.

In 1996 and 2001, the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development
sponsored the development of the David Minkin and Msgr. Stedman Senior
Residences, in Borough Park, Brooklyn. The Progress of Peoples Corporation, a
Catholic Charities housing affiliate, manages the buildings, which provide 187
subsidized apartments for low-income elderly New Yorkers, half of them Chinese.
Catholic Charities provides social services, a nurse twice a week and home
attendants as necessary. The city's Education Department provides English
classes in each building.

Feeling at Home at Last

For Wen Peir Chan, 77, and his wife, Wan Man Yu Chan, 72, the David Minkin
apartment complex offered a chance to leave an overpriced, run-down apartment
building for an affordable refuge where they could interact with English
speakers. At the same time, they could stay connected to their Chinese culture.

Mr. and Mrs. Chan left Hong Kong with their daughter, Shuck Ling, in 1976. Their
son, Kim Ping Chan, joined them in 1978.

"I wanted the children to have a better education," Mr. Chan said through a
translator, Cornell Chang, the social service coordinator for the apartments.

When the family moved to New York, Mrs. Chan found a job as seamstress in
Chinatown, and Mr. Chan went to work in Chinese restaurants. "I had to start
from the very beginning, washing dishes and cleaning the floors," he said. "It
was very difficult."

Two years later, Mr. Chan found a job in a Chinese restaurant in Wilmington,
Del. "You could make more money in Delaware because there were not very many
Chinese workers there," he said.

Mrs. Chan and their children remained in New York. Mr. Chan worked 10-hour
shifts, six days a week, making $500 a month. He sent money to help with rent
and pay for the children's education. Once a week, he and other restaurant
employees shared a car to drive to New York. From 1978 to 1987, he saw his
family just once a week.

By the time he retired in 1987, Mr. Chan, then 62, had learned how to cook
various Sichuan and Cantonese dishes and was making about $1,300 a month. But
the long hours and the distance from his family had taken a toll, and he
returned to New York. Mrs. Chan retired in 1993 and the couple began to receive
$700 a month from Social Security.

They lived in a cramped apartment in Sunset Park until February 2001, when they
found the Minkin apartments. They applied to rent a one-bedroom apartment, and
HUD pays all but $106 of the monthly rent.

This month, Catholic Charities provided another kind of aid, securing $400 from
the Neediest Cases Fund to pay medical bills for arthritis medication for Mr.
and Mrs. Chan.

The couple have befriended another Chinese couple in their building. They have
also built relationships with Russian- and English-speaking residents, and play
bingo every Wednesday.

In this way, they are finding a balance between their old and new lives, and
trying to bridge two worlds. To those who help Chinese immigrants make that
journey, like Rosa Agosto of the Educational Alliance, this is one of the most
important challenges.

"We want them to be able to keep those memories and experiences alive," she
said, "because I think it keeps them intact at the same time that they're moving
forward in this sort of broader community we're building together."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4
Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or
any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or
online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at
www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to
the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the
charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,686,167.43
Recorded Tuesday: 244,780.78

Total: $4,930,948.21

Last year to date: $5,225,742.72

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: When she quit her job to care for her dying husband, Pei Li
Tsang had to seek public assistance. "I was ashamed to take the money," she
said. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times); Wen Peir Chan, 77,
and his wife left a cramped, run-down apartment and moved into subsidized
housing in Brooklyn for older New Yorkers. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 29, 2003 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Authors Span Globe but Don't Leave Queens

BYLINE:   By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 792 words


At a certain subway station in Queens, a highly decorated dancer from Tajikistan
runs a Bukharan dance studio.

At a Jackson Heights table tennis club, a former member of the Chinese national
team banters with Jamaican players. And then there is a Chinese woman whose
husband may be the only Jewish man in New York who hates Chinese food.

These are snippets from the profiles in a new book called "Crossing the BLVD:
Strangers, Neighbors, Aliens in a New America" (W.W. Norton, $35). With
first-person accounts from 79 immigrants in Queens, the 400-page book is an
offbeat ethnic tour of one of the country's most ethnically diverse counties. It
does not point out trendy kebab palaces or obscure taco stands, but rather tells
riveting stories about a new wave of immigrants to America.

"This is definitely not the Fodor's version of Queens," said Warren Lehrer, who
illustrated the book. He and his wife, Judith Sloan, both documentary artists
from Queens, wrote the book and named it after the borough's major thoroughfare,
Queens Boulevard, sometimes called the Boulevard of Death for its high rate of
pedestrian fatalities.

A Russian immigrant in the book posits that many of those deaths were of
immigrants hit while worrying to distraction about how to survive in a new land.
The authors call the boulevard a symbol of the dangerous crossings many
immigrants made fleeing their home countries and navigating a new culture.

Mr. Lehrer, 48, said he grew up in Bayside when the borough was still "Archie
Bunker's Queens," with neatly apportioned neighborhoods of Jewish, Irish and
Italian immigrants. After moving away, he met Ms. Sloan, 47, who was from New
Haven, and years later moved back to Queens, where an estimated 138 languages
were being spoken.

"It had become this crossroads of the world," he said. "It's now such an
ethnically diverse place that no matter who you are here, you're a minority."

They turned their beat-up Subaru onto Queens Boulevard and "spent three years
traveling around the world without ever leaving Queens," explained Ms. Sloan, an
actress who teaches theater arts at New York University and the International
High School at LaGuardia Community College in Long Island City.

On a recent visit, the authors sat in an Egyptian restaurant called Mombar, on
Steinway Street in Astoria, next to a group of Egyptian men eating dates and
braised lamb and sipping mint tea. Across the street, men played backgammon and
smoked sweet-smelling tobacco from large water pipes.

The authors documented how a nearby coffee shop was vandalized by a group of
young men just after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. After the owner
chose not to press charges, the youths returned to apologize and help clean up
the damage.

On a lighter note, Mr. Lehrer recalled interviewing an immigrant from Togo who
said he learned English in New York by reading the tabloid newspapers and
listening to news radio.

An exhibit based on the book is at the Queens Museum of Art in Flushing
Meadows-Corona Park through March 14, with photographs, taped narratives, music
and performances by several artists profiled in the book. There is also a kiosk,
which will be taken around the borough, where visitors may tell their stories
about immigration, as they can at the Web site www.crossingtheblvd.org.

The book, which contains a compact disc of original music inspired by the
recorded interviews, has already affected the lives of some of its participants,
the authors said. Amy Li, 36, was imprisoned and tortured for participating in
Falun Gong, a movement banned by the Chinese government. She finally fled China,
leaving behind her daughter, Doudou. After Ms. Li sent photocopies of her
profile in the book to the United States Consulate in China, Doudou, now 8, was
permitted to move to New York, the authors said.

The authors recently visited Malika's International Dance School, just off
Queens Boulevard in Rego Park, to chat with the owner, Malika Kalantarova, once
a dancer in Tajikistan. The studio is in a small plaza of Bukharan shops in the
63rd Street subway station, along with a barber from Uzbekistan, a jeweler from
Bukhara and a shoemaker from Tajikistan.

Ms. Kalantarova demonstrated the head and arm movements of traditional Bukharan
dance to a dozen Bukharan girls from the Forest Hills area, which the girls
referred to as Queensistan or Bukharan Hills. A teenager here needs to be able
to dance Bukharan style, as well as Beyonce style, explained Yafa Iskhakova, 14,
switching from Bukharan to English with a strong Queens accent.

Mr. Lehrer called Queens a bellwether of change in America. "There is a definite
interest in Queens outside of New York," he explained, "because soon this is
what their neighborhood is going to look like."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2004



CORRECTION: An article last Monday about a couple who have written a book about
immigrants in Queens misstated the name of the subway station where a dancer
from Tajikistan runs a Bukharan dance studio. It is 63rd Drive, not 63rd Street.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren Lehrer and Judith Sloan, center, whose book profiles
immigrants, with Malika Kalantarova, a dance instructor from Tajikistan. (Photo
by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Green-Card Lottery Is Swamped in Last Hours

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 659 words


With $20 and a dream of legalizing their lives in New York City, a surge of
mostly Irish immigrants trooped to the Emerald Isle Immigration Center this week
for last-minute help in entering the new computerized green card lottery.

But for many of the immigrants, and thousands more would-be applicants around
the world, luck ran out well before the deadline, Tuesday night at midnight.

The State Department's electronic lottery on its Web site was overwhelmed by the
surge in online applications, and government officials and immigrant advocates
agree that many applicants were shut out in the last 12 hours.

"The servers were working as hard as they could," said Stuart Patt, a State
Department spokesman, adding that they never failed entirely. "This is
unfortunately a consequence of waiting until the last minute."

The perils of procrastination should have been obvious, Mr. Patt added. Last
year, when applications were still done only by mail, 2.9 million of the 10
million that arrived were disqualified for being late.

This year the lottery accepted only online applications, and a total of 5.9
million were submitted, Mr. Patt said. That is well below last year's total and
the 13 million mailed in 2000 but almost 900,000 more than officials had
projected a week ago based on the rate of submissions since the lottery opened
on Nov. 1.

Mr. Patt attributed the unexpected last-minute rush of applicants to an article
on Saturday in The New York Times about the lottery, officially known as the
Diversity Visa Lottery. He said the article, which was also published on Monday
on the front page of The International Herald Tribune, attracted attention in
the foreign press and might have drawn applicants who thought the chances to win
were better than usual.

Officials attribute the drop in applications from last year to a reduction in
duplications and fraud. Immigrant advocates, however, say the numbers were down
because potential applicants often lack access to computers and often fear that
online information could be shared with the Department of Homeland Security.

Siobhan Dennehy, director of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center, in Queens,
said many last-minute applicants were worried that an online application could
make them targets of deportation.

"There are people who have children who were born in this country and have never
seen their grandparents," Ms. Dennehy said yesterday. She mentioned one man with
a 6- or 7-year-old daughter whose grandparents are too old to travel. He told
Ms. Dennehy he was afraid to risk traveling back to Ireland until he could
adjust his illegal status.

"There isn't a lot of hope today to change your status," Ms. Dennehy added.
"People felt, 'This is my last shot for now.' "

After the center closed for the day Tuesday evening, she said, staff members
split up the last applications, including digital photographs, and kept trying
to enter them from home or office computers until the midnight deadline. From
6:30 p.m. to midnight, she said, she submitted only three more applications
herself.

Forty forms could not be submitted by the center's two offices. The 40
applicants will be notified next week, and their $20 fees returned.

"The last one happened to be a woman with the same day and month of my
daughter's birthday," Ms. Dennehy added. "I was determined to get this woman in,
and alas, it didn't work."

At the State Department, Mr. Patt said nearly 300,000 applicants did make it
through that last day. Estimates of the number of immigrants living illegally in
the United States range from 8 million to 10 million.

The countries with the most applicants were Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Nepal
and Morocco, Mr. Patt said. Each country is capped at 3,500 green cards,
however, so the more applications, the longer the odds. Over all, 110,000 are
randomly selected, but about half drop out or fail to meet minimal
qualifications for a diversity visa, like a high school education or a trade.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Institutes Fingerprinting At Entry Points

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH and ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 5


United States immigration officers began fingerprinting and photographing tens
of thousands of foreign visitors required to have visas on Monday, in what
federal authorities described as a sophisticated new security measure to monitor
who enters the country and how long they stay.

A total of 115 airports with international flights, including several in Canada,
Ireland and the Caribbean with United States customs booths, introduced the
extra layer of screening on Monday, along with cruise ship terminals at 14 major
seaports. Though the travel industry had feared significant delays as the
program got under way, the Department of Homeland Security, which is
administering it, said that the problems were minimal and that the procedure
added perhaps a minute at most to immigration processing.

The screening program began as American officials remained acutely concerned
about potential terrorist threats on foreign airliners, particularly those from
Britain. Since Christmas Eve about a dozen flights have been grounded or delayed
over fears that terrorists had plotted to commandeer jetliners.

Officials said Monday that they were concentrating on flights between London and
Washington as possible targets for terrorists, but that they had concluded that
a critical danger period on United States-bound flights from France and Mexico
had now passed.

Intelligence leads have pointed to potential attacks "around New Year's and
beyond" on British Airways flights between London and Dulles International
Airport outside Washington, an administration official said. Those flights were
canceled for two straight days last week because of security concerns, and were
delayed for a third day on Monday.

An American official said part of the concern over the London-Dulles flights was
driven by intercepted communications that contained phrases believed to refer to
British Airways Flight 223, the London-Dulles flight that has been the focus of
the heaviest American and British security. Last Wednesday, Flight 223 was
escorted to Dulles by American fighter planes, and flights on Thursday and
Friday were canceled.

Officials said delays and possibly cancellations on the London-Washington route
were likely to continue indefinitely.

In contrast, concern has lessened over international flights into Los Angeles
from Paris and Mexico City. Those routes, like the London-Washington flights,
were the subject of intense concern for much of the last two weeks, but
officials said intelligence developed through electronic eavesdropping and other
means narrowed the prospect of attacks to the Christmas and New Year's holidays.

American officials said that they believed the fingerprinting program would
strengthen border protection over the long haul, but that they did not expect it
to have any immediate impact on the recent efforts to deter another terrorist
attack since the country went to high alert.

At airports around the country Monday, some international visitors said the
additional screening procedures were slowing down customs lines, as inspectors
struggled with new digital fingerprint scanners and cameras on tripods.

Citizens of 27 countries, including Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand,
Singapore and most European nations, are exempted from the program if they are
visiting as tourists for fewer than 90 days.

But if citizens of those countries are traveling here on work or student visas,
or for more than 90 days, they are subject to the new procedures. They, along
with all residents of other countries -- about 24 million travelers a year,
including some repeat visitors, the Department of Homeland Security said -- must
be fingerprinted and photographed under the new rules.

Between 5:30 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday, 27,420 foreigners were fingerprinted and
photographed under the new program, department officials said.

"So far it's going well," Robert C. Bonner, the commissioner of Customs and
Border Protection, said of the program, which the government calls the U.S.
Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology. "We are going to monitor wait
times very closely just to make sure there aren't any extraordinary horrid
delays."

The new procedures allow customs officials to immediately verify visitors'
identities, check their criminal backgrounds and determine if they are on watch
lists of suspected terrorists and other criminals. The photographs of most
visitors and fingerprints of some will already be on file from when they applied
for visas in their home countries. Eventually, every foreigner subject to the
new rules will be electronically fingerprinted before traveling here, said Bill
Strassberger, a department spokesman.

In a news conference at Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, Tom Ridge,
the homeland security secretary, said 21 foreigners were found to be on watch
lists in a two-month pilot of the program. Some were using false documents and
were wanted for crimes like rape, he said.

On Monday, customs inspectors had found three visitors to be on watch lists as
of 6 p.m. But Dennis Murphy, director of communications for the Department of
Homeland Security, said that upon further investigation, all three were cleared
of suspicion.

In interviews, several dozen visitors arriving at airports around the nation
said the new procedures were generally swift. Some, though, including a group of
Korean high school students arriving at John F. Kennedy International Airport in
New York, said the new technology made their wait much longer.

"The people that were doing this were confused themselves," said Jae-Yong Kim,
16, who was on his way to the Northfield Mount Hermon School in Northfield,
Mass.

Mr. Bonner said the fingerprinting and photographing were supposed to take an
extra 10 to 15 seconds, the average time the procedures added in the trial run
at Hartsfield International. All customs officials have been trained to use the
scanners and cameras, Mr. Strassberger said, and new inspectors are gradually
being added to help with the procedures and other new security measures.

Some travelers interviewed said they did not mind and even welcomed the added
measures, while others denounced them as an invasion of privacy. Julio Mendoza,
a 25-year-old student who was arriving at Miami International Airport from
Buenos Aires, said he resented the new procedures, especially after waiting
hours to clear security at the airport in Argentina.

"As an international student coming to the United States to better my education,
I don't appreciate having my fingerprints recorded and my photograph taken," Mr.
Mendoza said as he left customs. "I am not a criminal. I am not a terrorist. I
feel like I am being treated as one."

But Holder Kunst, who arrived at Logan International Airport in Boston from
Frankfurt, was unfazed.

"It doesn't bother me at all," said Mr. Kunst, 32, a German who runs a marketing
company in Boston. He said the digital imaging was surprisingly fast, adding,
"It would have bothered me a lot more if it was the old-fashioned
fingerprinting, using ink."

The American Civil Liberties Union said Monday that the new procedures would
only increase confusion among immigrants who have been bewildered by the many
security requirements adopted after the 2001 terrorist attacks.

The new program is "a large privacy violation waiting to happen, with records
garnered under the program likely retained even after you've become a citizen,"
said Timothy Edgar, a legislative counsel for the A.C.L.U.

The Department of Homeland Security said the fingerprints and photographs would
be stored in government databases and be available to customs, immigration and
law enforcement officials, "only for official business and on a need-to-know
basis."

Another new measure, meant to ensure foreigners do not stay longer than their
visas allow, will require them to check out at automated airport kiosks,
scanning their travel documents and repeating the fingerprint process. The
kiosks are to be in place by year's end. A similar program is to be in place at
the nation's 156 land-border crossings by the end of 2005.

American homeland security officials plan to continue extra security measures on
Air France and Aeromexico flights in question, but officials said they expected
the flights to operate without interruption. Numerous Air France and Aeromexico
flights to Los Angeles were canceled or delayed after the United States raised
its risk alert on Dec. 21.

With the New Year's holiday having passed without incident, "things are a little
more tempered," an F.B.I. official said. "The anxiety's not as high as it was.
The intelligence we're receiving is not as strong as it was before the holiday."

But counterterrorism officials remain concerned that operatives from Al Qaeda or
related groups may seek to use means of attack other than airliners or pick a
time other than the holiday period.

While some travelers bemoaned the new rules, just as many said they were
thankful.

"Any measures America feels it has to take in order to prevent any future
terrorist attacks are worth losing a few minutes over," said Gerardo Molina, 54,
a lawyer arriving in Miami from Santiago, Chile. "Hopefully the rest of the
world will catch on and do the same."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Korean Air passenger was fingerprinted and photographed
yesterday at Kennedy Airport in New York. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York
Times)(pg. A1); A sign at Dulles airport near Washington yesterday announced new
antiterrorism screening procedures, which include fingerprinting and
photographing of those foreigners entering the country with visas.; A United
States Customs agent instructed a foreign visitor yesterday in use of a
fingerprinting device at Washington Dulles International Airport. (Photographs
by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH ON IMMIGRATION: WORKERS;
Immigrants Are Divided on Bush Proposal

BYLINE:   By NINA BERNSTEIN; John M. Broder reported from Los Angeles for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1032 words


If President George W. Bush expects to win a bloc of immigrant support for his
new immigration overhaul proposal, some surprises may await him inside the pizza
parlor, the beauty shop and Chinese-Spanish restaurant on Fifth Avenue in the
polyglot Sunset Park section of Brooklyn.

"It sounds good, and I say sounds good because it doesn't mean it's good," said
Elmer Rodriguez, an El Salvadoran baking slices at Gina's Pizzeria, where the
decor suggested Sicily, but the kitchen help was from Latin America. "For
someone coming here for the first time and wants to try it out, O.K., but for
someone who is already here and wants a future here, it doesn't make sense."

Like Mr. Rodriguez, many immigrants were torn between possible benefits and
dangers of the three-year temporary work permit proposed by the president. Many
wondered whether applicants might open themselves to deportation when the three
years expired.

Others welcomed the plan as a step in the right direction. Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger of California, himself an immigrant, embraced the proposal as a
way to ensure that the hundreds of thousands of foreigners in the state
illegally now could fully participate in the economy. But Mr. Schwarzenegger
expressed concern that Washington would not provide enough money to pay for the
social services for the new migrants that the president's plan is expected to
encourage.

In Brooklyn, Mr. Rodriguez pointed out other potholes that could trip the
unwary. Mr. Rodriguez said he has a temporary work permit, one extended
year-to-year to victims of Hurricane Mitch, which devastated parts of Central
America in 1998. But for many here illegally, he said, it would not be
worthwhile to apply only to risk deportation.

"It's also illogical," he said, "because if they send them back, they're going
to come back here again."

The owner of the pizzeria, Tom Cavallino, saw advantages for low-wage employers
like himself and tax benefits for the government. But, he also shook his head
over what he saw as encouragement for more people to come to the country
illegally.

"A lot of times you can't get American people to work -- they're too young or
irresponsible," Mr. Cavallino said, adding that when he immigrated legally from
Sicily in 1966, he took the first job he was offered, delivering bananas, and
opened his pizza place two years later. Now, even immigrants who apply to work
at his restaurant try to bargain up their wages, he said.

"If I offer them $5 an hour, they think it's too cheap, they try to make their
own price," he said, adding of the proposal: "It's good because they get paid,
and they pay taxes, too. It's bad, because it gives them more ideas to come with
illegal papers."

Down the block where Michael Chan manages the China Wok, a modest takeout place
that advertises Spanish, American and Chinese cooking, the view was more
positive.

"This is a good idea because this country is built by immigrants, all the
different cultures is what makes this country great," said Mr. Chan, who arrived
from China at age 11 to join his father, an illegal immigrant who toiled in a
"high class restaurant in New Jersey for very little money."

"If we're talking about the lower-level jobs, it's all done by the illegal
immigrants, that's how they contribute," he said. He dismissed the three-year
time frame as unimportant when people can earn only two or three dollars a day
at home.

From the perspective of Luis Guaman, an Ecuadoran who has been working illegally
in Brooklyn kitchens for 20 years, the plan held a strong lure: the possibility
of visiting his homeland again for the first time.

But he was skeptical of the president's intentions, echoing many who saw the
proposal as an election ploy.

"He offers a lot of things but he doesn't do anything," Mr. Guaman said of the
president. "After he wins, forget it. They only give permanent status to top
dogs, they don't give it to dishwashers."

Still, Katherine Culliton, a legislative staff lawyer for the Mexican American
Legal Defense Fund said she was pleased that Mr. Bush acknowledged that the
current system was broken. But, she said: "A guest worker bill isn't enough. It
doesn't provide equal worker rights, family unity or a path to citizenship.
Unless this plan is changed, it will produce a permanent underclass."

Leaders of the United Farm Workers, the union founded by Cesar Chavez, also
expressed misgivings.

"It's not amnesty, that's for sure," said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the
union. "I don't really feel, based on what I've heard and read, that President
Bush has focused on the real issues confronting us and immigrants in the United
States. It doesn't provide a pathway for legalization for those here now, nor
for guest workers to be brought in."

Some saw flaws in the plan on a practical level. The plan's reporting
requirement would force workers and employers to register each new worker. But
these workers are more transient than the rest of the labor force, creating a
huge paperwork burden for employers and the government, said Josh Bernstein,
director of federal policy for the National Immigrant Law Center, who went on to
praise the president's tone.

"He said people shouldn't have to break the law in order to work in jobs that
are available to them," Mr. Bernstein said. "He said we shouldn't turn our backs
on people working in our economy and taking the hardest jobs. The principles are
not bad. It's more the details that are flawed."

In Tucson, Manuel Castillo Flores, 57, and Luciano Salazar Gonzalez, 30, who
work illegally as landscapers, said they could live with the proposal despite
the shortcomings.

Mr. Gonzalez, who lives here with his wife, who is pregnant, and his young son,
said if the proposal were to become law, he would not hesitate to pay whatever
fee and sign up. "If it's true, I'm going to sign up no matter what," he said.
"What is there to lose? If it's a trap and they send me back after three years
-- hey, Mexico is only an hour and a half away. I can come right back."

But back in New York, Ivanhoe Ewen, a Jamaican immigrant who became a citizen
last year, said the plan seemed too generous.

"It's a threat to the people who are here legally employed," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2004



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Wednesday about a proposal by President Bush
to overhaul immigration laws misstated the number of green cards issued per
year. It is 675,000 (140,000 is the number of employment-based visas). An
article yesterday about the proposal also included an incorrect total from the
Immigration Service. The article on Wednesday also referred imprecisely in some
copies to the amount of time Mr. Bush proposes that undocumented workers could
participate in a guest worker program. While the White House indeed did not
specify the time, it did offer workers the option of three years, plus a chance
to renew for three years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Halts Cuban Immigration Talks; Worsening of Ties Seen

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7


The Bush administration has suspended semi-annual immigration talks with Cuba,
saying that Havana has repeatedly refused to discuss certain technical and
political issues, officials said Wednesday.

The suspension did not appear to immediately threaten the immigration agreement
between the countries, which sets the rules for the arrival of more than 20,000
Cuban immigrants to the United States every year, as well as for hundreds of
political refugees.

But the administration's move appeared to signal a further hardening of
relations with Cuba by effectively shutting down one of its few avenues for
regular communication with the Marxist government. The United States cut off
diplomatic and trade relations with Cuba in the early 1960's.

Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said the United States had
repeatedly sought in recent years to address issues related to exit visas,
monitoring of dissidents and other matters, only to be rebuffed by Cuban
officials.

"We have told Cuba that we're ready to go to talks when they're ready to discuss
the serious issues that need to be discussed," Mr. Boucher said.

The talks have been a fixture of United States-Cuban relations since accords in
1994 and 1995 brought an end to an exodus of Cuban trying to reach South Florida
on rafts and other small craft. The administration is insisting on discussing
five issues: Cuban delays in issuing exit permits to American-approved migrants;
cooperation in staging a new lottery for visa seekers; access to a deeper Cuban
port so large Coast Guard cutters can repatriate illegal migrants; obstacles
placed in the path of American officials seeking to monitor the fate of returned
migrants and others affected by mass arrests of dissidents last spring; and
Cuba's refusal to accept the return of migrants who have committed crimes in
this country and are, in immigration parlance, excludable.

Dagoberto Rodriguez, the chief of mission of the Cuban Interests Section in
Washington, said the administration's position was surprising because in the
past it has been Cuban officials who have sought to widen the scope of the
talks, while the Americans hewed strictly to the accords.

Mr. Rodriguez said the United States had failed to live up to its pledge to end
the practice of giving people fleeing Cuba on rafts a warm welcome if they reach
United States shores. He portrayed the administration's move as an election-year
ploy to appease Cuban-American voters.

"What they're doing is a political maneuver to calm the insatiable demands of
the extreme right in Miami," Mr. Rodriguez said in an interview.

Wayne Smith, a former chief of the United States mission in Havana, charged that
hard-liners within the administration were eager to see an end to the talks, and
favor a more confrontational approach toward the government of the Cuban
president, Fidel Castro.

"I sense we're moving away from any kind of constructive contacts with the Cuban
government and more and more in the direction of regime change," Mr. Smith said.
"The issues they put forward are by and large a sham."

In October, President Bush announced steps that he said would "hasten the
arrival of a new, free democratic Cuba." He tightened restrictions on travel to
Cuba for most Americans and announced the creation of a commission to plan for a
political transition on the island.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latin Allies of the U.S.: Docile and Reliable No Longer

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8


The United States, which has often viewed most nations of Latin America as
reliable and docile allies, is increasingly facing resentment over security and
trade policies that some of them view as inimical to their interests.

When President Bush travels to Mexico next week to confer with leaders from
throughout the hemisphere, he will meet a more assertive Latin America. It is a
region that spurned Washington on the war in Iraq, is demanding better treatment
for immigrant workers and continues to block a hemispheric trade agreement that
some nations, led by Brazil, view as unfair.

Mr. Bush will try to patch up relations with his Mexican counterpart, Vicente
Fox, by presenting his new proposals to normalize immigration between the two
countries and ease the plight of millions of illegal workers in this country.
Mr. Fox's political standing at home has been undercut by his failure to win
action from Mr. Bush on immigration.

But immigration is just one element in a series of pent-up issues, and largely
irrelevant to the rest of the region, which is grappling with weak economies,
corruption, crime and anemic trade. Many nations look to Mr. Bush to invigorate
economic development and help them emerge from political crises in places like
Venezuela, Haiti, Colombia and Bolivia.

Arturo Valenzuela, a senior White House aide on Latin America in the Clinton
administration, called the new Bush immigration proposal "a very significant
boost for the relationship with Mexico." But he added, "It's a wash or a
negative for the other nations of the hemisphere."

Mr. Bush, who speaks Spanish and grew familiar with Latin American issues during
his tenure as Texas governor, came into office promising to improve relations
with the countries of the region. He began his presidency by emphasizing his
friendship with Mr. Fox. Since Sept. 11, 2001, however, Mr. Bush's attention has
been focused on other regions. One expert described the president's visit to
Monterrey, Mexico, the site of the next week's meeting, as "a second coming out"
in the neighborhood.

Latin American leaders say they are newly pragmatic in their relations with the
United States. They are also unafraid to challenge Washington, even in the face
of considerable pressure.

The most pointed example of such independence was the refusal of most Latin
American nations to support the American-led war in Iraq. In the United Nations
Security Council, Chile and Mexico opposed a resolution authorizing force in
Iraq, and only 7 out of 33 Latin American and Caribbean nations supported
military action.

In Latin America, there was broad, popular resistance to an American strategy
that was seen as unilateral and pre-emptive. Ill will from that standoff
lingers, both in Latin America and in the United States, which has long taken
regional support for granted.

Gabriel Marcella, a Latin America expert at the United States Army War College,
said that Latin Americans "were asked by the United States to support a
preventive war."

"They did not," he said. "The ugly head of unilateralism seemed to reappear."

Peter Hakim, the president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a forum for
hemisphere leaders, said: "I don't think you can overestimate the damage to the
U.S.-Mexican relations. No relationship was more damaged, with the possible
exception of France."

After months of giving President Fox the cold shoulder, Mr. Bush's action on
immigration may foretell an end to the tensions, particularly since Mr. Bush is
taking a political risk by angering anti-immigration Republicans.

Mexico's ambassador to Washington, Juan Jose Bremer Martino, said this week that
his country had worked closely with the Bush administration to address most of
its concerns on security, most of them regarding border issues. The disagreement
over Iraq, he said, is part of the past.

"This issue has been left behind," he said. "Our cooperation in the field of
security has been outstanding."

After Chile joined Mexico in opposition to the war, Washington delayed approval
of a free trade agreement. The agreement was later signed.

Colombia ran into trouble with the administration on the issue of the
International Criminal Court. When Bogota balked at signing an exemption from
prosecution for American personnel, the administration withheld some aid and
threatened to cut off $160 million more. Colombia, which gets more American aid
than any other country except Israel and Egypt, eventually acceded.

Argentina, which was the only Latin American nation to take part in the Persian
Gulf war in 1991 and was later designated a major non-NATO ally, found itself in
a spat with the administration this week over ties with Cuba. When Roger
Noriega, the assistant secretary of state for Latin America, criticized
Argentina's warming relationship with Cuba, the reaction from Buenos Aires was
swift and indignant, with one cabinet official declaring that the days of
"automatic alignments" with Washington were over.

The administration has clashed repeatedly with Brazil, South America's largest
country. The disagreements have resulted in a stalemate over what is probably
the most widely sought project in the hemisphere: the establishment of a free
trade area from Alaska to Argentina by next year.

When Brazil led nations in insisting that American farm subsidies and steel
protections be included in trade negotiations, Robert B. Zoellick, the United
States trade representative, lashed out at what he termed "won't do" nations.
But Brazil held its ground, and the two nations settled on a watered-down
agreement that set aside the most sensitive issues.

"Brazil is severely penalized by restrictions in the United States," said Rubens
Barbosa, Brazil's ambassador to Washington.

On the security front, Brazil has been equally adamant. When the administration
began requiring photos and fingerprints of foreign visitors who are from
countries that require visas to United States, a Brazilian judge took umbrage
and ordered the same treatment for American visitors to Brazil.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell on Thursday argued that Brazil's action was
discriminatory, while the administration's position was universal, with admitted
exceptions. After speaking with his Brazilian counterpart, he said an end to the
dispute was in sight, with Brazil moving to modify the judge's instructions.

In the absence of a grand bargain on trade, the Bush administration has pursued
bilateral and multilateral pacts with regional blocs. Central American nations
were among the first to sign a free trade agreement, called Cafta, last month.

But some experts said Cafta merely pointed up the asymmetrical relationship that
the United States has with its neighbors. The deal largely protected trade
benefits the Central Americans already have, said Nancy Birdsall, the president
of the Center for Global Development.

"They have such a weak negotiating position with the United States," Ms.
Birdsall said. "They're desperate to stay in the club."

Still, for some individuals, the cost of membership is too high.

Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, who served as Mexico's ambassador to the United Nations
throughout the debate on war in Iraq, gave a speech in November that asserted
that the United States sought a subservient relationship with Mexico.

"It sees us as a backyard," he said.

Mr. Aguilar Zinser was promptly fired, Mexican officials said -- under pressure
from the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Greeting at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 162 words


To the Editor:

Re "Politics at the Border" (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8):

As a child of immigrants who subscribed to that old-fashioned notion of playing
by the rules, I am disgusted at the idea of giving legal status to millions of
illegal workers.

When did we start thinking that it was a good idea to reward bad behavior? In a
society made great by adherence to the rule of law, I can only think that this
is yet another profit-driven step on the slippery slope to our ruin.

My heart goes out to the millions of unemployed Americans and those who are
underpaid thanks to the availability of cheap foreign labor.

It is great that the president is feeling compassionate for our illegal
population, but compassion for working Americans who are being shoved out of
plants and factories is more in order. I hope and pray that we have courageous
leaders willing to stand up and do the right thing on this issue, for all our
sakes.

AMED KHAN
Suffern, N.Y., Jan. 8, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Cheers Bush's Plan to Hire Immigrants More Easily, but Labor Is Wary

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1031 words


Every year Frank Romano has trouble hiring enough workers to fill the vacancies
at his nursing home chain in Massachusetts, from $60,000-a-year nurses to
$8-an-hour kitchen and laundry workers.

Not only are there not enough American-trained nurses available, said Mr.
Romano, who hires 300 new workers a year, but hardly any Americans are willing
to take the lowly, sweaty jobs in a nursing home's kitchen or laundry.

Mr. Romano has long savored one solution for such hiring woes: the federal
government should make it easier to bring in workers from abroad.

Not surprisingly, he joined executives in many industries, including hotels,
restaurants, hospitals, construction and agriculture, to applaud President
Bush's new proposals to revamp immigration policy and to make it easier to hire
foreign workers.

"Americans just don't want to take a lower-paying, entry-level job," said Mr.
Romano, founder and owner of the Essex Group, a chain of 15 nursing homes and
assisted-living facilities, based in Rowley, Mass. "They will not apply for it.
Last year, I had to spend close to $300,000 on help-wanted ads because it was
such a struggle to find people to do the jobs we need done."

Mr. Bush's proposals would give renewable three-year visas to illegal immigrants
already working in the United States as well as to foreign applicants who are
newly hired for jobs here. But many unions and immigrant advocacy groups have
denounced the plan, saying it would create a permanent, exploitable second-tier
of workers who would never have the opportunity for permanent residency and full
citizenship.

Mr. Bush's plan is an outline, and Congress is expected to add specifics when it
takes up new immigration legislation. Under the plan, businesses would have to
show that no Americans want the jobs available before they bring in temporary
workers from abroad. Business wants that test to be minimal, with many embracing
a White House proposal that businesses be allowed to hire foreigners if no
Americans respond to job postings on Web sites.

But organized labor and some Congressional Democrats want businesses to satisfy
strict criteria before hiring from abroad. One fear, for example, is that a
business that now pays American construction laborers $11 an hour will say that
it henceforth needs laborers at $6 an hour, knowing that hardly any Americans
would take arduous jobs paying so little.

As a result, some labor unions say they want a wage floor incorporated into the
immigration reforms.

"If you don't have these protections, you're going to have a race to the
bottom," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration
Forum, a liberal group that seeks to ease immigration rules. "You'll have
$12-an-hour hotel workers undermined by the $7-an-hour temporary workers from
overseas."

Like many other executives, Mr. Romano said he was not backing Mr. Bush's
proposals in the hope of hiring immigrants at rock bottom levels, like the
$5.15-an-hour federal minimum wage.
"We pay anywhere from $8 to $11 for entry-level jobs, and we provide health
insurance, too," Mr. Romano said.

But labor and immigrant groups say many employers will pay the minimum wage with
minimal benefits. They say Mr. Bush's proposal will leave immigrants in a weak
position because their visas will be tied to their employer. If they get fired,
perhaps for complaining that their employer is not paying them at least minimum
wage or time-and-a-half for overtime, they could face deportation.

"As presented so far, it appears the Bush proposal protects the often abusive
behavior of employers who hire undocumented workers, but leaves the workers
themselves vulnerable and beholden to those employers for the right to stay
here," said Terence O'Sullivan, president of the Laborers' International Union
of North America.

In presenting his proposals on Wednesday, Mr. Bush said his plan would take
illegal immigrant workers out of the shadows and would, by giving them temporary
visas, make them less vulnerable and better able to assert their rights. His
proposal, business executives say, is not geared so much for small businesses
that have a handful of illegal immigrant workers and often pay very low wages,
but for larger businesses like hotels and nursing homes that need dozens or
hundreds of new workers each year.

Xavier Teixido, who runs Harry's Savoy Grill and Harry's Seafood Grill in
Wilmington, Del., applauded the president's proposal, saying that existing
guest-worker programs hardly helped him. Those programs are more for farmers or
high-tech companies and often require a lengthy application process.

Last October, Mr. Teixido opened his seafood grill and had trouble hiring the 50
workers he needed. "We're in an industry that is creating a lot of jobs,
creating them faster than we have the ability to fill them," he said.

Finding enough workers is so hard that his two restaurants have a full-time
recruiter and human resources director. That director, Nicole Micolucci, said
Mr. Bush's proposal would help. "There is need for a larger applicant pool, and
I think expanding the applicant pool for all industries would benefit everyone,"
Ms. Micolucci said.

For unions and some immigrant groups, there is a fear that Mr. Bush's plan would
depress wages.

"He's talking about creating a class of workers, potentially a permanent class
of workers, who are more vulnerable and less protected than the rest of the work
force," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National Council of
La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy organization. "That's bad for them, and it's
clearly bad for the rest of the U.S. work force. It will undercut the wages and
working conditions for the permanent work force."

The Bush administration as well as many economists and business executives say
the difficulties in finding enough workers for various industries is hurting the
economy.

"Right now, we are facing a labor shortage which has the effect of depressing
economic growth and job growth," said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor,
immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
"When the economy grows more, that will have a beneficial effect on American
workers."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Romano, left, the owner of Blair House in Tewksbury,
Mass., an assisted-living facility, talking with Patrick Banda, a cook from
Zambia. Mr. Romano says Americans do not want entry-level jobs. (Photo by Robert
Spencer for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tougher Security, More Delays

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD; MATTHEW L. WALD is a correspondent in the
Washington bureau of The Times.

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1264 words


THE future level of terrorist threats is hard to predict, but two years after
airport security personnel began ordering passengers to remove their shoes to
check for explosives, more acute disruptions and security delays -- like the
ones last month -- seem entirely possible.

"It's conceivable that the imagination of terrorists is limitless," said
Dominique Bussereau, the French transport secretary, in Paris at the end of
December, "which means the measures must be stringent."

He spoke at a moment of peak terrorism worries, but unusual measures continued
this month when American officials backed most of the country off from an orange
alert, or "high," the second-highest in the five official stages of anxiety, to
yellow (or "elevated"), but kept airlines and airports at the higher level. The
stringent airport procedures were in place around New Year's Day, at the same
time as a scheduled implementation of tight new immigration procedures,
combining to produce new headaches for air travelers.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service began requiring visitors from most
countries to submit to fingerprinting and a quick digital snapshot, on arrival
at 115 international airports in this country.

This step, in preparation for a year, took effect soon after several flights
from France and Britain were canceled at the last minute, and one from Mexico
was turned back in midair. For people whose airplanes flew more or less on time,
lines at passenger screening points were longer, and for international arrivals,
there was an added step of giving fingerprints, although American officials said
that this did not add much to processing times.

Fighter planes escorted some jetliners, airport police searched some cars
approaching terminals, and various other special procedures took effect.

France, which had never used armed air marshals, agreed to add them temporarily.
It took a little more time, as well as negotiations with the pilots, in Britain.
But Sweden and Portugal, among others, said they would not add marshals, and
would cancel flights if necessary.

The effect on air travel and the airline industry of all the security changes --
both the ones in the last few weeks and those added since Sept. 11 -- is
unclear. That is because those effects are mixed in with other factors that have
an impact on air travel, notably a nosedive in corporate profits that has cut
travel budgets, and consumer nervousness.

But Robert W. Poole Jr., director of transportation studies at the libertarian
Reason Public Policy Institute, noted in a recent report that the steepest
traffic declines were in short-haul flights, when travelers have a choice
between flying and surface transit. While waits to clear security were generally
short, they have added a layer of unpredictability, and he wrote in an e-mail
newsletter, "Having to add an extra hour of preflight time to a one-hour airline
trip starts to push door-to-door time for these 200-300-mile trips much closer
to driving time."

The airlines are trying to be optimistic. At the Air Transport Association, the
trade association of the major American carriers, John M. Meenan, a vice
president, said that the reaction of passengers over the busy holiday period had
been favorable. "All we've heard is anecdotal, and it's from the passengers who
say, 'We're pleased to see this kind of security'," he said. "It seems that the
public is accepting the reality of the world we're living in. They're pleased to
see the security the way it is."

The association's president, James C. May, said that there had been declines in
passenger traffic, but they had been small.

Waiting for a British Airways flight from Dulles Airport to Heathrow one day
recently, Sarah Plunkett, a restaurant manager from Bristol, England, said she
was nervous, not only that her flight would be delayed or canceled but also that
terrorists could have targeted her flight. "But I'd rather them ground a plane
than have something awful happen," she said.

More changes, with expense in time and money, seem certain. The Homeland
Security Department recently announced that it would give $2 million to each of
three corporate teams to design antimissile systems for civilian planes. But
completion of testing on prototypes is about two years away, officials said, and
only then would a decision be made about feasibility.

Of the changes so far, many are likely to go unnoticed by travelers; for
example, various federal law enforcement officers will be pressed into
undercover service as air marshals. And the Air Force has fighters at a high
state of readiness, ready to swoop in on hijacked passenger planes.

Of course, passengers will notice when a flight is canceled. Airlines are still
groping with how to handle that problem.

Where flights were canceled, the airlines generally provided vouchers for meals
and hotels. Air France put up about 400 passengers overnight, most at an airport
Sofitel. The airline also took the unusual step of offering to reimburse the
fare if the substitute itinerary did not suit the travelers.

Aeromexico also provided hotel rooms and meals. It said that two cancellations
had cost it $150,000, mostly for buying tickets on other airlines to carry the
passengers.

British Airways said that passengers on canceled flights were put on the next
available flight to Dulles, or to nearby airports. The airline paid for rooms
and meal vouchers. Refunds were available, said the spokesman. USAirways did not
have any flights disrupted, but a spokesman said that its policy would be
similar to what it does for weather cancellations: it would not offer rooms or
meal vouchers, but a customer relations program, he said, "does empower
employees to make appropriate adjustments." Refunds would not be allowed.

United Airlines said it would handle security cancellations the way it handles
cancellations for other reasons, by rebooking passengers as soon as possible. It
often offers hotel rooms at steep discounts, a spokesman said. American also
will handle security cancellations by rebooking but it will not pay for hotels
or meals if the cancellation is for a reason beyond its control, said John
Hotard, a spokesman. "We'll refund the passenger's ticket if they no longer wish
to fly," he said.

The crackdown by the United States on incoming passengers provoked retaliation
in Brazil, where a judge, Julier Sebastiao da Silva, ordered Americans arriving
in Brazil fingerprinted. He called the American program to which he was
responding "worthy of the worst horrors committed by the Nazis."

Despite the oratory, within a few days at least one entity -- the city of Rio --
was seeking an injunction to reverse the policy. The hastily arranged Brazilian
computerized workstations simply required visitors to place each index finger on
a glass pad that looked like the surface of photocopy machine. A State
Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said some Americans had been delayed nine
hours on arrival in Rio.

For the near term, the number of new procedures seems likely to increase. In
October, for example, all foreign visitors to the United States will have to
carry machine-readable passports, and they will be scanned as the traveler
leaves the country. But efforts are being made to reduce the number of times
travelers must line up.

In mid-January, a Maryland company specializing in airport and aviation
electronics, Arinc, began showing off an automated kiosk that would scan visas
and fingerprints for exit processing. Then, instead of lining up to face an
airport official, passengers would line up to face a machine.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A light armored vehicle at Charles de Gaulle Airport outside
Paris. Heathrow Airport, near London. (Photographs by Associated Press De Gaulle
Airport and David Dyson/Getty Images Heathrow )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 18, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dutch House Votes to Expel Many Denied Political Shelter

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Feb. 17


The Dutch lower house of Parliament voted on Tuesday to expel up to 26,000
failed asylum-seekers over the next three years, a move that could give this
country one of Europe's most restrictive policies.

The plan, which now goes to the upper house, where it is expected to pass,
underscores the growing anti-immigrant feeling in a country that has long been
proud of its open, liberal society.

The 83-to-57 vote came after the center-right coalition government rejected
demands by opposition parties for greater lenience.

Immigration Minister Rita Verdonk argued that the plan approved Tuesday was
humane because it would not break up families, would provide airline tickets and
money to returnees, and would still grant amnesty to about 2,300 people facing
severe difficulties.

But in recent days, church and human rights groups have held street protests,
calling the plan cruel because many of those on the deportation list have lived
here for five years or more and had children while awaiting residence papers.
Refugee groups have called for hunger strikes and some churches and families
have said they will shelter people facing expulsion.

The bill applies to people who arrived in the Netherlands before April 2001. The
largest numbers are from the former Yugoslavia, Iraq and Afghanistan.

Proponents say that many of those people can now safely return home, that not
all are political refugees, and include ''benefit shoppers.'' But critics
disagree, including the New York-based Human Rights Watch, which said in a
letter to the immigration minister that ''sending people back to places where
they could be in danger not only jeopardized their safety, but also was
illegal.''

Close to 700 people on the deportation list are under investigation for war
crimes. The government created a special unit to investigate war crimes suspects
among asylum-seekers after fellow refugees implicated them. But a spokesman at
the Justice Ministry said investigations had made little headway because
cooperation from the countries of origin and the search for witnesses willing to
testify had been difficult.

The deportation plan appears harsher than asylum policies elsewhere in Western
Europe, where countries including Austria, Britain, Denmark, Germany and Sweden
have recently tightened the rules.

In the Netherlands, the move has not come as a surprise. This is already
Europe's most densely populated country, and large flows of immigrants over the
last 25 years have brought such rapid demographic change that, the government
predicts, the major Dutch cities will have Muslim majorities by 2010. Half the
population of Rotterdam is already of foreign descent.

Furthermore, the Netherlands, like much of Western Europe, is experiencing
economic stagnation, rising unemployment and severe government budget cuts that
have curbed welfare benefits, compounding the resistance to immigrants.

Since 2002, the Dutch have voted in two elections for parties pledging to slow
down immigration. The depth of anti-immigrant feelings became a subject for
public debate two years ago when the populist right-wing leader Pim Fortuyn said
the Netherlands was ''full up.''

Mr. Fortuyn said the influx of conservative Muslim clerics, attending to Muslims
who are now close to 6 percent of the population, threatened to undermine Dutch
values like equal rights for women and gays.

Mr. Fortuyn's proposals were milder than the current plan because he argued that
asylum-seekers and immigrants already here should be allowed to stay, but that
new immigration should stop until those present were better integrated.

Mr. Fortuyn was shot dead in May 2002, but by then he had turned issues like
immigrants and asylum-seekers from a taboo subject into one that is now near the
top of the agenda of most mainstream Dutch parties.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Outcry on Right Over Bush Plan On Immigration

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: HOUSE AND
SENATE RACES

LENGTH: 1269 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 20


Amid the crowded field of Republicans vying for a seat in the Senate here, Jim
Oberweis seems a most unlikely insurgent. He is a wealthy supporter of President
Bush who favors pinstriped suits, tax cuts and a constitutional amendment
blocking same-sex marriage.

But in recent weeks, Mr. Oberweis, a plainspoken dairy owner, has become a
leader in a widening conservative revolt against the president's sweeping plan
to grant temporary legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.

''The president's plan is just plain wrong,'' Mr. Oberweis says in a radio
advertisement and at public appearances that have drawn hundreds of supporters
to his campaign. ''I want to be the voice for Illinois voters to tell the
president we think illegal immigration cannot be rewarded with amnesty.''

Mr. Oberweis is a symbol of a simmering conservative uprising against one of the
president's biggest initiatives. One month after Mr. Bush promised the most
comprehensive overhaul of immigration law in nearly two decades, opposition to
his plan is mounting among conservative Republicans vying for votes in House and
Senate races in Illinois, North Carolina, California, Kansas and elsewhere.

With his plan, Mr. Bush hopes to revamp an immigration system widely viewed as
broken and to re-establish his credentials as a compassionate conservative --
particularly with Hispanic and swing voters -- at the start of an election year.
But in debates, campaign stops and interviews, some Republican candidates have
sharply criticized his position as they seek to tap into conservative anxiety
over the proposal.

The plan has left the party divided, much like the growing deficit has. Some
Republicans -- backed by some Hispanic constituents -- praise the president for
trying to make it easier for businesses to employ illegal immigrants for
low-wage jobs that Americans are reluctant to take. Others argue that the plan
is tantamount to an amnesty for lawbreakers. The issue is so complicated and
divisive that Republicans in Congress now say it is unlikely that legislation
supporting the president's plan will be introduced this year.

Senator Saxby Chambliss, the Georgia Republican who is chairman of the Senate
subcommittee on immigration, said he believed Congress would make headway this
session on other proposals guiding the hiring of foreign farm workers. He said
he hoped consensus on Mr. Bush's plan could be reached ''within the next couple
of calendar years.''

But Mr. Chambliss, who supports Mr. Bush's broad proposal, acknowledged that the
plan had already become a lightning rod in some Republican contests around the
country. ''I've seen it in the Georgia primary,'' he said in a telephone
interview this week. ''The candidates there are critical of the president on
this issue.

''You've seen a lot of the Republican base has gotten all excited and all
negative toward the president's proposal for the wrong reason,'' Mr. Chambliss
said. ''They really need to read what the president said. The president does not
favor amnesty. He's been very clear on that.''

In a Senate hearing last week, Bush administration officials said that illegal
immigrants living in the country as of Jan. 7 -- a group estimated at about
eight million or more -- would be eligible for temporary work permits for an
initial period of three years, if they can show they have jobs and if their
employers certify that Americans cannot be found for the jobs.

The officials said the permits could be renewed several times and that the
workers could apply for permanent residency without leaving the United States.
By legalizing the status of millions of immigrants who officials say are
peaceful and hard working, immigration agents will be able to focus on
foreigners who pose terrorist or criminal threats.

Mr. Bush has also promised to stiffen enforcement of immigration laws and to
increase the number of people who can obtain permanent residency status.

Vernon Robinson, a Republican contender for a House seat in North Carolina, said
that smelled like amnesty. He said his supporters wanted illegal immigrants
deported and American troops stationed on the border with Mexico, particularly
after the 9/11 attacks.

''There's a major disconnect between rank-and-file Walmart-Kmart Republicans and
the party leadership on this issue,'' said Mr. Robinson, who has raised more
money than any other Republican in his race.

Numbers USA, a policy group that favors reducing immigration, has identified
about a dozen races where immigration is an important campaign issue among
Republican contenders. Many Hispanic leaders have also criticized Mr. Bush's
plan for not going far enough. It is unclear whether the issue will be a
deciding factor for voters or whether it will dampen enthusiasm for Mr. Bush
among conservatives.

Terry Holt, a spokesman for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, said he believed
conservatives would recognize that the president has remained faithful to his
key beliefs. ''Though there are debates about one issue or the other, on balance
the president has stayed true to conservative principles and conservatives
respect the president for leading on principle and attacking serious problems
whatever they might be,'' he said.

Mark Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks to limit
immigration, countered that conservative voters, already doubtful about the
president's commitment to fiscal austerity, might stay home on Election Day or
vote for lawmakers opposed to Mr. Bush's plan.

The debate is boiling in conservative circles. In January, National Review
magazine ran a cover story on the president's plan titled: ''Amnesty, Again.''

This month, The Wall Street Journal published dueling pieces on its opinion
pages. Fifteen Republicans including Grover Norquist, Newt Gingrich and Jack
Kemp hailed the president's plan as ''a humane, orderly, and economically
sensible approach to migration.''

Nine conservative stalwarts, including David Keene, Paul Weyrich and Phyllis
Schlafly, responded, ''Everyone with any common sense knows that it will only
encourage a new wave of illegal aliens.''

In California, where Republican candidates have opposed the plan in two races,
the Republican Party chairman, Duf Sundheim, said he believed the president
would ultimately bring people around.

Kris Kobach, a former Justice Department official campaigning for a House seat
in Kansas, is doubtful. He says the 9/11 attacks left Republicans more concerned
about immigration than in the 1990's when Patrick J. Buchanan criticized
immigration to improve his presidential prospects. ''When Buchanan was pushing
this issue, it had a nativist and protectionist flavor,'' said Mr. Kobach, who
developed the federal program that required Arab and Muslim visitors to register
with the government. ''Today it's about national security and law enforcement.''

Here in Illinois, Mr. Oberweis is the only Republican candidate in his race who
has made opposition to the president's plan a prominent part of his message.
That stance, he says, has cost him some support.

In 2002, House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, supported Mr.
Oberweis's unsuccessful bid for the Senate. This time around, Mr. Hastert
declined to endorse him, saying he ran a poorly managed campaign two years ago.
Mr. Hastert also criticized Mr. Oberweis's decision to challenge the immigration
plan.

That has not stopped Mr. Oberweis from calling for a crackdown on illegal
immigration. Next week, he plans to release a television advertisement on the
subject.

''I've always had a tendency to say what's on my mind,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Oberweis, a Republican who is running for a Senate seat in
Illinois, called President Bush's plan for illegal immigrants ''just plain
wrong.'' (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schwarzenegger Backs Amendment to Allow Immigrant Presidents

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 22


Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has been governor of California for just 98 days, may
already be eyeing a bigger stage than Sacramento.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, who immigrated to the United States from Austria 35 years
ago, on Sunday endorsed an amendment to the Constitution to allow immigrants who
have been citizens for at least 20 years to run for president. Mr.
Schwarzenegger became a citizen in 1983.

Making his Sunday morning talk show debut on the NBC program ''Meet the Press,''
Mr. Schwarzenegger was asked whether he would support changing the Constitution
to allow naturalized citizens to serve as president. Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the
Utah Republican, has proposed such an amendment.

''Yeah, I should look at that,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said with his polished
performer's smile. ''It sounds really good.''

He asked the program's host, Tim Russert, ''Are you going to help me?''

Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican who won the governorship in a recall election
last fall, quickly dismissed any interest in higher office, saying he did not
have time to think about his next political move.

''I haven't thought about that at all,'' the governor said. ''I tell you, I'm so
busy with our state. You know California is a big state, a very complicated
state. Right now I concentrate just on that.''

Nevertheless, he said that Mr. Hatch's proposed amendment was ''absolutely'' a
good idea, because it recognizes the contributions that immigrants make to the
nation's political and commercial life.

''There are so many people in this country that are now from overseas, that are
immigrants, that are doing such a terrific job with their work, bringing
businesses here, that there's no reason why not. The key thing is you understand
the political system and how it works,'' he said.

''Look at the kind of contribution that people like Henry Kissinger have made,
Madeleine Albright,'' he said, referring to two former secretaries of state who
immigrated from Europe.

Mr. Schwarzenegger was in Washington on Sunday for a meeting of the National
Governors Association and to attend a White House dinner. On Tuesday, he will be
in New York to raise money for the state Republican Party and to pick up checks
for his campaign to pass a $15 billion bond measure that he says will help ease
California's budget crisis.

He said that even though California received only about 75 cents for every
dollar it sent to Washington in taxes he remained a big fan of President Bush.
He said the president could carry California in November if he coughed up more
federal largess. Mr. Bush lost the state to Al Gore in 2000 by more than a
million votes.

''This is an election year,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said. ''The people of
California expect certain things.''

He added: ''This is a very important year, and I'm absolutely convinced that we
can deliver the state for George Bush. I think it is totally directly related to
how much he will do for this state, there's no two ways about it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Americano Dream

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS.

E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 709 words


Samuel Huntington is one of the most eminent political scientists in the world.
His essay ''The Clash of Civilizations'' set off an international debate, and
now Huntington sees another clash of civilizations, this time within the United
States.

''In this new era,'' he writes in his forthcoming book, ''Who Are We,'' ''the
single most immediate and most serious challenge to America's traditional
identity comes from the immense and continuing immigration from Latin America,
especially Mexico.''

These new immigrants, he argues, are not like earlier immigrants. Many have
little interest in assimilating. ''As their numbers increase, Mexican-Americans
feel increasingly comfortable with their own culture and often contemptuous of
American culture,'' Huntington argues.

Instead of climbing the ladder of success, he says, Mexican and other Latino
immigrants are slow to learn English. They remain in overwhelmingly Hispanic
neighborhoods and regions and tend not to disperse, as other groups have. Their
education levels, even into the fourth generation, are far below that of other
groups. They are less likely to start companies or work their way up into
managerial and professional jobs.

Most important, Huntington concludes, they tend not to buy into the basic
American creed, which is the bedrock of our national identity and our political
culture. ''There is no Americano dream,'' Huntington writes, ''There is only the
American dream created by an Anglo-Protestant society. Mexican-Americans will
share in that dream and in that society only if they dream in English.''

Obviously, Huntington is not pulling his punches. You can read an excerpt from
the book in the new issue of Foreign Policy magazine at www.foreignpolicy.com.
You'll find that Huntington marshals a body of evidence to support his claims.
But the most persuasive evidence is against him. Mexican-American assimilation
is a complicated topic because Mexican-Americans are such a diverse group. The
educated assimilate readily; those who come from peasant villages take longer.
But they are assimilating.

It's easy to find evidence that suggests this is so. In their book, ''Remaking
the American Mainstream,'' Richard Alba of SUNY-Albany and Victor Nee of Cornell
point out that though there are some border neighborhoods where immigrants are
slow to learn English, Mexicans nationwide know they must learn it to get ahead.
By the third generation, 60 percent of Mexican-American children speak only
English at home.

Nor is it true that Mexican immigrants are scuttling along the bottom of the
economic ladder. An analysis of 2000 census data by the USC urban planner Dowell
Myers suggests that Latinos are quite adept at climbing out of poverty.
Sixty-eight percent of those who have been in this country 30 years own their
own homes.

Mexican immigrants are in fact dispersing around the nation. When they have
children, they tend to lose touch with their Mexican villages and sink roots
here. If you look at consumer data, you find that while they may spend more
money on children's clothes and less on electronics than native-born Americans,
there are no significant differences between Mexican-American lifestyles and
other American lifestyles. They serve in the military -- and die for this nation
-- at comparable rates.

Frankly, something's a little off in Huntington's use of the term
''Anglo-Protestant'' to describe American culture. There is no question that we
have all been shaped by the legacies of Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin.
But the mentality that binds us is not well described by the words ''Anglo'' or
''Protestant.''

We are bound together because we Americans share a common conception of the
future. History is not cyclical for us. Progress does not come incrementally,
but can be achieved in daring leaps. That mentality burbles out of Hispanic
neighborhoods, as any visitor can see.

Huntington is right that Mexican-Americans lag at school. But that's in part
because we've failed them. Our integration machinery is broken. But if we close
our borders to new immigration, you can kiss goodbye the new energy, new tastes
and new strivers who want to lunge into the future.

That's the real threat to the American creed.

Paul Krugman is on vacation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Advocates for Immigrants Scorn Bush Policy on Haitian Refugees

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26


Advocates for immigrants, and more than two dozen Democrats in Congress,
criticized the Bush administration on Thursday for continuing to return Haitian
migrants to a country in turmoil as government officials warned that the number
of Haitians taking to the seas had begun to surge.

Coast Guard officials said they had picked up 695 Haitians at sea this month,
including a freighter carrying 21 Haitians that was stopped seven miles off
Miami on Wednesday.

The figure for February alone exceeds the number of Haitians interdicted during
the first four months of the last fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30, 2003,
and provides the first indication that growing numbers of people have begun to
flee.

Officials said about 500 migrants were being held aboard Coast Guard cutters on
Thursday and would be sent back to Haiti on Friday. At least three people, who
expressed fear of persecution in Haiti, have been sent to the American naval
base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The rest have been returned to Haiti.

Government officials say they plan to continue deporting illegal immigrants and
those caught at sea, saying the overwhelming majority of Haitian migrants are
fleeing poverty, not political repression.

But advocacy groups and several members of Congress argue that the government is
denying refugees fair access to the American asylum process. They said the
government should not send Haitians home when it has deemed the country
dangerous enough to evacuate non-essential personnel and deploy marines to guard
the American Embassy.

''To send people back into the kind of killing field that Haiti has descended to
is a violation of all that refugee status and humanitarianism calls for,''
Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, said in a telephone interview.

Coast Guard officials have returned at least 233 Haitians caught fleeing Haiti
by boat since Dec. 30.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said
Haitians living in the United States illegally would continue to be deported and
those picked up at sea would continue to be sent back, unless they presented a
well-founded fear of persecution. Advocates for immigrants said they feared that
the government was abdicating its responsibilities to Haitian refugees.

President Bush said Wednesday that American officials would ''turn back any
refugee that attempts to reach our shore'' from Haiti.

Eleanor Acer, asylum director for Human Rights First, said, ''It sends a very
clear message that the U.S. is not willing to step up and accept its legal and
moral obligation to accept refugees, particularly when the refugees at issue are
at our own doorstep.'' Immigration officials said they believed that Mr. Bush
had misspoken. They said they were screening Haitians migrants and sending
economic migrants back to Haiti.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Fleeing Chaos''The number of Haitians intercepted at sea
according to the Coast Guard. Data are for fiscal years.37,61825,302Graph tracks
the number of Haitians intercepted at sea according to the Coast Guard from 1992
- Feb. 26, 2004.Jean-Bertrand Aristide is elected president. A year later he is
ousted in a coup. Under the new military regime thousands are tortured and tens
of thousands more attempt to flee. In 1994, after the U.S. threatens to invade,
the military leadership steps down and Aristide is reinstalled as president.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 11, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ashcroft Weighs the Granting of Political Asylum to Abused Women

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10


The first hint of change came without much fanfare or publicity last month as
the Department of Homeland Security quietly proposed sweeping changes in the
handling of political asylum cases. But as word trickled across the country,
dozens of battered women seeking refuge in the United States felt the first
stirrings of hope.

In their home countries, the women say, the authorities repeatedly ignored them
when they tried to report and escape their abusive partners. The Department of
Homeland Security, which took on the function of the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service, is proposing rules that would allow for political asylum
in such extreme cases, opening the door to women fleeing countries that condone
severe domestic abuse, genital mutilation and other forms of acute violence
against women.

If approved, the rules would for the first time recognize severe cases of
domestic violence as equivalent in certain instances to more familiar asylum
cases involving political and religious persecution.

Department officials have passed along their recommendations in a 43-page legal
brief to Attorney General John Ashcroft, who will make the final decision. The
officials have urged Mr. Ashcroft to allow the department to put in place rules
governing such cases and have called for Rodi Alvarado Pena of Guatemala, whose
case gave rise to the recommendations, to be granted asylum.

Justice Department officials say Mr. Ashcroft is still considering the issue,
which has been roiling the immigration courts since a small but growing number
of such cases began appearing in the 1990's. Some Justice Department officials
indicated that Mr. Ashcroft had initially opposed such rules, but a former
senior administration official familiar with the issue said he believed that Mr.
Ashcroft would approve the proposal, given the considerable pressure from
conservative groups and the Homeland Security Department.

More than 36 Democrats in Congress, as well as leaders of conservative-minded
groups like Concerned Women for America, and World Relief, an arm of the
National Association of Evangelicals, have urged government officials to rule in
favor of Mrs. Alvarado and women like her.

Many battered women are anxiously awaiting the government's final determination.
In California, Mrs. Alvarado, who said she fled an abusive husband who had
dislocated her jawbone and used her head to break windows and mirrors, said her
eyes filled with tears when she learned that domestic security officials had
recommended granting asylum to women like her. In New York, Zaide Cinto of
Mexico, her vision blurred and her hearing dulled after years of beatings by her
husband, said she shouted, ''Yes!''

''I don't know who makes these decisions, but I think they must have hearts,''
said Mrs. Cinto, who is living in a shelter for the homeless as she awaits a
decision on her petition for political asylum. ''Perhaps they can understand our
suffering.''

''Things are changing,'' she said hopefully, ''not only for me, but for many
people.''

The shift in policy would bring the United States in line with countries like
Britain and Australia, which have been granting asylum in such cases for several
years. Officials say the rules would also give much-needed guidance to
immigration judges who have been issuing contradictory opinions in dozens of
cases.

In 1996, the Board of Immigration Appeals granted asylum to Fauziya Kassindja,
who said her clitoris would be cut off if she were forced to return to Togo. The
board, the highest administrative court for asylum cases, agreed that female
circumcision was equivalent to more widely recognized forms of persecution.

But three years later, the board denied asylum to Mrs. Alvarado. She said she
had gone to the police in Guatemala on five occasions, reporting that her
husband routinely raped and sodomized her, nearly pushed out one of her eyes and
beat her into unconsciousness. The police declined to investigate, saying it was
a domestic matter.

The immigration board found Mrs. Alvarado's testimony credible and agreed that
the abuse would most likely continue if she returned to Guatemala. But it
concluded that she failed to meet the statutory requirement for asylum.

Government lawyers criticized the board's analysis in the Alvarado case, and
Janet Reno, who was attorney general, vacated the decision in January 2001,
ordering the board to decide the case after the government completed regulations
allowing victims of domestic violence to be granted asylum in limited cases.

The rules were never finished. Bo Cooper, who served as general counsel for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service until it was subsumed by the Department
of Homeland Security last year, called the new recommendations ''very
important'' and said they would provide a critical road map for judges and
government lawyers.

''Under established principles of asylum law, these kinds of cases should be
granted,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''What they're trying to do is to help bring some
clarity to what has for years been a very unsettled doctrine in U.S. immigration
law.''

It is unclear how Mr. Ashcroft, who decided last year to take up the case, will
rule on the issue. But a former senior administration official who has been
involved in recent discussions of the issue with lawyers and lobbying groups
said he believed Mr. Ashcroft would rule favorably.

''With conservative women's groups weighing in on this and now homeland
security, the politics of it would be awful for the administration, whether it's
good policy or not,'' the former administration official said. ''That's going to
mean enormous pressure put on Ashcroft to stay with the proposed regulation. I
think he will ultimately go with it.''

The need for clarity on the issue has become increasingly evident as a small but
steady stream of women press their claims here. Some women, like Mrs. Alvarado,
left their abusive husbands in their home countries and entered the United
States illegally. Other women followed their husbands to the United States,
entering the country illegally or on visas. They petitioned for asylum when the
violence they had endured at home continued on American soil.

Immigration officials do not know how many of the roughly 250,000 asylum cases
awaiting disposition have been filed by such women, but they believe the numbers
are small. Karen Musalo, director of the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies
at the University of California Hastings College of the Law, represents Mrs.
Alvarado and has tracked about 500 pending gender-asylum cases.

But critics of the Department of Homeland Security's proposal fear that the new
rules will encourage a flood of frivolous asylum claims from poor women around
the world.

''How can we provide permanent residency to everyone who is fleeing an
unfortunate domestic or social situation where the government is alleged to be
nonresponsive?'' asked Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which seeks to limit immigration. ''This is stretching the bounds of
common sense.''

In its brief, the Department of Homeland Security counters that the policy will
affect only a ''limited number of victims of domestic violence'' who can prove
that they meet the strict criteria for asylum seekers. Asylum seekers must
demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group. For
years, advocates for immigrants have argued that women in certain circumstances
can constitute a particular social group.

Joe D. Whitley, general counsel for the Homeland Security Department, explained
in the brief that victims of domestic violence seeking asylum should show that
the abuse was ''supported by the legal system or social norms in the country in
question.''

Mrs. Cinto, who left Mexico in 2002, said the police there repeatedly ignored
the abuse she suffered. She moved to the United States, and when her husband
continued to beat her here, friends at a local church directed her to a domestic
shelter in New York. Sanctuary for Families, a nonprofit group that supports
victims of domestic violence, helped her file a petition for asylum last year.

Across the country, Mrs. Alvarado has been waiting almost a decade for her case
to be decided. She has been separated during that time from her parents and two
children, who still live in Guatemala.''It hasn't been easy,'' she said. ''But I
know that if I win my case, other women like myself are going to be helped.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rodi Alvarado Pena, above, of Guatemala, and Zaide Cinto,
right, of Mexico, say they fled abusive husbands and are seeking asylum in the
United States. (Photo by Richard Boswell)
 (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Road Less Traveled Through Immigration Lines

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1024 words


For all the grumbling of late about heavy-handed airport security screeners in
the United States, American business travelers face an extra burden when they
return home from overseas: immigration lines.

Savvy globe-trotters have developed a variety of strategies to avoid long waits,
particularly if several flights land at the same time, notably: don't follow the
crowd to the first immigration booth, but instead walk farther to a shorter
line, and if the line for visitors is shorter than the one for Americans, go for
the foreign lane.

An even better way is a little-known program called the I.N.S. Passenger
Accelerated Service System, or Inspass, which enables participants to use
self-service machines at inspection points instead of waiting to show an agent
their passports. But there is one catch: the Inspass program is in limbo as the
government overhauls airport and border security, so the machines are installed
at only half a dozen airports -- and even those are not always working.

Despite these drawbacks, Inspass users like the program. And as the government
wrestles with proposals to create other registered-traveler initiatives, Inspass
offers real-world lessons about the challenges and trade-offs that the concept
presents.

For starters, electronic screening may not be as anathema to frequent fliers as
some privacy advocates suspect. ''I'm willing to give up a certain amount of
information in order to make my life easier -- as long as I know there are
certain safeguards in place to protect this information,'' said Sharon Adcock, a
marketing consultant from Manhattan Beach, Calif., who has had an Inspass card
for several years.

Inspass, which began in 1993 in response to a law mandating a 45-minute limit on
immigration wait times, is open to Americans and residents of 28 other countries
who travel internationally for business at least three times a year. To sign up,
travelers must fill out an application at participating airports and have their
hands scanned. The Inspass card is issued on the spot, after a database
background check.

To use the machine, Ms. Adcock said, ''You put the card in like you would with
an A.T.M. card and then you put your hand down and it scans your hand -- and out
pops a receipt.'' Travelers hand that receipt to a customs agent.

''They still look you in the eye and say, 'What do you do? What countries did
you go to?' '' said Matt Holdrege, an executive from Los Angeles who also has an
Inspass.

Mr. Holdrege and Ms. Adcock are among a loyal group of pass holders who have
been trading messages on the Flyertalk.com Web site about where the cards work
and whether the program will be extended.

''When it works, it works fabulously,'' Ms. Adcock said. ''But at this point,
it's a guessing game.''

According to Stanford Knight, manager of the Inspass program, which is now under
the Department of Homeland Security, there were 9,281 Inspass participants as of
November, down from 65,000 several years ago. He said the machines are still
operating at Los Angeles International, Kennedy International, Newark,
Washington Dulles, Pearson International in Toronto and Vancouver International.

But the machines are turned off when the terrorism threat level is raised to
orange, and they can also be sidelined by hardware or network problems. (Several
travelers said the kiosks rarely worked at Kennedy or Dulles, and that Los
Angeles had the most reliable system.)

Mr. Knight said the program's problems were primarily a matter of outdated
technology. The computers originally ran the archaic DOS operating system, and
have been upgraded only to Windows 3.11 -- ''still behind the times,'' he said.

Airport construction has created other challenges. After San Francisco built a
new international terminal, for instance, the Inspass kiosks were not hooked up,
though Mr. Knight said they would be once network issues were resolved.

Although the Inspass program still has financial support for operation and
maintenance, Mr. Knight said it was under review and may be replaced by other
Department of Homeland Security initiatives. He dismissed rumors that
immigration employees were sabotaging the machines. ''Sometimes,'' he said,
''you get negative talk from inspectors because they think the machine is going
to replace them, when it's not. This is more for the trusted traveler anyway.
You're always going to need inspectors out there.''

Another issue is whether the program was ever cost-effective, especially given
its limited participation. But Dr. James Wayman, who does biometric research at
San Jose State University and conducted tests of the Inspass system when it was
first developed, objects that the program never had enough money or promotion to
be judged fairly. ''There's no reason these things can't be made
cost-effective,'' he said, ''but you've got to get a lot of people using them.''

The concept may get a better test on the domestic side of the airport. Mark
Hatfield, a spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration, said the
agency began work in January on a registered-traveler program for airport
security and hoped to have a prototype by late summer. Mr. Hatfield said it
would be similar to the Inspass program in that travelers would voluntarily sign
up for a card, undergo a background check and possibly submit to some type of
biometric scan to expedite the security screening process.

Registered travelers would still go through the same initial screening as other
passengers, Mr. Hatfield said, but would be less likely to be selected for
secondary screening.

That would be a welcome change for many business travelers, who are more likely
to be chosen for additional searches because they tend toward ''red flag''
behavior like buying a one-way ticket for same-day travel.

''I'm all for electronic screening,'' said Scott Levin, a safety and health
consultant who travels abroad weekly and once figured out he waits in nine
different lines in the course of a one-way trip. ''If I can shave off 10 minutes
here, 10 minutes there, over the course of a year I can save 50 or 60 hours
standing in line.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Holdrege says Inspass has a human element: ''They still
look you in the eye and say, 'What countries did you go to?' '' (Photo by
Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rumble at the Sierra Club

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 306 words


The Sierra Club, which spends its energy battling others on environmental
issues, is now caught up in a nasty debate of its own. The issue is immigration,
the battleground this year's election of new directors.

On one side are dissidents who would have the club promote more restrictive
federal immigration policies. A majority of the organization's current board
members and its senior management rightly feel that the club must remain neutral
on an emotional issue they regard as largely irrelevant.

Anti-immigration groups have long sought to make their exclusionist agenda more
palatable by framing it as an environmental issue. So immigrants are blamed for
everything from urban sprawl to dirty air and traffic congestion. The premise
underlying these claims is that the nation's growing population is reaching
unsustainable levels. The premise is faulty. Sprawl, for example, has less to do
with population growth than it has with misguided policies on zoning,
transportation patterns and open space. Likewise, reducing air pollution rests
far more on timely regulation and new technologies than on controlling
population.

Adding such a toxic issue as immigration to the Sierra Club's agenda would
simply divert the organization from its primary responsibility, which is to keep
real environmental problems in the public consciousness. The club went through a
similar struggle in 1998. Since then, the idea that environmental problems
cannot be solved until the country gets a grip on what some regard as
unsustainable population growth has been further discredited.

The economic reality is that immigrants want jobs, and that the United States
and other industrialized nations need workers. Thus the real task for
environmentalists is to help policy makers manage the inevitable in ways that
protect both people and the environment.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Florida Groves, Cheap Labor Means Machines

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1782 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, Fla.


Chugging down a row of trees, the pair of canopy shakers in Paul Meador's orange
grove here seem like a cross between a bulldozer and a hairbrush, their hungry
steel bristles working through the tree crowns as if untangling colossal heads
of hair.

In under 15 minutes, the machines shake loose 36,000 pounds of oranges from 100
trees, catch the fruit and drop it into a large storage car. ''This would have
taken four pickers all day long,'' Mr. Meador said.

Canopy shakers are still an unusual sight in Florida's orange groves. Most of
the crop is harvested by hand, mainly by illegal Mexican immigrants. Nylon sacks
slung across their backs, perched atop 16-foot ladders, they pluck oranges at a
rate of 70 to 90 cents per 90-pound box, or less than $75 a day.

But as globalization creeps into the groves, it is threatening to displace the
workers. Facing increased competition from Brazil and a glut of oranges on world
markets, alarmed growers here have been turning to labor-saving technology as
their best hope for survival.

''The Florida industry has to reduce costs to stay in business,'' said Everett
Loukonen, agribusiness manager for the Barron Collier Company, which uses
shakers to harvest about half of the 40.5 million pounds of oranges reaped
annually from its 10,000 acres in southwestern Florida. ''Mechanical harvesting
is the only available way to do that today.''

Global competition is pressing American farmers on many fronts. American raisins
are facing competition from Chile and Turkey. For fresh tomatoes, the challenge
comes from Mexico. China, whose Fuji apples have displaced Washington's Golden
Delicious from most Asian markets -- and whose apple juice has swamped the
United States -- is cutting into American farmers' markets for garlic, broccoli
and a host of other crops.

So even while President Bush advances a plan to invite legal guest workers into
American fields, farmers for the first time in a generation are working to
replace hand laborers with machines.

''The rest of the world hand-picks everything, but their wage rates are a
fraction of ours,'' said Galen Brown, who led the mechanical harvesting program
at the Florida Department of Citrus until his retirement last year. Lee Simpson,
a raisin grape grower in California's San Joaquin Valley, is more blunt. ''The
cheap labor,'' he said, ''isn't cheap enough.''

Mr. Simpson and other growers have devised a system that increases yields and
cuts the demand for workers during the peak harvest time by 90 percent; rather
than cutting grapes by hand and laying them out to dry, the farmers let the
fruit dry on the vine before it is harvested mechanically.

Some fruit-tree growers in Washington State have introduced a machine that
knocks cherries off the tree onto a conveyor belt; they are trying to perfect a
similar system for apples. Strawberry growers in Ventura County, Calif.,
developed a mobile conveyor belt to move full strawberry boxes from the fields
to storage bins, cutting demand for workers by a third. And producers of leaf
lettuce and spinach for bag mixes have introduced mechanical cutters.

American farmers have been dragging machines into their fields at least since
the mid-19th century, when labor shortages during the Civil War drove a first
wave of mechanical harvesting. Mechanization grew apace for the following
100-plus years, taking over the harvesting of crops including wheat, corn,
cotton and sugar cane.

But not all crops were easily adaptable to machines. Whole fruit and vegetables
-- the most lucrative and labor intensive crops, employing four of every five
seasonal field workers -- require delicate handling. Mechanization sometimes
meant rearranging the fields, planting new types of vines or trees and
retrofitting packing plants.

Rather than make such investments, farmers mostly focused on lobbying government
for easier access to inexpensive labor. California growers, the biggest fruit
and vegetable producers in the nation, persuaded the government to admit Mexican
workers during World War I. Later, from 1942 to 1964, 4.6 million Mexican farm
workers were admitted into the country under the bracero guest-worker program.

Investment in technology generally happened when the immigrant spigot was shut.
After the bracero program ended and some farm wages began to rise, scientists at
the University of California at Davis began work on both a machine to harvest
tomatoes mechanically and a tomato better suited to mechanical harvesting.

By 1970, the number of tomato-harvest jobs had been cut by two-thirds. But the
tomato harvester's success proved to be a kiss of death for mechanical
harvesting. In 1979, the farm worker advocacy group California Rural Legal
Assistance, with support from the United Farm Workers union of Cesar Chavez,
sued U.C. Davis, charging that it was using public money for research that
displaced workers and helped only big growers.

The lawsuit was eventually settled. But even before that, in 1980, President
Jimmy Carter's agriculture secretary, Bob Bergland, declared that the government
would no longer finance research projects intended to replace ''an adequate and
willing work force with machines.'' Today, the Agricultural Research Service
employs just one agricultural engineer: Donald Peterson, a longtime researcher
at the Appalachian Fruit Research Station in Kearneysville, W.Va.

''At one time I was told to keep a low profile and not to publicize what I was
doing,'' Mr. Peterson said.

As the government pulled out, growers lost interest as well, refocusing on
Congress instead. In 1986, farmers were instrumental in winning passage of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act, which legalized nearly three million illegal
immigrants -- more than a third under a special program for agriculture.

Farmers' investments in labor-saving technology all but froze, and gains in
labor productivity slowed. From 1986 to 1999, farm labor inputs fell 2.4
percent, after a drop of 35 percent in the preceding 14 years. Meanwhile,
farmers' capital investments fell 46.7 percent from their peak in 1980 through
1999.

About 45 vegetable and fruit crops planted over 3.6 million acres of land, and
worth about $13 billion at the farm gate, are still harvested by hand, by a
labor force made up mostly of illegal immigrants. On average, farm workers
earned $6.18 an hour, less than half the average wage for private, nonfarm
workers, in 1998, the year of the Labor Department's most recent survey of
agricultural workers.

Florida's orange groves have reflected the broader trends. In the 1980's, a
20-year research effort into mechanical harvesting ground to a halt. With frosts
upstate taking 200,000 acres out of production, orange prices soared and the
demand for labor fell.

But as is often the case in agriculture, farmers overreacted to the market's
strength, flocking to plant groves among the vegetable patches, pastures and
swamps in the southwestern part of the state. By the early 1990's, the market
looked poised for a glut. With the prospect of bumper crops in Brazil, where
harvesting costs are about one-third as high as in Florida, a crisis loomed --
driving orange growers back into technology's embrace.

In 1995, the growers decided to plow $1 million to $1.5 million a year into
research in mechanical harvesting. By the 1999-2000 harvest, the growers had
achieved their technological breakthrough, with four different harvesting
machines working commercially. Last year, machines harvested 17,000 acres of the
state's 600,000 acres planted in juice oranges, said Fritz M. Roka, an
agricultural economist at the University of Florida.

''Mechanical harvesting is the biggest change in the Florida citrus industry
since we switched to aluminum ladders,'' said Will Elliott, general manager of
Coe-Collier Citrus Harvesting, one of seven commercial contractors that are
shaking trunks and brushing canopies around the state.

Mr. Brown, the retired Department of Citrus official, estimates that in five
years, machines will harvest 100,000 acres of oranges here. But there are
obstacles. Machines work best on the big, regularly spaced, groomed young groves
in the southwest, and some do not work at all on the smaller, older, more
irregular acreage in central Florida. Machines are hard to use on Valencia
orange trees, because shaking them risks prematurely dislodging much of the
following year's harvest.

Still, the economics are in mechanization's favor. A tariff of 29 cents per
pound on imports of frozen concentrated orange juice lets Florida growers resist
the Brazilian onslaught -- but not by much. According to Ronald Muraro and
Thomas Spreen, researchers at the University of Florida, Brazil could deliver a
pound of frozen concentrate in the United States for under 75 cents, versus 99
cents for a Florida grower.

Mechanical harvesting can help cut the gap. Mr. Loukonen of Barron Collier
estimates that machine harvesting shaves costs by 8 to 10 cents a pound of
frozen concentrate.

The spread of mechanization could redraw the profile of Immokalee, which today
is a rather typical American farming town. Seventy-one percent of the population
of 20,000 is Latino -- with much of the balance coming from Haiti -- and 46
percent of the residents are foreign born, according to the 2000 census. About
40 percent of the residents live under the poverty line, and the median family
income is below $23,000 -- less than half that of the United States as a whole.

Philip Martin, an economist at U.C. Davis, points to the poverty as an argument
in favor of labor-saving technology. He estimates that about 10 percent of
immigrant farm workers leave the fields every year to seek better jobs. Rather
than push more farmhands out of work, he contends, introducing machines will
simply reduce the demand for new workers to replenish the labor pool.

And there are some beneficiaries among workers: those lucky enough to operate
the new gear. Perched in the air-conditioned booth of Mr. Meador's canopy
shaker, a jumpy ranchera tune crackling from the radio, Felix Real, a former
picker, said he can make up to $120 a day driving the contraption down the rows,
about twice as much as he used to make.

Yet many Immokalee workers are nervous. ''They are using the machines on the
good groves and leaving us with the scraggly ones,'' said Venancio Torres, an
immigrant from Mexico's coastal state of Veracruz who has been picking oranges
in Florida for three years.

Mr. Loukonen, the Barron Collier manager, said the farm workers were right to be
anxious. ''If there's no demand for labor, supply will end,'' he said. ''They
will have to find another place to work, or stay in their country.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Canopy shakers, like this one harvesting oranges in Immokalee,
are unusual in Florida groves, where hand-picking is still common. (Photo by
Scott Martin for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Machines can remove oranges from 100 trees in 15 minutes, while four pickers
need all day. Global competition is driving mechanization. (Photo by Scott
Martin for The New York Times)(pg. A18)Chart: ''Savings to Reap''Though farm
workers' wages have stagnated, so has labor productivity in American fields.
Now, vegetable and fruit growers are rushing to catch up to grain farmers, who
have cut labor costs with mechanization.AVERAGE HOURLY WAGESGraph tracks the
average hourly wages (in 1998 dollars) from 1989 - 1998.**Average for first nine
monthsLABOR PRODUCTIVITY GAINSGraph tracks the average annual change in labor
productivity gains from 1955 - 1999+. (Five years ending)+Four yearsRELATIVE
LABOR COSTS (In billions)GrainsCOST OF LABOR: $1.6VALUE OF CROP: $46.6Fruits and
nutsCOST OF LABOR: 2.3VALUE OF CROP: 12.7Nursery and greenhouseCOST OF LABOR:
2.6VALUE OF CROP: 10.9VegetablesCOST OF LABOR: 1.7VALUE OF CROP: 8.4(Sources by
Labor Department
Agriculture Department
 1997 Census of Agriculture)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TAXI COMMISSION BACKS A 26% RISE FOR FARES IN CITY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words


Saying that New York City taxi drivers are underpaid, the Taxi and Limousine
Commission approved a fare increase yesterday of more than 26 percent, the first
in eight years.

But to soften the blow, the commission also adopted improvements for passengers,
including one that could make New York one of the first major cities where all
cabs accept credit and debit cards.

The measures are a result of more than a year of intense discussions to balance
the interests of millions of passengers who depend on the 12,187 yellow cabs
with those of the fleet owners and the drivers, most of them immigrants, who
toil long hours.

Starting in the first week of May, a typical cab ride of 2.6 miles in the city,
from SoHo to Midtown for example, with five minutes of waiting time in traffic,
will increase to $8.30 from $6.60. More specifically, the base fare will rise to
$2.50 from $2, and the rate for every one-fifth of a mile, about four city
blocks, will go to 40 cents from 30 cents. The flat fare from Kennedy Airport to
Manhattan will increase to $45 from $35.

In a new expense, riders will have to pay a $1 surcharge from 4 to 8 p.m. on
weekdays, when traffic is heaviest, a measure the commission hopes will
encourage more drivers to work during the afternoon rush, when cabs are scarce.

The board had long been expected to approve the fare increase, but drivers in
the audience, many of them speaking up about their rising expenses and low pay
during the public comment period, cheered and applauded when the board
unexpectedly voted to preserve the 50-cent night surcharge.

''We're excited and optimistic,'' said Bhairavi Desai, the chief organizer for
the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, an advocacy group for drivers, explaining
that most of the fare increase should go directly into drivers' pockets. This is
because the board raised lease caps, the fee that taxi fleets can charge drivers
to rent their vehicles, by only 8 percent. ''This is historic,'' she added.

Even industry groups said yesterday that they viewed the increase as a good
compromise. Taxi fleets are having trouble attracting drivers these days, said
Ronald Sherman, president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which
represents fleet owners. They had been citing their own increasing expenses to
push for a greater increase in the lease caps.

In weighing their decision yesterday, members of the commission's nine-person
board repeatedly spoke of the need to give drivers a ''livable wage.'' Matthew
W. Daus, the taxi commission chairman, said drivers need at least $12 per hour
after expenses. Currently, drivers make $9 to $17 an hour, depending on how much
they pay to lease their cabs and whether they own their taxi medallions,
according to the commission's information. With the increase, the range would
grow to $13 to $20 an hour, Mr. Daus estimated.

The unanimous vote came after more than five hours of public testimony in the
commission's cramped boardroom on Rector Street in Lower Manhattan, beginning at
9:30 a.m. About 50 people crowded into the main room, including drivers and
industry representatives, while several dozen more filled an overflow room.
Noticeably absent among the 39 public speakers, however, were members of the
riding public.

But in an interview afterward, Mr. Daus said that New Yorkers will still be
paying a reasonable rate.

''The riders already have the best deal in the entire country right now,'' he
said, explaining that New York City taxi fares are currently lower than those of
nearly all other major cities, including Chicago, Boston, San Francisco, Las
Vegas and Los Angeles.

As for what riders will get in return, the commission hopes to have the credit
card equipment installed in all cabs by November 2005, an optimistic schedule
that even Mr. Daus acknowledged yesterday was ''aggressive.''

Other technological improvements planned by that date include a device that will
give a cab's exact location at any given moment, a monitor that will allow
passengers to track their routes on a computerized map, equipment for the
commission to send text messages to drivers, and improved scratch-resistant
partitions. The board also passed a measure that would set up more group-ride
taxi stands around the city, in which several riders can share cabs to a common
destination, paying a higher combined fare but at a lower individual cost.

But Bruce Schaller, a taxi industry consultant, warned commissioners yesterday
that the credit card system could be hard to put into place. What New York is
attempting has not been tried anywhere else in the country, he said. The closest
parallel is Chicago, which adopted a rule in 2001 that required credit card
equipment in all taxicabs by 2002, but technological obstacles delayed the
start-up. Now, the equipment is supposed to be installed by June 2004.

But Chicago's program does not include debit cards, he said. An existing pilot
program in New York City in which several hundred cabs have credit card
equipment is plagued with problems, he added. Out of 38 test trips conducted in
a recent study by Mr. Schaller, he said, only 13 percent of transactions went
through successfully. A significant problem is the time credit card transactions
take to process, an average of two minutes and 20 seconds; that may be too long
for drivers who are blocking traffic or hurrying to their next fare.

Another question is who will pay for the additional costs for credit card
transactions. All the technological improvements are expected to cost about
$1,500 per cab, and taxi fleets will have to bear those costs for their cabs,
while owner-drivers will have to pay for them in their vehicles. But credit card
transactions also generate a fee of $1.15 to $2 per transaction, Mr. Schaller
said, a significant burden if drivers have to pay the fees, especially on
smaller fares.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bijou Matthews of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance spoke
yesterday at a meeting of the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission. (Photo by
Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart: ''BY THE NUMBERS: Resetting
the Meter''The Taxi and Limousine Commission voted yesterday to raise taxi
fares. The increases will take effect the first week of May.Some typical
estimated faresFROM: Penn StationTO: Grand CentralWAIT TIME (minutes): 6FARES:
OLD -- $4.70FARES: NEW -- $5.70FROM: Grand CentralTO: Metropolitan Museum of
ArtWAIT TIME (minutes): 6FARES: OLD -- 6.50FARES: NEW -- 8.10FROM: First Ave.
and 86th St.TO: Wall StreetWAIT TIME (minutes): 5FARES: OLD -- 12.20FARES: NEW
-- 15.70FROM: Penn StationTO: Ground zeroWAIT TIME (minutes): 3FARES: OLD --
7.10FARES: NEW -- 9.30FROM: Kennedy Airport*TO: ManhattanWAIT TIME (minutes):
--FARES: OLD -- 35.00FARES: NEW -- 45.00*Flat fare Note: Peak or night
surcharges not included.(Sources by Taxi and Limousine Commission
 Bruce Schaller, Schaller Consulting)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'The Gatekeeper'

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25;
FILM IN REVIEW

LENGTH: 495 words



Directed by John Carlos Frey
R, 103 minutes

 One from the heart for writer-director-star John Carlos Frey, ''The
Gatekeeper'' is an earnest, idealistic video-to-film feature about a
half-Mexican, half-Anglo United States Border Patrol officer (Mr. Frey) whose
angry contempt for his Mexican heritage turns to respect when he impersonates a
Mexican migrant worker who tries to sneak into California. Though the film is
far from polished, the force of its significance to Mr. Frey, as well as the
urgency of its political message, give it some genuine impact. The picture opens
today at the Village East.

Adam Fields, Mr. Frey's character, is a true believer in turning the tide
against what he sees as nothing less than an invasion from the south,
threatening America's values and well-being. Able to pass for an Anglo (he is
the illegitimate son of a Mexican prostitute and an unknown client), Adam has
acquired a blond, blue-eyed girlfriend whose right-wing father is sympathetic to
his views on immigration. Adam goes beyond his duties with the Border Patrol to
join a militant right-wing group, the National Patrol, whose members ambush
hapless Mexicans trying to enter the United States near the Tijuana-San Diego
checkpoint.

As part of a bizarre plan to lead a group of would-be immigrants into a trap set
by the extremist group, Adam grows a scraggy mustache, puts on a tattered sports
shirt and joins a group of desperate men -- plus one desperate woman (Michelle
Agnew) and her young son -- to be led by a Mexican coyote to the economic
wonderland of America.

What they find instead is death or enslavement. When the naive extremists run
into the professional smugglers, they are massacred, and the human cargo is
transported to an abandoned farm in the middle of the Southwestern nowhere to
work the fields and help the evil American overseer (Joel Brooks) manufacture
methamphetamines. The film becomes oddly stagnant at this point, content to
catalog the abuses suffered by its characters (which are many and convincing)
rather than to develop their personalities and their mounting sense of rage.

Still, the passivity of Mr. Frey's characters seems refreshingly real next to
the outsize heroics that would doubtlessly inform a Hollywood version of the
same story. Adam is shot in the leg early on and spends much of the film
hobbling on improvised crutches -- a hulking American metaphorically reduced to
the vulnerable, powerless state of an illegal immigrant.

Mr. Frey is no artist with his camera, but his haphazard, cramped compositions
often serve to underline his themes of claustrophobia and paralysis. In a good
cast, only Ms. Agnew, as the female prisoner, fails to convince: with her small,
perfect features, she looks as delicate as a porcelain Madonna, and just as
unlikely to survive rough handling.

 ''The Gatekeeper'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian) because of graphic violence and a rape scene.   DAVE KEHR


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Growing Hub for All Things Salvadoran

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER.

E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; LONG ISLAND
JOURNAL

LENGTH: 1834 words


IT was business as usual on a recent morning at the Consulate of El Salvador in
Brentwood. The television blared in Spanish. Five different local
Spanish-language newspapers were being perused in the waiting room, where dozens
of Salvadorans sat quietly on plastic chairs waiting to get their passports
renewed. Signs posted in Spanish listed the fees: $60 for a passport; $5 for a
birth or death certificate.

Jose Eduardo Aparicio, 40, of Hempstead, a busboy at the Lucky Dog restaurant in
Garden City South, didn't mind the wait for his passport renewal. He had an
appointment the following day with the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
hoping to get the green card that would enable him to return legally to the
United States after what he said would be his first visit to his mother in El
Salvador since he came to the Island 20 years ago.

Next to Mr. Aparicio were Miguel Angel Cruz, 70, a factory worker, and his wife,
Emilia Cruz, 57, of Westbury. Mr. Cruz, a resident alien, needed his passport
renewed so he could arrange to have his Social Security check sent to El
Salvador, where he hoped to retire soon. Mr. Cruz has been in the United States
for 18 years; his wife joined him five years ago after raising their two
daughters alone in El Salvador.

Mariza Angel, 24, drove to the consulate from Flushing, Queens, with her son,
Moises, 8, to renew his passport. After being raised by Ms. Angel's mother in El
Salvador since he was nine months old, Moises came to live with Ms. Angel, a
manicurist, four months ago. She said she needed valid identification for Moises
to get him health insurance.

''This is more convenient,'' said Ms. Angel, who chose to drive to the consulate
in Brentwood, the only foreign consulate on the Island, rather than take a train
to the Salvadoran mission in Manhattan.

About 200 people a day come to the consulate to have passports issued and
renewed, register marriages, births and deaths, take care of their pensions or
appoint a representative to do legal work for them in El Salvador.

But in the two years since the office moved to Brentwood from East Garden City,
it has become much more than a convenient place to process paperwork. In this
former bank office Salvadorans can also find legal, tax and immigration
assistance, work toward a high school diploma, open a bank account, apply for
health insurance, join the Girl Scouts or act in a play. Much of the activity is
the work of Luis Montes Brito, the consul general, who is trying to turn the
building into the center of community life for Salvadorans on the Island.

Once a month on Friday nights, Mr. Montes Brito pushes the waiting-area chairs
to one side to make room for a stage for a Noche Lirica, a free evening of music
and poetry. Mr. Montes Brito, a portly 41-year-old industrial engineer on his
first diplomatic assignment, is among the performers. He sings. He recites
poems. Last month, he hung paper cutout clouds from the ceiling as decorations
for a play, ''To the Right of God,'' which drew an audience of 200. In the
summer, Mr. Montes Brito said, he plans to move the entertainment to the parking
lot to make room for a larger crowd.

''We are the link between El Salvador and the United States,'' Mr. Montes Brito
said. ''Our people here, sometimes they lose their culture.''

Local Salvadorans also turn to the consulate for all sorts of practical help.
David Renderos, a real estate broker from Uniondale, comes to the consulate a
few mornings each week to advise other Salvadorans on buying homes, helping them
fill out paperwork and trying to make sure they aren't being taken advantage of
when getting mortgages. Two nights a week, Martin Danenberg, a teacher from
Islandia, volunteers his time at the consulate helping Salvadorans work toward
their high school equivalency diplomas. ''A large part of the community is
illiterate,'' Mr. Danenberg said. ''They never learned to write and read. The
future of the community is education.''

Since February representatives of the Brentwood branch of Citibank have been at
the consulate on Monday mornings helping Salvadorans to open bank accounts.

''Our people don't know, they don't speak English,'' Mr. Montes Brito said.
''They carry cash instead of putting in the bank, and that is dangerous.'' He
added that many Salvadorans were unaware that they could open a bank account
without a Social Security number.

Marilyn Proios, executive director of the Girl Scouts of Suffolk County, sends a
Spanish-speaking staff member to the consulate every week to do outreach. ''We
have a leader and we are going to start a Daisy troop and Brownies,'' Ms. Proios
said. ''We have some older girls interested in it.'' And the first bilingual
Girl Scout troop in Suffolk County was formed last month.

Mr. Montes Brito said his main mission was simple: By enhancing life for
Salvadorans on the Island, he can improve life for people in El Salvador. The
Salvadoran community spends $3 billion a year on Long Island, Mr. Montes Brito
said, and pays more than $300 million a year in taxes. Additionally, the two
million Salvadorans in the United States wire home $2.1 billion a year.

''We only want a better quality of life for our people,'' Mr. Montes Brito said.
''Everything our community needs, we try to provide that.''

To that end, last year Mr. Montes Brito initiated the formation of the
Salvadoran American Alliance, an umbrella organization of presidents of
Salvadoran groups, including both the Nassau and Suffolk Salvadoran Chambers of
Commerce, the Latin American Coalition, the Salvadoran Civic Committee and the
American Salvadorans of Long Island. Directors of the alliance visit the
consulate daily to help immigrants with legal, immigration, tax and housing
advice.

The alliance, says its president, Julio C. Hernandez Sr., pushes for
scholarships for higher education for Salvadoran youth on the Island, promotes
culture and is lobbying elected officials about obtaining drivers' licenses for
undocumented immigrants with a taxpayer identification number instead of a
Social Security number.

Mr. Montes Brito said the Department of Motor Vehicles was losing out on almost
$1 million in fees from people who couldn't get a driver's license because they
lacked a Social Security number.

''Many people don't have a driver's license so they hit and run,'' Mr. Montes
Brito said. ''If they have a driver's license they can be identified.''

Last month, Mr. Montes Brito led a delegation to Albany to talk with legislators
about the driver's license issue. Assemblyman Philip Ramos, a Brentwood
Democrat, said it was one of the Salvadoran community's first organized lobbying
efforts.

Mr. Hernandez said gaining political clout was on the agenda. ''Another goal is
to get as many people as we can to be naturalized and become citizens and be
able to vote,'' he said.

Mr. Montes Brito is also encouraging Salvadorans to get involved in the
political process. ''Here in Long Island our community has taxation without
representation,'' he said.

Santiago Reyes, owner of the Restaurant Coma Lapa in Brentwood, is president of
the Suffolk Salvadoran Chamber of Commerce, which has 50 businesses. Mr. Reyes
is active in the local Republican Party.

''I pray to God every day I want somebody to represent our community,'' said Mr.
Reyes, recounting his own American dream story, including a home to call his
own, a successful business and a daughter who graduated from college. He
predicted that ''in no less than two to three years, a Salvadoran will be
running for a good position in the town, the county, the state.''

Mr. Montes Brito said the Salvadoran community had worked hard to satisfy the
basic necessities and was ready to assert itself. ''They are going to move into
the political arena,'' he said. ''If you watch the other immigrant communities,
this is the next step for the Salvadoran community.''

The 2000 census counted 42,500 Salvadorans in Nassau and Suffolk, but Mr. Montes
Brito estimated that there are at least 200,000 Salvadorans on the Island, of
whom 50,000 have American citizenship, 100,000 have legal status short of
citizenship and 50,000 are here illegally. Salvadorans now rival Puerto Ricans
as the largest Hispanic group on the Island, he said.

He added that about 65 percent of Salvadorans on the Island live in Suffolk
County and that about 30 percent of the total reside in Brentwood.

During his first official meeting with Hispanic leaders on Tuesday, the Suffolk
county executive, Steve Levy, said he talked about ''enhancing sensitivity of
the county work force to the Hispanic population.''

But asked about illegal Salvadorans, Mr. Levy said he wanted to ''weed out the
illegal underground economy that presently exists on the Island. The underground
economy is exploitive of the workers themselves and also puts legitimate
businesses at a competitive disadvantage.''

''We should be promoting immigration in a legal fashion and stop ignoring the
fact that so many are coming in an undocumented fashion,'' Mr. Levy continued.
''But it is good to see that there is a sense of organization, because that
leads to a quicker assimilation into experiencing the American dream.''

Ray Wysolmierski of Farmingville, a leader of a faction of the Sachem Quality of
Life group, which organizes regular protests against illegal immigrants, said
Salvadorans who had become American citizens could organize and lobby as long as
they didn't speak for illegal immigrants.

''We certainly don't want to have them speak to a person on behalf of legalizing
illegals or anything like that,'' he said. ''Then they are using their
citizenship to give credibility to illegality.''

''If somebody is going to try to advocate on behalf of a person who is going to
advocate for illegals, that person should never be allowed to even be a
candidate,'' Mr. Wysolmierski said.

On Mr. Montes Brito's helping the Salvadorans to organize, Mr. Wysolmierski said
the consul general could try to get the community to represent his point of
view, but ''the United States government does not accept stuff done by consuls
of other countries. They are not making American laws.''

Last year, Mr. Montes Brito worked to have Sept. 15 declared Central America Day
by the Suffolk County Legislature. The consul was one of the organizers of a
parade that drew a crowd of 30,000 to celebrate Central American Day and
Salvadoran Independence Day in Brentwood.

Leopoldo Herrera produces the community's only television program, ''Cita Con El
Salvador'' or ''Proud Salvadorans,'' which appears Saturdays at noon on
Cablevision in Nassau and Suffolk. The hourlong program is split between
features and sports from El Salvador and stories about Salvadorans succeeding in
the United States. Mr. Herrera said that because of the consul general, the
Salvadoran leadership on the Island is awakening.

''He wants the community to grow with the system, to get to know the system and
deal with the United States,'' Mr. Herrera said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: AT THE SALVADORAN CONSULATE -- in Brentwood, Luis Avila gives a
thumbprint during passport renewal. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York
Times)(pg. 1)
 Luis Montes Brito, the Salvadoran consul general, hopes to make the consulate
in Brentwood a major resource for Salvadorans on the Island. He speaks with
Miguel Angel Cruz and his wife, Emilia, who are planning to retire and return to
El Salvador. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Mayor Comments On Vote Issue

BYLINE: By Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 135 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that he favored streamlining
applications for citizenship by reducing red tape, but he reiterated his
opposition to granting the vote to legal immigrants who are not citizens. ''I
believe voting is the essence of citizenship,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. Two City
Council members, Bill Perkins and John C. Liu, are drafting legislation that
would permit legal immigrants to vote in city elections, a notion that enjoys
some support around the city. According to census figures, there are more than
10 million legal immigrants nationwide who are not citizens, some of them
ineligible for citizenship because they are here on temporary visas, others who
have not applied. Citizenship can take as long as 10 years because of a backlog
of applications.   Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2004 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

To Cabbies, Piece of Tin Is a Golden Opportunity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words


Victor Salazar drives his yellow taxicab seven days a week, usually 14 or 15
hours at a time. On a decent day, he stumbles back home with $150 after expenses
-- including about $100 to lease the New York City taxi medallion on his hood.

On a bad day, he loses money. It is not the easiest way to earn a living, but it
is the only living he knows after more than two decades in this country. ''It's
practically the only skill I have,'' he said, ''knowing the streets of New
York.''

So, for the last few weeks, Mr. Salazar, a voluble Ecuadorean immigrant who
keeps pictures of his daughter and a niece on his dashboard, has been scrambling
to come up with $25,000, down payment on a dream he has long been nursing --
buying his own medallion.

Hundreds of drivers in the city, many of them struggling immigrants like Mr.
Salazar, have been doing the same, conferring with their banks, cajoling
relatives and checking their savings, in preparation for a rare city auction
this month of taxi medallions, which are expected to fetch more than $250,000
apiece.

They are simply the aluminum shields affixed to taxi hoods; they bestow the
seemingly unromantic right to operate a yellow taxicab in this city, the only
kind of cab allowed to pick up street hails. But for generations of immigrants
who first found their way in this country as cabbies, the medallions have stood
for something far more precious: the chance to work for themselves and perhaps
clamber up a few rungs in the economic ladder.

Last year, Mr. Salazar, 40, tried unsuccessfully to buy a medallion on the open
market, giving more than $30,000 -- most of his savings -- to a Manhattan taxi
broker, Fabio Diaz, who, Mr. Salazar said, ended up taking it without ever
delivering the medallion. The authorities recently arrested Mr. Diaz in Florida,
but Mr. Salazar's prospects of recovering his savings appear a long way off.

Even so, Mr. Salazar remains bent on owning his medallion. Unlike most cabbies
who rent medallions from a fleet, he owns his cab, and pays $680 a week to lease
the medallion. He said he could use the money instead on monthly payments on a
medallion, which he could sell for a profit when he stops driving.

He is cobbling together his savings, including what he hopes will be a hefty tax
refund, and money lent from relatives. If he is still short, he may sell his
wife's jewelry, perhaps even her engagement ring. On April 23, he will sweat it
out with a few hundred other aspiring owners in an auditorium, awaiting the
opening of sealed bids for 126 new medallions.

Over the next three years, the city will auction off 300 medallions each year,
only the second such sale since the city capped the number of licensed taxis in
1937 and representing the largest expansion of the city's taxi fleet since the
Depression. By law, about 40 percent will be sold to individual owner-drivers
and the rest to corporate taxi fleets, which rent out the medallions. The
corporate auction takes place this Friday.

Medallion prices have exploded since World War II. Ownership could help pay for
Mr. Salazar's retirement, he said, or his 10-year-old daughter's college
tuition. Maybe he could even buy a home for him and his wife and his wife's
sister and husband, who all now crowd a small apartment. But he also harbors a
romanticism about a medallion.

''To me, owning a medallion means being part of New York City,'' he said. ''It
means owning, not a slice, but a crumb of New York.''

But a crumb can be enough. Drivers' ranks have been remade many times over the
years, with each new wave of immigrants. Some have used ownership to catapult
themselves out of the industry, but others have stayed, following the
well-trodden path of yesterday's drivers becoming today's fleet owners.

That is what Mohammed Mia, 24, and his cousin, Washim Bhuiyan, 23, are
envisioning. ''We're trying to start by two,'' Mr. Mia said. Mr. Mia and his
cousin came to the United States from the same small city in Bangladesh a few
months apart in 1997. They began as deliverymen at a Domino's Pizza and
eventually thought about buying a franchise, before learning it was too
expensive.

It was Mr. Mia who decided to get his hack license and try driving a cab,
joining the legions of South Asians on the road. Now, they both work the night
shift, six days a week, pulling a double shift on Mondays.

But they do not want to be driving forever, so they want to bid on a pair of
corporate medallions. Unlike taxis with individual medallions, those with
corporate medallions do not have to be driven by the owners, but they have to be
staffed 24 hours a day and can be bought only in lots of two.

A minimum bid on a set of corporate medallions has been set at $550,000, but
they could go for well over $600,000, a steep price for drivers whose incomes
barely reach $30,000 a year.

With limited cash, the pair visited several lenders before finding one who was
willing to give them a loan with only 15 percent down, instead of the usual 20
percent. To come up with the money if they win, they plan to tap a network of
relatives and friends. They will draw on the same group to work their
mini-fleet.

But looming as a potential roadblock is Andrew Murstein, president of Medallion
Financial Corporation, a taxi industry giant. Mr. Murstein's elegant Midtown
office contrasts sharply with the crowded apartments in Queens where Mr. Mia and
Mr. Bhuiyan plot strategy.

In many ways, Mr. Murstein epitomizes the possibilities of medallion ownership.
His grandfather Leon, a Polish immigrant, first bought a medallion in 1937 for
$10. Over 30 years, he built a fleet of 500. Eventually, he and his son, Alvin
-- Andrew Murstein's father -- got into the business of lending to aspiring
owners.

Mr. Murstein's company is backing the bids of 20 fleets, putting up most of the
money and buying a majority stake in the medallions. The fleets will get to run
the medallion, but Medallion Financial will get any increase in its value when
it is sold. The consortium plans to bid on all the corporate medallions. ''In a
way, we're like the New York Yankees,'' Mr. Murstein said. ''How are they going
to compete with our payroll?''

But those like Mr. Salazar will not have to worry about deep-pocketed
competition in the individual auction; most bidders will be other immigrants
like themselves, people who have scrimped and saved all their lives.

Loubert Alexandre, a Haitian driver, is trying to put three children through
college and, like Mr. Salazar, is frustrated by leasing. ''It's like you're
renting a house, opening the window and throwing the cash away,'' he said.

Mr. Alexandre, 45, almost bought a medallion in 1995, when the price was
$175,000, but he backed out. When he heard about the auction, he went back to
his old broker, Richard Chipman at Westway Medallion Sales, to put together a
bid. To come up with the money, he is refinancing his home in Queens. But he has
agonized over the decision, explaining, ''It's hard out there.''

Typically, he starts his days at Kennedy Airport, playing dominoes and talking
politics with other Haitian drivers in the holding lot. But the waits seem to
have gotten longer, he said, and business overall has slowed considerably.

This morning, he has to visit his broker, so he starts in Manhattan. Mr.
Alexandre came to the United States as a teenager. He dropped out of college
after learning his girlfriend was pregnant. He married her and started working
as a parking attendant, eventually becoming a supervisor. Today, with his
children almost grown, he has become a cabdriver.

''I never thought life was going to turn out the way it did,'' he says. After an
hour, Mr. Alexandre has barely cleared $10. ''That's the dream they're talking
about, eh?'' he says.

Hailing a Dream

  New York City will auction off 300 medallions each year for the next three
years, the largest expansion of the taxi fleet since the Depression. Hundreds of
people, mostly immigrants, are scraping money together to bid at auction on
these precious tin slips that represent freedom, security and, perhaps one day,
wealth. The corporate auction is this Friday; the individual auction is April
23. This series will follow several bidders through the auction process to the
day when, with a little luck, they go to work with a shiny medallion of their
own on their taxis yellow hood.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: HAILING A DREAM -- First of three articles.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2004



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about New York City cabdrivers' preparations
for a rare auction of taxi medallions referred incorrectly in some copies to the
metal of which they are made. It is aluminum, not tin.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Victor Salazar in his taxicab with, from left, his daughter,
Victoria, 10, and his nieces, Michelle Silva, 8, and Evelyn Salatos, 12. (Photo
by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Loubert Alexandre, a Haitian immigrant, hopes to buy a taxi medallion but
worries about the cost. He is trying to put three children through college. He
said of leasing a medallion, ''It's like you're renting a house, opening the
window and throwing the cash away.'' Below, the view from his cab. (Photo by
Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Stateless, Man Avoids Deportation From U.S.

BYLINE: By JANON FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 670 words


After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, when many Muslim men without proper
immigration papers were heading underground, Farouk Abdel-Muhti went on the
radio.

As the second intifada was beginning in March 2002, Mr. Abdel-Muhti, a
Palestinian rights advocate, took a job on the morning radio program ''Wake-Up
Call'' on WBAI-FM (99.5) in New York. Using his contacts in the West Bank, he
would set up interviews with people like the mayor of Ramallah for the call-in
program.

But that did not last long. On April 26, 2002, immigration authorities arrested
him on a 1995 deportation order. His supporters said he had been singled out
because of his outspoken support for Palestinian causes.

On Monday, after nearly two years, seven jails, months of solitary confinement
and a hunger strike, Mr. Abdel-Muhti was released by order of a federal judge in
Atlanta. Judge Yvette Kane ruled that as a Palestinian born before the creation
of Israel, Mr. Abdel-Muhti was stateless and could not be properly deported.

Judge Kane chastened the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, calling
their tactics ''Kafkaesque'' and noting in her order that the law did not allow
the agency to detain Mr. Abdel-Muhti ''until he supplies answers it likes.''

Mr. Abdel-Muhti, however, could still be deported if an agreement is worked out
between Israel and the United States.

''He's still an illegal immigrant and theoretically still deportable,'' said his
lawyer, Shayana Kadidal of the Center for Constitutional Rights. By Monday
evening, Mr. Abdel-Muhti had landed at La Guardia Airport, where in front of a
group of friends and supporters, he bent down and kissed the ground.

''I come to New York, and it is my duty to kiss the ground because I feel an
attachment to the place where I have fought for freedom and equality for 27
years,'' said Mr. Abdel-Muhti, who has been a longtime activist for the rights
of indigenous people and Palestinians. He has been arrested several times for
civil disobedience during public protests.

Daryl Bloom, the assistant United States attorney in Philadelphia who argued the
case for the federal government, said that he was not authorized to speak about
the case. Two calls to the United States attorney's office were not returned.

Mr. Abdel-Muhti's lawyer and supporters said that his confinement was an attempt
to curtail his activism. ''The reality was, he wasn't in hiding,'' Mr. Kadidal
said. ''It was only after he started doing stuff on the radio that they went
after him.''

At one point his case was transferred from Newark to Philadelphia in what his
lawyer said was an attempt to delay his case further.

Court documents show that the government's case weighed heavily on Mr.
Abdel-Muhti's history of disregard for United States immigration laws.

''A convicted criminal several times over, he has twice unlawfully re-entered
the United States after being deported, failed to surrender for his deportation
or to appear at deportation proceedings, and again and again misrepresented
under oath and in official documents his true identity and nationality,'' wrote
Thomas Calgani, an assistant United States attorney who also worked on the case.
In his brief to the court, Mr. Calgani catalogued Mr. Abdel-Muhti's brushes with
the law.

He pleaded guilty in 1993 to an attempted assault charge that arose from a fight
with his wife. He had also held seven different aliases and evaded immigration
authorities several times during his 27 years in the United States.

Mr. Abdel-Muhti did not dispute the revelations. In the end, the decision rested
on his birth in Ramallah in 1947, the year before Israel was created.

But even with the threat of deportation still hanging over him, Mr. Abdel-Muhti
recited the same language of civil disobedience and civil rights that he claims
landed him in jail in the first place.

''It is a victory, but we have to continue this war for justice and equality,''
he said. ''No one wants to talk about rights because of the martial law that
rules this country.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2004



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about the release of a Palestinian rights
advocate detained by United States immigration officials since 2002 referred
incorrectly to events under way when he was arrested. The second intifada in the
Middle East had begun in September 2000; it was not beginning in March 2002.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Farouk Abdel-Muhti, a Palestinian rights advocate and radio show
host, was released from jail on Monday. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

9/11 Panel Calls Policies On Immigration Ineffective

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1069 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16


The commission investigating the 9/11 attacks has concluded that immigration
policies promoted as essential to keeping the country safe from future attacks
have been largely ineffective, producing little, if any, information leading to
the identification or apprehension of terrorists.

The commission said one program had proved so fruitless that it was discontinued
after less than a year.

The critical assessment was released this week as part of a preliminary finding
to a final report due in July. It returned a spotlight to programs that have
been controversial from the start, aimed mostly at people, like the 9/11
hijackers, from Muslim or Arab countries. Critics have said the government
engaged in a wholesale roundup of these people, kept them in jail for months, in
some cases without access to lawyers, and conducted closed-door legal hearings
on their status.

Many of the libertarian and pro-immigration groups that have criticized the Bush
administration for what they deem the unfair and unnecessary focus on these
groups hailed the findings. They said that as the first independent assessment
of government actions after 9/11, it affirmed their misgivings.

''Clearly, the government was overreaching,'' said Timothy H. Edgar, legislative
counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, about the immigration programs.
''We raised concerns from the beginning that they not only interfere with
time-honored civil liberties, but they were likely to prove to be ineffective.''

But a former Justice Department official involved in the development of the
programs defended them as critical to counterterrorism efforts.

Kris Kobach, a Republican candidate for Congress in Kansas who served as counsel
to Attorney General John Ashcroft from 2001 to 2003, said the programs had
yielded great benefits by leading to the identification and deportation of
hundreds of people with criminal backgrounds or indirect ties to terrorism.

Mr. Kobach said the commission viewed the impact of the programs too narrowly,
drawing conclusions based solely on the application of antiterrorism laws,
rather than others, like immigration law. ''The commission is looking for a
terrorism label affixed to an individual,'' Mr. Kobach said in an interview.
''But it's failing to realize that just because the F.B.I. hasn't gotten to the
point of applying the terrorism label, it doesn't mean the individual is not a
terrorist.''

Perhaps the most controversial of the programs was one that sought to identify
''special interest'' immigrants, which resulted in the arrests of more than 700
people, most from Middle Eastern countries, who were charged with violating
immigration laws and held for months, in many cases, until federal agents
cleared them of any involvement in terror-related activities.

The commission report echoed concerns raised when these programs were initiated.
The concerns led to an investigation by the inspector general at the Justice
Department that found that officials ''made little attempt to distinguish''
between immigrants who had ties to terrorism and those who did not.

Kate Martin, director of the Center for National Security Studies, a civil
libertarian organization, called the detention program misguided, saying:
''Hundreds of people's rights were violated, and, very importantly, the United
States is now seen around the world as a country where Arabs and Muslims can be
arrested in secret and held without charges. That's a very dangerous development
in terms of a country promoting democracy and human rights as an antidote to
terrorism.''

But Mr. Kobach said the detention program had proved more valuable than the
commission knew, leading to the deportation of at least three men with ''strong,
substantial connections to terrorism,'' including a roommate of one of the 9/11
hijackers, an immigrant who confessed to attending a terrorist training camp in
Afghanistan and another who was found with 75 pictures of the World Trade
Center.

In response to the inspector general's report, the Department of Homeland
Security issued new guidelines last month to streamline the process for handling
cases involving immigrants held in connection with national security concerns.

The commission report also disparaged a program that requires additional
screening for visa applications from 26 predominantly Muslim countries. It
charged that investigators had not been processing them in a timely fashion and
that ''no terrorists have been uncovered'' by the effort. The report also cited
a program, begun in November 2001, that delayed visa applications from the same
countries and a few others. The commission concluded that the program, which was
shut down 11 months later, ''yielded no useful antiterrorist information and led
to no visa denials.''

Other critics said the two programs had discouraged students, artists,
entrepreneurs and other travelers from visiting the United States and alienated
a community ''that was as shocked as anyone by the 9/11 attacks,'' in the words
of Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an
advocacy group.

But Mr. Kobach defended both efforts, saying that the first was necessary for
the security of the country and that the second was a temporary and necessary
action while efforts were under way to make sure federal investigators could
scrutinize the names of visa applicants.

The commission criticized a fourth program, the Absconder Apprehension
Initiative. Its intent was to round up 5,000 immigrants from countries with a
Qaeda presence who were facing deportation and to expedite their expulsion. The
commission found that by early 2003, 1,139 had been apprehended, a group that
included 803 who had been deported, 224 who were awaiting deportation and 45 who
were being prosecuted on other criminal charges.

But so far, the commission report said, ''we have not learned that any of the
absconders were deported under a terrorism statute, prosecuted for
terrorist-related crimes or linked in any way to terrorism.''

Mr. Kobach asserted that the so-called absconders were already in violation of
immigration laws and some were wanted for other criminal violations, including
more than 100 who were found to be sex offenders.

''In many cases,'' he said, ''we have kicked terrorists out of the country over
garden-variety immigration laws.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 184 words



Immigrant Security Assailed
The commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks has concluded that immigration
policies promoted as essential to keep the country safe from future attacks have
been largely ineffective.   PAGE A8

The Social-Issues Vote
Advocacy groups on the right and the left are mobilizing furiously around issues
like gay marriage and abortion rights, convinced the consensus of the next
election could be locked in for a generation.   PAGE A10

Christian Music's New Wave
The Passion Experience tour, billed not as a Christian concert but a ''worship
gathering'' for college students, reflects a groundswell both within churches
and in the Christian music marketplace.   PAGE A8

Ship Deal Said to Be Near
The city and two cruise lines are close to a deal that would let New York
rebuild the passenger ship terminals on the West Side and build a new one in
Brooklyn, an executive familiar with the deal said.   PAGE B1

For the City Home That Has Everything
A growing number of city dwellers are indulging in a luxury that is usually
limited to suburban yards: the built-in swimming pool.   PAGE B1


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Who Is Buried in Grant's Tomb? A New Citizenship Test Is Planned

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT:
NEW YORK IMMIGRANTS

LENGTH: 417 words


Last Wednesday afternoon in Woodside, Queens, Nora Chaves was teaching two dozen
immigrants applying to become United States citizens. She called Luz Amparo
Ramirez front and center. Ms. Ramirez, a 65-year-old Colombian, was scheduled
for her citizenship interview with federal officials two days later.

Imitating an examiner, Ms. Chaves peppered Ms. Ramirez with personal questions.
Then class members asked history questions. Who is the vice president? What are
the country's two main political parties? Ms. Ramirez did well, and then she
fulfilled the English writing requirement by scrawling on the board a dictated
sentence, ''I will be a good citizen.''

Starting in 2006, the students in classes like this one, held at the Latin
American Integration Center, will have to do more. The federal government is
experimenting with a new citizenship exam, and New York's many immigrant
advocacy groups are watching warily.

The government wants to make the new exam fairer, more standardized and more
meaningful, said Gerri Ratliff, the director of the redesign for Citizenship and
Immigration Services, a successor agency to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The new English exam would require applicants to describe photographs
depicting scenes of everyday life, and answer multiple-choice questions about a
written passage. A committee of historians, political scientists and educators
is working with the government on the history section. ''The types of questions
we're thinking of are not tricky, hard questions,'' Ms. Ratliff said, ''but
questions that focus on concepts, as opposed to names and dates.''

The New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group that has been critical of
early versions of the new test, is advising the federal government on the
redesign. ''We want to make sure that at the end of the process we have a
standard exam, but one that is fair, and does not harm any particular
community,'' said Dan Smulian, the coalition's director of training and legal
services. He is particularly worried about less-well-educated immigrants, a
group that has always found the test more difficult.

Ms. Ratliff said that the passing mark would be adjusted so that the same number
of immigrants -- something above 90 percent -- succeeded as before. The new test
raises another concern. ''Nonprofits are going to have to revamp their entire
curriculum, materials and teaching methods, something that is not quick or easy
when funds are scarce,'' Mr. Smulian said.   SETH KUGEL


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a proposed exam, test takers could be asked to describe this
photograph. (Photo by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Citizen's Right

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 305 words


The most important privilege that comes with United States citizenship is the
right to vote. Recently, a few politicians, union officials and community groups
in New York City have begun pushing to give noncitizens the right to cast their
ballots in local elections.

They argue that these legal residents pay taxes and send their children to
public schools, so they should be able to voice their concerns at the ballot
box. As compelling as that argument sounds, there is a more compelling one. To
quote Mayor Michael Bloomberg, voting is ''the essence of citizenship.''

This page believes that it is in the nation's best interest to encourage people
who live here permanently to become citizens and throw in their lot with the
interests of the United States. Extending the most important benefits of
citizenship to those who still hold their first allegiance to another country
seems counterproductive.

The idea of noncitizen voters is not new for America, and ''alien suffrage'' was
allowed in many states before the big wave of immigration in the late 19th and
early 20th century. In recent years, some immigration advocates around the
country have been pushing to restore limited voting rights for legal immigrants,
especially in local elections. In Takoma Park, Md., a suburb of Washington,
residents have been able to vote since 1992. Some European countries are also
looking at ways to enfranchise residents who are not there permanently. New York
City allowed noncitizens to vote in school board elections that were held until
city schools were reorganized two years ago.

Mayor Bloomberg is right to resist expanding on those experiences. Instead of
pushing for noncitizen voting, New York's pro-immigrant politicians should be
pushing to speed up a citizenship process that has slowed to a crawl in this
country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Establishment Candidates Defeat Challengers in Sierra Club Voting

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21


After weeks of highly publicized warnings that anti-immigration outsiders were
trying to take over the venerable Sierra Club, the club's members on Wednesday
overwhelmingly supported all five candidates put forward by the group's formal
nominating committee.

The three candidates whose participation became the focal point of the
controversy were former Gov. Richard Lamm of Colorado, a prominent critic of
immigration policies; David Pimentel, a noted Cornell University entomologist;
and Frank Morris, the former executive director of the Congressional Black
Caucus Foundation. But the three finished at least 95,000 votes behind the
winners, placing 11th, 12th and 15th in the race that had a total of 17
candidates for the five three-year terms.

The election attracted the votes of 22 percent of the group's 757,000 members,
the highest percentage to vote in three decades. The campaign itself had been
marked by widespread accusations that outsiders were trying to hijack the
15-member board. Once in control, current club leaders asserted, these
candidates intended to use the environmental organization to promote
anti-immigration views.

In interviews last month, Mr. Pimentel and Mr. Morris strongly disputed that
characterization, though Mr. Lamm agreed in an interview that curbs on
immigration were his top priority.

Whatever the reality of the accusations, the hot-button issue of immigration and
accusations that some of the dissidents' supporters had links to racist groups
gave the election a high national profile. That prompted the intervention of the
actor Robert Redford and the liberal advocacy group moveon.org on behalf of
those candidates who were overwhelmingly elected in the race that ended at
midday Wednesday.

''This is a strong mandate for the board to stick to its core agenda and mission
protecting our planet,'' said Larry Fahn, the president of the Sierra Club
board. ''It was a clear repudiation of those wanting the club to get involved in
the immigration debate.'' And, in a comment directly echoed by two winning
candidates, he said he hoped the energy devoted to the club's election would
carry over into a national effort to defeat President Bush.

Lisa Renstromwho led the field with 141,407 votes, said in an interview late
Wednesday, ''I want to make the analogy that we got the vote out in this
election and we're going to get the vote out in November.''

Mr. Morris said, ''The Sierra Club has voted and I respect that and I
congratulate the winners.'' Asked if he would run again, he said, ''I'm pretty
sure probably not. If you've gone through the experience that some of us have
gone through with this, it's not something you would want to repeat.'' Mr.
Pimentel said, ''They, the old guard I should say, organized well and they did a
great job.'' He paused, then added, ''Of winning.''

Mr. Lamm did not respond to voice mail messages left at his home and office.

Paul Watson, a dissident board member who had favored some of the losing
candidates, asserted Wednesday that the campaign committee of the winners had
''bought the election,'' spending more than $200,000 on a glossy postcard
mailing to 550,000 members.

''This has put an end to democracy in the club,'' Mr. Watson said.

Clayton Daughenbaugh, the winning slate's campaign manager, said he believed the
amount was closer to $150,000 and that the dissident slate had also sent
mailings to the membership.

''Postcards, that's a reinforcer,'' Mr. Daughenbaugh said. ''But that's not what
wins elections -- what wins elections is people working and personal contact.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Haven for Abused Women

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 329 words


Women who have been threatened with rape, mutilation or other horrors deserve
protection from the barbarians who do such things and the societies that allow
or encourage such behavior. So it is welcome news that the Department of
Homeland Security is drafting rules for allowing asylum for women who flee to
this country after suffering from such extreme cases of abuse elsewhere.

At the same time, Attorney General John Ashcroft is now considering a
particularly poignant appeal for asylum by a woman from Guatemala. Mr. Ashcroft
should grant her request and then support the adoption of the new, enlightened
guidelines for helping other abused women seeking asylum in America.

This is not about eroding well-established asylum policies, or creating some
flimsy loophole that will open the floodgates to immigrants who simply seek a
better life. As the Taliban nightmare in Afghanistan so powerfully illustrated,
women in some societies are systematically oppressed as an ideological matter.
They deserve the protections international law affords other persecuted exiles.

Asylum is granted for exiles in danger of persecution back home because of their
race, religion, ethnicity or political associations, or for being in a
particular social group. It is that last category that should cover people like
the woman from Guatemala, Rodi Alvarado Pena, who fled to this country after a
decade of abuse and whose case is now before the attorney general. Mrs. Alvarado
says that her husband repeatedly used her head to break glass and that officials
in Guatemala told her they would not protect her from him.

In an enlightened world, no society would force women to wear burkas against
their will, or threaten them with death for daring to talk to a man. Mr.
Ashcroft and the Department of Homeland Security should make certain that such
persecuted women who flee to the United States have a chance to stay.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illustrating the Immigration From Taiwan to a New Land

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34; ART REVIEW

LENGTH: 939 words


An influential trend in the exhibiting of international contemporary art is what
might be called the illustrational imperative. As opposed to the old Modernist
idea of art for art's sake or art that draws attention mainly to its own formal
and material properties, the illustrational imperative requires art to represent
some important topic other than art.

Race, gender and class have been popular themes, but subject matter can be more
widely varied. Those who regularly attend art exhibitions can recall shows
devoted to globalism, genetic mutation, environmental catastrophe, the
Holocaust, meteorology, AIDS, real estate and many other subjects.

''Nexus: Taiwan in Queens,'' at the Queens Museum of Art, is an example of this
type of show, although its gathering of 21 Taiwanese artists, half immigrants to
the United States, does not by itself make it illustrational. This gathering
represents a trend in demographic correction, which encourages museums to pay
attention to people thought to be ignored by the predominantly white
European-American art world. This exhibition recognizes that many Taiwanese --
recent immigrants and second- and third-generation residents -- live in the
museum's own neighborhood.

The illustrational aspect is that most of the work in the show is about the
experience of being a Taiwanese immigrant. An installation by Lu Hsian Fu, for
example, consists of 100 traditional red Chinese paper lanterns with strings of
glowing Christmas lights threaded among them. It is a quite literal illustration
of the immigrant's bicultural experience.

Shu-Min Lin's room-filling installation of wooden shipping crates, arranged
around a video of naked people emerging from cardboard shipping cartons to the
sound of crying babies, is about immigration as rebirth. ''The Human
Reconstruction: Existence-Identity,'' a project by Chen Chun I, uses photographs
of naked body parts applied to FomeCor cubes, which viewers may rearrange to
create the new, racially diverse people that immigration brings about.

Creating a quietly theatrical convergence of East and West, Chir Wei Jane's
''Yellow Rest Station'' is a meditation room with tatami mats and a video
projection of overlapping images of windows and busy subway platforms.

Lin Shih Pao incorporates 1,000 pairs of blue jeans into a messy and expansive
installation of collage and assemblage. That work was inspired by the popularity
of denim in Taiwan and by the tale ''Three Knives,'' which, a label explains,
refers to the tools of three major trades adopted by Taiwanese immigrants: the
barber's knife, the tailor's scissors and the chef's knife.

The explanatory labels that are so commonly part of illustrational exhibitions
are often necessary to make the point. It is hard to say what the large
black-and-white portraits of schoolchildren by Liao Chien Hsing/Jeff represent
until you read that some were taken in Taiwan and some in the United States. So
the series of portraits, as its title, ''Nature/Nurture,'' hints, is an
investigation of the effects of different cultural environments on people who
are genetically similar.

More mystifying is Chang Lishan's installation of hundreds of framed pieces of
paper bearing unintelligible, vaguely calligraphic markings. The label explains
that when Mr. Chang arrived in New York in 1997, he bought a van and started a
moving business. The framed pages are actually handwritten bills, cost estimates
and road directions that he scribbled over to turn them into artworks.

''The artist wishes to communicate through his artwork that is neither English
nor Chinese,'' the label says. ''These documents reflect his subtle yet changing
life in the U.S.''

None of this is to say that immigration is not a compelling topic. The catalog
essay by the exhibition's curator, Luchia Meihua Lee, introduces some
sociological concepts that give a sense of the issue's complexities.

Among the more interesting art in the show are works that are not so
one-dimensionally illustrative. C. J. Yeh's paintings, based on Mondrian, are a
good example. The canvases are shaped like Mondrian originals and have similar
slightly brushy textures. Instead of a colored grid, however, each has impressed
into its all-white surface the black letters of a computer code, which, if
implemented, would produce a Mondrian composition.

As a comment on translation Mr. Yeh's project certainly has a place here, but
tensions between materialism and abstraction, the visual and the digital, and
the hand and the machine, generate meanings that resonate beyond the simple
illustration of immigrant experience.

Two of the more intriguing artists create playful fantasies using lights and
electronic machinery. In the museum's elevator Lin Jiun-ting has installed a
dreamy, multimedia work featuring the magical imagery of computer-animated
unicorns galloping around a carousel inside a small viewing box. And Shih Chieh
Huang has colonized part of the museum's famous panoramic model of New York City
for an entertaining display of biomorphic forms. Made of thin plastic sheeting,
they inflate and deflate to the accompaniment of futuristic sound effects,
glowing colored lights and a revolving toddler-size robot.

Works that do not obviously illustrate Taiwanese experience are the exceptions,
though. So while nobody is saying outright that the art you make must be about
your ethnic or racial identity, members of a nonmainstream group may deduce that
this is the best way to get ahead in today's art world.

''Nexus: Taiwan in Queens'' remains at the Queens Museum of Art, Flushing
Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, through July 4.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lu Hsian Fu's ''Christmas Lanterns/D.I. (Double Identity) No.
1.'' (Photo by Queens Museum of Art)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Exit Date

BYLINE: By Douglas McGray.

Douglas McGray is a writer living in Washington.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26; The Way We Live Now:
5-2-04: Phenomenon

LENGTH: 2968 words


On a snowy January evening, in the kitchen of a powder blue colonial at the end
of a still, winding block in the suburbs of Washington, Titia and her husband,
Kaprr, two immigrants from Sierra Leone, enjoyed a rare family evening together.
Their youngest children, a giddy pair of elementary-schoolers, rushed in and out
of the room. Their teenage daughter chattered about her ''cheerleading skills.''
Even the 17-year-old Deen made an appearance, slouching up from the basement to
pick at leftovers from dinner. It seemed a storybook image of the American
immigrant dream.

But across the room, in low voices so the kids couldn't hear, Kaprr spoke about
the circumstances threatening to break up his family. Kaprr and Titia have been
living in the United States for 13 years. By the time they moved into this house
five years ago, they had legal status, steady jobs, a growing family,
night-school degrees well under way and a mortgage. Despite appearances, though,
Kaprr and Titia are not Americans, or even on a certain path to citizenship.
Rather, they are among at least 2,700 Sierra Leoneans living and working legally
across the United States who face deportation unless they leave the country by
May 3.

Kaprr and Titia settled in America as illegal immigrants after they overstayed
their tourist visas, and Titia then tried and failed to win asylum. But they
lucked into legal status in 1997, when the United States granted all Sierra
Leoneans living within its borders something called temporary protected status,
or T.P.S. On the books since the first Bush administration, T.P.S. was designed
by Congress to shelter those who cannot benefit from refugee and asylum laws:
foreign visitors staying in the United States on short-term visas or working
illegally when their homeland suffers a humanitarian crisis. Recently, a
vigorous lobby has urged the extension of temporary relief to Haitians,
Colombians and Zimbabweans.

T.P.S. grants the right to work and live here legally, but provides no other
perks of citizenship. At the end of a year, if a crisis persists, the government
can offer another year of legal status; and at the end of that year, another,
and so on. Of course, many crises, civil wars in particular, have a way of
dragging on. Of the nine immigrant communities under T.P.S. protection, seven
have been living year to year since 1997 or earlier; most of the 10,000
Liberians and 360 Somalis with temporary protected status have been legal
residents since 1991, although the Liberians are most likely next up for
deportation, and someday, the Somalis will have to follow.

Kaprr first heard the rumors late last summer. Everyone in the Sierra Leonean
community was talking about it: this would be the year T.P.S. ends, they said.
Kaprr grew sick with worry. ''I couldn't think about anything else,'' he said.
Under different circumstances, Kaprr and Titia might not mind this temporary
life coming to a stop. Both of them miss Sierra Leone, even though the house
they left was destroyed in the fighting, and their families were devastated --
Kaprr's parents and sister were killed, as was Titia's sister, and many others.
Both of them want to return, eventually. But Titia's mother, who lives with the
family, had a liver transplant last fall at Georgetown University Hospital;
Kaprr and Titia pay for her health insurance. ''She's taking all these
medications that we cannot afford if we go back,'' Titia said -- if the drugs
are even available there.

And then there are the four thoroughly American kids. When, cautiously, Kaprr
and Titia broached the topic of a possible move back to Sierra Leone, they were
anxious and full of questions. ''They wanted to know about the electricity,''
Kaprr said, ''if there are going to be any medical facilities.'' Titia laughed.
''They wanted to know about the Cartoon Network. And do people have shoes? They
asked: 'Do you sleep in trees?' '' When Titia and Kaprr brought home a series of
documentaries about the war, their teenage daughter fled the room, terrified.
The 8-, 11-, and 13-year-olds are all born American citizens; the 17-year-old is
here on T.P.S. and eligible for deportation. ''If they have to go home. . . . ''
Kaprr said, then paused. ''For them, it's not home.''

The alternative, it seemed, was to stay illegally, until the kids finished
school. But after so many years of legitimate American life, Kaprr did not want
to live in hiding. ''We are law-abiding citizens,'' he said. Besides, the risk
of sudden deportation seemed too great. All they would have to do is slip up at
work, or run afoul of the law, and they could end up in detention. Their kids
had never known such a fearful life and he didn't want to subject them to it
now. (The family members have been identified in this article by their middle
names.)

Like most Sierra Leoneans facing the likely end of their time in America, they
could do little. They hoped the rumors were wrong and that T.P.S. would
continue. They hoped they might qualify for a green card or that they would be
recognized as good Americans and allowed to stay. They hoped for impossible
things and tried not to think about those things too hard, so they could still
take comfort in them.

One of Kaprr's night jobs had petitioned the Department of Labor to give him a
permanent work visa, and his family a shot at permanent citizenship. But almost
two years had passed since then, with no word. After hearing the rumors this
summer, he feared he was running out of time.

One night late last summer, Titia came home from work with an idea, one they had
never talked about before. She mentioned a woman from work, a nurse. She is a
Sierra Leonean, Titia said. And an American citizen. And single. ''She is
willing to marry you,'' Titia said. Just like that. Though Kaprr was shocked, he
saw that the idea made a lot of sense. His marriage to Titia was not officially
recorded in the United States. Marrying another woman seemed like their only
option. Because Titia had applied for asylum, and failed, she was scheduled for
deportation as soon as T.P.S. ended. If she defied the deportation order, it was
highly unlikely she would ever be able to return to the United States. But
Kaprr's case was different, less urgent. Since he never applied for asylum, he
had been merely an undocumented alien before T.P.S. took effect. Once T.P.S.
ended, he would be undocumented again. If the kids were going to stay in
Virginia with at least one of their parents, Kaprr would have to find a way to
stay in Virginia, too.

After two weeks of deliberation, they agreed to go ahead. Titia arranged for
Kaprr to meet his future wife after work, and came along, as matchmaker. It was
brief and businesslike. When I asked him about it, Kaprr simply shrugged at the
memory.

Kaprr and the American married shortly after, on paper at least. But just a few
weeks later, Kaprr received an unexpected round of good news: his petition for a
permanent work visa had been approved. After 13 years in the United States, he
was finally on a path to citizenship -- and entangled now in a bureaucratic soap
opera. He could not petition for Titia to stay with him in America, as his wife,
because technically, he was married to someone else. As he explained the cruelty
of the situation, he shook his head and forced a wry, stoic smile, even as his
eyes began to redden.

The rumors about T.P.S. turned out to be true. The very week Kaprr got his work
authorization, the Department of Homeland Security gave Sierra Leoneans eight
months to sell their belongings, book flights home and leave the country for
good. When T.P.S. ends, most of the Sierra Leoneans will most likely try to stay
on illegally, rather than return to one of the poorest countries in the world.
Alimamy Sesay, a Sierra Leonean community organizer and caseworker outside
Washington, guesses that ''probably 90 percent'' will ignore the deportation
order. This winter, I spoke with at least two dozen Sierra Leoneans who were
here under T.P.S., and not one of them was planning to leave in May. Many hoped
to win some kind of last-minute reprieve. Failing that, they will stay on
anyway, because they have built lives here and raised families here, or because
the money they earn supports a family back in Sierra Leone.

Once all of Kaprr's paperwork goes through (including, now, a pending divorce),
and he scrapes together a few thousand dollars in fees, he and his kids will
remain in their powder blue colonial at the end of the block. In a couple of
years, Kaprr's lawyer tells him, he will probably be able to bring Titia back
from Sierra Leone, though he figures with the Department of Homeland Security's
backlog of immigration cases, and his own fragile citizenship status, it could
be longer. That makes them among the lucky ones. It just doesn't feel like it.

It was raining that day back in 1991 when Kaprr placed one small suitcase in the
trunk of an uncle's car and crossed the river to the Freetown airport. His young
wife, Titia, was already in America. This was Feb. 28, Kaprr said, the last day
he spent in his country -- and just before the rebel leader Foday Sankoh crossed
the border from Liberia at the head of a brutal militia.

Kaprr figured he and Titia would be back soon, maybe after a few years. He had a
decent job in Freetown, but he longed to open his own accounting firm. The
Sierra Leoneans who visited from America seemed so rich, he said, with their new
clothes and their wallets filled with dollars. In the U.S.A., he thought, he
could make some money in a hurry, get an accounting degree, then return home.

He found a job as a nursing assistant, just as Titia had done, and enrolled in a
vocational tech program. He figured he would soon be able to get a good enough
job to start saving some money and taking accounting classes at night. Instead,
he and Titia had to make a choice between paying his tuition and their mounting
bills. He dropped out of the tech training, so he would have more hours to work.
It was so frustrating, he said. He felt as if he was already giving up on his
American dream.

Soon enough, though, the young couple had greater worries. Machete-wielding
rebels battled Sierra Leonean forces as the conflict back home worsened. The
army, meanwhile, staged a coup, tossing Sierra Leone's elected president out of
office and installing a military regime. Deportation was always a risk, but now,
Kaprr and Titia worried, what would they return to? They decided it might be a
good idea to wait the insurgency out.

Neither of them could make a particularly strong case for asylum, since asylum
seekers have to prove they have fled targeted political or religious
persecution, and civil war -- ''generalized violence,'' the law sometimes calls
it -- tends not to discriminate in its victims. But Titia's family, at least,
was politically active in the past. So she applied, and gained tentative legal
status during the two years of immigration court proceedings and three years of
appeals that followed. Kaprr kept working, quietly, as a nurse's assistant,
hoping he could hitch his fate to hers.

When Kaprr and Titia became legal immigrants under T.P.S., life got better, or
at least more secure. The couple no longer lived in constant fear that
immigration authorities would expel them to a country ravaged by war. But
neither of them was able to use newly achieved legal status to establish a
stable career -- a common difficulty with temporary protection.

Until his recent layoff, Kaprr had a contract gig as a network engineer with a
well-known technology company. At night, he takes accounting classes at a local
university, balances books for a few small businesses and prepares tax returns.
And from Friday night through Sunday he lives and works at a group home for
mentally disabled adults. When Titia and I visited the home, a half-dozen of
Kaprr's charges sat apart from each other in secondhand couches and chairs, some
of them reading, others just staring. A loud symphony played from a radio in the
dimly lighted living room. Only an orange and white cat moved, curling and
uncurling its tail as it stepped from one lap to the next.

''One job is not enough to support a family in this country,'' Kaprr said. Titia
nodded in agreement. She starts her first shift as a nursing assistant at 11 at
night, she said, and works until 7 in the morning. She has an hour off to drive
to her next nursing assistant job, where she works from 8 in the morning until 4
in the afternoon. By the time she goes shopping and makes dinner for the kids,
she has time for only a couple hours of sleep. ''You work all night, you drive
around all day,'' she said. ''Sometimes I'll just sit there, like a zombie. But
you can't; you have to think about the things that need to be done.''

Even working papers constitute a hardship for legal immigrants. The year-to-year
paperwork Kaprr and Titia bring to prospective employers shows an expiration
date usually just a few months away. That keeps them in the same low-wage jobs
they had when they first came to the country. Titia did put herself through
nursing school by cutting back her hours a few months at a time and moving her
shifts around. Once she passes a state exam, she'll qualify to be a nurse, which
will allow her to make more money and cut back to 40-hour weeks. Still, she
said, ''even if I got my license, I would probably stay working as a nurse's
assistant.'' Temporary citizenship means temporary work.

''T.P.S. is the bare minimum,'' explained Bill Frelick of Amnesty International.
''It is intended to segregate you legally and socially and economically so you
don't immigrate, so you're more likely to go home when the designation has
expired.''

'I understand the difficulty involved when people put down roots,'' a staff
member of the Department of Homeland Security told me. ''That's one of the
consequences of T.P.S., one of the things that just happens. But this program's
just not designed for that.''

On this point, critics agree. They think T.P.S. is a valuable fix for temporary
crises, but unreasonable when it goes on too long. For the last seven years,
Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, has tried in vain to legislate a
reprieve for the most drastically affected, Liberian immigrants, many of whom
settled in Rhode Island and have lived year to year since 1991. To Reed's mind,
the Liberians in his state became permanent a long time ago, regardless of their
official status. ''They've established a place in the community,'' Reed says.
''They have children who've been born here. With each passing day, the case gets
stronger.''

The problem isn't unique to Liberians, Reed explains, or to Sierra Leoneans. It
is intrinsic to temporary protected status. ''It works pretty well, if there's a
brief interlude of instability,'' he says. ''We should be thinking about a
system that recognizes when it's no longer temporary. Ten years is not
temporary. We can develop a system where at least there's a presumption that
after so many years, you can become a citizen. And we can do that on a general
basis, not a country-by-country basis. There are ways to do it.'' In fact, there
was talk at the White House toward the end of the Clinton administration about
creating a path from temporary protection to permanent-resident status, one
State Department official reports. ''Then the administration changed, and we
were back to square one,'' he says.

Thousands here on T.P.S. hold out hope that Congress might include them in an
amnesty program for undocumented immigrants. President Bush has urged
immigration reform. A series of bills working through Congress could grant legal
residency and a chance at citizenship to longtime illegal residents; these bills
may benefit longtime legal residents as well. No immigration reform bill is
likely to pass before next year, though, which means Sierra Leoneans with
T.P.S., and possibly Liberians as well, would not be spared deportation.
Advocates like Sesay have lobbied the White House to grant Sierra Leoneans a
onetime extension of a year or two, called deferred enforced departure. That
would give Congress the option to include them in any immigration reform law
that passes next year; at the very least, Sesay argues, it would give families
time to save money and plan for the move home, or finish professional degrees.
But Sesay reports little headway.

As thousands of Sierra Leoneans across the country consider their futures,
uncomplicated circumstances seem to be the exception. One man I met at a local
community meeting, a soft-spoken engineer with two master's degrees and his own
home in suburban Maryland, told me he would probably stay, taking an illegal job
and dodging immigration authorities, so his 8-year-old American-born son, who
has severe cerebral palsy, can continue with his special-education classes. Back
in Sierra Leone, he said, the schools would have no use for his son; simply
getting around in a motorized wheelchair would be nearly impossible. Another man
told me he may stay illegally to support his elderly mother, who recently won
asylum from the grim refugee camps in Guinea, where many Sierra Leoneans fled.
She arrived in the United States, alone, less than a month before T.P.S. was due
to expire.

When I talked with Kaprr and Titia's teenage daughter, I asked her if she'd ever
thought about living in Africa. ''There are snakes,'' she said, screwing up her
nose. ''I don't like snakes.'' She has no idea that she narrowly avoided leaving
the United States -- nor did she realize the choices her parents had already
made to keep her here. She sensed something was up, though. She knew her parents
were worried. ''If they're just by themselves, I go up and eavesdrop,'' she
said. ''They really want to go back. Just not right now.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Temporary American: After 13 years in the United States, Titia
must leave. (Photograph by Claudio Vazquez)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Three Cheers for Assimilation

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 21; The Way We Live Now:
5-2-04: Questions for Samuel P. Huntington

LENGTH: 625 words


Q: Your new book, ''Who Are We? The Challenges to America's National Identity,''
suggests that Hispanic immigrants are undermining the greatness of the United
States.

Over 50 percent of the immigrants coming into the country are Hispanic, from
Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America. And about half of the people coming into
the country speak a single, non-English language. That is totally unprecedented.

Some of us find it surprising that a man like yourself, a Harvard professor and
an eminent political scientist, would see the trend toward bilingualism as such
a threat.

There are perfectly decent, responsible, democratic countries, like Canada and
Belgium, that are bilingual. But that does create its own distinctive set of
problems.

But aren't those problems relatively small? Doesn't America's greatness lie in
its ability to assimilate all kinds of people?

The founding fathers were ambivalent about immigration. They invented the word
''immigrant'' in the English language to describe the people coming in who were
different than themselves. They did say if immigrants come, they should be
dispersed.

Your book implicitly endorses Anglo-Protestant values.

Would America be the country it has been and still is, pretty much today, if in
the 17th and 18th centuries it had been settled not by British Protestants but
by French, Spanish or Portuguese Catholics? The answer is no. It would not be
America. It would be Quebec or Mexico or Brazil.

But we've welcomed waves of immigrants since.

Immigration has been central to American development, as well as my personal
life. My wife is the daughter of an Armenian immigrant who assimilated totally
and successfully, as immigrants should.

How, exactly, would you define the culture that you think immigrants need to
embrace?

We are talking about the core culture of this country, which derives from the
founding settlers and includes the work ethic and individualism. It also
includes the English language, English legal institutions, social institutions
and customs.

What about English food? Wouldn't you rather have pizza or sushi than shepherd's
pie?

I'm not talking about culture in that sense. I am talking about a whole set of
values.

Are you an immigrant? I hope you're not one of those Mayflower snobs.

The Huntingtons arrived in Boston in 1633. Almost all Huntingtons in the U.S.
are descended from Simon and Margaret Huntington, who were part of a group of
settlers from Norwich, England, who founded Norwich, Conn.

Did you grow up in a WASP-y mansion in Connecticut with servants?

WASP yes, servants no. I grew up in an apartment in Astoria, Queens.

Do you think that there is any truth to the stereotypical view of WASP's as
emotionally cold people?

Wait a minute. You're talking about people. I am not talking about people. I am
talking about ideas and practices.

What do you say to the fact that about 10 percent of the U.S. soldiers serving
in Iraq are Hispanic?

Again you are talking about people.

What else is there besides people?

There is what people believe, what their assumptions are. I am concerned about
the degree to which people -- whatever their color -- believe in the American
creed and accept American values.

What political party do you belong to?

I'm an old-fashioned Democrat. I was dead-set against us going into Iraq.

Will you vote for Kerry, then?

Oh, yeah. I've met him several times. He lives a few blocks away from me on
Beacon Hill.

How can you reconcile being a Democrat with your views on immigration and
assimilation?

Actually, both parties are divided on immigration. And as a scholar I have a
responsibility to study society and try to call people's attention to things
they might not welcome looking at.   Deborah Solomon


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Allan Penn)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Aide For Immigrant Affairs Quits

BYLINE: By Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 108 words


Sayu V. Bhojwani, the commissioner of immigrant affairs, has resigned to move to
London, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday. Ms. Bhojwani was
appointed in April 2002 and was the city's first commissioner of immigrant
affairs. In a prepared statement, Ms. Bhojwani said, ''In the past year, the
administration has enacted groundbreaking policies that protect the rights of
domestic workers, ensure the access of limited-English-proficient New Yorkers to
city services, and enable immigrants to seek out services for which they are
eligible without fear of being reported to federal immigration authorities.''
   Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Passage Out of Poverty Is Cut Short by Antiterror Snare

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: RIRKA BALA, Pakistan, May 5


Sitting in the compound of her mud house in this dusty farming village in
eastern Pakistan, Bibi Bakhtan, 61, wiped dust from a framed photograph of her
dead son and posed a universal question.

''Can mothers forget their sons?'' she sighed.

Surrounded by grandchildren and a few ambling goats, her voice quivered with
grief as she talked about her son, Muhammad Riaz.

Just over two years ago, Mr. Riaz, then 30, and five other Pakistani men and an
Indian, were shot dead in Macedonia by the local police. At the time, the police
said the men were Al Qaeda-linked terrorists plotting to attack Western
embassies in the capital, Skopje.

This month, the Macedonian government disclosed that a police inquiry had found
the slain men innocent of those charges. They were not terrorists, but rather
illegal immigrants seeking a better life in Europe. And their deaths, the
inquiry found, was an effort to advance Macedonia's status in the campaign
against terrorism.

''It was staged, a monstrous killing of seven economic migrants,'' said Mirjana
Kontevska, a spokeswoman for Macedonia's Interior Ministry.

The March 2002 killings, she said, were part of an attempt by the interior
minister at that time, Ljube Boskovski, and four police officers to ''present
themselves as participants in the war against terrorism and demonstrate
Macedonia's commitment to the war on terrorism.''

Interviews with the families of the slain men reveal one common wish: to earn a
better living by going abroad. All had found illegal passage to Europe before
falling prey to what Macedonian authorities called a ''meticulous plan to
promote Macedonia as a player in the fight against global terrorism.''

Life moves slowly here in Rirka Bala. Trucks and tractors move ploddingly on
patchy roads that pierce fields of wheat and sugar cane and link small mud and
brown brick houses scattered among the fields.

The inhabitants are small farmers who toil under the scorching sun. Villagers
say few here can afford an education.

But among the mud houses every now and then stands a grand multistoried house
with huge front pillars and marble finishing. Local residents say these towering
houses have been built with money sent back by Pakistanis working in the United
States or in Europe as laborers, cab drivers or technicians.

The affluence of some, it seems, has aroused envy in the hearts of many.

Muhammad Riaz belonged to a caste known as Mussalis, Hindu converts to Islam who
do menial jobs in the villages of Punjab. He, too, dreamed of having a big
house, like the ones he saw in his village and neighboring towns, relatives
said. He thought going to Europe was the only way he could fulfill this dream.

And so his family borrowed $1,550 from a local landlord, paid $850 to a travel
agent to arrange a fake visa and passport, and gave the rest to Mr. Riaz for
travel expenses.

Trying to get into Europe illegally is common here. ''There are so many people
who have gone abroad on fake documents and are earning now,'' said Mr. Riaz's
mother, Bibi Bakhtan. ''We didn't think it was wrong. Everybody was doing it.''

During the late 1970's and early 1980's, it was relatively easy to get a visa
for the United States and parts of Europe, village residents said. But as
Western countries toughened their immigration policies, the human trafficking
business flourished in this district, Mandi Bahauddin, and in neighboring
Gujrat.

Gujrat, in particular, is notorious as a human trafficking hub. Over the past
decade, Pakistani news media reports suggest, Gujrat's traffickers have sent at
least 200,000 Pakistanis to Greece, Italy, Spain and other countries. One
popular route has been through Iran, Turkey and Greece into other European
countries, according to local news media reports.

In November 2001, Mr. Riaz went to Turkey via Iran, according to his family.
''Riaz called us from Turkey in early 2002 and told us that he was fine,'' said
Mehr Din, his father.

That was the last word his family received from him.

''We didn't hear anything else until one day his body came in a coffin,'' said
Mr. Din, 70, his wrinkled, sun-bronzed face contorting with pain. Having placed
all their hopes and borrowed money on Mr. Riaz's journey abroad, the family
expects to be in debt for the next seven years.

According to Macedonian authorities, the six Pakistani men -- Mr. Riaz, Omar
Farooq, Syed Bilal Hussein Shah, Asif Javed, Khalid Iqbal and Ijaz Ahmed -- were
in Bulgaria hoping to make their way to Western Europe when they were lured
across the border into Macedonia and housed by Macedonian police who then shot
them.

After the killings, Macedonian officials displayed uniforms and badges bearing
the insignia of the National Liberation Army, an ethnic Albanian rebel force
that fought government troops. Ethnic Albanian politicians denied any links to
the slain men.

The Indian killed with the Pakistani men was a Sikh whose identity is still
being sought by Ansar Burney, a Pakistani civil rights activist.

Among the victims was Ijaz Ahmed, 21, who according to his brother, Azhar Javed,
a 33-year-old cab driver from the village of Sivia, wanted to go to Europe to
help his family. Mr. Ahmed hoped to help the family escape from the poverty that
had ensnared it for generations.

Sitting glumly with his 66-year-old mother, Ghulam Fatima, who sobbed at each
mention of her son, Mr. Javed said that many people from Sivia were working
abroad.

''Ijaz wanted to earn money like them, so he could arrange for the weddings of
his four sisters,'' Mr. Javed said. ''He wasn't a terrorist.''

In the nearby village of Sohawa Diloana, Muhammad Mehdi, 47, a retired army
wireless radio operator, said he thought sending his 18-year-old son abroad
would improve the family's living conditions.

His son, Asif Javed, left Pakistan in August 2001. His father last heard from
him when he telephoned from Turkey in early 2002. Eight weeks later, news of his
death wrecked his father.

''Now I tell people, 'Eat dirt but never send your children abroad,''' he said,
sitting in the village cemetery. He adjusted a garland on his son's grave, and
prayed.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bibi Bakhtan, right, with her grandchildren. Her son was killed
along with five other Pakistani men in 2002 by the Macedonian police. The men
were called terrorists but have since been found innocent. (Photo by Salman
Masood for The New York Times)Map of Pakistan highlighting Rirka Bala: Some
residents of Rirka Bala, Pakistan, use fake visas to escape.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 12, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dreaming of Cuba in an East Village Breeze

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 9; $25 AND
UNDER

LENGTH: 856 words


FROM around the world, immigrants come to New York seeking new lives. As a
glorious fringe benefit, they replenish and infuse the New York restaurant stew
with all sorts of new flavors, direct from home. But a few countries are left
out of the mix -- Cuba, for example.

Without a steady supply of immigrants or back-and-forth travel, the pipeline of
food inspiration from Cuba has been diverted. Yes, New York has its share of
aging restaurants run by Cuban expatriates, including some fossil-like
Cuban-Chinese restaurants.

But most newer Cuban restaurants come to New York by way of secondhand
experience -- Americans of Cuban heritage relying on traditions handed down by
older relatives. Sometimes, these restaurants become fantasies of an imaginary
pre-Castro Cuba, where life was a beachside utopia of salsa and mojitos.

Cafecito, a sweet little restaurant on Avenue C, falls into both categories.
Manuel Garcia, who owns Cafecito with Ian Pearl and Gregory Kussoff, grew up in
Miami, a generation removed from his parents' Cuba. He met his future partners
at Florida International University, where they were all students. They opened
Cafecito with the intention of offering authentic Cuban dishes, tempered by
contemporary American dietary customs. That is, cooking techniques are lighter
than is traditional, and such flavorful additions as lard and pork fat are
banished.

The food is very good -- not great, but enjoyable. The restaurant, two adjoining
storefronts that have recently been connected, is always pleasant. On one side
is a counter, a fine place to sit with a cafe con leche ($1.75), served in wide
cups practically the size of bowls. The other room, brick-walled with softer
lighting, accommodates both romantic couples and boisterous groups.

It is all very nice, but sometimes the combined forces of weather, mood and food
can turn Cafecito into an ideal spot. On a recent sunny spring day, a friend and
I sat down at a table in the front of the dining room for a late lunch. The big
front windows were opened to the warm breezes, and as we watched the
neighborhood passing by, listening to the shouts of schoolchildren, high school
flirtations in Spanglish and other lively sounds of the city, we agreed that we
could not possibly have anything better to do at that moment than sit there. Of
course the mojitos ($5) we were sipping, none too sweet with plenty of mint,
helped matters considerably, but they merely amplified what we were already
feeling.

The menu is slender and the choices among appetizers are few. Empanadas ($2),
stuffed with either chicken or beef, are fair. So are slender ham croquettes
($1.25 for two) and spherical papa rellenas ($3 for two), stuffed with ground
meat. Instead, I would opt for the savory bollos ($3.75) golf-ball-size hush
puppies made with ground black beans and studded with corn kernels, and
certainly for tostones ($1.75), the twice-fried green plantain chips that I can
eat endlessly, especially with Cafecito's tangy garlic sauce.

Tostones or maduros, fried sweet plantains, come with most of the main courses,
along with rice and beans. The best selection is masitas de puerco ($9), chunks
of pork marinated in mojo, the Cuban garlic-and-citrus condiment, and then
quickly sauteed until the exterior turns crisp, leaving the inside juicy and
tender. The pork is topped with grilled onions and served over a delicious sweet
mash of corn and boniato, a tuber like a sweet potato but with a stiffer
texture.

Close behind is a dish I've rarely seen in New York, vaca frita ($9.75), flank
steak marinated in mojo, fried until its strands begin to separate into crisp
tendrils, and topped with pickled onions. It's got far more personality than
either the thin grilled skirt steak ($9.75) or the slender grilled sirloin
($8.75). Ropa vieja ($8.75), the classic Cuban dish, starts with a routine piece
of beef like these two grilled steaks, and then adds the flavor they lack, in
the form of a light tomato-and-wine sauce, mixed with onions and peppers cooked
until soft, and plenty of cumin.

One last option to consider is a fine, traditional Cubano sandwich ($6.25),
roasted pork, ham and Swiss cheese served on a long Cuban roll, which is pressed
flat until the edges of the bread and ham turn crisp. Pickles add a welcome
tanginess. For dessert, flan ($2.50) has been the only choice, but it's a rich
flan, drenched in caramel syrup.

It wasn't so long ago that Avenue C would be one of the last places you'd want
to gaze out on while eating. That's no longer true. This part of Avenue C,
closer to 14th Street than Houston Street, is a sturdy neighborhood, and
Cafecito is a fine addition.

Cafecito
185 Avenue C (12th Street), East Village; (212) 253-9966.

BEST DISHES -- Bollos; tostones; pork with boniato and corn; vaca frita; ropa
vieja; Cubano sandwich; flan.
PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers, $1.25 to $3.50; sandwiches and main courses, $4.75 to
$13.95.
CREDIT CARDS -- Cash only.
HOURS -- Monday through Thursday 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Friday 11 a.m. to midnight.
Saturday noon to midnight, Sunday noon to 10 p.m.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Step at entrance; steps to restroom.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: HAVANA LIGHT -- A spot for coffee, the counter at Cafecito on
Avenue C. (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The King of Retail, in the Spotlight

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 104 words


To the Editor:

Your article about Wal-Mart (Week in Review, Dec. 7) refers to its use of poorly
paid illegal immigrant workers and "pinch-penny issues like unpaid overtime."

Turning off the lights in the restroom when not in use is a "pinch-penny"
practice. Denying workers pay to which they are legally entitled and the use of
illegal immigrants to clean the stores are violations of the law. These
practices, if they occur, should not be trivialized by the use of clever
terminology.

RICHARD N. BLOCK
East Lansing, Mich., Dec. 8, 2003

The writer is a professor of labor and industrial relations, Michigan State
University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Steve Moors)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Hate Me For Working

BYLINE: By EDUARDO RUELAS

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; A Farmingville
Dialogue; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE


ONE year ago tomorrow, a group of teenagers used a Fourth of July rocket to set
the house of a sleeping Mexican family ablaze in Farmingville. Because neighbors
rushed to help, Sergio Perez and Maria Garcia and their two young children were
saved.

Last month, ''Farmingville,'' a documentary about racism and immigrant labor on
Long Island, was broadcast on television, renewing the debate. The Op-Ed editors
asked two people who appeared in the film to share their perspectives on the
growing tensions between itinerant workers and the residents of Farmingville and
to suggest what can be done.

 I CAME to the United States from Mexico more than four years ago. I crossed the
border into Arizona and then spent a month and a half making my way to New York,
where I had friends and family who were already living in Farmingville.

Although I had a job in Mexico, it wasn't enough to support my wife and my
2-year-old son. My only hope of providing for them was to come here. Since
arriving in Farmingville, I have had all sorts of odd jobs: painting,
landscaping and construction work. When I get work, I make about $60 to $120 a
day.

When our family was separated, I wired most of these earnings back to Mexico
City. About two years ago, though, my wife and son came to Farmingville, and we
moved into a house together with some relatives.

Before they arrived, I lived in a house with about 10 or 12 other men. In the
beginning, I didn't like my living arrangements because I had to share
everything -- at times, even my bed. But it had its benefits; if I wasn't able
to work, the others would help me out with food and rent. I did the same for
them.

It's not a lot of fun for me to have to get up at every morning at 5, stand on
the street corner hoping to be offered a job, and worry that if I do get work it
might be dangerous. Although I've been lucky, I've had friends who have broken
their arms and legs and even lost fingers while on the job. None of us has
medical coverage.

But the hardest part about waiting for work is hearing the insults that are
yelled at us by Farmingville residents. The fact that I stand on a corner for
work doesn't make me less human or less worthy of respect.

The way I see it, everyone from the business owners and contractors to the
residents with beautifully landscaped yards benefits from Mexican laborers. We
do the jobs nobody else will do. Why can't anyone see that?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 G.I.'s Killed in Attack; Philippines Bars Iraq Trips

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: CLASHES AND
ABDUCTIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 8


Mortar rounds slammed into an Iraqi National Guard base on Thursday in the
restive, Sunni-dominated city of Samarra, killing five American soldiers and at
least one Iraqi guard, while the Philippines president, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo,
ordered her citizens to stop traveling to Iraq in search of work.

The clashes began in midmorning, when 38 mortar rounds fell on a building used
by Iraqi and American soldiers, demolishing a portion of the building. In the
gun battles that followed for nearly four hours, American and Iraqi troops
fanned out across the city. An American helicopter launched Hellfire missiles on
a building suspected of housing insurgents, killing four, according to Master
Sgt. Robert Cowens, a spokesman for the First Infantry Division.

Twenty American soldiers and four Iraqi guards were wounded in the fighting. The
clashes killed 3 civilians and injured 20 more in Samarra, according to hospital
sources cited by The Associated Press.

Mrs. Arroyo acted after the abduction of a Filipino truck driver in the Falluja
area. Filipinos are among the legions of foreign workers who ferry goods, wash
dishes and cook meals for American soldiers and contractors here. At roughly
4,000, their numbers overshadow the 51 soldiers the country's military has
contributed to the United States-led coalition.

The abduction of the Filipino worker, identified as Angelo dela Cruz, a driver
working for a Saudi company, was the latest in a spate of attacks on foreign
workers. In a videotape broadcast on Al Jazeera on Thursday, militants
threatened to execute two Bulgarian hostages unless the American-led forces
released prisoners, Reuters reported. Even citizens of countries that have
nothing to do with the United States-led coalition have become kidnap targets.

A Pakistani driver working on a United States military base was threatened with
execution and held for eight days before being released. Two Turkish
air-conditioner repairmen, working on an American-financed reconstruction
project, were released by their captors only after promising to quit their jobs.
Since April, a Jordanian businessman, a Kuwaiti truck driver, Turkish
construction workers and Lebanese contract workers have been abducted or killed.

Al Jazeera reported Wednesday the capture of an Egyptian driver who was
delivering fuel to American soldiers. Agence-France Presse reported Thursday
night that two Turkish truck drivers were killed when their fuel convoy was
sprayed with bullets near Samarra.

A video broadcast by Al Jazeera showed the Filipino hostage seated in front of
his three masked abductors. They identified themselves as members of the Iraqi
Islamic Army-Khaled bin al-Waleed Corps, and threatened to execute him in 72
hours unless Manila agreed to pull its troops out of Iraq. Mrs. Arroyo made no
mention on Thursday of what she intended to do about Filipino troops in the
country.

Filipinos, who have worked in the Persian Gulf for years, are among the armies
of low-end service workers here. At least 200 of them returned to the
Philippines after the deaths of three Filipino workers at the hands of the
insurgents. But attracted by the relatively high-paying jobs, they had kept
coming -- labor officials said that 400 had left for Iraq last week alone. But
on Thursday, with a new government ban, 120 Filipinos en route to Iraq were
prevented from boarding their plane in Manila.

''The president has said in the past that the safety of our nationals will be
one of the prime considerations in our continued stay in that country,'' Mrs.
Arroyo's spokesman, Ignacio Bunye, said on Thursday.

Meanwhile, in a Baghdad suburb, a former Baath Party official was killed when a
bomb planted in his car exploded, The Associated Press reported. And a
previously unknown group, calling itself the Islamic Army in Iraq, claimed
responsibility on Thursday for the March killing of four American security
contractors in Falluja.

The violence came a day after the Iraqi prime minister, Iyad Allawi, unveiled
several emergency measures intended, he said, to combat the insurgency.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marines held an Iraqi man and later handed him over to the Iraqi
police after he tried to avoid a checkpoint. A search of his car found weapons.
(Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lost Fruit in Central Florida Means Lost Jobs for Migrants

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: WAHNETA, Fla., Sept. 8


The citrus trees, once pregnant with fruit, have been stripped by the winds. The
grapefruits and oranges, which once held the promise of months of steady wages,
lie scattered in the muddy ground like brightly colored spherical pebbles.

''What are we going to pick now?'' asked Hugo Gonzalez in Spanish, as the
22-year-old agricultural migrant worker sat at the door of his trailer two
nights after Hurricane Frances rattled his home. ''You can't see oranges on the
tree any more.''

The eyes of both Hurricanes Frances and Charley passed through Central Florida's
Polk County, one of the state's top citrus producing areas, destroying as much
as 90 percent of the local grapefruit harvest and as much as 50 percent of the
orange crop. Statewide, the losses to the citrus crop are estimated at 20
percent.

''It's not worth staying here, because you don't make enough to pay expenses,''
said Mr. Gonzalez, who has worked for the last two years as one of Florida's
estimated 25,000 citrus pickers and 150,000 agricultural workers. About 70
percent of them are illegal immigrants, according to the Migrant Farmworker
Justice Project of Florida Legal Services.

Mr. Gonzalez said he came to central Florida from Mexico three months ago to
wait for the beginning of the orange-picking season, which stretches from
October to May. As he sees the promise of work decomposing in the fields, he
wants to leave, but he said he could not afford to relocate. He said he paid
smugglers $2,200 to bring him into the United States in a three-day desert walk.
Now, he said, he barely has enough money to cover the $230 bus ticket back to
his hometown, Pachuca, Mexico.

''Right now if I left, I would leave with just the fare and no money to eat,''
Mr. Gonzalez said. He plans on working odd jobs over the next few weeks.

The discussions about the oranges swirl around the taco cafe, the Winn-Dixie
supermarket and the coin laundry here. The talk in other migrant agricultural
communities is much the same. Where to go? What type of work to do?

Some migrants have begun to leave Central Florida for Mexico, others in search
of work elsewhere in the United States -- Michigan for blueberries, Georgia for
watermelons, Kentucky for tobacco.

Still others are scraping together work after the storm. Construction jobs pay
$8 an hour and up. Collecting fallen branches off the streets brings in $4.50 a
cubic yard. Collecting and selling scrap aluminum can be lucrative. But all this
work is temporary at best.

Mr. Gonzalez said he had hoped to take home as much as $5,000 to help build the
four-bedroom house he plans for his wife-to-be, who is waiting for him. This
year, he said, he will leave with almost nothing but debt.

The force of the hurricanes created a foot-wide split in the floor of the mobile
home that Mr. Gonzalez shares with another Mexican worker, but many other
trailers in Polk County fared much worse.

County inspectors have put red condemned stickers on trailers crushed by trees
or stripped by winds, like those at THE Christmas Tree Mobile Home Park. The
isolated park, which is predominantly Mexican-American, was neglected for days
by the outside world after it was devastated by Hurricane Charley.

It was days after Fort Meade residents received ice, water and other goods
before neighbors realized the destruction at the park. ''They were pretty much
fending for themselves,'' said Angel Catano, an area resident who was among the
first outsiders to go to the park after the hurricane. Mr. Catano took 40 cases
of water, 90 bags of ice and 15 boxes of food, then called his daughter, who
works for the sheriff's office, for additional help.

Florida's agricultural workers, many who originally come from Mexico, are among
the most vulnerable victims of the double hurricanes. ''Not only are many
migrant workers out of a job, they have lost what little they have,'' said
Cheryl Little, the executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.

The Migrant Farmworker Justice Project, using state surveys, estimates that the
winds and rain destroyed about 40 percent of the migrant housing that was
legally occupied in Hardee and Desoto Counties. The destruction is expected to
worsen an overstrained housing market for migrant workers. Only a small fraction
of migrant housing has legal permits, the justice project said. Fears among some
workers of revealing their illegal immigration status, along with cultural
barriers, make many reluctant to come forward to ask for help. ''They don't want
to give their information because they feel immigration is going to get a hold
of it, and they're going to be deported,'' said Bernard Pita, a Spanish-speaking
code inspector for Polk County who has been working with the Christmas Tree
community. ''They usually are self-sufficient. They have a lot of pride.''

Rob Williams, director of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project, who has been
pushing to liberalize immigration laws governing agricultural jobs, said of the
illegal immigrant workers, '''They are an essential part of our economy, but
when there is a storm, when they are at risk, we say, 'Well you are on your own
now, you shouldn't have been here.'''

Churches have tried to fill in the social safety net gap. ''For one thing, we
don't ask who has documents or papers, who is illegal or not,'' said the Rev.
Tom Rush, a pastor with First Baptist Church in Fort Meade. ''All of us have
political opinions, but the issue of ministering to people in need isn't a
political issue.''

Those who cannot leave will cope, said Carmen Escobar, 15, who has been helping
her family pick oranges on weekends since she was 6. Ms. Escobar, who dropped
out of junior high school, shrugs at the destruction. Already, her boyfriend's
family has converted the orange truck to hauling fallen branches. They earned
$100 for one truckload recently.

''You don't need to be cutting down anything,'' she said. ''You just need to put
it in the truck. It's easy.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''What are we going to pick now?'' asked Hugo Gonzalez, an
illegal immigrant worker in the Florida citrus industry who said he would return
to Mexico with little. ''You can't see oranges on the tree any more.'' (Photo by
Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Carolina Growers' Group Signs Union Contract for Mexican Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 609 words


The North Carolina Growers Association, which represents 1,000 farmers, signed a
union contract yesterday covering 8,500 guest workers from Mexico -- a move that
the association and union said was the first union contract in the nation for
guest workers.

At the signing ceremony at a church in Raleigh, the Mount Olive Pickle Company,
the nation's second largest pickle company, announced that it had signed a
separate contract with the union, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, ending a
five-and-a-half-year boycott campaign against the company.

The two contracts end a long, bitter dispute in which the Farm Labor Organizing
Committee accused Mount Olive of using cucumber growers who mistreated their
workers. In organizing a boycott that was backed by the National Council of
Churches, the union said that workers employed by Mount Olive's growers often
lived in squalid housing and that one worker had died of heat prostration and
another of heat prostration or exposure to pesticides.

''The company is tremendously relieved to have the boycott ended,'' said
Baldemar Velasquez, president of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, which is
based in Toledo, Ohio. ''They were getting tired of all the negative
publicity.''

Bill Bryan, Mount Olive's president, said the boycott hardly hurt the company's
sales, except in pockets of the Midwest. But he acknowledged it was
time-consuming and annoying to have to respond to questions about why his
company was being boycotted.

''We have always said we would be interested in settling the boycott if we could
do so with reasonable terms that we felt were appropriate for our company,''
said Mr. Bryan, who asserted that the boycott was based partly on inaccurate
information and unfair accusations.

The agreement with the North Carolina growers is unusual because it is the first
union contract ever signed by farmers in the state, which has a history of
hostility to unions, and because the contract provides for a union hiring hall
in Mexico to help supply guest workers.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Velasquez hailed the agreement with the growers'
association because it gives unionized farm workers a foothold in the South and
because it should encourage workers to speak up without fear of retaliation. He
also praised the agreement because it provides grievance procedures and a
seniority system, which he said would effectively eliminate a blacklist that
prevented guest workers who complained from being rehired. Spokesmen for the
growers denied that any blacklist existed.

Mr. Bryan said the agreement Mount Olive signed would help workers by raising
their wages by a total of 10 percent over three years. Under federal
regulations, agricultural guest workers in North Carolina under the H-2A
temporary visa program are to be paid at least $8.06 an hour, with a piece rate
equal to 44 percent of the value of what they pick.

Mr. Bryan said his company would raise the price it pays its 60 growers, a move
that would help raise piece rates so workers could earn $10 to $12 an hour.
Mount Olive also agreed to pay a 3 percent price bonus to growers who agreed to
provide workers compensation coverage.

In Mount Olive's agreement with the union, the company promised to participate
in various committees organized by the growers' association to study how to
improve housing and health care for the farm workers. In addition, the union and
growers' association said they would jointly contact the Mexican government to
discuss graft, bribery and blackmail carried out by recruiters of migrant
workers, especially illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Greeting at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 93 words


To the Editor:

With the economy still failing to produce enough jobs to lower unemployment to
pre-recession levels, it hardly seems like a good time to open our borders to
foreign guest workers (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8).

The president's proposal would undermine wages and keep citizen unemployment
high, as rational employers would reduce wages and count on an unlimited supply
of immigrant labor to fill any job that citizens leave.

JONATHAN R. SIEGEL
Washington, Jan. 8, 2004

The writer is a professor at George Washington University Law School.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Leif Parsons)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Greeting at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 109 words


To the Editor:

We should support the president in his fresh approach to America's migrant
worker problem (front page, Jan. 7).

Calling undocumented Mexican workers "illegal" is laughable hypocrisy in an
economy that is undoubtedly dependent on their labors.

Furthermore, despite its underlying political motivations, the proposal
represents a welcome change from the administration's past xenophobic rhetoric.

Supporters of migrants' rights should not reject the plan for its failure to
reach their ideal. Rather, they must be vigilant, ensuring that the policy
incorporates safeguards for protecting workers' rights.

KARIN COX
Minneapolis, Jan. 7, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company
