
                               1 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

Romney's Plan for 'Self-Deportation' Has Conservative Support

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 503 words



HIGHLIGHT: The position has been advocated for years by restrictionist and
conservative groups, and is central to tough anti-immigration laws passed in
Arizona, Alabama and South Carolina, among other states.


 When Mitt Romney said in the Republican debate on Monday night that he favored
"self-deportation" as a solution to illegal immigration, it seemed to come out
of the blue, perhaps an effort, as the race moves to Florida, to soften the hard
line he has staked out on immigration.

In fact, that position has been advocated for years by restrictionist and
conservative groups and is central to tough laws passed in Arizona, Alabama and
South Carolina, among other states. Mr. Romney's embrace of a strategy that
would induce illegal immigrants to leave voluntarily places him squarely on the
side of groups that want to reduce legal immigration and vigorously oppose any
plan to give legal status to illegal immigrants, which they reject as amnesty.

The idea arose from a recognition by those groups that no administration was
going to conduct mass roundups to deport an estimated 11 million immigrants now
living in the United States. Instead, the idea is to make it so difficult for
illegal immigrants to live in this country - by denying them work, driver's
licenses and any public benefits and by stepping up enforcement - that they will
give up and go home.

"Obviously, you can't deport your way out of the problem," said Ira Mehlman, a
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a leading
restrictionist group. "You have to convince people who came on their own to
leave on their own."

Illegal immigrants "are very rational people," Mr. Mehlman said. "They come here
to get access to jobs and a lot of services. If you remove those incentives,
they will respond rationally and leave."

Mr. Romney's plan is to issue a card identifying legal workers, which they would
submit to a national verification system at the time of hiring. After a
transition period, Mr. Romney said Monday, illegal immigrants who have no cards
would not find work, and "they're going to self-deport."

The same strategy, under the name attrition through enforcement, was at the
heart of laws adopted in Arizona in 2010 and last year in Alabama, causing a
furor in both states. While the laws were generally popular, they were angrily
protested by Latinos and immigrants and drew legal challenges from the federal
government. An author of both laws was Kris Kobach, a lawyer who is now
secretary of state in Kansas. Mr. Romney has touted Mr. Kobach's Jan. 11
endorsement.

Both Arizona and Alabama saw some declines in numbers of illegal immigrants
after the laws took effect.  But it not clear from census data that illegal
immigrants have voluntarily left the United States, despite five years of tough
enforcement, with more deportations under the Obama administration than at any
time since the 1950s. While far fewer immigrants are coming to the United States
illegally, the Pew Hispanic Center has found, there is no evidence of an exodus.


     ·    Romney's 'Self-Deportation' Solution
     ·    Romney Adds a Top Debate Coach
     ·    Romney to Release Tax Returns on Tuesday
     ·    Romney Says He Would Veto the Dream Act
     ·    Pro-Romney Group Makes Post-Iowa Ad Buy


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Let Arizona's Law Stand

BYLINE: By PETER J. SPIRO.

Peter J. Spiro is a law professor at Temple University.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 783 words


Philadelphia

THE United States Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments on Wednesday in
Arizona v. United States, the Obama administration's challenge to Arizona's
immigration law, known as S.B. 1070. The law requires local law enforcement to
make immigration-status determinations -- traditionally the prerogative of the
federal government -- and to arrest people suspected of being undocumented. S.B.
1070 effectively makes undocumented status a crime under state law and penalizes
unauthorized employment.

Arizona is one of several states, including Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and
Indiana, that, frustrated by Congress's idling on immigration reform, have
challenged federal authority by taking it upon themselves to devise draconian
policies for undocumented immigrants. Alabama's law even requires schools to
collect immigration-status data on their students.

Such laws are misguided at best, mean-spirited and racially tainted at worst.
The conventional wisdom among immigration advocates is that immigrant interests
will be best served if the Supreme Court makes an example of Arizona's law by
striking it down.

But in the long run, immigrant interests will be better helped if the Supreme
Court upholds S.B. 1070. Laws like Arizona's are such bad policy that, left to
their own devices, they will die a natural death -- and their supporters will
suffer the political consequences.

Undocumented immigrants may themselves be politically powerless, but they have
powerful allies. In Alabama and Georgia, dismayed farmers have watched crops rot
in the fields for want of immigrant labor. Arizona is estimated to have lost
more than $140 million from convention cancellations made in protest.

Even more important is the prospect of lost foreign investment. Caught in the
net of Alabama's law in November was a German Mercedes-Benz executive, who left
his passport at home while out for a drive and as a result found himself in a
county jail. Mercedes has a plant in Tuscaloosa that employs thousands of
Alabamians and adds many hundreds of millions of dollars to the state economy.
That embarrassment will make the next foreign company think twice as it scouts
out a location for a manufacturing facility in the United States.

Even without such blunders, international human rights advocates, union
organizers and shareholder activists are putting these laws on the corporate
social-responsibility agenda. Earlier this month, opponents of Alabama's law
traveled to Berlin to press the issue at Daimler's annual meeting. This is the
kind of hassle that corporations hate. Why deal with Alabama or Arizona when you
can build in North Carolina or Florida, states that have refrained from pursuing
extreme anti-immigrant measures?

Similar anti-immigrant laws are often introduced but rarely enacted, as
corporate interests work quietly to kill or defang them. Mississippi became the
latest state to refuse to follow in Arizona's footsteps when an
illegal-immigration bill died in a State Senate committee earlier this month in
the face of opposition from prominent local business groups.

In those states that have enacted laws, there are moves to roll them back. The
Alabama House of Representatives has approved a Republican-sponsored bill to
soften its current law. At the local level, Riverside, N.J., repealed a similar
ordinance following the exodus of an economically vibrant immigrant community.

In other words, the problem will largely self-correct. But even to the extent
that it doesn't, the courts should still refrain from overturning such laws.
Judicial intervention risks generating its own backlash. If the Supreme Court
strikes down S.B. 1070, anti-immigrant constituencies will redouble their
efforts to enact tougher laws at the federal level. A cautionary tale here is
California's Proposition 187, a punitive immigration law that was blocked by a
federal court in 1994 before it went into effect. Two years later, undaunted
supporters helped push through the harshest overhaul of federal immigration
policy in decades.

Even if some of these state immigration laws survive political, corporate and
consumer opposition on the ground, it's better to have the scattered imposition
of state laws than the blanket coverage of a federal measure. Other states and
localities are welcoming immigrants, legal or not. That fact gets lost in the
common indictment of state and local immigration measures as a ''patchwork.''
One of federalism's core virtues is the possibility of competition among states.
Competition in this context is likely to vindicate pro-immigrant policies.

We should hold our noses and hope the Supreme Court lets S.B. 1070 stand, so we
can watch it wither away on its own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

The Lower Floor

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1068 words



HIGHLIGHT: What came through in the Supreme Court's oral arguments over
Arizona's immigration law was the failure to affirm the simple humanity of the
state's undocumented residents.


I found last week's Supreme Court argument in the Arizona immigration case
utterly depressing, and I've spent the intervening week puzzling over my
reaction. It's not simply that the federal government seems poised to lose:
unlike the appeals court, the justices appear likely to find the heart of
Arizona's mean-spirited "attrition through enforcement" statute, S.B. 1070,
permissible under federal law.

Poring over the argument transcript and the briefs, what finally came through as
most deeply troubling was this: the failure of any participant in the argument,
justice or advocate for either side, to affirm the simple humanity of Arizona's
several hundred thousand undocumented residents.

Both facts and logic tell us that this is a varied population. Different
reasons, different routes and different times brought these individuals to
Arizona. Half the adults among them hold jobs. Many are parents of American-born
citizens of the United States. An untold number, while not possessing the right
papers, are also not now deportable under our byzantine immigration laws. But
whoever they are and whatever their stories, all are now likely to become what
Arizona intended them to be when it enacted the law two years ago: hunted.

Under the portions of S.B. 1070 that the lower federal courts have blocked, it
is a crime, subject to imprisonment and a fine, for an "unauthorized alien" to
seek work, a "criminalization of work" that has no counterpart in federal law.
Police officers must determine the immigration status of anyone they stop if
they have "reasonable suspicion" that the person is "unlawfully present in the
United States." A violation of the federal alien-registration statute is deemed
a state criminal offense. Arizona police may arrest, without a warrant, anyone
whom they have probable cause to believe has committed "any public offense that
makes the person removable from the United States."

As the argument proceeded, it was all trees and no forest, the justices toying
with first one section and then another. How long does it take to check the
immigration status of someone whom the police have detained? "Two hours?" asked
one justice. "Two days?" another wondered. Only 10 minutes or maybe 11, Paul D.
Clement, representing Arizona, answered reassuringly. O.K., not so bad, on to
the next section. I was reminded of the blind men and the elephant in the old
fable. No one saw the statute whole.

The observation by Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. that federal
immigration law is "exceedingly delicate and complex," replete with foreign
policy implications and not amenable to blunderbuss treatment by each of 50
states, was met with skepticism, as was his insistence that the federal
government needs to be able to set its own enforcement priorities. "So you're
saying the government has a legitimate interest in not enforcing its laws?"
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy asked. Justice Antonin Scalia took a "why even
bother" approach, asking the solicitor general: "Are you objecting to harassing
the people who have no business being here?"

Many casual followers of this case, State of Arizona v. United States, no doubt
assume it has something to do with the rights of undocumented immigrants. As the
argument made abundantly clear, it doesn't. The question, rather, is which of
two sovereigns, the United States or the state of Arizona, has the right to make
the immigrants' lives difficult. Federal preemption is a doctrine about
structure, not rights. Preemption sets a federally designated floor below which
the states aren't permitted to sink. The problem is that when it comes to
immigration, the floor is getting lower all the time.

The most telling moment came early in Mr. Clement's description of the Arizona
law, when he said: "The federal government doesn't like this statute, but they
are very proud of their Secure Communities program." Secure Communities, of
course, is the program under which the federal government commandeers local law
enforcement officials, including those with their own contrary enforcement
priorities, into the process of identifying deportable aliens. It requires local
police and prison officials to provide to the F.B.I. the fingerprints of anyone
arrested, to enable federal immigration authorities to then check the prints
against immigration databases and, in the case of a match, to take custody of
the person upon release.

The program began late in the Bush administration. Despite mounting objections
from state and local officials, the Obama administration has pursued Secure
Communities vigorously as a tool in meeting its goal of 400,000 deportations a
year. Immigrants with no criminal record have been deported after minor traffic
violations. While the administration has said repeatedly that its priority is
deporting those convicted of serious crimes, the deportation culture is so
ingrained and the undocumented are so demonized among those who enforce the law
that resistance by officers of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency
has become a serious obstacle to conforming the agency's performance to the
president's stated priorities.

So Mr. Clement, the Bush administration's last solicitor general, was certainly
on to something when he suggested that Arizona was simply following Washington's
lead. Indeed, he and his successor, Mr. Verrilli, seemed engaged in a verbal
arms race. The federal government's brief offered a startling description of
what the government was doing on the Arizona-Mexico border in the spring of
2010, when the Arizona Legislature passed S.B. 1070: 4,000 Border Patrol agents
stationed there, a 40 percent increase since 2005; 40 aircraft on patrol; 305.7
miles of border fence completed.

The description was aimed at showing that the Feds were on the case and that
Arizona's law was simply superfluous. Perhaps so, but I read this account as the
chilling self-description of a powerful nation obsessed with imaginary enemies.
"Before I built a wall I'd ask to know/ What I was walling in or walling out,"
Robert Frost wrote. We have walled ourselves in, whether by Arizona's hand or
Washington's or both. The Supreme Court will tell us if the difference matters.
I had thought it did, but by the end of last week's argument, I was no longer
sure.


     ·    Sins of the Parents
     ·    Breathing While Undocumented
     ·    Across the Border, Over the Line
     ·    Women's Work
     ·    Could This Be the End of Health Care Reform?


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia: Court Delays Ruling On Immigration Laws

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 67 words


A federal court in Atlanta said Thursday it would wait until the United States
Supreme Court decided the constitutionality of Arizona's strict immigration law
before ruling on similar laws in Georgia and Alabama. Georgia and Alabama
created two of the nation's toughest immigration laws last year, modeled in part
on Arizona's, allowing the police to inspect the citizenship status of criminal
suspects.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Arizona, Immigrants Make Plans In Shadows

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1157 words


PHOENIX -- Miguel Guerra has a wife, three children and a house. He has a car,
but no driver's license. He has business cards, but no immigration papers. He
got into the habit of keeping his cellphone close when he drives so he can
quickly call a cousin, the only legal resident among his relatives in the United
States, in case he gets pulled over.

If he does not call again within an hour, he said, the cousin knows to look for
him at the county jail.

Mr. Guerra, 36, moved here 13 years ago, before Arizona made illegal immigrants
a target, turning once mundane tasks like driving to the grocery into a roll of
the dice. Protesting the state's strict immigration laws ''hasn't changed
anything,'' he said, so one recent evening he took a more pragmatic approach. He
filled out an affidavit designating his cousin to care for his children, his
money, his house and everything else he owns should he be arrested.

The Supreme Court is set to hear arguments next week challenging the most
controversial sections of an Arizona immigration law, known as SB 1070, which
seeks to push illegal immigrants out of the state by making it hard for them to
go about their lives and earn a living. Lower courts have prevented many of the
most controversial provisions from taking effect, but that has not stopped a
chill from seeping into the bones of the state's immigrants.

''Preparing for the worst is our best defense these days,'' Mr. Guerra said.

Here and elsewhere in Maricopa County, where one in three residents is Hispanic,
illegal immigrants -- interviewed at car washes, outside dollar stores, in
schools and at the offices of a grass-roots organization called Puente, where
Mr. Guerra and others worked on their affidavits -- seemed almost indifferent to
how the Supreme Court will rule on the constitutionality of the law. Having
lived through years of relentless enforcement of the state's
anti-illegal-immigration measures by the hard-line sheriff, Joe Arpaio, they
feel little can make life harder than it already is.

Mr. Guerra said he no longer risked taking his family on road trips to
Disneyland in neighboring California. Maria Jesus, 55, who has a tire store that
caters mostly to illegal immigrants, said she was on the verge of bankruptcy
because most of her clients had either fled the state or were unemployed and
broke. A man who said he recently spent time in a federal immigration detention
center in Florence, Ariz., after he was pulled over for speeding, and who asked
to remain anonymous to avoid more legal trouble, says he leaves home every
morning afraid he will not come back. (He was freed on bail and has a date in
court to decide whether he will be deported, he said.)

Seated across from him at Puente, a woman who would say only that her name was
Leticia and that she was 27, interjected: ''The people who are home, waiting,
are just as afraid. You leave, and we wonder if today is the day you're going to
get arrested.''

The Department of Homeland Security estimated there were 360,000 illegal
immigrants in Arizona as of January 2011, the fewest since 2000.

The downturn in the economy, which hit Arizona particularly hard, may offer only
part of the explanation for the decline. In 2010, the number of births by
Hispanic women fell below the number of births by white women for the first time
in seven years, and it continued to fall at least through February, according to
state statistics. The drop, 28 percent over all, is too steep to be explained by
a decline in fertility rates alone; Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew
Hispanic Center, said it might suggest that there were fewer Hispanic women of
child-bearing age.

Since the bill cracking down on illegal immigration was passed by the State
Legislature in May 2010, enrollment at the Balsz Elementary School District here
in Phoenix, where 70 percent of the students are Hispanic, has dropped by 8
percent, and fewer parents volunteer to walk children to and from school, the
superintendent, Jeff Smith, said.

''We think it's because they're afraid of being on the streets,'' Dr. Smith
said.

It has not always been that way. In 2005, when Senator Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts and Senator John McCain of Arizona unveiled a bipartisan
immigration bill, which would have provided a path to citizenship to certain
illegal immigrants, about 50,000 people rallied here in support. They again took
to the streets by the thousands, part of a wave of protests that spread across
the country, as SB 1070 made its way through the Legislature.

Their battle quickly moved to the courts, where the law's most controversial
aspects -- like giving law enforcement officers the authority to detain anyone
they suspect of being in the country illegally and requiring them to determine
the immigration status of people who have been arrested -- have polarized the
political debate about immigration.

A rally has been scheduled here for the start of the Supreme Court's hearing.
Organizers are hoping a few thousand people will turn out; in private, their
estimates are less optimistic.

''The excitement of four years ago has turned into bitterness; hope has turned
into fear,'' said Alfredo Gutierrez, a former state senator and radio host whose
call-in show allowed immigrants -- illegal and otherwise -- to air their
feelings in public in the early days after the bill was passed.

The measure ''was clearly an attempt to put the entire Latino community under
siege, and to a certain extent it has succeeded,'' Mr. Gutierrez said.

At Puente, the law was an exclamation point of sorts at the end of one
advocate's long explanation about the other state measures against illegal
immigrants: an English-only law in 2002, propositions in 2004 and 2006 blocking
their access to state benefits and their right to post bail, a requirement in
2008 that employers check their workers' immigration status.

It was Week 3 of Puente's six-week ''defense'' course, the first that the group
has offered since opening in 2007 in response to Sheriff Arpaio's raids on
Latino workplaces and neighborhoods.

''I don't need SB 1070,'' Sheriff Arpaio said last week. ''We've been arresting
more illegals than we did in the past. We have enough state laws to do that.''

In their wallets, participants in Puente's course carried a paper that reads:
''I will not sign without a lawyer! Slide the warrant under the door!'' They
also heard other tips: If you have a car, make sure it is registered to someone
with a driver's license. If you have a job, make sure someone knows to collect
your pay if you are not around. If you have children, make sure to authorize a
legal resident to pick them up at school.

Mr. Guerra spoke of friends who had packed up and left -- to Utah, Nevada,
Washington State -- only to come back after finding no jobs or running into laws
much like the one that drove them from Arizona.

''I don't want to live a nomad,'' he said. ''So here I am, getting ready for
what's to come.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jovana Renteria, left, leading a six-week ''defense'' course for
illegal immigrants in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Test for Arizona's Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 609 words


To the Editor:

Peter J. Spiro's take on Arizona's draconian anti-immigration law, S.B. 1070
(''Let Arizona's Law Stand,'' Op-Ed, April 23), is the free-market approach to
legislation.

He urges the Supreme Court, which hears arguments on Wednesday, to uphold the
law so it can ''wither away on its own.'' Mr. Spiro would let targeted
populations suffer economic disaster, injustice, prejudice and false arrest
until the pain of this legislation forces its repeal.

Social justice demands that those most helpless and disadvantaged have the
protection of law. Mr. Spiro's solution is heartless, antisocial and
exploitative.

WILLIAM O. BEEMAN Minneapolis, April 23, 2012

The writer is chairman of the anthropology department at the University of
Minnesota.

To the Editor:

Peter J. Spiro makes a curious case for Supreme Court inaction. He acknowledges,
almost parenthetically, that federal law trumps state initiatives on matters of
immigration status, and that these state laws ''are misguided at best,
mean-spirited and racially tainted at worst.'' Then, he argues that ''immigrant
interests'' would be better served if the court upholds the Arizona statute at
issue.

How so? By Mr. Spiro's reckoning, economic imperatives would steadily drive a
new political agenda. Arizona, after all, has already lost tens of millions of
dollars in convention business as a result of S.B. 1070.

Companies large and small would continue to shun Arizona and other states viewed
as anti-immigrant, Mr. Spiro says. In the end, Arizona's law would ''wither away
on its own,'' as would, presumably, similar laws in other states.

Mr. Spiro may be right, but aren't such unintended consequences beside the
point? Shouldn't we expect the justices to decide the case on the merits?

Or have we come to that sorry state where such expectations seem merely naive,
given our polarization in politics and, yes, in judicial decision-making, too?

MIKE RUBY Cave Creek, Ariz., April 23, 2012

To the Editor:

Business interests do not oppose anti-immigration state laws such as this out of
humanity. Corporate interests like illegal immigrants because they provide an
oversupply of cheap laborers who have absolutely no power.

This is why -- to cite just one example -- the wages of meat packers have
declined from around $18 an hour (inflation-adjusted) in the mid-1970s to about
$11 an hour at present, and the conditions they labor under have become
atrocious over the last generation.

This is why many pro-big-business Republicans such as our last president
supported amnesty until the base made that support toxic.

And this is why Cesar Chavez, the legendary founder of the United Farm Workers,
denounced illegal immigrants to the federal authorities.

DAVID C. HOLZMAN Lexington, Mass., April 23, 2012

To the Editor:

Re ''Defining Moment on Immigration'' (front page, April 23):

I know someone who is living in the United States illegally. He is European, has
fair hair and fair skin, and speaks English perfectly. Does anyone truly believe
that if he were stopped by the police in one of the states with harsh
immigration laws, he would be asked to prove he was in the country legally?

Clearly, the answer is no, which shows that these laws are not really about
immigration. They are about race and ethnicity, nothing more and nothing less.

Expressing such sentiments openly would be unacceptable. So instead the states
passing these laws, and the groups promoting them, claim that what they are
really concerned about is jobs, resources, security and the rule of law. But the
blatant racial profiling that these laws engender demonstrates how false these
claims are.

SEBASTIAN SOLOMON New York, April 23, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fierce Debate on Arizona Immigration Law on Eve of Supreme Court Hearing

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Adam Liptak contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 869 words


WASHINGTON -- A day before the Supreme Court was to hear arguments on an Arizona
statute that expanded the immigration enforcement powers of local police, the
author of the law defended it in a Senate hearing under sharp questioning from
Democrats, saying it ''removes the political handcuffs from state and local law
enforcement.''

Russell Pearce, a Republican who is the former president of the Arizona Senate,
ventured into hostile terrain in a hearing called by Senator Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York, who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, also a Republican, turned down Mr.
Schumer's invitation to advocate for the law at the hearing.

Mr. Pearce and Ms. Brewer are in Washington to attend a Supreme Court hearing on
Wednesday in which the justices will consider whether four provisions of the law
that have been challenged by the Obama administration are unconstitutional
because they encroach on legal terrain reserved for the federal government.

Mr. Pearce, known for his blunt language, said the law, SB 1070, would protect
the state's citizens from ''the invasion of illegal aliens we face today,''
which he called ''one of the greatest threats to our nation.'' He said Arizona
had acted because ''the federal government has decided not to enforce the law,''
and he accused the administration of ''encouraging further lawbreaking'' with
its lawsuit.

The Senate hearing served primarily to highlight the political jockeying
surrounding the Supreme Court's deliberations, as Democrats and Republicans try
to gauge the possible impact of a ruling by the justices on Latinos, a pivotal
group of voters in the presidential contest.

As it appears increasingly possible that the court will uphold at least some of
the disputed provisions, Mr. Schumer called the hearing as a showcase for the
Democrats' opposition to the law, which has been intensely unpopular among
Latinos nationwide. He announced that if the Supreme Court upheld part or all of
Arizona's statute in its ruling, which is expected in June, he would introduce a
bill to expressly prevent states from enacting their own immigration enforcement
laws.

Senate staff members said that proposal would have little chance of passage, but
it could serve as a rallying point for Democrats to appeal to Latino voters
during the summer as the presidential race is fully under way.

None of the Republicans on the subcommittee attended the hearing.

''It is no more than election-year theater,'' said Senator John Cornyn of Texas,
the senior Republican on the subcommittee. He said that none of the witnesses
was an expert on the arcane legal issues that the Supreme Court is considering
about the law.

The Arizona law requires state law enforcement officials to determine the
immigration status of people they stop or arrest if officials have reason to
believe they might be illegal immigrants. The law also makes it a crime under
state law for immigrants to fail to register under a federal law and for illegal
immigrants to work or to try to find work. It also allows the police to make
arrests without warrants if they have probable cause to believe that suspects
are deportable under federal law.

Lower courts have blocked the provisions. The administration has argued to the
Supreme Court that the law conflicts with federal policies and priorities.
Arizona counters that the law complements federal efforts to control immigration
and is a routine example of state enforcement of federal laws.

Mr. Pearce, a fierce opponent of illegal immigration, wrote the statute, which
passed in 2010. Caught in the uproar the law provoked among some voters,
especially Latinos, he lost his Senate seat in a recall election last November.

Persistent questioning from Mr. Schumer put Mr. Pearce on the defensive at
times, as the senator bore down on sections of the bill he said could lead the
Arizona police to engage in racial profiling. The senator pointed to a training
manual showing that the police were instructed to consider how a person was
dressed and whether his vehicle was ''heavily loaded'' in developing a
''reasonable suspicion'' that he was an illegal immigrant.

The bitterness that the bill has provoked was on display. Dennis DeConcini, who
was a Democratic United States senator from Arizona from 1977 to 1995, issued an
apology to Latinos for the ''harm'' of the law. ''I am embarrassed for my
state,'' he said.

Around the country, immigrant advocate organizations were gearing up for
protests and vigils. Immigrant groups in Los Angeles held a small rally on
Tuesday in front of a federal court building downtown.

In a letter released Tuesday afternoon, religious leaders from a number of
faiths called on President Obama to ''reassert your authority'' to stop states
from enacting a patchwork of immigration laws, by working with Congress to pass
a broad federal overhaul of the immigration system. Among those signing were
Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan of New York, president of the United States Conference
of Catholic Bishops; Leith Anderson, president of the National Association of
Evangelicals; and the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic
Christian Leadership Conference.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russell Pearce, left, a former Arizona lawmaker who wrote the
state's immigration bill, testified about it Tuesday at a hearing held by
Senator Charles E. Schumer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hearing And Rallies Over a Law In Arizona

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 831 words


WASHINGTON -- Hundreds of chanting demonstrators filled the sidewalk in front of
the Supreme Court on Wednesday, denouncing an Arizona immigration law that was
under debate inside, saying it would spread fear among Latinos in the state.

Protesters from Latino communities in Arizona, carrying crosses and images of
the Virgin of Guadalupe, the patroness of Mexico, called on the justices to
strike down the disputed provisions of the law, warning that they could unleash
a wave of discrimination in the state.

But while the protesters, who also included labor and religious groups,
denounced the civil rights abuses they said the law would bring, inside the
court questions asked by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. early in the
arguments clarified that the case did not directly concern racial profiling or
other rights claims.

The justices heard arguments over a law, known as SB 1070, that Arizona passed
in 2010 requiring the police to question people about immigration status if they
have a ''reasonable suspicion'' the person is an illegal immigrant. On display
inside and outside the court were the widely divergent perceptions of the issues
at stake in the legal challenge to Arizona's law between its critics and its
proponents.

''The chief justice started off by making it clear this isn't a case about
profiling,'' Paul D. Clement, who argued the case for Arizona, said after the
hearing. ''It's really a case about pre-emption, and the relationship between
the federal law and the state law.'' He was referring to the Obama
administration's assertion that the federal government should take precedence
over the states on immigration enforcement.

In Washington and around the country, protests against Arizona were far more
numerous than public actions in support. Demonstrators in Washington chanted
civil rights-era songs, and clergy members in white robes from several faiths
led a silent march around the court building.

Georgina Sanchez, a protester who came from Phoenix, said families there that
included illegal immigrants were worried the court would uphold the law. ''The
children live in fear that their parents will not come home one day,'' she told
the crowd.

But Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, emerged from the hearing confident
the state would prevail in the court's ruling, which is expected in June.

''I am very, very encouraged that we will get a favorable result,'' she said.
She said the justices' questions showed that ''we do have sovereignty and we
certainly have states' rights, and we have a responsibility and an obligation to
protect our citizens.''

Ms. Brewer accused the Obama administration of raising racial issues in its
challenge to the law for political purposes, ''trying to use that scare card to
generate support for the election.''

After the hearing, as she was looking for the news media at the base of the
court steps, Ms. Brewer instead wandered into the crowd of protesters, who
surrounded her for a tense moment, shouting, ''Shame, shame!'' Eventually she
found a location to address the news organizations and departed another way.

Others who supported Arizona were cheered by the arguments.

''The Justice Department was on the ropes,'' said Kris Kobach, the secretary of
state of Kansas, a constitutional lawyer who advised Arizona on writing the law.
''They were being pressed by the justices to explain the core weakness of their
case, and that is there is no federal statute that conflicts with Arizona's
law.''

Among demonstrations in at least a dozen cities, in Phoenix on Wednesday
protesters marched past the Police Department, the Maricopa County jail and the
offices of federal immigration agents. Seven people were arrested outside
immigration offices, The Associated Press said. In Boston, several hundred
opponents of the Arizona law rallied outside the State House.

Lawyers opposing Arizona contended that it was difficult to tell how the
justices might decide. But they said other lawsuits have been filed against SB
1070 by civil and immigrant rights organizations, which have not moved forward
while the Supreme Court heard the Obama administration's case.

Linton Joaquin, general counsel of the National Immigration Law Center, in
California, said his group had participated in a lawsuit based directly on civil
rights, which is currently in federal district court in Phoenix.

''Our challenge really gets to the discriminatory intent and impact of the
law,'' Mr. Joaquin said.

Whatever the Supreme Court decides in the current case, the others will still
advance, he said.

Latino advocates said the legal issues could not be separated from the Arizona
law's impact on immigrant communities.

''We regard this as the biggest civil rights case of our time,'' said Clarissa
Martinez, director of immigration for the National Council of La Raza.

''If the court decides to uphold, without a doubt that would be a call to action
for Latinos,'' she said. ''We need to realize that our position in this country
is being challenged.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As the Supreme Court heard arguments on Wednesday on an Arizona
law on police questioning of immigration status, protests against the law were
held outside, above, and in Phoenix, at right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MANDEL
NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ERIC THAYER/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday

Mississippi's Rebellion

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 188 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Mississippi House passed a copycat version of Arizona's
immigration law.


The Mississippi House passed its copycat version of Arizona's extremist
immigration law yesterday. It now heads to the Senate, where it is expected to
pass and then be signed by Gov. Phil Bryant, who has endorsed it.

"Perhaps it's boat-rocking time in Mississippi," Mr. Bryant said recently,
meaning that it's time for states like his to muscle the federal government
aside and crack down themselves on undocumented immigrants.

Mississippi's states'-rights rebellion was matched in its ugliness by an
incident today at the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, in a game between Southern
Mississippi and Kansas State.  When a Kansas player, Angel Rodriguez, went to
the foul line, Southern Mississippi band members were heard chanting, "Where's
your green card?"


(Kansas State won, 70-64.)

Note to Mississippian-Americans who may not be aware: Mr. Rodriguez was born in
Puerto Rico.  Although they lack some of the rights enjoyed by those on the
mainland, Puerto Ricans are American citizens.


     ·    Pander Is As Pander Does
     ·    Grand, Old and Anti-Woman
     ·    At Least Grover Norquist Is Consistent
     ·    Opinion Report: Super Tuesday
     ·    Opinion Report: Charter Schools


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday

The Arizona Show

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 542 words



HIGHLIGHT: Senator Chuck Schumer's hearing on Arizona's immigration law
accomplished nothing.


Senator Charles Schumer of New York, chairman of the Judiciary Committee's
subcommittee on immigration, refugees and border security, called a hearing this
morning on Arizona's immigration law.

The subcommittee has 11 members. Only two showed up: Mr. Schumer and Richard
Durbin of Illinois. All five Republicans stayed away. Jon Kyl of Arizona said
the hearing was "strictly political theater" - Democrats blustering against the
law, SB1070, on the day before the Supreme Court was to hear arguments over its
constitutionality.

But four Democrats - Patrick Leahy, Dianne Feinstein, Al Franken and Richard
Blumenthal - were absent, too. Maybe they agreed with Mr. Kyl.

If this was supposed to be theater, I'm glad I didn't have to buy a ticket.

Very little was illuminated and nothing was accomplished, except the granting of
a platform to Russell Pearce, the former Arizona state senator who sponsored
SB1070 and was later thrown out of office by constituents weary of his
anti-immigration tirades.

If Mr. Schumer had wanted to embarrass Mr. Pearce, he failed. Mr. Pearce and his
Arizona allies, like Gov. Jan Brewer and Sheriff Joe Arpaio, cannot be
embarrassed. Mr. Pearce mumbled his way through Mr. Schumer's mild questioning
and stayed out of trouble. He insisted that the law's intentions were pure and
took offense at the suggestion that the police in Arizona were ever less than
honorable. SB1070 seems to encourage, if not require, racial profiling - cops
are expected to demand the papers of suspicious characters who appear to be
illegal immigrants because of the clothes they wear, among other things. But Mr.
Pearce said that never happens. (What does an illegal immigrant look like? Mr.
Schumer did not get an answer.)

Only Mr. Durbin seemed to know what he was doing. Mr. Durbin, who is the sponsor
of the Dream Act, which would legalize blameless young immigrants who enter
college or the military, named and held up large photos of potential Dream Act
recipients. It was an inspiring array of scholars and soldiers, who would also
be targets of SB1070.

Another witness, Arizona State Senator Steve Gallardo, gave a precise summary of
the ways SB1070 has terrorized and split families and spurred vigilantism.
Dennis DeConcini, the former Arizona senator, pointed out that Mr. Pearce and
others had consistently exaggerated or concocted alarming stories and statistics
about violence on the southern border. He said he was "embarrassed" for his
state.

I'd have been more impressed if Mr. DeConcini had mentioned that he is on the
board of Corrections Corporation of America, a huge benefactor of the boom in
immigration detention spurred by Arizona-style crackdowns.

Mr. Schumer said a few things, and talked about legislation he was planning to
forbid states to wage their own immigration crackdowns -- a fallback bill in
case the Supreme Court upholds the Arizona law. It's a bill that will never get
through Congress, but Mr. Schumer seems more interested in using it to score
points with Latino voters.

To that end Mr. Schumer, for the record, noted the absence of a Republican, any
Republican. Then the gavel fell.


     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    Backwards Alabama
     ·    Opinion Report: Homeless Vets
     ·    Liberty and Justice for Non-Muslims


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stopping the Free-for-All

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 456 words


The Supreme Court's decision to review a federal court ruling blocking parts of
Arizona's notorious immigration law is troubling. It is arguably premature to
take this case because there is no split among the federal appellate courts over
states' powers to enact such laws.

The court should use this opportunity to clarify the need for uniform laws in
this area of vital national interest and stop the march of states taking
immigration policy into their own hands. The Obama administration sued to stop
Arizona -- and later Utah, Alabama and South Carolina -- because immigration is
a federal responsibility that states cannot usurp.

Judge Susan Bolton of Federal District Court struck down parts of the Arizona
law, enacted last year, that requires police officers to check the immigration
status of anyone they have ''reasonable suspicion'' of being in the state
illegally, makes it a state crime to be unlawfully present in this country and a
state crime for illegal immigrants to work or look for work, and permits the
warrantless arrest of anyone believed to be deportable.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit got it right in April
when it upheld Judge Bolton's ruling. In a powerful concurring opinion, Judge
John Noonan paid particular attention to the section of the law that enshrines
the mass expulsion of illegal immigrants -- ''attrition through enforcement'' --
as Arizona's official state policy. ''That 50 individual states or one
individual state should have a foreign policy is absurdity too gross to be
entertained,'' Judge Noonan said. ''In matters affecting the intercourse of the
federal nation with other nations, the federal nation must speak with one
voice.''

The Constitution gives Congress, not the states, the power ''to establish an
uniform rule of naturalization. '' As the solicitor general, Donald Verrilli
Jr., wrote in a brief urging the Supreme Court not to take the case, laws like
Arizona's upset the federal government's careful balancing of ''law enforcement
priorities, foreign-relations considerations and humanitarian concerns.''

States like Arizona have been trying openly and mightily to throw that balance
out the window, being much harsher than the federal government in criminalizing
undocumented immigrants. Arizona contends that ''federal immigration laws
expressly contemplate and authorize cooperative law enforcement efforts between
federal and state officials.'' But under the Constitution, federal immigration
laws pre-empt the Arizona provisions. While mass deportation may be a rallying
cry for many state officials, it is not, thankfully, federal policy. The Supreme
Court should end the state-created chaos in immigration laws by heeding Judge
Noonan's wise words.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Blocks Parts of Law On Migrants In Alabama

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 411 words


A federal appeals court has blocked two parts of a tough new Alabama immigration
law.

The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit issued an order on
Thursday prohibiting enforcement of sections of the 2011 law that restricted
commercial and government transactions for illegal immigrants. One of the
provisions states that courts cannot enforce contracts that involve illegal
immigrants; the other prohibits those in the country illegally from doing
business with the state.

A number of civil rights groups, including the Hispanic Interest Coalition of
Alabama and the American Civil Liberties Union, challenged the law, as has the
federal government. Opponents of the law have argued that the restrictions are
unconstitutional and that they harm many citizens and legal residents who might
be mistaken for illegal immigrants. They have also argued that immigration law
is a federal responsibility, and that states are creating a varied and
conflicting pastiche of laws. Proponents of the law say it is necessary because
the federal government has not stepped up to its responsibilities in restricting
illegal immigration.

Cecillia Wang, director of the ACLU Immigrants' Rights Project, applauded the
ruling as ''an immediate and enormous relief for countless people in Alabama who
were being stymied in doing their everyday business.''

The three-judge panel announced last week that it would issue no new rulings in
the case until the United States Supreme Court rules on a tough Arizona
immigration law. After being urged in oral arguments to enjoin the Alabama law,
however, the court issued the ruling that blocks the two provisions pending
action by the Supreme Court.

In a previous ruling, the court blocked a part of the law that required schools
to check the immigration status of students.

In Thursday's order, the court left standing two remaining provisions of the law
that require police officers to check the documents of people they have
''reasonable suspicion'' to believe are in the country illegally, in a range of
situations that include traffic stops and arrests.

Alabama's attorney general, Luther Strange, issued a statement saying that he
strongly disagreed with the decision to block the parts of the law temporarily,
and that he would ''continue to vigorously defend Alabama's immigration law in
the courts.'' Mr. Strange said that he hoped the Supreme Court's decision on the
Arizona law ''will make clear that our law is constitutional.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Striking Down a Bad Law, Piece by Piece

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 299 words


Arizona's extremist immigration law has gone another round in federal court --
and lost again. The judge who rejected several of its provisions in 2010
temporarily blocked another section last week, the one making it a crime for day
laborers to look for work on the street.

The state had argued that it had restricted day-labor solicitation in the
interests of traffic safety. But Judge Susan Bolton of Federal District Court
ruled that the plaintiffs challenging the provision on First Amendment grounds
were likely to prevail, given that the law seemed written to target particular
speech ''rather than a broader traffic problem.'' She noted that Arizona has
traffic laws to prevent dangerous acts by pedestrians and cars.

States and localities have tried for decades to write laws to throw day laborers
off the corner and have repeatedly run up against the Constitution. Last fall,
the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit threw out an
antisolicitation ordinance in Redondo Beach, Calif., calling it a ''facially
unconstitutional restriction on speech,'' written so broadly that it could ban
sidewalk activities that do not disrupt traffic at all. In February, the Supreme
Court wisely refused to reverse the Redondo Beach decision.

In Arizona, as in Redondo Beach, it has been left to judges to protect immigrant
laborers when government officials seek to drive them out of sight. Judge Bolton
rightly noted that the first section of the Arizona law declares ''attrition
through enforcement'' -- the mass expulsion of undocumented immigrants through
wide-ranging crackdowns -- to be the official policy of state and local
government in Arizona. What does that have to do with traffic safety? Nothing,
Judge Bolton pointed out, exposing Arizona's unconstitutional law for what it
is.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona v. United States

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 420 words


Solicitor General Donald Verrilli Jr. had barely started his argument against
Arizona's immigration law on Wednesday at the Supreme Court when Chief Justice
John Roberts Jr. signaled where he stood -- in sympathy with the state's defense
of the statute.

His first question for Mr. Verrilli made it clear how little Chief Justice
Roberts was focused on its pernicious effects and how little he wanted that
discussed in the court: ''No part of your argument has to do with racial or
ethnic profiling, does it?'' The solicitor general had to agree. The
government's case turns on the doctrine of pre-emption, not on the injustice of
the Arizona law.

Mr. Verrilli then found himself in a debate about the statute as Chief Justice
Roberts portrayed it, not the one that is actually law. The chief justice all
but reduced the statute's central purpose to information-gathering. Requiring
police officers to determine the status of anyone they stop if they believe the
person to be an illegal immigrant, he said, simply lets the federal government
figure out whether the person is in the country illegally. It leaves it up to
federal authorities to do something about that or not, with no burden on the
government and no required shift in its priorities.

The statute's likely effects on Hispanics in Arizona that emerged in questioning
were considerably more frightening -- in keeping with a law whose explicit
purpose is ''attrition through enforcement.'' The solicitor general used the
term ''mass incarceration'' to describe a likely result of the Arizona statute.

Mr. Verrilli said the government has a database of passport holders, but not one
for citizens. A citizen who took a walk after dark without identification could
be stopped and locked up because the government couldn't verify his citizenship.
The provision in question requires police officers to hold a suspect until his
immigration status can be determined. An illegal immigrant with an application
pending for legal asylum status could be similarly locked up, another result of
the statute's interference with what the solicitor general called the
''exceedingly delicate and complex'' balance of enforcing immigration policy.

Justice Antonin Scalia seemed to speak only for himself when he suggested the
way to avoid the time and cost of striking that balance was to deport ''these
people.'' But he and other justices seemed to accept Arizona's view that the
real problem is an inadequate federal immigration policy, not the reign of
terror created by this statute.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Hundreds Protest New Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 81 words


Hundreds of people rallied outside the Statehouse on Tuesday to protest
Alabama's tough immigration law, with organizers saying they chose to send a
message on Valentine's Day that lawmakers need to love and respect immigrants.
Legislative leaders have said they plan to introduce a bill in the coming weeks
to make subtle changes to the law. However, Representative Micky Hammon, the
majority leader, said the proposal would not make major changes and was not
intended to soften the law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Day Labor Rule Blocked

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 184 words


A federal judge blocked the police in Arizona from enforcing a section of the
state's 2010 immigration enforcement law that prohibited people from blocking
traffic when they seek or offer day labor services on streets. Judge Susan R.
Bolton of District Court ruled Wednesday that groups seeking to overturn the law
would probably prevail in their claim that the day labor rules violate the First
Amendment. She rejected arguments by the state that the rules were needed for
traffic safety and pointed out that the law says its purpose is to make
attrition through enforcing the immigration policy of state and local government
agencies. The ban was among provisions in the law that were allowed to take
effect after a July 2010 decision by Judge Bolton halted enforcement of more
controversial elements. The previously blocked portions include a requirement
that the police, while enforcing other laws, question people's immigration
status if officers suspect they are in the country illegally. The Supreme Court
has agreed to hear an appeal of the judge's decision to suspend the most
contentious elements.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona and Interposition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 458 words


An important verb appears on page 14 of the government's brief in Arizona v. the
United States, the case about four provisions of that state's immigration law
that will be argued on Wednesday in the Supreme Court. The government says
Arizona is trying to ''interpose'' its own judgments on ''national security, law
enforcement, foreign policy, humanitarian considerations and the rights of
law-abiding citizens and aliens.'' It says the Constitution and Congress, in the
Immigration and Nationality Act, give the executive branch authority to handle
those issues.

The word ''interpose'' is a yellow flag in the history of state and federal
relations. The southern states claimed a right of ''interposition'' as a basis
for secession before the Civil War, and they resurrected the idea in the 1950s.
Just as they claimed the right to interpose their power between the federal
government and their populations over slavery and other issues in the 19th
century, the southern states claimed the right to ignore the Supreme Court's
desegregation order in Brown v. Board of Education.

In 1958, in Cooper v. Aaron, the court scorched this idea and reaffirmed that
Arkansas had a duty to follow federal law. The governor had contended he was not
bound by the court decision and ordered the National Guard to bar nine
African-American students from Little Rock's Central High School, causing
violence and disorder. In a unanimous opinion that they all signed, the nine
justices said that the ''chaos, bedlam and turmoil'' caused by the governor's
disobedience was ''intolerable.''

Arizona's argument is somewhat different. Arizona contends that it has the power
to make its own immigration policy even though the federal government has
authority over immigration as part of foreign policy. It says its statute merely
empowers law enforcement to cooperate with federal officers.

That is extremely disingenuous, to put it politely. The law transforms a federal
policy that allows discretion in seeking serious criminals among illegal
immigrants into a state mandate to single out everyone in Arizona illegally. The
four provisions of the statute at issue essentially turn all Hispanics,
including American citizens and legal residents, into criminal suspects. They
require racial profiling, and, because their purpose is ''attrition through
enforcement,'' their goal effectively is separation by race.

Just as racial equality was the law of the land during the desegregation era, it
is the law of the land today. It is imperative that there be ''a single,
national approach'' to immigration, as the government's brief explains, and that
any state law fulfills America's hard-won commitment to racial equality.
Arizona's anti-immigrant statute emphatically does not.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama Gets Strict Immigration Law as Governor Relents

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 328 words


Only a day after calling a special session and urging the Alabama Legislature to
make more changes to the state's immigration enforcement law than the modest
ones they had passed, Gov. Robert Bentley on Friday signed the bill into law
anyway.

The governor's decision was arguably the quickest of several reversals that have
taken place in recent weeks as politicians in Montgomery, the capital, debated
the need for changes to Alabama's immigration enforcement law, considered the
strictest and most sweeping in the country.

The Legislature had seemed poised just weeks earlier to pass a bill that would
make a number of changes to the original law that were intended to address
complaints by business groups, local law enforcement officials and legal Alabama
residents.

But in the last few days of the session, which ended Wednesday, another version
of the bill gained steam, one that preserved more of the original law and also
added some controversial provisions, like one requiring the state to publish the
name of every illegal immigrant who appears in court for a violation of state
law.

After that bill was passed, Governor Bentley added the immigration law to the
list of topics lawmakers were to consider during a special session that began on
Thursday. Declining to sign the bill that was passed, Mr. Bentley specifically
recommended that they revisit the new provision concerning illegal immigrants in
court and a provision from the original law, currently barred by a federal
court, that required schools to ascertain the immigration status of enrolling
students.

Lawmakers immediately responded by filing bills nearly identical to the one that
passed the day before, only now requiring the state to publish photographs of
immigrants in court in addition to their names.

Saying that he still had concerns about the law, Governor Bentley acknowledged
in a statement that ''the Legislature did not have the appetite for addressing
further revisions at this time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 146 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Gov. Andrew Cuomo should sign a bill requiring livery cabs to get three-year
licenses. It would provide revenue for the city without creating serious
competition for the city's 13,000 yellow cabs.

When the Supreme Court reviews a federal court ruling blocking parts of
Arizona's immigration law, it should affirm the principle that states can't make
their own foreign policy.

Republicans have inserted scores of irrelevant riders into the must-pass
spending bill.

Dr. Donald Berwick, who was blocked by Republicans from serving a full term as
head of the agency that runs Medicare and Medicaid, has been speaking out about
the politicization of health care and the "outrageous rhetoric" about death
panels.


     ·    Yes, Racial Profiling Is Illegal
     ·    Opinion Report: Public Sector Cuts
     ·    The Politicization of the Solicitor General
     ·    The Immigrant Fitness Test
     ·    Opinion Report: Alabama's Immigration Law


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday

Alabama Doubles Down

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 310 words



HIGHLIGHT: The state just made its radically awful immigration law even worse.


After all that talk about wanting to "simplify and clarify" last year's
radically awful immigration law, Alabama's legislature doubled down last week.
It passed a bill, H.B. 658, to make things worse.

One new provision requires schools to collect immigration data from students -
even though a federal court has blocked a similar section in last year's law.
Another requires the state to publish online the names of all undocumented
immigrants who appear in court. It's a scarlet-letter database to accomplish -
what, exactly, beyond public shaming? It's hard to know, though immigrant
advocates fear, plausibly, that it will heighten the risk of vigilantism.

The bills' architects, Representative Mickey Hammon and Senator Scott Beason,
have become heroes to the anti-immigrant right. But many moderate Alabamians had
been urging lawmakers to step back from their fixation on anti-immigrant
schemes, which they see as causing the state deep humiliation and economic and
moral damage. The Birmingham News, which called last year's law "a terrible
black eye" for the state's reputation, said the new one amounted to "another
black eye and a kick to the ribs."

It was up to Gov. Robert Bentley last week to save his state from another round
of self-destruction. He had previously signaled that he didn't like the new
provisions in the bill and might veto it.

In the end, what did he do?

Why, he signed it, of course, and called it progress.

"In an effort to remove the distraction of immigration from the other business
of the special session," Mr. Bentley said in a statement, "I decided to sign
House Bill 658."

He could have removed the distraction by vetoing the bill, but that would have
taken courage. Mr. Beason later said he "couldn't be more pleased."


     ·    Backwards Alabama
     ·    U.S. v. Arpaio
     ·    Opinion Report: Hunts Point
     ·    Opinion Report: The Egyptian Election
     ·    The Arizona Show


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Judge Blocks Part of Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 96 words


A federal judge in Mobile issued a preliminary injunction on Monday that blocks
a provision of Alabama's immigration law that would have forced illegal
immigrants to leave their mobile homes. The ruling by Judge Myron Thompson of
Federal District Court replaces a temporary ruling in effect for the last two
weeks. It means that people paying for their annual mobile home registration
tags will not have to prove their legal residency for now. The registrations are
needed to reside in a mobile home. Attorney General Luther Strange, who is
defending the law, declined to comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parts of Immigration Law Blocked in South Carolina

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 599 words


ATLANTA -- A federal judge on Thursday blocked the most controversial parts of
South Carolina's new immigration law from taking effect next month.

The decision, by Judge Richard M. Gergel of Federal District Court in
Charleston, S.C., sets the stage for a legal showdown on immigration as the
United States Supreme Court prepares to hear a challenge to a similar law in
Arizona.

Judge Gergel blocked the most contentious part of South Carolina's law, which
requires law enforcement officials to check the immigration status of any
suspect they believe may be in the country illegally. He also banned provisions
that make it a crime to harbor or transport an illegal immigrant.

South Carolina's Republican-controlled State Legislature passed the law in June,
and it would have taken effect on Jan. 1. Federal judges have now struck down
portions of state immigration laws in Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana and
Utah.

''This is one more decision in favor of blocking these laws,'' said Andre
Segura, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights
Project. ''It further highlights that the weight of authority is that these laws
are unconstitutional.''

This month, the Supreme Court announced that it would decide whether Arizona was
entitled to impose its tough anti-immigration law, a ruling that could dictate
the constitutionality of laws in South Carolina and other states. In a sense,
legal experts say, these lower court battles are merely prologues to that
decision.

''This is all really just a way station on the way to the Supreme Court's ruling
in the Arizona case,'' said Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University
who specializes in immigration. ''The South Carolina ruling is important in the
short term in putting the law on hold. But the Supreme Court will have the final
say.''

Not all rulings have favored immigrants' rights groups. In Alabama, a federal
judge upheld the majority of the state law. But in Georgia and Arizona, courts
have struck down the most far-reaching provisions.

The South Carolina law was challenged by the Justice Department and a coalition
of civil rights groups that included the A.C.L.U. and the Southern Poverty Law
Center. Both challenges argued that the federal government had the
constitutional authority to regulate immigration, not the states.

South Carolina, echoing a position that Arizona took when it passed its
immigration law in April 2010, argued that the federal government had ceded that
authority by failing to prevent an influx of illegal immigrants.

''If the feds were doing their job, we wouldn't have had to address illegal
immigration reform at the state level,'' Rob Godfrey, a spokesman for South
Carolina's governor, Nikki R. Haley, said in a statement on Thursday. ''But,
until they do, we're going to keep fighting in South Carolina to be able to
enforce our laws.''

Governor Haley, a Republican, championed the immigration law, and she now hopes
the Supreme Court ''will soon do what Congress and the executive branch have
failed to do, which is allow the states to pick up the slack where Washington
has failed,'' Mr. Godfrey said.

In his ruling, Judge Gergel noted the ''traditionally predominant role of the
federal government in the field of immigration.'' He struck down provisions that
make it a state crime for anyone to knowingly harbor or transport an illegal
immigrant.

He also ruled against a provision that requires immigrants to carry federal
registration documents. He did, however, uphold a portion of the law that
requires illegal immigrants to be transferred from state to federal custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marchers protested in front of Federal District Court in
Charleston, S.C., on Monday against the state's new immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY BRAD NETTLES/THE POST AND COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2012 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Across Arizona, Immigration Ire On Back Burner

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words


CHANDLER, Ariz. -- The angry protests over Arizona's tough policies focused on
illegal immigrants are mostly gone. The sponsor of the state's touchstone
immigration bill has been recalled, while two sheriffs who championed the
crackdown are enmeshed in legal difficulties. And there has been a notable
decline in police activity aimed at illegal immigrants, easing a long period of
anxiety among Mexican communities.

Two years after Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, signed legislation that required
all immigrants to carry documentation or face arrest -- a law that set off
protests here and stirred a national boycott of the state -- concern about
illegal immigration is no longer the all-consuming issue it had been for so
long.

The fading of the issue, at least for now, was most recently on display in the
Republican presidential primary. At a debate here last week, it took an hour
before the issue that has shaken Arizona for five years was raised.

''There's no doubt that in Arizona, there is immigration fatigue,'' said Scott
Smith, the mayor of Mesa and a Republican. ''People want to talk about things
that impact them every day. And the reality is that in Arizona, illegal
immigration does not affect you as much as not having a job.''

''It's still important,'' Mr. Smith said. ''It's just not as controversial here
as it once was.''

The change has prompted worry among some of the leading advocates of tough
immigration policies, even as they predict that the tide will change again --
perhaps when the employment situation improves here and the flow of illegal
immigrants slipping across the border picks up, or when the Supreme Court rules
on a challenge to the Arizona law, SB 1070, later this year.

''It is not a front-burner issue now, because it's been displaced largely by our
dismal economy,'' said State Representative John Kavanagh, a Republican. ''It
worries me, but I understand why it happens. And I just always remind people
that the illegal immigration issue hasn't gone away. It's just been overshadowed
and temporarily shifted to the back burner.''

Ms. Brewer -- who announced on Sunday that she was endorsing Mitt Romney, a
former Massachusetts governor, in this state's primary on Tuesday -- said in an
interview that she had been disappointed by the limited discussion of policy on
immigration and Mexico in last week's Republican presidential debate and during
the campaign.

''I would have liked to see a candidate come forward who understands the
terrible disarray the state of Mexico is in. It's a fractured, inoperable state
right now,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''Everybody says they all have different ideas,
but they all are basically saying pretty much the same thing.''

The economic problems here -- joblessness, home foreclosures -- have contributed
to this shift in attention, along with the fact that there have been no recent
crimes or arrests involving illegal immigrants. But not incidentally, this has
taken place as some of the best-known players in the fight against illegal
immigration here have run into legal and political troubles.

The sponsor of the original bill, Russell Pearce, the former head of the State
Senate, was recalled from office in November in a display of the backlash that
has caused alarm among Republican leaders. Joseph M. Arpaio, the sheriff of
Maricopa County who has become one of the leading advocates of tough immigration
policy, has been accused by the Justice Department of anti-Latino bias and
abuses of authority.

Sheriff Paul Babeu of Pinal County was forced to step down as a co-chairman of
Mr. Romney's Arizona campaign last week amid accusations that he had threatened
to deport a former lover -- who was from Mexico -- after he threatened to
publicize their relationship. Mr. Babeu, who is now running for Congress, had
appeared with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, in a particularly
tough immigration ad that Mr. McCain had used in his 2010 Senate run.

''The media coverage hasn't been so great because Joe Arpaio is facing
indictment, so he is laying pretty low,'' said Bruce Merrill, an Arizona
pollster and political analyst. ''We have not had any arrests. When the media
covers it, it causes the attention to go up. There's a feeling here that it's
not as important as it once was.''

None of which is to say that immigration is not a major concern for most people
in this border state, or that the passions could not arise again. ''Around the
country, jobs and the economy are on people's minds,'' said Representative Ben
Quayle, Republican of Arizona. ''You can talk about the economy and you can talk
about how we are going to secure our borders.''

Mr. Merrill said his own polls had found that immigration continued to be listed
as a top concern of voters here; the difference was that it had been joined by
the economy and joblessness.

Chip Scutari, a political consultant, said attitudes among Arizona voters from
both parties were more nuanced than was reflected in the actions of the
Republican-controlled Legislature. ''Many of the voters who support 1070 also
support an earned path to citizenship,'' he said of the immigration law. ''I
think border issues are in the mix. But because there's been such a quagmire,
it's lost some of its sex appeal.''

Whatever the case, the waning interest may be something of a gift to the
Republican presidential candidates, sparing them from being drawn into a ''who
can be tougher on illegal immigrants'' fight that might hurt their appeal to
Latino voters.

''They all kind of danced with the same rhetoric, but none of them wanted to
embrace it as a central issue,'' said Representative Raul M. Grijalva, an
Arizona Democrat. ''I think there was a calculated issue to minimize talking
about something where they could lose voters.''

Whatever the short-term benefit for Republicans, Democrats and some Latino
leaders argue that the party has suffered long-lasting damage. The spate of
legislation has helped Democrats register more Latino voters and increase
turnout in local elections, similar to what happened in California after
Republicans supported tough immigration measures, including Proposition 187, the
1994 initiative that would have cut off public services to illegal immigrants.

''There has been a tangible, palpable momentum shift in the state, which is
essentially saying, 'Well that was a disaster, and what should we do about it?'
'' said James E. Garcia of the Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. ''But the
damage that the Republican Party did to itself in this state is absolutely
comparable to what the Republican Party in California did to itself.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Monday about the decreased focus on Arizona's illegal immigration
policies misstated the timing of a campaign advertisement that featured Senator
John McCain of Arizona and Sheriff Paul Babeu, who recently stepped down as a
co-chairman of Mitt Romney's Arizona campaign amid accusations that he
threatened to deport a former lover. The advertisement was for Mr. McCain's 2010
Senate campaign, not for his 2008 presidential run.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When States Put Out The Unwelcome Mat

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL THE LANDSCAPE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 708 words


There is one area, besides copper mining and home foreclosures, where Arizona is
a national leader. It's at the front of a movement by states and local
governments to seize control of immigration from the federal government. In 2010
it passed a law, S.B. 1070, that made the mass deportation of undocumented
immigrants its official policy with a grab bag of enforcement schemes that
turned federal immigration infractions into state crimes. Among other things,
the law required immigration checks by local police, required immigrants to
carry papers with them, and made it illegal for the undocumented to live or look
for work in the state, or for people to knowingly hire, harbor or transport
them.

A state with its own immigration law -- that is, its own foreign policy --
raises obvious constitutional issues. The Supreme Court is taking up S.B. 1070
next month, addressing the question of whether federal authority pre-empts state
and local immigration crackdowns. A decision is expected this summer. The court
could help bottle up a dangerous trend, or unleash more mischief across the
country.

Last year was a banner year for immigration laws in the states. Arizona's law
set a low standard that other states have tried to match or outdo. Thirty-one
states introduced legislation in 2011 imitating all or part of S.B. 1070, and
five -- Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah -- went whole hog,
passing Arizona-style omnibus laws.

Despite evidence that such laws are terrible for business and constitutionally
unsound -- courts have blocked key parts of the laws in Arizona and the copycat
states, while employers and residents have complained bitterly about their
burdens and expense -- lawmakers have not been deterred. Missouri, Kansas,
Mississippi, Tennessee and West Virginia are considering similar crackdowns.
(Mississippi's bill also includes a provision that shields ''international
business executives'' from being hassled by the police, perhaps inspired by an
incident in Alabama where a manager from Mercedes-Benz was arrested under the
new immigration law.)

The restrictionist trend is hitting cities and local governments, too, hundreds
of which have passed laws and ordinances touching on immigration, including
requiring employers to certify workers' legal status, cracking down on rental
housing, mandating English as an official language, and forbidding day laborers
to seek work in public. Some of these have faced legal challenges -- notably the
anti-solicitation laws, which have had a string of defeats in federal district
and appellate courts.

The new legal crazy quilt isn't all hostile to immigrants. Some places are
trying to be more welcoming while ensuring that immigration remains a federal
responsibility. New York City and Cook County, Ill., are among the governments
that have passed laws limiting the role of local police in immigration arrests,
and California is considering such a law. While lawmakers in 37 states last year
proposed bills requiring the use of a federal database, E-Verify, to check the
immigration status of job applicants, most of those measures were rejected; only
eight states adopted new E-Verify regulations last year. Arizona, Mississippi,
South Carolina and Utah already had such laws; California and Illinois have laws
forbidding governments to force employers to use E-Verify.

The zeal to crack down locally is based on several fallacies. One is that the
federal government hasn't enforced immigration laws, even though it has greatly
expanded border security in the last decade and the Obama administration is
deporting immigrants at a record clip. Another is that illegal immigration is
soaring, when it has ebbed in the last few years.

The final myth is that voters really want unrelenting harshness. In fact, polls
show broad support for a comprehensive federal solution with tougher border and
workplace enforcement, but also a path to legalization for the undocumented and
a streamlined process for new legal immigrants.

The reaction in places like Alabama, where civil rights advocates who re-enacted
the Selma-to-Montgomery march last week demanded the repeal of the state's
immigration law, shows that citizens are willing to fight back when their
lawmakers go too far.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP: Arizona and the Immigration Copycats (Source: National Conference
of State Legislatures
National Immigration Law Center)
CHARTS: How Voters Would Solve the Problem: U.S. illegal immigrant population.
Percent of poll respondents who said U.S. illegal immigrants should. (Source:
Pew Research Center (immigration trend)
 Gallup)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Law: Justices Seem To Favor Core

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words


WASHINGTON -- Justices across the ideological spectrum appeared inclined on
Wednesday to uphold a controversial part of Arizona's aggressive 2010
immigration law, based on their questions at a Supreme Court argument.

''You can see it's not selling very well,'' Justice Sonia Sotomayor, a member of
the court's liberal wing and its first Hispanic justice, told Solicitor General
Donald B. Verrilli Jr., referring to a central part of his argument against the
measure.

Mr. Verrilli, representing the federal government, had urged the court to strike
down a provision requiring state law enforcement officials to determine the
immigration status of people they stop and suspect are not in the United States
legally.

It was harder to read the court's attitude toward three other provisions of the
law at issue in the case, including one that makes it a crime for illegal
immigrants to work. The court's ruling, expected by June, may thus be a split
decision that upholds parts of the law and strikes down others.

A ruling to uphold the law would be a victory for conservatives who have pressed
for tough measures to stem illegal immigration, including ones patterned after
the Arizona law, in Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah.
President Obama has criticized the Arizona law, calling it a threat to ''basic
notions of fairness.''

Should the court uphold any part of the law, immigration groups are likely to
challenge it based on an argument that the court was not considering on
Wednesday: that the law discriminates on the basis of race and ethnic
background.

Indeed, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. signaled that the court was not
closing the door on such a challenge, making clear that the case, like last
month's arguments over Mr. Obama's health care law, was about the allocation of
state and federal power. ''No part of your argument has to do with racial or
ethnic profiling, does it?'' he asked Mr. Verrilli, who agreed.

Wednesday's argument, the last of the term, was a rematch between the main
lawyers in the health care case. Paul D. Clement, who argued for the 26 states
challenging the health care law, represented Arizona. Mr. Verrilli again
represented the federal government. In an unusual move, Chief Justice Roberts
allowed the argument to go 20 minutes longer than the usual hour.

The two lawyers presented sharply contrasting accounts of what the Arizona law
meant to achieve.

Mr. Clement said the state was making an effort to address a crisis by passing a
law that complemented federal immigration policy. ''Arizona borrowed the federal
standards as its own,'' he said, adding that the state was simply being more
assertive in enforcing federal law than the federal government. Mr. Verrilli
countered that Arizona's approach was in conflict with the federal efforts.
''The Constitution vests exclusive authority over immigration matters with the
national government,'' he said.

Mr. Verrilli, whose performance in the health care case was sometimes halting
and unfocused, seemed on Wednesday occasionally to frustrate justices who might
have seemed likely allies. At one point Justice Sotomayor, addressing Mr.
Verrilli by his title, said: ''General, I'm terribly confused by your answer.
O.K.? And I don't know that you're focusing in on what I believe my colleagues
are trying to get to.''

The Arizona law advances what it calls a policy of ''attrition through
enforcement.'' The Obama administration sued to block the law, saying it could
not be reconciled with federal laws and policies. In legal terms, the case is
about whether federal law ''pre-empts,'' or displaces, the challenged state law.

As a general matter, federal laws trump conflicting state laws under the
Constitution's supremacy clause. But no federal law bars the challenged
provisions of the Arizona in so many words, and the question for the justices is
whether federal and state laws are in such conflict that the state law must
yield.

Last year, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, blocked four provisions of the law on those
grounds.

Most of the argument on Wednesday concerned the part of the law requiring state
officials to check immigration status. Several justices said states were
entitled to enact such provisions, which make mandatory inquiries to federal
authorities from local police officers that are already commonplace.

Chief Justice Roberts said the state law required merely that the federal
government be informed of immigration violations and left enforcement decisions
to it. ''It seems to me that the federal government just doesn't want to know
who is here illegally or not,'' he said.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer suggested that he would be prepared to uphold the
provision if the process of checking immigration status would not result in
''detention for a significantly longer time'' than in the ordinary case.

The law also makes it a crime under state law for immigrants to fail to register
under a federal law and for illegal immigrants to work or to try to find work.
Federal law penalizes employers who hire illegal workers but does not punish
employees for working.

Chief Justice Roberts indicated the employment provision of the state law was
vulnerable. ''That does seem to expand beyond the federal government's
determination about the types of sanctions that should govern the employment
relationship,'' he said.

Mr. Verrilli urged the court to consider the Arizona law against the backdrop of
the foreign policy considerations that arise from taking actions against
citizens of other nations.

''So we have to enforce our laws in a manner that will please Mexico?'' Justice
Antonin Scalia responded.

Last year, in Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting, the Supreme Court held that a
different Arizona law, this one imposing harsh penalties on businesses that hire
illegal workers, was not pre-empted by federal law. The vote was 5 to 3, and it
split along ideological lines.

Chief Justice Roberts, writing for four of the justices in the majority, said
the state law under review ''simply seeks to enforce'' a federal ban on hiring
illegal workers. ''Arizona went the extra mile,'' he wrote last year, ''in
ensuring that its law closely tracks'' the federal one. On Wednesday, he
suggested that the Whiting decision was the most apt precedent.

Justice Elena Kagan disqualified herself from both the Whiting case and the one
concerning the newer law, Arizona v. United States, No. 11-182, presumably
because she had worked on them as solicitor general.

Toward the end of the argument, Justice Sotomayor spent some time quizzing Mr.
Verrilli about how officials checked databases to see if someone was in this
country legally. ''Today,'' she said, reflecting on the matter, ''if you use the
names Sonia Sotomayor, they would probably figure out I was a citizen.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona passed by opponents of her state's
immigration law outside the Supreme Court on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

Union Radio Ad Assails Romney in Spanish

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 471 words



HIGHLIGHT: A powerful union takes on Mitt Romney over his stances on
immigration.


The Service Employees International Union began airing  in Florida on Tuesday
that seeks to turn the state's Hispanic voters against Mitt Romney by accusing
him of being two-faced on immigration policy.

The ad, which is running in Tampa and Orlando, says that while Mr. Romney has
run a commercial in Florida saying he shares the values of the state's Hispanic
voters, he has boasted in other states that he had the endorsement of Kris
Kobach, an architect of anti-immigrant laws in Arizona and Alabama.

The union's ad, called "The Two Faces of Mitt Romney," says, "Romney says he
cares about our children, but he has promised to veto the Dream Act that would
open the doors of opportunity for young Hispanics." That legislation would grant
legal status to some illegal immigrants who came into the United States as
children, especially those who serve in the military or graduate from college.

"Romney started running ads in Spanish in Florida with a message trying to get
our votes, while in English he's running a campaign attacking immigrants," said
Eliseo Medina, the union's secretary-treasurer. "To make matters worse, Romney
embraces Kris Kobach. We can't let them get away with saying something in one
language while attacking us in another language."

The ads are co-sponsored by Priorities USA, a Democratic "super PAC."

In a news release, the union said that while Mr. Romney professes concern for
Hispanics, he backs harsh treatment of immigrants to cause them to
"self-deport"; i.e., return to their homeland.

Mr. Romney has taken a relatively hard line on illegal immigration, and his
campaign has been running a television spot featuring his son Craig speaking in
Spanish about liberty and opportunity.

Albert Martinez, an adviser to Mr. Romney, called the union's ad "a dishonest
smear from President Obama's liberal allies and a desperate attempt to distract
from his abysmal record," and said, "It will do nothing to help the millions of
Hispanics who have been hit especially hard as a result of the Obama economy."

The service employees' union, with around two million members, has long been one
of the unions most supportive of the president. It has also been at the
forefront of organized labor's effort to persuade Congress to enact a law that
establishes a path to legalization for illegal immigrants.
The service employees' union has joined the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees in running anti-Romney ads in Florida even though it
remains unclear whether he will be the Republican nominee.

"We want to act sooner rather than later," Mr. Medina said. "We want to make
sure that the Latino community is part of the process for this presidential
election."

The union said in a news release that it did not see Newt Gingrich or Rick
Santorum as "viable alternatives for Hispanic voters."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday

Poll Shows Age Gap in G.O.P. on Immigration

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 558 words



HIGHLIGHT: Younger Republicans are more in favor of establishing a path to
citizenship for those immigrants in the country illegally.


     With immigration now a front-burner issue in the Republican presidential
contest, a new pollshows a substantial age gap among Republican voters over
whether there should be a path to citizenship for immigrants who are in the
country illegally.

A majority - 57 percent -- of Republicans who are 65 and older say that tighter
border security and tough law enforcement should be the only focus of
immigration policy, with no path to citizenship for illegal immigrants,
according to a poll released Tuesday by the Pew Research Center for the People
and the Press, a nonpartisan group in Washington. Only about one-quarter of this
group, or 24 percent, favor combining strict enforcement with a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants.

Among Republicans who are younger than 30, the poll found, 42 percent favor a
combined approach of tough enforcement against illegal immigration with a path
to citizenship, while 30 percent wanted only enforcement. Among these younger
Republicans, another 26 percent said that opening a path to citizenship should
be the immigration priority, with or without tougher enforcement.

The poll showed other differences. Among Republican voters who agreed with the
Tea Party, 52 percent favored a policy based only on tougher enforcement. Among
Republicans who disagreed with the Tea Party or had no opinion, 36 percent
wanted only enforcement, while 44 percent favored policies pairing enforcement
with a path to citizenship.

According to the poll, Republicans as a whole were about evenly divided between
those who want only border security and tough enforcement - 43 percent - and
those who want both enforcement and legalization for illegal immigrants- 41
percent.  Only 14 percent of Republicans said the priority should be only on
creating a path to citizenship.

The Pew findings seem to present a quandary for the Republican candidates, who
have been working to frame the divisive issue of immigration to appeal to the
largest number of primary voters. Older Republicans tend to be more engaged and
turn out in larger numbers than younger voters, and though the Tea Party's
popularity has shown a decline recently, its voters are active and remain
influential within Republican ranks.

Mitt Romney has tuned his strategy to respond to these conservative voters,
rejecting any path to citizenship for illegal immigrants as an amnesty that
would be a magnet to draw more illegal immigration.  Newt Gingrich broke away
from his rivals to say he would consider a path to legal status for some illegal
immigrants who have lived in the United States for many years.

The Pew poll appears to point to a silent but substantial minority of
Republicans who could support a legalization program for illegal immigrants if
it were combined with rigorous enforcement.

Despite persistent high unemployment and the intensifying debate over illegal
immigration, views among the general public have not changed over the last year,
the Pew poll found. A plurality of 43 percent favors combining enforcement with
a path to citizenship; 24 percent said the priority should be on a path to
citizenship alone; and about 29 percent want only enforcement with no
legalization program.

The poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Nov. 9 to 14 among a
national sample of 2,001 adults 18 or over.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama May Revise New Policies On Migrants

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 445 words


ATLANTA -- Nearly a year after enacting an immigration law that supporters
describe as the toughest in the country, Alabama is considering major revisions
to its immigration policies.

On Thursday, a sponsor of the law, State Representative Micky Hammon, proposed
eliminating or altering several of its most controversial sections. The law,
which enhances police authority to deal with illegal immigrants, is popular with
most Alabamians but faced a backlash from civil liberties advocates and business
leaders.

The law's supporters said the changes would make it clearer, easier to enforce
and less susceptible to legal challenges.

''The essence of the law will not change,'' said Gov. Robert Bentley, a
Republican. ''Anyone living and working in Alabama must be here legally.''

The new bill would remove a requirement that public schools check the residency
of new students and that illegal immigrants be barred from public colleges. Both
provisions had already been put on hold by federal courts.

It would also eliminate a provision that makes renting property to an illegal
immigrant the same as harboring one. And it would require the police to ask
about immigration status only after an arrest or traffic citation, not at any
legal stop.

But the penalty for companies caught hiring illegal immigrants would be
increased: Their business licenses would be suspended for 60 days instead of 10
days.

Alabama's law has faced legal challenges. In September, a federal judge upheld
most provisions but blocked others. On April 25, the United States Supreme Court
will hear arguments about a similar immigration law in Arizona, and the court is
expected to rule by June on its constitutionality. That ruling could affect
immigration laws in Alabama, Georgia, Utah and other states.

Mr. Hammon's proposal to change Alabama's law upset fervent supporters.

''Why not just wait for the Supreme Court ruling to settle a lot of these issues
conclusively?'' asked Ira Mehlman, media director for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform.

Immigrant advocacy groups said the changes did not go far enough. They expressed
concern about a new provision that allows police officers who issue traffic
citations to check the immigration status not only of the vehicle's driver but
also its passengers.

Still, immigrant advocates like Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks USA,
said states were becoming more cautious. Last week, lawmakers in Mississippi
decided not to pass an immigration bill similar to Alabama's.

''So in the Southeast this week, we have one state not passing a law and another
revisiting its law,'' Ms. Jacoby said. ''Even in Alabama, they are having second
thoughts.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama Digs a Deeper Hole

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 357 words


A new legislative session has given Alabama lawmakers an opportunity to repeal
the cruel, destructive and embarrassing immigration law they passed last year --
the worst in the nation. It looks as if they're blowing it.

The Legislature, with the support of Gov. Robert Bentley, who signed the bill
into law, seems determined to tinker at the margins. A new bill would remove a
few sections of the law that have been blocked in court but hangs on to others.
It still seeks to use police as immigration agents, criminalize acts of charity
toward undocumented immigrants and nullify contracts the undocumented sign. And
it retreats not an inch from its sponsors' goal of solving Alabama's problems
through mass immigrant expulsion.

The law, H.B. 56, has uprooted immigrant families, driving workers out of state
and underground. It has saddled government agencies with litigation and burdened
citizens with maddening red tape. And it has raised the risk of racial profiling
and other police abuses while reinvigorating Alabama's reputation for bigotry.

The changes under the new measure will do little to end the abuses and
inconveniences created by the law. Companies, for example, won't automatically
lose their licenses if they knowingly hire unauthorized workers. Instead,
penalties would be left up to a judge. Landlords won't be arrested for renting
to undocumented immigrants, but churches and humanitarian groups still risk
prosecution for harboring or transporting them. The police would be allowed to
check drivers' papers only after ticketing or arresting them, not after any
stop. But officers would also be able to detain anyone else in the car, a
blatantly unconstitutional overreach.

Alabama's leaders seemed hardly bothered last year when civil-rights and
immigrant advocates said H.B. 56 was a mistake. They maintain that today. ''The
essence of the law will not change,'' Mr. Bentley said recently.

The governor and his fellow Republicans have a colossal mess to clean up -- one
of their own making. They should learn from Mississippi, where the Legislature
looked over at Alabama's disgrace and this month allowed a similar bill to die.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Defining Moment On Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words


LENOX, Ga. -- When Georgia passed a law last year authorizing the local police
to question and detain illegal immigrants, Darvin Eason felt the impact
immediately on his farms here in south Georgia.

At the peak of the harvest, many of the Mexican workers he had relied on to pick
his blackberries were scared away from the state. Ripe berries fell to the
ground uncollected, and Mr. Eason lost $20,000 -- even though the sections of
the law that struck fear in the immigrants had been suspended by federal courts.

So Mr. Eason is one of many people across the country who will be watching
closely when the Supreme Court hears arguments on Wednesday on the bitterly
disputed immigration enforcement law that was passed two years ago in Arizona,
inspiring the Georgia statute and similar ones in Alabama, Indiana, South
Carolina and Utah.

Arizona's law, known as SB 1070, expanded the powers of state police officers to
ask about the immigration status of anyone they stop, and to hold those
suspected of being illegal immigrants. The law was challenged by the Obama
administration, and four of its most contentious provisions were suspended by
federal courts. Courts later temporarily blocked other state laws, including the
one in Georgia.

Constitutional lawyers on both sides of the argument say the case raises
fundamental questions about federal powers. With the strong conservative bent
the court has shown this session, a distinct possibility has emerged that the
justices could uphold at least some of the Arizona law's contested sections,
going against the trend in the lower courts on the core legal issues.

The Arizona case, lawyers said, could lead the Supreme Court to redraw
long-established boundaries between the federal government and the states when
it comes to immigration enforcement, which has been considered a nearly
exclusive federal preserve.

If the court endorses any part of Arizona's approach, it would provide a big
lift to groups that campaign against illegal immigration, which have clamored
for tough action by states, saying the federal government has failed to do its
part. It could rekindle political battles in state legislatures, including in
Georgia, where support for Arizona-style laws had begun to fade in the wake of
unanticipated consequences like those Mr. Eason and other Georgia farmers faced.

The central issue in the arguments the court will hear is the Obama
administration's contention that Arizona's police provisions encroached
disruptively on federal terrain.

''Arizona has adopted its own immigration policy, which focuses solely on
maximum enforcement and pays no heed to the multifaceted judgments'' that
immigration law provides for the executive branch to make, the Obama
administration wrote in its brief.

Lucas Guttentag, a law professor teaching at Stanford who was the top
immigrants' rights lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union, which has
participated in challenges to statutes in Arizona and other states, said that
''in many respects, this is a defining moment for the court on whether a
historic line will be breached.''

''Will immigration law continue to be governed by national interest,'' he said,
''or will the court allow every state and locality to intrude in immigration
policy and assert local biases and prejudices?''

Arizona's supporters say the state is well within its rights to enact a measure
that they say would help, not hinder, federal agents. Dan Stein, the president
of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that seeks reduced
immigration, accused the Obama administration of trying to seize power from the
states, calling its lawsuit ''a bald-faced usurpation of the American people's
right to decide who comes and who goes in our country.'' Mr. Stein's group
assisted Arizona in writing its law.

Immigrant and Latino groups have assailed SB 1070, saying it would unleash a
wave of discriminatory arrests. Those civil rights issues are not directly
before the Supreme Court in the current case. But if the justices strike down
the Arizona law, it would be a powerful victory for those groups. Aside from the
five states that enacted police laws similar to Arizona's, at least eight
additional states weighed such legislation but did not move forward, with many
awaiting the outcome in the Supreme Court.

But even if the court widens the way for immigration action by states, the
negative fallout that followed Arizona-style policing laws has made many
lawmakers cautious.

Mississippi considered an enforcement bill this year, but the State Senate
allowed it to die after a surge of opposition from business and agriculture
interests. Alabama saw months of turmoil after the state adopted an even tougher
law than Arizona's last year. Last week, lawmakers there revised the legislation
to mitigate its impact on businesses and schools.

In Georgia, after an outcry from farmers, the legislature ended its session
without any new immigration measures for the first time in six years.

The Arizona law explicitly adopts a strategy known as attrition through
enforcement, designed to make it so difficult and risky for illegal immigrants
to live and work in the state that they will decide voluntarily to return home,
or ''self-deport.''

Events here in Georgia showed how effective policing measures can be at driving
illegal immigrants from a state. Georgia has been passing laws aimed at making
it hard for illegal immigrants to live and work here since 2006. D. A. King, a
staunch foe of illegal immigration who was a driving force behind most of those
laws, said the measures deterred illegal immigrants from settling in Georgia,
saving taxpayers money. He said the policing law adopted last year built on
those earlier initiatives.

''If you use local authorities as a force multiplier for federal enforcement
agencies,'' Mr. King said, ''that is the terror that illegal aliens really
fear.''

Indeed, just the rumor that Georgia had adopted an Arizona-style law sent a
chill through Hispanic immigrant communities throughout the southern farming
region.

''The workers were afraid,'' said Mr. Eason, surveying his exuberantly fertile
blackberry patch here. ''A lot of them were afraid their families are going to
get separated. Some of them may be legal and some of them illegal, and they want
to keep all the families together.''

Mr. Eason, 72, a tall, silver-haired farmer who has been working in agriculture
for three decades, could not recall a more acute labor shortage. Mexican farm
workers from Florida, who normally would head to Georgia for the summer months,
stayed home. Georgia farm workers did not come out, worried that a simple
roadway police stop could lead to deportation.

Some Georgia workers headed to North Carolina, which, like Florida, has
considered but not passed an Arizona-style law.

A labor office advertisement Mr. Eason placed for 16 workers brought one local
man, who lasted half a day in the heat of Georgia summer, the farmer said.

Eventually, learning that the courts had suspended the measure, some immigrants
came back to work.

But the effect has been felt beyond illegal immigrants. Mr. Eason also runs a
big cotton gin nearby, with longtime employees who are legal immigrant residents
or Mexican-American citizens. In interviews, they said their communities felt
under siege.

''It's hard, very hard, and it affects a lot of people,'' said Armando Martinez,
39, an American citizen who is a foreman at the cotton gin. ''Everybody just
watches TV to see what's going on with the law.''

Georgia farmers are cutting back on their spring planting. Some small farmers
have warned that they could go out of business if the labor supply continues to
decline. With agriculture the biggest industry in the state, the Georgia
Agribusiness Council has been vocal expressing its concerns to state officials
and, since the law passed, to federal lawmakers.

Mr. King, the advocate for more restrictive state laws, said a Supreme Court
ruling in favor of Arizona would bring a ''sigh of relief'' in Georgia, giving
the state additional confidence that it was on firm legal ground. But Mr. Eason
and other farmers in the region, many of whom describe themselves as
conservatives, were surprised to find themselves hoping the Supreme Court would
not expand the scope for the states.

''We need the labor,'' Mr. Eason said. ''We need the federal government to get
control of illegal aliens.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Monday about a case before the Supreme Court challenging an
Arizona immigration law, and the possible effect a ruling might have on a
similar law in Georgia, described imprecisely the timing of discussions between
the Georgia Agribusiness Council and Gov. Nathan Deal on legislation there.
While the business council expressed its concern to Governor Deal, it did so
before the law was enacted, not after. ( It was to federal officials that the
council complained after the law took effect.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Darvin Eason, left, a farmer in Lenox, Ga., lost profits when
the Mexican workers he relied on to harvest his blackberries were scared away by
Georgia's new immigration law. Armando Martinez, above, is a longtime worker for
the Eason family. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRANT BLANKENSHIP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Undocumented and the Unborn

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 365 words


The Nebraska Legislature took a strange road to a good result last week. It
overrode Gov. Dave Heineman's veto of a bill to provide free prenatal care to
undocumented immigrant women.

Mr. Heineman agreed that government-financed health care for poor women was an
acceptable thing, unless the women were in violation of immigration laws, in
which case it was a terrible waste of taxpayer dollars. ''Providing preferential
treatment to illegals while increasing taxes on legal Nebraska citizens,'' he
said, ''is misguided, misplaced and inappropriate.''

Lawmakers got around that problem by taking women out of the equation. ''The
Legislature finds that unborn children do not have immigration status and
therefore are not within the scope'' of a Nebraska law that denies benefits to
people who cannot prove they are here legally.

Under the bill, undocumented women who are ineligible for Medicaid could sign up
their fetuses for coverage under the State Children's Health Insurance Program.
The program is expected to cost about $2.5 million a year and cover about 1,100
fetuses.

The bill made unlikely allies of Nebraska Right to Life, Planned Parenthood, the
Nebraska Catholic Conference and Nebraska Appleseed, which supports immigrants'
rights and universal health coverage. They agreed that promoting healthy
pregnancies and avoiding infant deaths and birth defects was more important than
fretting over a woman's immigration status.

Advocates for women and the poor are not used to expecting much in Nebraska, one
of the country's most severely restrictive states for abortions and
contraceptive services. If devoutly anti-abortion lawmakers can decree that
immigrants' children are precious people before they're born, maybe at some
point they can extend some of their compassion to children who have already
entered the world, and to their parents who lack legal status.

But that is not what the governor wants. ''Nebraska will become a magnet for
illegal aliens,'' he warned darkly in his veto message, pointing out that none
of his state's six neighbors were following its lead on prenatal care. For us,
that makes Nebraska a beacon on the prairie, for which the governor deserves no
thanks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Start on the Dream

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 349 words


President Obama has been an overachiever on immigration enforcement, far
outpacing his predecessor, George W. Bush, in swiftly racking up a million
deportations. But on the other crucial part of reform -- getting undocumented
immigrants right with the law -- Mr. Obama talks a lot but has done far too
little.

We don't minimize the political obstacles, although the president could
certainly have pushed a lot harder. Congressional Republicans are determined to
block the comprehensive immigration overhaul Mr. Obama promised for his first
term. They have even blocked the Dream Act, which would legalize potentially
hundreds of thousands of undocumented young people who were brought here as
children and demonstrate their good citizenship by going to college or serving
in the military.

There is one important thing Mr. Obama could do right now to give these young
people hope: He could use his executive authority to halt deportations of those
who would be eligible for the Dream Act.

Young immigrant advocates, through an inspiring series of protests, marches and
other lobbying efforts, have built a strong case for both temporary protection
and legalization. On May 28 they sent Mr. Obama a letter, signed by more than 90
immigration-law professors, explaining the ways he could grant these young
people ''administrative relief'' while they wait for Congress to do the right
thing.

The White House has been insisting that only Congress can pass the Dream Act,
and that it can offer deportation relief only on a case-by-case basis. But the
professors point persuasively to other presidents' use of executive authority to
protect groups for humanitarian reasons, as when Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton
shielded Cubans and Haitians from deportation. The Obama administration has done
so, with orphans after Haiti's earthquake.

Mr. Obama's reticence in the face of restrictionist fervor has preserved a
dismal status quo. The Dream Act is one small measure of relief that most
Americans would support and young immigrants need. Mr. Obama should do
everything he can to protect these young people now.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tweak in Rule To Ease a Path To Green Card

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words


Obama administration officials announced on Friday they are proposing a fix to a
Catch-22 in immigration law that could spare hundreds of thousands of American
citizens from prolonged separations from illegal immigrant spouses and children.

Although the regulatory tweak appears small, lawyers said it would mean that
many Americans will no longer be separated for months or years from family
members pursuing legal residency. Even more citizens could be encouraged to come
forward to bring illegal immigrant relatives into the system, they said.

The move was greeted with unusually broad praise from immigration lawyers and
immigrant and Latino groups, which have been critical of the high rate of
deportations under President Obama. Angelica Salas, executive director of the
Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights in Los Angeles, called it a ''welcome
rational solution to a simple problem'' that will mean ''thousands upon
thousands of families will remain together.''

The fix is one of a number of recent measures by the administration that do not
require the approval of Congress, designed to ease the effects on immigrant
communities of contradictory or outmoded statutes. White House officials have
been seeking ways to shore up sagging support for the president, particularly
among Latinos.

In essence, officials at Citizenship and Immigration Services are proposing to
change the procedures by which illegal immigrants with American family members
apply for legal residency -- getting a document known as a green card --
allowing a crucial early step to take place in the United States rather than in
the immigrant's home country.

Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of the agency, said the purpose was to relieve
burdens on citizens while also streamlining a convoluted, costly process.

''We are achieving a system efficiency, saving resources for the taxpayers and
reducing the time of separation between a spouse or child and the U.S. citizen
relative,'' Mr. Mayorkas said.

On Friday the agency published a formal notice in The Federal Register that it
was preparing a new regulation. But Mr. Mayorkas stressed that step was only the
beginning of a long process the agency hopes to complete by issuing a new rule
before the end of this year.

The applause from lawyers, Latinos and immigrant organizations was a strikingly
different message than the administration has heard for many months.

''This will open up a huge door to bring a large number of people into the
light,'' said Charles Kuck, an immigration lawyer in Atlanta who is a former
president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Based on their
caseloads and census data, lawyers estimate that many hundreds of thousands of
Americans are married to illegal immigrants.

The new rule would make no change in the situation of illegal immigrants who do
not have immediate American family members. White House officials acknowledge
that there will be no progress before the November elections on legislation the
president supports to give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.

Under the law, American citizens are entitled to apply for green cards for
immigrant spouses and children, even those who entered the country illegally.
But the law requires most to return to their home countries to receive their
visas.

The catch is that once the immigrants leave the United States, they are
automatically barred from returning for at least three years and often for a
decade, even if they are fully eligible to become legal residents.

Citizenship and Immigration Services can provide a waiver from those bars, if
the immigrants can show that their absence would cause ''extreme hardship'' to a
United States citizen. But for the past decade, obtaining the waiver was almost
as difficult and time-consuming as getting the green card.

Immigrants had to return to their countries to wait while the waiver was
approved. Waiting times extended to months, even years. Sometimes waivers were
not approved, and immigrants were permanently separated from their American
families.

The journey toward green cards for which they were eligible was so risky that
many families simply decided to live in hiding and not apply.

Now Citizenship and Immigration Services proposes to allow illegal immigrants to
get a provisional waiver in the United States before they leave to pick up their
visas. Having the waiver in hand will allow them to depart knowing they almost
certainly will be allowed to return, officials said. The agency is also seeking
to cut down wait times for immigrants overseas to only a few weeks.

''Finally -- an opportunity,'' said one American citizen in North Carolina who
has been married for seven years to an illegal immigrant from Honduras. The
woman said she wept Friday when she heard the news of the waiver proposal.

The couple owns a construction business and has four children who are citizens.
They tried to apply for his legal documents, she said, but immigration lawyers
advised them that if he left for Honduras to pick up a visa, he would be unable
to return for 10 years. ''If you try to come out of the shadows, your family
will suffer,'' the lawyers told her.

Now they will start his application again, said the woman, who remained
reluctant to publish her name until the new rule takes effect.

''We can't survive without each other,'' she said. ''I should have a right as a
U.S. citizen to live in my country with my husband.''

Republicans criticized the move as an effort by Mr. Obama to circumvent
Congress. Lamar Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, called it ''an
abuse of administrative powers.'' Mr. Smith was an author of legislation in 1996
that created the 3- and 10-year bars to return by illegal immigrants.

Nancy Kuznetsov, a leader of American Families United, a group of Americans who
are struggling in the immigration system, said many members called her Friday,
elated.

''Yay!'' said Mrs. Kuznetsov, who was separated for more than four years from
her husband, Vitali, who is from Belarus, while waiting for a waiver. ''There
are so many families this will be a good thing for, I feel good in my heart that
this is finally happening.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney's Hard Line

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 329 words


Mitt Romney, who used to try to sound like a moderate on immigration, has
dropped the pretense. On Wednesday, he proudly accepted the endorsement of the
anti-immigrant activist Kris Kobach, architect of the nation's most radical
immigration crackdowns, including the unconstitutional show-your-papers laws in
Arizona and Alabama.

Mr. Romney has flipped and flopped all over on immigration, but in allying
himself with Mr. Kobach he has lurched toward the extremist right. ''Kris has
been a true leader on securing our borders and stopping the flow of illegal
immigration into this country,'' Mr. Romney said.

Mr. Kobach, the secretary of state of Kansas, drafted that state's photo-ID law
supposedly to stem fraudulent voting but with the real purpose of suppressing
Democratic votes. He is nationally known for drafting statutes, many passed by
states and local governments, that usurp federal control of immigration
enforcement and aim to make life intolerable for immigrants. He is with the
legal arm of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that wants
to reduce legal immigration.

His new ally has shifted around between moderation (Mr. Romney once spoke
favorably of Senator Edward Kennedy's bill to legalize millions of the
undocumented), double talk and evasion (he supported a 2,000-mile border fence
but also seemed to be for some path to citizenship), and hypocrisy (illegal
immigrants used to tend his lawn).

In this campaign, Mr. Romney has shed all good sense. He recently said he would
even veto the Dream Act, which could give legal status to blameless young
immigrants who go to college or serve in the military.

On the day of the Kobach endorsement, the Romney campaign released a TV ad in
Florida. Mr. Romney, who has opposed bilingual education in favor of English,
''the language of America,'' shows he is willing, as always, to say what it
takes to scrape up votes. ''Muchas gracias,'' he tells voters at the end of the
ad, which is in Spanish.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Good Immigration Policy, on Hold

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 408 words


Last summer the Obama administration announced an overdue change in the way it
catches and deports illegal immigrants. The head of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, John Morton, said the agency would focus more heavily on deporting
convicted criminals and other high-risk offenders, making noncriminals a lower
priority.

The new strategy did not extend forgiveness or legal status to any illegal
immigrants. But it did promise to halt the deportations of many thousands of
people -- those with clean records and strong ties to the community and who
posed no threat, including the elderly, military veterans, college students and
parents of young children. Instead the agency would go after convicted
criminals, gang members, those who had repeatedly crossed the border illegally
and other undesirables.

Friday was supposed to be the day when training of ICE officers in the new
policy was finally complete. But there has been a snag: while virtually all of
the agency's lawyers and supervisors have received training, the union
representing about 7,000 field agents is refusing to let its members attend the
sessions. Its intransigence could slow the new strategy for weeks.

The union president, Chris Crane, says the strategy is preventing agents from
enforcing the law. In October, he told Congress the policy was too confusing for
agents to understand and would lead to ''victimization and death,'' for reasons
that were unclear.

Mr. Crane has taken his grievances to the hard-right media, complaining to Fox
News and Lou Dobbs that his bosses are endangering lives and abdicating their
law-enforcement duties. He is conflating all undocumented foreigners with
dangerous criminals. But of the nearly 400,000 people ICE deports each year,
only a fraction are dangerous criminals; a large proportion are minor offenders
or have no records.

If the memo is confusing, then Mr. Crane should let his members go to ICE's
one-day training seminars. To us the policy seems like a simple and sensible a
way to enhance public safety, conserve law-enforcement resources and lessen the
human damage of broken immigration laws. ''What I see from my officers,'' Chris
Shanahan, an ICE officer in New York City, told The Times, ''is that they
understand that criminal aliens and national security threats should be taken
into custody and removed before a single mother, a pregnant woman or someone
with small United States citizen children.'' That's simple enough.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                                National Edition

A Divide On the Payoff Of Legalizing Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 734 words


Granting legal status to the illegal immigrants living in one of Texas' largest
metropolitan areas would generate at least $1.4 billion a year in revenue for
state and federal agencies, with Social Security and Medicare being the largest
potential beneficiaries, according to an analysis by a Houston business group.

The report, from the Greater Houston Partnership, says that the untapped revenue
would be accessible if immigration reform -- one that allowed illegal immigrants
the chance to work legally and pay taxes -- was realized. (The Greater Houston
Partnership is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)

Jeff Moseley, the chief executive of the 2,100-member group, said such reform
makes sense in the current economy.

''The law is broken, and employers need to comply with the federal law,'' said
Mr. Moseley, a former Denton County judge who ran as a Republican. ''But at the
same time, the law needs to be business friendly, and it needs to recognize that
there is a job to be done and we depend heavily on these very important
workers.''

But the report has drawn criticism from advocates of a stricter immigration
policy. Maria Martinez, the executive director of the Immigration Reform
Coalition of Texas, accused the partnership of being little more than peddlers
of economic snake oil for neglecting to account for the financial drain of
providing services to illegal immigrants.

Ms. Martinez's group has supported a ban on so-called sanctuary cities in Texas,
citing the need to preserve jobs for citizens and the potential financial
benefits of removing illegal immigrants from Texas.

The partnership's revenue assessment is the result of calculating the additional
contributions of the estimated 132,000 illegal immigrants in the Houston area if
they and their employers had paid taxes on the estimated $7 billion in salary
and wages they earned in 2008. Social Security would receive $852 million and
Medicare would receive $206 million. The Department of the Treasury and the
Texas Workforce Commission would receive about $336 million and $33 million
respectively.

The report focuses on the Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown metropolitan area, which
includes 10 counties. But Patrick Jankowski, the author of the report and the
partnership's vice president for research, said the assumptions and methodology
could be applied elsewhere because he used data from public sources -- like the
Bureau of Labor Statistics -- and the Pew Hispanic Center.

The population is an estimate from 2008 based on information from the Pew
Hispanic Center, and the analysis is based on that year's earnings.

''If my count on the amount of undocumented workers is too low, the
contributions would actually be much higher,'' Mr. Jankowski said.

Ms. Martinez from the reform coalition, said the business group had simply found
a way to create a study without including all the costs.

''The finest business schools in the country train individuals, entrepreneurs,
what have you, the importance of transferring costs upon an unsuspecting
public,'' Ms. Martinez said. ''That's what's happening obviously here with the
Greater Houston Partnership.''

Demetrios Papademetriou, the president and co-founder of the Migration Policy
Institute, an independent research group in Washington, D.C., said the analysis
did not account for how much illegal immigrants cost taxpayers for services.
''You cannot do any accounting exercises unless you work on both sides of the
ledger,'' he said.

Mr. Papademetriou said the study would have also benefited from analyzing what
an ''equally qualified'' legal resident or citizen was earning in Houston for
working the same position as the illegal immigrant.

For that, stakeholders must turn to a six-year-old study conducted by Carole
Keeton Strayhorn, the former state comptroller. That analysis said that if Texas
went without the estimated 1.4 million illegal immigrants who lived in the state
in 2005, it would have lost about $17.7 billion in gross domestic product that
year.

Illegal immigrants also produced more in-state revenue, $1.58 billion, than what
they cost in state services, $1.16 billion, although local governments lost
about $1.44 billion in health-care and law-enforcement costs that were not
reimbursed by the state, according to the study by Ms. Strayhorn.

A spokesman in the office of Susan Combs, the current comptroller, said the
agency had no plans to update the study.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Illegal immigrants return to Mexico after being caught in
Arizona. A Houston group says immigration laws need ''to be business friendly.''
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE
 SPENCER SELVIDGE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


An article on Monday about the decreased focus on Arizona's illegal immigration
policies misstated the timing of a campaign advertisement that featured Senator
John McCain of Arizona and Sheriff Paul Babeu, who recently stepped down as a
co-chairman of Mitt Romney's Arizona campaign amid accusations that he
threatened to deport a former lover. The advertisement was for Mr. McCain's 2010
Senate campaign, not for his 2008 presidential run.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Union Chief Says New U.S. Rules for Immigration Detention Are Flawed

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 661 words


The leader of a union representing thousands of federal officers responsible for
detaining and deporting illegal immigrants said Wednesday that new rules issued
by the Obama administration for immigration detention centers nationwide were
flawed and would make the system ''more dangerous.''

In testimony in Washington before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration, Chris Crane, the president of Council 118 of the American
Federation of Government Employees, accused administration officials of
systematically excluding agents from discussions of security provisions in the
new rules. The agents Mr. Crane represents are from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which is in charge of immigration detention.

Mr. Crane said the new rules, which the agency published in February, eliminated
or undercut many security procedures that were routine in other federal
facilities. ''New detention standards proposed by ICE are unsafe,'' Mr. Crane
said, using the acronym for the agency, ''unsafe for detainees and unsafe for
employees.''

The testimony by Mr. Crane was a new sign of a deep rift between top immigration
officials, including John Morton, the director of the agency, and at least some
enforcement agents on the ground, as the Obama administration makes ambitious
changes in deportations policy and detention practices.

The hearing, under the title ''Holiday on ICE,'' was called by Republicans to
air their criticisms of the new detention standards, which they regard as overly
lax and wasteful.

''Under this administration, detention looks more like recess,'' Representative
Lamar Smith of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
said at the opening of the hearing.

Kevin Landy, assistant director for detention policy and planning at ICE, noted
that the agency did not have legal powers to punish, as federal prisons do. The
agency holds immigrants under civil, not criminal authorities, while they await
the outcome of immigration court cases or head for deportation.

The new standards were devised to deal with failings that led in recent years to
dozens of deaths of immigrants in detention, many lawsuits and critical reports
from oversight officials. The standards will improve medical care and add
protections against sexual abuse for detainees, Mr. Landy said, and make it
easier for them to consult with lawyers.

This month, Immigration and Customs Enforcement opened a new detention center in
Karnes County, Tex., that is the first one in the country designed for civil
detention. It includes more freedom of movement, recreation and contact visits
for immigrants held there.

The contrast between Mr. Landy and Mr. Crane was so great, it often seemed they
were talking about different detention systems. Mr. Crane testified that the
union had tried repeatedly over three years to participate through bargaining in
internal discussions leading to the new detention policy -- to no avail, he
said.

He accused the Homeland Security secretary, Janet Napolitano, and Mr. Morton of
negotiating in bad faith, in ''the most anti-union and anti-federal law
enforcement campaign we have witnessed.''

Mr. Crane said ICE had set up no national system for employees to report attacks
by detainees on officers. ICE agents are also concerned, he said, that the new
standards do not include criminal background screenings of visitors to detention
centers.

The standards call for pat-down searches instead of more thorough strip
searches, Mr. Crane testified, and they permit immigrants to observe searches by
agents in the facility, allowing detainees to ''learn search techniques.''

ICE officers have been asked to conduct initial medical screenings, he said,
which are not within their expertise.

Mr. Crane noted that the agency had made a major shift to focus its efforts on
deporting illegal immigrants convicted of crimes.

But while the proportion of criminals in detention increases, he argued,
''security protocols appear to be weakening.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Landy, of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, testified
in Washington on Wednesday about new detention rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE
SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Year of the Immigrant

BYLINE: SAYU BHOJWANI

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 923 words



HIGHLIGHT: Will the increasing power of the Latino and Asian-American vote lead
us toward the elusive goal of immigration reform?


Although everyone is talking about the presidential election this year, I am
much more excited about the role of immigrants in the politics of 2012. It's not
a year like 2009 when we waited anxiously for a new president and Congress to
create a sensible solution for immigration reform. Those hopes are long gone.
They have been replaced by new fears aroused by draconian laws that emerged from
Alabama, Arizona and Georgia.

I worry, yes, but I am also optimistic about three trends: the growing
importance of the Latino and Asian vote; increased access to the polls for new
citizens; and the presence of "new American" candidates on ballots from school
boards to the Senate.

Latino voter turnout and support for Democratic candidates in particular were
part of a hidden story in the 2010 midterm elections. Ninety percent of Latino
voters in Nevada supported Senator Harry Reid, giving him an advantage of 9.8
percentage points, according to an analysis by Latino Decisions. In other words,
his advantage among Latino voters led to his victory over Sharron Angle, who was
backed by the Tea Party.

In California, 86% of Latinos supported Senator Barbara Boxer, paving the path
for her defeat of Carly Fiorina. In the 2011 election, Asian-Americans in San
Francisco came out at a record rate of 50%, helping to elect Ed Lee as the
city's first Asian-American mayor.

These election results reflect only a portion of the potential influence Latinos
and Asians can have. According to the 2010 census, only 11 million of 21.3
million eligible Latinos are registered voters, and only 3.8 million of 7.6
million eligible Asian-Americans are registered voters. In 2010, 6.6 million
Latinos voted, the highest number ever in a midterm election. Among
Asian-Americans, estimates indicate that 1.1 million voters cast ballots in that
election. Groups such as Voto Latino and APIA-Vote are stepping up their work
this year to ensure that even more eligible citizens will engage in the
political process.

Latino and Asian voters will be able to go to the polls in increased numbers
because of two new developments. First, the 2010 Census confirmed that
demographics had changed enough in 248 jurisdictions that they "must provide
language assistance during elections for groups who are unable to speak or
understand English adequately enough to participate in the electoral process."
One-third of the country's citizen-age voting population lives in those parts of
the country mandated by Section 243 of the Voting Rights Act to provide ballots,
signs and interpretation in languages as diverse as Spanish and Hindi.

Second, the United States Citizenship and Information Service issued revised
guidelines for voter registration last month, in an effort to improve the
ability of new citizens to register at naturalization ceremonies.

The third, and most crucial, development for immigrant civic engagement is the
growing number of new American candidates on the ballot for school and library
boards, state legislatures and Congress. The number of Asian-Americans running
for Congress more than doubled in just two years, from 8 in 2010 to 19 in 2012,
according to the Asian Pacific American Institute of Congressional Studies.
These races include three in which Asian-Americans are running against each
other for the Democratic nomination - in Illinois' eighth, Washington's first
and Hawaii's second districts. In these races, voters to whom policy positions
may matter as much as ethnicity no longer have to choose one over another.

Latinos in elected office have already increased by 53% over the past 15 years,
according to the National Association of Latino Elected Officials; with senate
races this year in Texas and New Mexico featuring both Latino Democrats and
Republicans (including Cuban-American Ted Cruz), that number will probably grow.

New voters and a new crop of candidates mean new leaders. And in 2012, I'm also
talking about a new type of leader, one who better understands today's America,
where one in five Americans is an immigrant or a child of at least one immigrant
parent and where immigrant entrepreneurs start nearly half of venture-backed
companies.

When I served as commissioner of immigrant affairs under Mayor Bloomberg, I
served as a New Yorker, but with the formative experiences of an immigrant.
Looking through that lens, I could help devise and revise policies in ways that
native-born New Yorkers sometimes couldn't. I understood intuitively what it
meant to speak a language other than English at home or to be afraid to call the
police to report a crime. My unspoken, instinctive comprehension of the needs of
new Americans was a gift I brought to my position then, and I was able to
reflect those experiences in policy with ease and pride.

I believe that a new crop of elected officials who came here as immigrants can
bring this kind of awareness and richness of experience to policy-making arenas
around the country. In Congress, increased immigrant representation may well
lead to comprehensive immigration reform in 2013 - at least we can hope. But I
am pleased that this time around immigrant communities are no longer waiting for
the results of an election to determine how the policies of our country will
affect us. Instead, we are helping to shape the outcome of those elections
ourselves - as voters and as candidates.



     ·    Whose Tea Party Is It?
     ·    Other Stops: Comparing Health Care Plans
     ·    In Virginia, Hot Sauce and Moonshine
     ·    Other Stops: Speaking Up for Immigration Reform and Health Care
     ·    A Latino Gadfly Who Wins By Losing


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Names Domestic Policy Director

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 552 words


The White House said Tuesday that Cecilia Munoz, who has led its efforts to
overhaul immigration laws, had been named director of the Domestic Policy
Council, making her one of President Obama's chief advisers on a broad swath of
issues, including education and gay rights.

Ms. Munoz, the highest-ranking Hispanic in the White House, had served as
director of intergovernmental affairs. She replaces Melody Barnes, who left this
month. Her promotion is notable because it comes at the start of an election
year in which Hispanic voters are expected to play a major role.

''Over the past three years, Cecilia has been a trusted adviser who has
demonstrated sound judgment day in and day out,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement.
''Cecilia has done an extraordinary job working on behalf of middle-class
families, and I'm confident she'll bring the same unwavering dedication to her
new position.''

The daughter of immigrants from Bolivia, Ms. Munoz was a longtime top official
at the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights
group, where she became known as a fervent advocate for changes in United States
immigration policy.

But her efforts to build on that record in the Obama administration have
produced mixed results. In 2010, the White House was unable to win a vote in
Congress on the Dream Act, the centerpiece of its immigration agenda. Since
then, Ms. Munoz has worked to find administrative ways to slow down the
deportation of illegal immigrants - an issue that stirs up deep resentment among
many Hispanics.

She has pushed a proposed rule change that would keep families together while a
family member files for residency rights. Despite some criticism that she has
not taken a strong enough stand against deportations, Ms. Munoz's appointment
was generally praised by immigration advocates and Hispanic groups.

Ali Noorani, the executive director of the National Immigration Forum, said Ms.
Munoz's appointment ''creates new opportunities to bring the multiple
contributions of immigrants into the forefront of discussions about our nation's
domestic policy needs, including immigration policy.''

The appointment fills a key post at a White House that has been buffeted this
week by the resignation of the chief of staff, William M. Daley. Mr. Daley, who
last week told Mr. Obama that he wanted to return to his native Chicago after a
year on the job, was replaced by the budget director, Jacob J. Lew.

The White House did not announce a replacement for Mr. Lew, nor say when it
might name one. Mr. Lew will stay in his post for the rest of the month to
complete the current budget, said Jay Carney, the White House spokesman.

In her previous post, Ms. Munoz was responsible for the White House's relations
with state and local governments.

Among others who praised Ms. Munoz's appointment was the House Democratic
leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who said she had ''a sterling
reputation as a powerful voice on behalf of comprehensive, compassionate
immigration reform.''

Ms. Munoz was also welcomed by a major Catholic group, Catholics United, which
said that in choosing her, ''the Obama administration has signaled how important
the faith community is to their governing agenda.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Pay Immigrants Over Raids

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 348 words


The federal government has agreed to pay $350,000 to settle a civil rights
lawsuit filed by 11 Latino immigrants who were arrested in 2007 in a series of
immigration raids at their homes in New Haven, lawyers for the plaintiffs said
on Tuesday.

The government has also agreed not to deport the plaintiffs, a legal group at
Yale Law School that is representing them said in a statement.

The statement said that the agreement appeared to be the largest settlement ever
paid by the United States government in a lawsuit over residential immigration
raids.

The settlement ''shows what can happen when people have the courage to stand
together to defend their basic human rights,'' said Michael J. Wishnie,
co-director of the Yale group, the Worker and Immigrant Rights Advocacy Clinic.
''This settlement establishes that no one is above the law, including
immigration agents.''

A statement from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department
of Homeland Security, said that the settlement was not an admission of
wrongdoing, adding that ''the government is settling in order to avoid the
additional time and expense of further litigation.''

The lawsuit claimed that during the raids, armed federal officers violated the
constitutional rights of the 11 men by arresting them in their homes without
warrants and without inquiring about their immigration status, informing them of
their rights or explaining why they were being detained. In all, 29 suspected
illegal immigrants were arrested during the raids, the plaintiffs' lawyers said.

The operation began two days after the city approved a plan to offer
identification cards to all city residents, including illegal immigrants. The
lawsuit claimed that the operation began in retaliation for the plan, a charge
the federal government denied.

The lawsuit named 16 defendants. They were 14 officers who carried out the raids
and two supervisors, including Julie L. Myers, who was head of ICE at the time.

Federal officials have argued that the raids were a legitimate, lawful effort to
deport immigrants with outstanding deportation orders.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Salvadoran May Face Deportation For Murders

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 953 words


An immigration judge in Florida has cleared the way for the deportation from the
United States of Gen. Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova, a former defense minister
of El Salvador, finding that he assisted in acts of torture and murder committed
by soldiers under his command during the civil war there, including several
notorious killings of Americans.

The decision by Judge James Grim of immigration court in Orlando is the first
time that federal immigration prosecutors have established that a top-ranking
foreign military commander can be deported based on human rights violations
under a law passed in 2004, in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
intended to bar human rights violators from coming to or living in the United
States.

Judge Grim found that General Vides assisted in the killings of four American
churchwomen on a rural road in El Salvador in 1980, a crime that caused shock
there and in Washington and presaged the bloody violence that would engulf the
Central American nation for the next decade. The immigration judge's ruling is
the first time General Vides has been held responsible for those deaths in a
court of law.

Five soldiers from the Salvadoran National Guard were eventually convicted of
the killings and served long prison sentences. General Vides was the commander
of the National Guard at the time of the murders.

The effort by Department of Homeland Security officials to seek the deportation
of General Vides, who was El Salvador's defense minister from 1983 to 1989, is a
turnabout in American foreign policy. He was a close ally of Washington
throughout the war against leftist guerrillas in the 1980s, and was embraced as
a reformer despite rampant rights violations by the armed forces under his
command.

Judge Grim also determined that General Vides had assisted in the torture of two
Salvadorans, Juan Romagoza and Daniel Alvarado, who testified against him in
hearings last spring in the immigration court in Orlando.

''This is the first case where the Department of Homeland Security has taken
this relatively new law and applied it to the highest military commander of
their country to seek their removal,'' said Carolyn Patty Blum, senior legal
adviser for the Center for Justice and Accountability, a nonprofit legal group
in San Francisco that represented several torture victims in the case. She
called the decision ''hugely significant'' for future efforts to bring
immigration cases for human rights abuses against the highest-level military
commanders and government officials.

Many details of the judge's decision were not available on Thursday, since in
keeping with general practice in immigration courts, the ruling was not
published. His main findings were described by lawyers familiar with the case.

Diego Handel, General Vides's lawyer, said he had not had a chance to read the
lengthy decision and could not comment on it.

The deportation case against General Vides was brought by prosecutors from the
Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center, a unit of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement created in 2003 to focus on preventing rights violators from
entering this country and deporting those already here.

General Vides contested the charges, saying he did not have any direct
responsibility for, or even knowledge of, the murders and torture signaled by
the government. In the hearings, witnesses, including former American diplomats,
said that the general had been working to stop rights abuses by Salvadoran
soldiers and to change the culture of a military known for brutality.

Judge Grim's decision confirmed that General Vides can be deported based on the
rights charges brought by the government. Federal officials and immigration
lawyers cautioned that there are still several steps to go before the judge will
decide whether to issue a final order for the general's deportation. But lawyers
said it would be considerably more difficult now for General Vides to avoid such
an order.

A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Nicole Navas, said, ''As
a matter of policy, I am precluded from commenting on matters still pending
before the immigration court.''

General Vides retired as defense minister in 1989, amid praise from United
States officials for his performance, and came to settle in Florida as a legal
permanent resident.

But the family members of the four churchwomen, as well as some Salvadorans who
barely survived prolonged torture during the war, have been tenacious in seeking
to hold General Vides responsible for crimes of that era.

In 2000, a Florida jury acquitted General Vides and Jose Guillermo Garcia,
another former Salvadoran defense minister who retired to Florida, of
responsibility for the churchwomen's murders. But in 2002, in a case brought by
the Center for Justice and Accountability, another Florida jury found the two
officers civilly liable for the torture of three Salvadorans and ordered them to
pay $54 million. The deportation proceedings against General Vides stem from
that decision.

The four churchwomen killed were Sister Dorothy Kazel of the Ursuline Order;
Jean Donovan, a lay missionary; Sister Maura Clarke and Sister Ita Ford, both of
the Maryknoll Order.

Sister Ita's brother Bill Ford fought vigorously for the prosecution of General
Vides. Mr. Ford died in 2008.

''Since the women were killed my father made this the single purpose of his
life,'' his son, Bill Ford Jr., said Thursday. Mr. Ford, who is the principal of
Cristo Rey New York High School in Manhattan, said, ''I'm sure he knows and is
well pleased that one of the men responsible for ordering the death of the women
or for the cover-up may no longer be able to live in this country to enjoy the
fruits of his brutality.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Vides in 2000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detention Is No Holiday

BYLINE: By EDWIDGE DANTICAT.

Edwidge Danticat is the author, most recently, of the essay collection ''Create
Dangerously: The Immigrant Artist at Work.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 793 words


Miami LAMAR SMITH, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, is presiding
over a hearing Wednesday on new guidelines for immigration detention that were
issued last month and are now beginning to go into effect. The official (and
facetious) title of the hearing is ''Holiday on ICE,'' in reference to the more
humane treatment undocumented immigrants should now receive after being picked
up by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Mr. Smith, a Republican from Texas, and members of the House Subcommittee on
Immigration Policy and Enforcement, which is holding the hearing, seem to think
the United States is too nice to the immigrants it detains. We are being too
generous in deciding to give them safe water, an hour a day of recreation, and
off-site medical care if they are in danger of dying.

With draconian immigration laws spreading across the country, immigration
detention is one of the fastest-growing forms of incarceration in the United
States. There are more than 30,000 men, women and children in immigration
custody, spread throughout jails as well as detention centers, some of which are
outsourced to private companies. It is only fitting that ICE seek out more
humane ways of treating this growing population.

The new ICE guidelines are not perfect. They do not offer, for example,
alternatives to jail-like detention, even for unaccompanied minors, the elderly,
the disabled or pregnant women. But they are a step forward. In addition to
medical care, safe water and limited recreation, they also require that staff
members not perform strip searches on detainees of the opposite sex and that
detainees not be used for medical experiments or for clinical trials without
informed consent. They will crack down on sexual assault by staff members,
contract personnel or other detainees and suggest that victims of sexual abuse
be given access to emergency medical treatment.

Clearly, these new standards are far from luxurious. They simply help protect
basic human rights.

The flippant title of the hearing shows a blatant disregard for the more than
110 people who have died in immigration custody since 2003. One of them was my
uncle Joseph, an 81-year-old throat cancer survivor who spoke with an artificial
voice box. He arrived in Miami in October 2004 after fleeing an uprising in
Haiti. He had a valid passport and visa, but when he requested political asylum,
he was arrested and taken to the Krome detention center in Miami. His
medications for high blood pressure and an inflamed prostate were taken away,
and when he fell ill during a hearing, a Krome nurse accused him of faking his
illness. When he was finally transported, in leg chains, to the prison ward of a
nearby hospital, it was already too late. He died the next day.

My uncle's brief and deadly stay in the United States immigration system was no
holiday. Detention was no holiday for Rosa Isela Contreras-Dominguez, who was 35
years old and pregnant when she died in immigration custody in Texas in 2007.
She had a history of blood clots, and said her complaints regarding leg pains
were ignored. It was no holiday for Mayra Soto, a California woman who was raped
by an immigration officer. It was no holiday for Hiu Lui Ng, a 34-year-old
Chinese immigrant with a fractured spine who was dragged on the floor and
refused the use of a wheelchair in an ICE detention center in Rhode Island.

In October 2007 I testified at another Congressional hearing on immigration
detention conditions, where I told my uncle's story. Also testifying was
Francisco Castaneda, an immigrant from El Salvador. In 2006 he had been placed
in a detention facility in San Diego, where he was refused treatment for a
penile lesion and a lump in his groin. When he was eventually released from ICE
custody, he had to have his cancerous penis amputated. A few months after giving
his Congressional testimony, he died.

In May 2010, the Supreme Court ruled in Hui v. Castaneda that public health
officials in the detention system could not be held liable for failing to
provide medical care to detainees like Mr. Castaneda and my uncle. This ruling
further reduced the accountability for mistreatment. The new guidelines are a
valuable gesture toward protecting detainees, but they are only guidelines, and
they do not have the force of law behind them. Immigration facilities around the
country can, and will, choose to interpret them any way they want, or ignore
them altogether.

The ''Holiday on ICE'' hearing may just be a political stunt, but the message
behind it is dangerous; it suggests that the 30,000 vulnerable people in our
jails and detention centers should have little right to proper medical care,
that their very lives are luxuries, and that it is not our responsibility to
protect them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Arrests 3,168 in Six-Day Sweep Across U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 333 words


In a six-day nationwide sweep, federal immigration agents arrested 3,168
immigrants who had been convicted of crimes or had repeatedly violated
immigration laws, officials said Monday.

The operation by Immigration and Customs Enforcement involved arrests in all 50
states and was coordinated with the local and state police, in the largest
arrest campaign by the agency, officials said. Among those detained were 1,477
immigrants who had served prison sentences for felonies, and 1,063 immigrants
with more than one criminal conviction, the agency reported.

Those arrested also included 559 immigrants who had returned to the United
States illegally after being deported.

John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
operation was an example of the agency's shift in focus, to deporting immigrants
in the country illegally who also have been convicted of crimes or who ''game
the immigration system.''

The agency has also been pursuing a program intended to halt deportations of
some illegal immigrants without criminal records, by exercising prosecutorial
discretion to close their cases in immigration courts.

The former felons arrested in the sweep had been released from prison in past
years before immigration agents were able to hold them for deportation. ''We are
addressing the backlog of people here unlawfully who were released to the
streets because we weren't able to respond in time,'' Mr. Morton said.

The operation was carried out by agents from the deportation unit of the agency,
which is known as ICE. The union representing those agents, Council 118 of the
American Federation of Government Employees, has been in a protracted standoff
with top officials over how to carry out the policy redirecting deportations
toward criminals and sparing other illegal immigrants.

The arrests, Mr. Morton said, showed that the dispute has not hampered the
agents' work. ''It's hard to say that these issues have affected our performance
or results as an agency,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Invitation to Abuse and Chaos

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 733 words


Arizona's cold-blooded immigration statute was enacted in 2010 to bring about
''attrition through enforcement'' -- to make life so harsh for undocumented
immigrants that they would be driven out of the state. It invites unfettered
racial profiling and the abuse of police power. And, if allowed to stand, it
opens the door to states' writing their own foreign policy, in defiance of the
Constitution.

On Wednesday, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments on whether the
state can enforce key parts of this law, despite the federal government's
exclusive constitutional authority to regulate foreign affairs, including
immigration policy. Any sensible reading of the statute, the Constitution and
legal precedents going back to the nation's founding would say no.

The Arizona statute, which has become a model for other states, makes a state
crime of being in the United States unlawfully and failing to register with the
federal government. Its enforcement provisions essentially turn all Hispanics,
including American citizens and legal residents, into criminal suspects. Both a
Federal District Court and the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit have
blocked four parts of the statute from going into effect because they so clearly
usurp federal authority. The justices hearing the case (Justice Elena Kagan is
recused) should affirm that finding in the strongest terms.

The legal issue is whether federal immigration law pre-empts, or disallows, the
state regulations. Pre-emption doctrine enforces national standards when the
federal government has set them. Arizona argues that because federal law does
not explicitly prohibit the state provisions, they are valid unless Congress
implicitly intended to bar such measures. It contends there is no ''clear
conflict'' between any federal law and the state statute, which ''simply uses
state resources to enforce federal rules.''

In pre-emption cases, the Constitution's supremacy clause ensures that when
there is a conflict, federal law prevails. But the constitutional threat in this
extraordinary case goes beyond routine pre-emption analysis. By the framers'
intent, foreign-policy making is entrusted to the federal government through
presidential and Congressional powers. That authority is exclusive, barring any
state intrusion. As the Supreme Court said in a 2003 immigration case, ''any
policy toward aliens is vitally and intricately interwoven with contemporaneous
policies in regard to the conduct of foreign relations, the war power, and the
maintenance of a republican form of government.''

While Arizona says its law merely empowers law enforcement to work cooperatively
with federal officers, that is demonstrably false. The four provisions at issue
go far beyond federal law, turning federal guidelines into state enforcement
rules and violations of federal rules into state crimes. They transform a
federal policy that allows discretion in seeking serious criminals among illegal
immigrants into a state mandate to target everyone in Arizona illegally. How the
provisions overstep federal law is worth noting:

Law enforcement officers are required to verify the immigration status of any
person they stop, arrest or detain if the officer has a ''reasonable suspicion''
the person is in the country illegally. Any official who restricts enforcement
of the provision is subject to a fine of up to $5,000 a day. There is no such
mechanism in federal law.

Failure to carry legal immigration papers is a crime in Arizona, though this is
not a crime under federal immigration law. The statute also interferes with the
discretion of federal officials, who under federal law have the power to put off
proceedings against undocumented immigrants or to allow their release from
custody.

It is a state crime for an undocumented immigrant to apply for a job, solicit a
job or work in Arizona, though Congress does not criminalize such conduct.

Police may arrest anyone without a warrant as long as an officer has ''probable
cause to believe'' that person has committed a crime that could make him subject
to deportation -- even if that person is not wanted for the alleged offense and
the federal government may not want to deport or even detain him.

These provisions defy federal law. The justices should forcefully repudiate
Arizona's unconstitutional statute and send a clear message to other states
following Arizona's pernicious lead.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                National Edition

Immigration Policy at Issue in Democratic Primary for Sheriff in Travis County

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 610 words


In Travis County, which many consider the liberal hub of Texas, a controversial
immigration-enforcement policy is at the forefront of the sheriff's race.

Sheriff Greg Hamilton, first elected in 2004, is coming under increasing fire
from his Democratic primary challenger, John Sisson, a retired Austin Police
Department lieutenant, for his use of Secure Communities. The program,
administered by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and in place statewide,
compares the fingerprints of arrested individuals to a federal database to
determine whether those individuals are eligible for deportation. If a person is
found to be in violation, ICE requests that a detainer be placed on the
individual for 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays.

The federal government says the program is needed to ferret out violent
immigrants or repeat immigration violators for deportation. But critics say that
the system focuses on lower-level offenders rather than the more violent
criminals. Mr. Sisson said Sheriff Hamilton grants detainers on every immigrant
who is booked.

''I was appalled to see what it was doing to the Hispanic community and the
immigrant community here,'' Mr. Sisson said. ''I felt like it was very inhumane
to be lazy and not do the research and say, 'We'll just hold everybody for
deportation and not even mess with the particulars.' ''

Sheriff Hamilton said that he is merely following the law.

''The only one that can deport and put an immigration detainer on an individual
is an ICE agent, not us,'' he said. ''At the Travis County Jail, we follow the
law, and the law says that when an ICE detainer is put on, the law enforcement
agency shall maintain that individual for 48 hours.''

From June 2009 to September 2011, Travis County submitted 80,731 fingerprint
sets and removed 2,269 immigrants, including those who left voluntarily.

More than 900 were Level 3 offenders, convicted of misdemeanors that include
traffic violations and drunken driving. There were 420 Level 1 offenders and 437
Level 2. Level 1 are aggravated felonies, including murder, rape, sexual abuse
of a minor and drug trafficking. Level 2 offenders are convicted of any lesser
felony or three misdemeanors.

Travis County's number of removals surpasses that of Bexar County, where about
105,600 submissions were processed, resulting in the removal of 1,479
immigrants. Bexar County, which includes San Antonio, has a population of about
1,715,000, compared with Travis County's population of 1,024,000.

But Sheriff Hamilton said deputies release immigrants if ICE agents do not take
them and they are otherwise releasable on bond.

''Secure Communities identifies the individuals that are in our community that
have run afoul of law enforcement,'' he said. ''And I think it's very important
that somebody knows who is in the community.''

But Sheriff Hamilton also cited his sensitivity toward the immigrant community,
legal or otherwise, most of whom he said are in search of a better life. His
wife is a naturalized citizen from Honduras, he said, and his department
delivers aid to Austin's Casa Marianella immigrant shelter.

''I have never asked a question, are they here legally or illegally,'' he said.
''I just want to help out.''

The winner of the May 29 Democratic primary will face Raymond Frank, a former
sheriff and admitted underdog Republican candidate who identifies himself as an
independent in the mold of Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Lake Jackson.

Mr. Frank has vowed to do away with the program if he is elected because it
separates families. ''A lot of Republicans are pretty outspoken about
immigration,'' he said. ''And I don't share their views at all.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama Governor Urges Changes to Latest Immigration Law

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 662 words


MONTGOMERY, Ala. -- Gov. Robert Bentley of Alabama called a special legislative
session on Thursday and urged lawmakers to consider changes to the state's
far-reaching immigration enforcement law, less than a day after legislators
voted to keep most of that law intact.

The passage of the bill on Wednesday, as protesters sang outside the legislative
chambers and in several cases were dragged away in handcuffs, was a victory for
the most determined supporters of the original law.

An earlier version of the bill had dropped some of the more controversial
provisions of the law, considered the strictest and most sweeping in the
country.

But the bill that passed preserved most of the original law and also added new
sections, including one requiring the state to publish information, including
the person's name, about every case in which an illegal immigrant appeared in
court for any violation of state law.

Mr. Bentley, a Republican, did not sign it, however, and instead called the
special session. But judging from the bills filed on Thursday, the first day of
the session, agreement may still be hard-fought.

The law remains generally popular in the state but has drawn criticism from
civil rights groups, church leaders, local law enforcement officials, state
business groups and some Alabama residents who complain of the new rules
governing routine transactions.

The Justice Department has sued Alabama, arguing that the law is
unconstitutional, and enforcement of some sections has been temporarily
suspended by federal courts. Most of the law is now before the United States
Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, which is holding off its ruling until the
fate of Arizona's immigration enforcement law is decided by the Supreme Court.
The justices are expected to issue a ruling by the end of June.

Since the Alabama law went into effect last summer, lawmakers have acknowledged
what they call ''unintended consequences'' and for months have been discussing
the scope and nature of changes to the law.

''We have had meetings with law enforcement, with government agencies, with
businesses, with private citizens,'' said State Representative Micky Hammon, a
sponsor of the original law. ''And we have had time to see where we could make
it more efficient -- less burdensome on our citizens and stronger on
lawbreakers.''

Mr. Hammon's proposal, which passed the House in April, addressed some of these
complaints and altered some of the provisions that have been challenged as
unconstitutional. It also included a measure, backed by business interests, that
gave judges some discretion in levying the law's harsh penalties against
businesses found to have employed illegal labor.

But the other sponsor of the original law, State Senator Scott Beason,
introduced his own proposal, which preserved most original sections, including
any that are currently barred by federal court. It would still allow law
enforcement officials to check immigration status during traffic stops, require
schools to check the immigration status of students at enrollment and bar
illegal immigrants from renting property.

Neither proposal was welcomed by civil rights groups, but Mr. Beason's version
was preferred by Tea Party groups and other conservative organizations in the
state. To the frustration of some high-ranking Republican lawmakers, what passed
on Wednesday amid a flurry of last-minute legislation at the end of the session
was very close to Mr. Beason's version.

Governor Bentley specifically asked that legislators reconsider one section in
the new bill and another in the original one: the new provision that compels the
state to list the names of illegal immigrants who appear in court; and the
section of the original law, currently barred by a federal court, that requires
schools to ascertain immigration status.

On Thursday, both Mr. Hammon and Mr. Beason filed bills that not only kept the
court provision, but added a requirement that the immigrants' photos also be
published.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in the Alabama Statehouse in Montgomery on Wednesday,
when lawmakers supported an immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICKEY
WELSH/MONTGOMERY ADVERTISER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do-It-Yourself Immigration Reform

BYLINE: By JORGE G. CASTANEDA and DOUGLAS S. MASSEY.

Jorge G. Castaneda, the foreign minister of Mexico from 2000 to 2003, is a
professor of politics and Latin American and Caribbean Studies at New York
University. Douglas S. Massey is a professor of sociology and public affairs at
Princeton.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 888 words


IN the noisy American debate over immigration reform, something important seems
to have escaped notice: time, and common-sense decisions by Mexican migrants,
have brought us nearly everything immigration reform was supposed to achieve.

Migration between Mexico and the United States has returned to a healthy
circular pattern: large numbers of Mexicans legally cross northward to work,
then return south with confidence that they can repeat the journey the next
time. The reason: Even as illegal Mexican migration flattened out in recent
years, legal Mexican travel north rose.

These migrants have their papers in order. So it's time to reconsider whether
the United States still faces a difficult problem with Mexican immigration.

There are many reasons illegal Mexican migration has flattened out. The costs
and risks have risen. Demand for labor in the United States has fallen. Growth
in Mexico's labor force has slowed.

Yes, the undocumented population in the United States is still about 11.5
million people, about 60 percent of whom are from Mexico, according to the
federal Office of Immigration Statistics. But the number is not growing. In
fact, data from the Mexican Migration Project, a binational effort by
demographers and other researchers, indicates that the rate of undocumented
emigration is nearing zero. It peaked at about 55 of every 1,000 Mexican men in
1999; by 2010 it had fallen to 9 per 1,000, a rate not seen since the 1960s.

Meanwhile legal migration soared: 517,000 Mexicans entered the United States as
legal temporary workers in 2010, while 888,000 entered on business visas and
30,000 arrived as exchange visitors. In 1995 the respective figures were 27,000,
256,000 and 5,000. In other words, Mexicans are coming to the United States to
work as eagerly as ever, but they are doing so legally.

At the same time, legal permanent Mexican immigration to the United States has
exploded, with an average of 160,000 persons entering annually since 2005. About
60 percent of those are immediate relatives -- spouses, minor children, parents
-- of American citizens, and an additional 30 percent are other relatives, like
siblings.

The large number of family migrants is an unintended, even ironic, consequence
of actions taken by Congress and successive administrations to make life
miserable for immigrants regardless of legal status. Legislation enacted in 1996
limited access to federal benefits, curtailed civil rights and increased the
risk of deportation. The well-being of foreign nationals was further undermined
by the USA Patriot Act in 2001 and was threatened in 2006 by the Sensenbrenner
bill, which aimed to deter illegal immigration through strict enforcement of
draconian new restrictions; it failed to become law, but a similar strategy
underlies Arizona's 2010 anti-illegal-immigration law.

In response, many Mexican permanent residents made an unexpected choice: Rather
than leave the United States because they felt unwelcome, they became citizens
-- a practice known as ''defensive naturalization.'' In the decade before 1996,
an average of 29,000 Mexicans were naturalized each year; since 1996, the
average has been 125,000 per year, yielding two million new citizens who could
then bring in close relatives. At present, nearly two-thirds of legal permanent
residents from Mexico enter as relatives of United States citizens.

Another paradox is that many of these new ''permanent residents'' do not use the
visas to settle in the United States; instead, they circulate back and forth as
temporary workers -- restoring a pattern that had prevailed until the early
1990s, when the United States began trying to seal the border. When returning
periodically to Mexico became too expensive, and running the gantlet to get back
into the United States too risky, undocumented migrants and their families
simply stayed in the United States.

But now circularity has returned, and with it a need to reconsider immigration
reform.

All the major proposals -- from Mexico, Congress and President George W. Bush --
have included four basic components: reducing illegal immigration; increasing
temporary work visas; granting more permanent resident visas; and legalizing
existing undocumented migrants. With net migration of undocumented Mexicans near
zero and temporary legal migration at record levels, the first two goals have
effectively been reached, and mass legal immigration by relatives of citizens
satisfies the third.

Regularizing the status of the 11.5 million undocumented people who live in the
United States has yet to be accomplished, but a solution can be envisioned by
recognizing that self-deportation is not going to happen. Voluntary departures
have practically stopped, and the idea of forced removals disturbs many
Americans. So if legalization can be achieved without too much fuss, the United
States and Mexico will have solved their immigration issue peacefully and
quietly.

It's a solution long in the making, traceable in part to accident and in part to
the hypocrisy of an American policy that has quietly legalized temporary workers
without saying so publicly. But timeliness and honesty in these matters are
often overrated. However we got here, Mexicans and Americans seem to have an
opportunity to put their immigration squabble behind them and live more
cordially as neighbors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Bill Keller)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

More 'Good Newt'

BYLINE: BILL KELLER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1171 words



HIGHLIGHT: Responding to flak from the left and right about my column praising
Newt Gingrich's stance on immigration reform.


In response to my column, "The Good Newt,"the incoming missiles are divided so
far between readers on the right upset that I support a comprehensive reform of
our immigration laws, and those on the left, appalled that I would say anything
nice about Newt Gingrich. Also, some flak from readers who see a national ID
card - which Gingrich and I consider a prerequisite for seriously enforcing our
immigration laws - as the first step toward a police state.

First, Newt. I wrote that the idea of President Gingrich made me shudder, but
that his willingness to take a serious stab at immigration reform put the rest
of his party to shame. My favorite response came from an old friend in Virginia.

"I more than shudder at the thought of President Newt," he emailed. "It might
make me move to Canada. I know. I've made that threat pretty much every four
years since 1960, but this time I really mean it .Newt's a classic case of if
you could buy him for what he's worth and sell him for what he thinks he's
worth, you'd have more money than God. He's an intellectual in the same sense
that singing along with Dylan, alone in my truck at 60 mph with the windows
rolled down, makes me a musician."

I assured my friend that praising Newt on the heathen-leftist NYT Op-Ed page was
actually part of a sly plan to discredit the candidate among the Republican
base. Shhh. Don't tell Iowa.

On immigration reform, though, Gingrich has done a brave thing by trying to come
up with a solution that is not about bigger fences or massive deportations. He
recognizes that the fundamentals of serious immigration reform include: more
rigorous enforcement, which means a system for policing employment of those with
no legal right to work here; forgiveness for some more rooted illegal immigrants
if they pay a penalty; and a more open, better designed program of legal
immigration, which fuels productivity, innovation and investment.

The details - especially of sorting out who among the 11 million undocumented
immigrants already here gets to stay and under what conditions - are not easy.
Smarter people than I have supplied lots of working material. (Those interested
in what a humane but pragmatic reform might look like should read "Beside the
Golden Door," a 2010 book by Pia M. Orrenius and Madeline Zavodny. Sadly, it's
only in hard cover, and not cheap.)

Some of the criticism focused on my assertion that we are not being overrun, or
dragged down, by illegal immigrants. Although the best available data show
border enforcement is more rigorous than ever, illegal immigration flows are
sharply down, and the total number of unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. has
fallen since its peak in 2007, some people still view illegal immigration with
alarm. As I wrote, that's an understandable perception if you are living in a
community experiencing a recent spurt of illegal settlement. But the numbers
from census counts and independent surveys are generally consistent: we are not
under siege.

Others say the problem has only abated because we are in recession, and we face
a new flood of illegal immigration when our economy recovers. It is true that
fewer immigrants are coming because it's harder to find work here. (Also it is
easier to find work in Mexico these days, as The Times has reported.
And we have doubled the size of the Border Patrol and reinforced it with
National Guard.) And it is true that the American economy will not be forever in
the depths of recession. The day will come when the U.S. job market again looks
appealing to people from elsewhere. That's all the more reason to get a sensible
policy in place, including a real (not just an aspirational) system for holding
employers accountable.
By the way, it's possible that when our economy is generating jobs, there won't
be quite as many foreign takers - at least not from Mexico, which is by far the
largest source of illegal labor in the U.S. Not only is Mexico doing better at
generating more jobs on its side of the border, as noted above, there has been a
startling, steady decline in Mexican fertility rates since about 1970, meaning
fewer young people looking for work, here or there.

Finally, there are those who say there can be no legalization of those already
here, because the law is the law. But in our system, we tend to separate the
question of guilt from the question of punishment. We try to come up with
punishments that fit the crime. It would be entirely consistent with our respect
for the law to conclude that, at least in some cases, the proper punishment for
coming here illegally was something less draconian than being uprooted,
separated from family and community, and deported.

The question of a national ID is worth another column or two, and perhaps I will
return to it at some point. If we want to control immigration, which most
Americans believe is a right and an obligation, the best control is at the
workplace, and that is virtually impossible unless we can reliably identify
employees.

I understand the fears, some of them rooted in the Nazi Holocaust roundups or
Stalin's purges, others associated with the keep-and-bear-arms movement: If the
government knows who you are and where you live, they can come and get you. They
can take your gun! If you have a number, (whether tattooed on your wrist or in a
firearm registration database), you are vulnerable. The fact that many of the
enlightened democracies of Europe issue internal passports has not entirely
allayed these fears.

But these days, unless you make a conscious decision to live off the grid, the
government already knows who you are and where you are - and so, curse it, does
every retailer, political consultant and spam merchant. We live in a world of
cookies and GPS and cell-phone towers and street-corner cameras. We buy apps to
tell the world where we are on purpose. (Here's an interesting riff on living in
the age of geo-location. )

You may feel disturbed by this or blase about it, but that's reality. Of course,
if you work and pay taxes, you have a number - your Social Security number -
which, being insecure against theft and forgery, is the cornerstone of identity
theft. A biometric ID card does not significantly add to your exposure, and
because it is forgery-proof (or as close as you can get) it means you can prove
you are who you say you are.

Ironically, in the world's largest democracy, India, there is a project underway
to create a biometric database as a boon to the disenfranchised poor - a
universal identity document that will allow every Indian to have a bank account,
access welfare benefits or get a cell phone. Here's a fascinating story about
that debate.

They (capital T) already know where you are. What keeps us from being a police
state is not that we can successfully hide from the police, but that as citizens
we control them. Most of the time.


     ·    The Politics of Economics: Feedback
     ·    A Few Words About the Occupiers
     ·    The Republican Scramble, Continued
     ·    Life Without Government
     ·    Disrupters and Adapters, Continued: Will the Internet Save Newspapers?


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

Hispanic Adviser Is Promoted at White House

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 567 words



HIGHLIGHT: In an appointment with election-year ramifications, Cecilia Munoz
will be director of the Domestic Policy Council.


The White House said Tuesday that Cecilia Munoz, who has led its efforts to
overhaul immigration laws, had been named director of the Domestic Policy
Council, making her one of President Obama's chief advisers on a broad swath of
issues, including education and gay rights.

Ms. Munoz, the highest-ranking Hispanic in the White House, had served as
director of intergovernmental affairs. She replaces Melody Barnes, who left this
month. Her promotion is notable because it comes at the start of an election
year in which Hispanic voters are expected to play a major role.

"Over the past three years, Cecilia has been a trusted adviser who has
demonstrated sound judgment day in and day out," Mr. Obama said in a statement.
"Cecilia has done an extraordinary job working on behalf of middle-class
families, and I'm confident she'll bring the same unwavering dedication to her
new position."

The daughter of immigrants from Bolivia, Ms. Munoz was a longtime top official
at the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights
group, where she became known as a fervent advocate for changes in United States
immigration policy.

But her efforts to build on that record in the Obama administration have
produced mixed results. In 2010, the White House was unable to win a vote in
Congress on the Dream Act, the centerpiece of its immigration agenda. Since
then, Ms. Munoz has worked to find administrative ways to slow down the
deportation of illegal immigrants - an issue that stirs up deep resentment among
many Hispanics.

She has pushed a proposed rule change that would keep families together while a
family member files for residency rights. Despite some criticism that she has
not taken a strong enough stand against deportations, Ms. Munoz's appointment
was generally praised by immigration advocates and Hispanic groups.

Ali Noorani, the executive director of the National Immigration Forum, said Ms.
Munoz's appointment "creates new opportunities to bring the multiple
contributions of immigrants into the forefront of discussions about our nation's
domestic policy needs, including immigration policy."

The appointment fills a key post at a White House that has been buffeted this
week by the resignation of the chief of staff, William M. Daley. Mr. Daley, who
last week told Mr. Obama that he wanted to return to his native Chicago after a
year on the job, was replaced by the budget director, Jacob J. Lew.

The White House did not announce a replacement for Mr. Lew, nor say when it
might name one. Mr. Lew will stay in his post for the rest of the month to
complete the current budget, said Jay Carney, the White House spokesman.

In her previous post, Ms. Munoz was responsible for the White House's relations
with state and local governments.

Among others who praised Ms. Munoz's appointment was the House Democratic
leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who said she had "a sterling
reputation as a powerful voice on behalf of comprehensive, compassionate
immigration reform."

Ms. Munoz was also welcomed by a major Catholic group, Catholics United, which
said that in choosing her, "the Obama administration has signaled how important
the faith community is to their governing agenda."


     ·    In Thanksgiving Address, a Note of Gloom
     ·    Soggy Trick-or-Treaters Visit White House
     ·    2012 Could Be Tiebreaker of Last 2 Cycles
     ·    Rick Perry Takes Upper Manhattan
     ·    Rick Astley Will Save Us All


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday

Justice Department Submits Correction Letter to Supreme Court

BYLINE: ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 427 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Justice Department told the Supreme Court on Tuesday evening that
it had provided incorrect information to the justices in an immigration case.


The Justice Department told the Supreme Court on Tuesday evening that it had
provided incorrect information to the justices in an immigration case.  The
department, in a seven-page letter, expressed regret for failing in its "special
obligation to provide this court with reliable and accurate information at all
times."

The letter was addressed to the clerk of the court, and it concluded with a
request that it be circulated to all of the justices.  It was signed Michael R.
Dreeben, a deputy solicitor general.  Mr. Dreeben noted that Solicitor General
Donald B. Verrilli Jr. and his principal deputy were recused in the case. Mr.
Dreeben did not say why.

The letter concerned a statement in a 2009 government brief in Nken v. Holder,
which concerned how courts should resolve requests from aliens who wanted to
stay in the country while they fought deportation orders.  The brief said that
the government's "policy and practice" is to help deported aliens who later won
their cases to return to the United States. The Supreme Court relied on the
assertion in deciding the case.

On Tuesday, Mr. Dreeben said the statement "suggested a more formal and
structured process than existed at the time."

More accurate information came to light after immigration lawyers filed a
Freedom of Information Act lawsuit in federal court in New York before Judge Jed
S. Rakoff.  In an interim ruling in February, Judge Rakoff said there was
"substantial evidence that the judicial process may have been impugned if the
Supreme Court relied upon what may well have been inaccurate or distorted
factual representation."

Documents ordered released in that case "have raised questions about the
promptness and consistency with which return" of aliens to the United States
"has actually been accomplished," Mr. Dreeben wrote.

"The government therefore believes that it is appropriate to correct its prior
statement to this court and to take steps going forward to ensure that aliens
who prevail on judicial review are able timely to return to the United States,"
Mr. Dreeben wrote.

The solicitor general's office prides itself on a special relationship with the
Supreme Court based on candor and reliability, and letters like the one from Mr.
Dreeben are quite rare.


Nken v. Holder Letter (PDF)

Nken v. Holder Letter (Text)


     ·    Bachmann Renews Attack on Gingrich Over Immigration
     ·    Gingrich Risks Conservative Outrage on Immigration
     ·    Bachmann Goes After Perry on Immigration and Pledges Border Fence
     ·    Perry, in Iowa, Focuses on Immigration
     ·    Perry Open to Military Intervention in Mexico's Drug War


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Changes Urged In Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 163 words


The state attorney general, Luther Strange, is recommending that the Legislature
repeal the parts of Alabama's tough new immigration law that have been put on
hold by federal courts and clarify some others. In a letter to legislative
leaders, Mr. Strange recommended repealing a section that makes it a crime for
an illegal immigrant to fail to carry registration documents. He also suggested
repealing the requirement that public schools collect information on the
immigration status of students. Mr. Strange said the proposed changes would help
law enforcement and remove burdens on law-abiding citizens. He also recommended
repealing sections allowing lawsuits to compel public officials to enforce the
law. He said that conflicts with the Alabama Constitution. The letter represents
the first time the attorney general, a Republican, has expressed concerns since
he started defending the law against a federal court challenge filed by about 30
organizations and individuals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Orders 72 Indonesians in New Jersey to Leave

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 955 words


Two years ago, a community of Indonesians in central New Jersey was spared
deportation after a Protestant pastor brokered an unusual agreement with
immigration authorities that allowed them to stay in the country temporarily.
The agreement was clear: The Indonesians would be able to stay and work, but the
permission could be rescinded at any moment.

The 72 Indonesians and their supporters, led by the Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale, had
appealed for the arrangement in the hope that with extra time, they would be
able to figure out a way to secure permanent legal status, either though the
courts or with the passage of immigration reform legislation in Washington.

Immigrant advocates had hoped the deal signaled a broader use of humanitarian
release for illegal immigrants without criminal records and with deep ties to
the community.

Now, though, the reprieve for the Indonesians is ending.

In recent weeks, most of the Indonesians, many of whom fled persecution of
Christians in Indonesia years ago, have received letters from the Department of
Homeland Security ordering them to appear at the agency's Newark office, a
one-way ticket to Indonesia in hand.

Their advocates have leapt into action, appealing to immigration officials for
continued lenience and lobbying members of the state's Legislature and
Congressional delegation to intervene.

On Wednesday, Representatives Carolyn B. Maloney of New York and Frank Pallone
Jr. of New Jersey, both Democrats, plan to submit a bill that would provide
relief to many of the Indonesians. The bill would allow certain Indonesians who
fled persecution in their homeland between 1997 and 2002 to resubmit asylum
claims that had been denied because they missed a one-year filing deadline.

''It feels so un-American to not make room to keep families together, especially
when folks came out of a time and place where there was tremendous violence,''
Mr. Kaper-Dale said in a telephone interview on Tuesday as he led a 24-hour
vigil and fast at his parish, the Reformed Church of Highland Park, N.J., in
support of the Indonesians.

The advocates said the decision to end the so-called orders of supervision was
surprising in light of recent assurances by the Obama administration that it
would focus its enforcement strategy on illegal immigrants with criminal
records, while sparing those with strong ties to the community and no criminal
record.

In June, senior officials at the Homeland Security Department announced a policy
to encourage immigration agents and lawyers to use prosecutorial discretion when
deciding whether to pursue deportation. The policy expanded the factors
immigration authorities can take into account in such decisions, including how
long an illegal immigrant has been in the United States and whether the
immigrant was brought to the country as a child. In addition, the directive gave
federal immigration lawyers the authority to dismiss deportation proceedings
against immigrants without serious criminal records.

Last month, Homeland Security officials, seeking to speed deportation of
convicted criminals, said they would begin a review of all deportation cases in
the immigration courts and begin training enforcement agents and government
lawyers in the application of the new prosecutorial discretion guidelines.

Mr. Kaper-Dale said all the Indonesians he had been helping would seem to be
worthy candidates for this sort of relief. Most have been in the country for at
least a decade and have American-born children, steady jobs and no criminal
records, he said.

Most of the Indonesians have filed requests for prosecutorial discretion, he
said. ''If these folks were good enough for discretion two years ago, why aren't
they good enough for discretion now?'' the pastor asked.

Officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of Homeland Security,
would not explain on Tuesday why the orders of supervision were ending now. In
response to media inquiries, an agency spokesman issued a statement saying that
the agency was reviewing appeals ''on a case-by-case basis.''

The orders of supervision allowed ''individuals to remain in the community -- as
opposed to in detention -- while they pursue legitimate forms of immigration
relief,'' the statement said.

On Tuesday, however, 12 of the Indonesians, responding to an immigration agency
order, appeared at the Newark office. They ignored demands that they bring plane
tickets, Mr. Kaper-Dale said. Agency officials told them to return later this
month and added that the agency would issue them plane tickets, the pastor said.

Among them was Grace Laloan, 42, who arrived in the United States in 2002 with
her husband. She said the couple, both Christians of Chinese descent, had fled
religious and ethnic persecution by the Muslim majority. They have an
American-born daughter, now 7, and work in factories, Ms. Laloan said.

Officials told her they would inform her of her fate on Dec. 21. ''I don't know,
maybe they're going to send me back,'' Ms. Laloan said. ''It feels bad because I
want to stay here.''

Under the terms of the bill proposed by Representatives Maloney and Pallone, an
applicant must be an Indonesian citizen; must have entered the United States
after Jan. 1, 1997, and before Nov. 30, 2002; must have had an asylum
application rejected because of a late filing; and must not have a criminal
record or be otherwise barred from receiving asylum, among other conditions.

Mr. Kaper-Dale said more than 1,000 Indonesians might be affected by the bill,
including clusters in New York and New Hampshire for whom he helped secure
orders of supervision in 2010.

''It is our hope through a pending Congressional action, I.C.E. will stay
deportation proceedings,'' Representative Maloney said in a statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jacob Senewe, 9, of Edison, N.J., and his mother, Audrey
Sondakh, at a vigil for Indonesians on Monday in Highland Park, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court To Weigh Arizona Statute On Immigration

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words


WASHINGTON -- In the space of a month, the Supreme Court has thrust itself into
the center of American political life, agreeing to hear three major cases that
could help determine which party controls the House of Representatives and
whether President Obama wins a second term.

The court announced Monday that it would decide whether Arizona was entitled to
impose tough anti-immigration measures over the Obama administration's
objections. The case joined a crowded docket that already included challenges to
Mr. Obama's signature legislative achievement, the 2010 health care overhaul
law, and a momentous case on how Texas will conduct its elections.

The Texas case, which on Friday the court agreed to hear, could cause as many as
four seats in the United States House of Representatives to change party
control.

''It's not just that these are big cases, but these are big cases that echo in
the political arena,'' said Nathaniel Persily, a professor of law and political
science at Columbia University. ''There is now a judicial forum for airing these
political disputes.''

Arizona enacted its immigration law last year, and the Obama administration
promptly sued to block four parts of it, saying they could not be reconciled
with federal laws and policies.

The challenged provisions include a requirement that state law enforcement
officials determine the immigration status of anyone they stop or arrest if
officials have reason to believe that the individual might be an illegal
immigrant. That provision also requires that the immigration status of people
who are arrested be determined before they are released.

The law also makes it a crime under state law for immigrants to fail to register
under a federal law and for illegal immigrants to work or to try find work. In
addition, it allows the police to arrest people without warrants if they have
probable cause to believe that they have done things that would make them
deportable under federal law.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco,
blocked all four provisions.

Applauding the Supreme Court's decision to review that ruling, Gov. Jan Brewer,
a Republican, was harshly critical of the administration.

''I was stunned at the audacity of the Obama administration to file suit against
an individual state seeking to safeguard its people,'' Ms. Brewer said in a
statement. ''That shock turned to outrage as the federal government proceeded to
file suit against three more states -- South Carolina, Alabama and now Utah --
that followed Arizona's lead.''

The health care and immigration decisions are likely to land in June, in the
heat of the presidential campaign.

The court must act much faster in the Texas case, where its decision on Friday
to stay the use of a set of election maps, created by federal judges, has thrown
election planning there into disarray. Political observers believe that the new
maps would increase the influence of Hispanic voters and thereby increase the
number of Democrats in the House.

The court's precedents point both ways in the health care case, and it is hard
to say what the outcome will be. In the Arizona and Texas cases, recent
decisions suggest that a majority of justices may look favorably on the
positions of state officials, which would entail upholding the Arizona
immigration law and rejecting at least a part of the court-drawn maps in Texas.

In May, the court upheld a different Arizona law, one that imposed harsh
penalties on businesses that employed illegal immigrants. In a 2009 decision,
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., writing for the majority, expressed
skepticism about the continuing vitality of a part of the Voting Rights Act of
1965 that the court in Texas relied on in substituting its own maps for ones
drawn by the Legislature.

Legal scholars and court historians struggled to think of another recent Supreme
Court term in a presidential election year with a similar pileup of cases with
sharp political and societal consequences. The political impact of the term's
rulings may, moreover, be amplified by the court's decision last year in
Citizens United, which unleashed unlimited campaign spending by corporations and
unions.

Some experts pointed to 1992, which featured a major abortion ruling and other
big decisions. But the current term may be most reminiscent of the showdown
between the Supreme Court and President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936, when the
court struck down major pieces of New Deal legislation as well as a New York law
establishing a minimum wage for women and children.

''There was a whole series of blockbuster cases, each with massive political
implications and economic consequences for the country,'' said Jeff Shesol, the
author of ''Supreme Power: Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court.'' That
description sounds rather like the current term.

There is a great deal of happenstance in the shaping of a Supreme Court docket,
and the fact that several cases arrived at the court at once does not
necessarily suggest an agenda. The last term was lackluster; this one is lively.

''In most of these cases, it's a coincidence of timing,'' said Justin Driver, a
law professor at the University of Texas.

The justices had little choice, for instance, in agreeing to hear a challenge to
the health care law, as federal appeals courts were divided over its
constitutionality and the Obama administration joined its opponents in urging
the court to act quickly. But the Supreme Court did not have to signal that the
case was a once-in-a-generation blockbuster by scheduling an extraordinary five
and half hours of arguments.

The court had more options in deciding how to act on a request from officials in
Texas in the redistricting dispute. The court could have stayed out of the
matter, effectively endorsing the maps that favored Democrats, which were drawn
by a special three-judge court in San Antonio that ignored a separate set of
maps drawn by the Republican-dominated Legislature.

The Supreme Court could have sent the case back to the special court, directing
it to give more deference to the Legislature's maps. Or the justices could have
jumped in feet first. They took the boldest route.

It was, similarly, not a sure thing that the justices would accept the Arizona
case, which was one of several cases in the federal pipeline involving tough
state anti-immigration laws. Lower courts had not issued a final ruling on the
Arizona law, giving the justices plausible reasons to wait. Instead, they chose
to weigh in on one of the most combustible issues in American politics.

Supreme Court decisions routinely have political consequences, of course,
sometimes quite direct ones. In 2000, 11 years to the day before the court
agreed to hear the Arizona case, the court effectively decided a presidential
election, in Bush v. Gore.

Putting that case to one side (as the court has, never citing it), court
watchers have to go back two decades, at least, to think of Supreme Court terms
as politically consequential as the current one.

Eric J. Segall, a law professor at Georgia State University, pointed to the term
that ended in June 1992, which included major cases raising fundamental issues
of abortion, freedom of speech, freedom of religion and school desegregation.
The most important of those decisions was Planned Parenthood v. Casey, which
reaffirmed the core of the right to abortion established by Roe v. Wade.

In the new crop of cases, too, the court may yet avoid creating political
earthquakes.

''I would not be surprised at all if they are looking at Solomonic ways to avoid
trouble in an election year,'' Barry Friedman, a law professor at New York
University, said of the justices.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A demonstration in Phoenix in May 2010 against Arizona's strict
immigration law, which the Supreme Court will consider. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
President Obama speaking in September 2010 about his health care overhaul, which
the justices have also agreed to rule on. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)
The court must act soon in a Texas case in which its stay of the use of new
election maps has thrown planning into disarray. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
  The Supreme Court, in agreeing to hear the three cases this term, has thrust
itself into the middle of American political life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT
ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama's Second Thoughts

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 567 words


Alabama's stance on its extremist immigration law is shifting from defiance to
damage control. Gov. Robert Bentley admitted this month that the law needed
fixing and promised that he and legislative leaders would do that in next year's
session. His retreat followed a letter from the state's attorney general, Luther
Strange, to legislative leaders suggesting that they throw out whole sections of
the law to make it easier to defend in court.

When Mr. Bentley signed the law in June, he ignored warnings from legal experts
and civil-rights advocates that it would curtail rights for all Alabamians,
criminalize routine business transactions and acts of charity, encourage racial
profiling, and cast an unconstitutional chill on school enrollment. The governor
and legislators were also warned -- apparently not by Mr. Strange -- that the
law would attract multiple lawsuits and pummel the economy, particularly farming
when immigrant workers fled.

The warnings have all come true. After a visiting Mercedes-Benz manager was
caught driving without his license and taken to jail as a potential illegal
immigrant, Governor Bentley had to reassure foreign investors that they were
still welcome. The law has created mass confusion, because nobody knows what it
really requires or what parts the court might throw out at any moment. In just
one example, some utilities are threatening to shut off customers without the
right papers, while others, like Alabama Power, say they would not dream of
doing that.

Mr. Strange's letter came after, as predicted, he spent six months trying to
defend the law in court and in public. At one point he even challenged the
federal government's authority to investigate civil-rights abuses committed
under the law. A federal appeals court has temporarily blocked parts of the law;
most recently, a judge issued a restraining order preventing Alabama from
denying trailer-home licenses to people it decides are here illegally.

Now Mr. Strange is urging lawmakers to drop some major provisions, including:

The requirement that schools collect immigration data on children and parents,
which he said would cost too much for the benefit it would provide.

The part making it a crime for immigrants not to carry their papers, which is
illegal under federal law.

The part barring people from college if they do not have documents, because some
people, like certain refugees, can be here legally without documents.

The sections that allow Alabama residents to sue officials they believe are not
adequately enforcing the law, because of conflicts with the state Constitution.

Mr. Strange would leave other parts of the law intact or simply tweaked, like
the one criminalizing the harboring and transporting of illegal immigrants. He
only wants to clarify, not drop, the part of the law that nullifies contracts
signed by undocumented immigrants.

Even if lawmakers accept Mr. Strange's proposals, it still will not undo the
harm -- to the undocumented, to all Alabamians, to the state's image and
economy. This law is indefensible. The only solution is repeal.

Unfortunately, too many of Alabama's politicians still don't get it. Mike
Hubbard, the House speaker, vowed on Facebook, ''we're not going to repeal or
weaken the law, acquiescing to liberal elites' and the news media's efforts to
intimidate and shame Alabama.'' And 12 senators have written to the governor,
urging him not to retreat.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Study, Judges Express a Bleak View of Lawyers Representing Immigrants

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 927 words


They are often poorly prepared or make incoherent arguments in court. Some fail
to present key evidence or witnesses. Others simply do not show up.

The performance of many lawyers who represent immigrants facing deportation in
New York has long been considered mediocre. But in a new report that seeks to
measure the extent of the problem, immigration judges themselves step forward
and offer a scathing assessment of much of the lawyering they have witnessed in
their courtrooms.

Immigrants received ''inadequate'' legal assistance in 33 percent of the cases
between mid-2010 and mid-2011 and ''grossly inadequate'' assistance in 14
percent of the cases, the judges said. They gave private lawyers the lowest
grades, while generally awarding higher marks to pro bono counsel and those from
nonprofit organizations and law school clinics.

The study was conducted by a group of lawyers and researchers under the auspices
of Robert A. Katzmann, a federal appellate judge in New York City. A year ago,
they began sifting through government data and surveying immigration judges in
an attempt to measure the quality and availability of legal representation for
immigrants facing deportation.

Their report will be published this week in the Cardozo Law Review, a
publication of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University in
Manhattan.

''We began this effort with an intuitive sense of the scale of the problem,''
the report says. ''The numbers sadly bear out that intuition in the starkest
form.''

Judge Katzmann blames predatory lawyers who are not familiar with immigration
law for much of the poor representation. The immigrants who hire them often do
not speak English and are unfamiliar with the court system, making them
particularly vulnerable.

''They are easy prey for ambulance-chasing-style lawyers who do not adhere to
the highest standards of responsibility,'' said the judge, who for several years
has been pushing for better legal representation of immigrants in New York.

For the judges' survey, researchers polled judges in five immigration courts --
three in New York City and two in the northern suburbs -- about the
representatives who appeared before them. All but 2 of the 33 sitting judges at
the time participated in the investigation.

While much legal representation in New York immigration courts is shoddy, the
report found that many immigrants do not have representation at all. (Unlike in
criminal courts, respondents in immigration courts are not entitled to
court-appointed lawyers.)

Immigrants in 27 percent of cases between October 2005 and July 2010 appeared in
court without a legal representative, according to the report. For detained
immigrants, 67 percent appeared alone before a judge.

The report found that immigrants' fate can depend largely on whether they can
find legal representation: About 67 percent of all immigrants with counsel
during that five-year period had successful outcomes in their cases, while only
8 percent of those without lawyers prevailed.

Where detainees were held also appeared to make a considerable difference in
their cases. Nearly two-thirds of those detained in New York are sent to
detention centers out of state, often as far away as Louisiana and Texas. Yet
only 21 percent of detainees transferred out of New York between October 2005
and July 2010 received representation, the report said.

Even a short transfer to New Jersey can have a considerable impact, the
researchers found. Among immigrants transferred to Newark, only 22 percent had
representation.

Judge Katzmann's study group said this was a significant finding because
immigration authorities were expanding detention capacity in Newark to hold
detainees from around the region.

''It's hard to get New York lawyers to go to New Jersey and do those cases,''
said Peter L. Markowitz, a clinical associate professor at the Cardozo law
school and chairman of the research team that produced the report. ''To take a
day to go do a case out in Newark is just disruptive to their practice and not
worth it to them.''

The Obama administration has acknowledged the problem of inadequate
representation. In 2009, immigration officials announced plans to overhaul the
detention system, including providing more detention capacity in and around
cities with large immigrant populations, like New York, so detainees are closer
to their families and lawyers.

While immigration officials recently closed a detention center in Lower
Manhattan, they are planning to double detention capacity in Newark. The study
group's report, however, did not address the potential impact of these proposed
changes.

The report also did not consider the potential impact of a new Obama
administration plan to review all pending deportation cases in the immigration
courts and to train enforcement agents and government lawyers in the use of new
prosecutorial guidelines. The plan is intended to unclog the immigration system
and to focus the government's deportation efforts on convicted criminals.

''I'm somewhat skeptical still of that process,'' Mr. Markowitz said.
''Skeptical but hopeful.''

He added: ''Meaningful prosecutorial discretion on the front end is something
that could have a real impact.''

Judge Katzmann's group is currently in the midst of another project: to develop
a system that would guarantee competent legal representation for all immigrants
facing deportation. The group hopes its project will provide a model for the
rest of the country.

''Having the data means that we can think sensibly about how to address this
dire crisis,'' the judge said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judge Robert A. Katzmann, who helped with the study. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Irrationality in Deportation Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 413 words


A stinging opinion by Justice Elena Kagan for a unanimous Supreme Court
reinforced last month a message that lower courts have been sending for many
years: the law applied in immigration cases too often fails to meet the
standards of justice.

In Judulang v. Holder, the failure was total: a decision on deportation that
made no sense. As Justice Kagan pointedly wrote, ''We must reverse an agency
policy when we cannot discern a reason for it.'' That judgment, unfortunately,
applies to much of the snarled and absurd processes in the immigration courts.

The case is about the policy the Board of Immigration Appeals uses in deciding
when a resident alien who has been ordered deported can apply to the attorney
general to overturn that order. Joel Judulang, a native of the Philippines, has
been a permanent resident of the United States since 1974 when he was 8 years
old. At 14, he pleaded guilty and received a suspended sentence for voluntary
manslaughter after taking part in a fight in which someone else shot and killed
another person. In 2005, after he pleaded guilty to a theft, the government
began deportation proceedings based on the manslaughter conviction, and an
immigration judge ordered him deported.

In determining whether Mr. Judulang could apply for a waiver from deportation,
the board looked to a repealed law, which dealt with excluding aliens from
admission to this country. If the basis for deporting an alien is ''essentially
equivalent'' to a basis in the law for excluding someone, the board said, the
deportee could apply for a waiver. But it ruled that Mr. Judulang could not
because the grounds for his deportation were not comparable to the grounds that
apply to exclusion.

Justice Kagan properly pointed out that this analysis was essentially arbitrary.
The board made ''an irrelevant comparison between statutory provisions,'' which
had nothing to do with Mr. Judulang's fitness to remain in the United States.
Instead, it turned a deportation decision into a ''sport of chance,'' like
''flipping a coin -- heads an alien may apply for relief, tails he may not.''

The board's ruling in this case was irrational, but at least it issued a written
opinion. Often, the board rubber-stamps deportation rulings with no written
opinion or explanation, making it almost impossible to appeal in the federal
courts. The board's decision-making process reflects the dysfunction of the
overburdened immigration court system, which is in need of a complete overhaul.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 6, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Health Plan Extended to Immigrants

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 454 words


BOSTON -- Massachusetts cannot bar legal immigrants from a state health care
program, according to a ruling issued Thursday by the state's highest court, a
decision that edges the state closer to its goal of providing near-universal
health care coverage to its residents.

The ruling said that a 2009 state budget that dropped about 29,000 legal
immigrants who had lived in the United States for less than five years from
Commonwealth Care, a subsidized health insurance program central to this state's
2006 health care overhaul, violated the State Constitution.

''This appropriation discriminated on the basis of alienage and national
origin,'' wrote Justice Robert J. Cordy of the Supreme Judicial Court, ruling
that the action ''violates their rights to equal protection under the
Massachusetts Constitution.''

In 2009, with Massachusetts in the grips of a budget crisis, the state
legislature voted to eliminate these immigrants' eligibility for the program, a
move lawmakers said then would save about $130 million.

''Fiscal considerations alone cannot justify a state's invidious discrimination
against aliens,'' Justice Cordy wrote.

He also dismissed the state's argument that the cuts were in line with federal
policies to deny Medicaid assistance to the same group of legal immigrants.

''The legislature may not lean on federal policy as a crutch to absolve it of
examining whether its own invidious discrimination is truly necessary,'' Justice
Cordy wrote.

Gov. Deval Patrick initially opposed barring the immigrants' from the program
and worked with legislators to create an alternative -- and more limited --
program that cost about $40 million.

Wendy E. Parmet, a professor at Northeastern University School of Law who argued
the case, said she hoped the ruling would mean a quick redemption of benefits
for the immigrants who lost some or all of their health insurance coverage
because of the money-saving measure.

''I think it sends a clear message that it is unconstitutional in the state of
Massachusetts, that the state can't deal with its budget problems on the backs
of the legal immigrants,'' Ms. Parmet said of the decision.

State officials say they will abide by the decision, although they are not yet
sure how to pay for the change.

''This decision has significant fiscal impacts for the commonwealth, adding
somewhere in the range of $150 million in annual costs to what is already a very
challenging budget,'' said Jay Gonzalez, secretary of administration and
finance. But he added, ''We will work expeditiously to identify the resources
required and the operational steps that need to be taken to integrate all
eligible, legal immigrants into the Commonwealth Care program in accordance with
today's decision.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Agents' Union Delays Training On New Policy On Deportation

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1267 words


WASHINGTON -- The federal agency in charge of deportations is conducting a
far-reaching training course to push immigration enforcement officers and
prosecutors nationwide to focus their efforts on removing immigrants convicted
of crimes.

The training course is the clearest sign yet that administration officials want
to transform the way immigration officers work, asking them to make nuanced
decisions to speed deportations of high-risk offenders while halting those of
illegal immigrants with clean records and strong ties to the country. The policy
is President Obama's most ambitious immigration initiative before the November
elections, senior administration officials said.

But in a new sign of the deep dissension over immigration, the union
representing some 7,000 deportation officers of the agency, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, known as ICE, has so far not allowed its members to
participate in the training. Without the formal assent of the union, the
administration's strategy could be significantly slowed for months in labor
negotiations.

Chris Crane, the president of the union, the National ICE Council, has fiercely
criticized the strategy, saying it amounts to orders from ICE officials for
agents not to enforce the law. In Congressional testimony, Mr. Crane accused the
administration of tailoring its enforcement practices to win support from
immigrant communities for Mr. Obama's re-election.

''Law enforcement and public safety have taken a back seat to attempts to
satisfy immigrant advocacy groups,'' Mr. Crane told a House Judiciary
subcommittee in October.

Department of Homeland Security officials say the training seminar, although
only half a day, is central to bringing all ICE officers on board for an effort
that they say will significantly raise the numbers of convicted criminals among
deportees and is expected to lead in coming months to unprecedented suspensions
of deportations of tens of thousands of illegal immigrants.

Virtually all ICE commanding officers and prosecutors have gone through the
training course and are working on the new strategy, Homeland Security
Department officials said. But because of the silence from the ICE Council, a
local of the American Federation of Government Employees, the officials will
miss their Jan. 13 goal for completing the nationwide training blitz, which
began in November.

Mr. Crane has channeled his criticisms primarily through Republican leaders in
Congress, working with Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee. Calling the administration's plan ''backdoor
amnesty,'' Mr. Smith said last week that evidence Mr. Crane presented to the
committee showed that directives from ICE officials for agents to use discretion
in enforcement decisions had ''undermined the agency's credibility and
mission.''

The National ICE Council faces a deadline late this month to say whether it will
demand negotiations over the training, the officials said. Mr. Crane did not
respond to repeated e-mail requests over several months for comment.

On another side, the administration is facing intense pressure from Latino
leaders and immigrant organizations to begin halting deportations.

The cornerstone of the policy is a June 17 memorandum by John Morton, the
director of ICE, in which he laid out a list of no fewer than 31 factors that
ICE officers should weigh when deciding whether to proceed with a deportation.
Peter S. Vincent, ICE's top lawyer, added further guidelines on Nov. 17.

With slide shows and chalk talks on a dozen hypothetical immigration cases, the
training seminar challenges officers to decide which foreigners should be
deported, using prosecutorial discretion to make more complex decisions than
they have in decades. It instructs agents to focus on the worst offenders,
including criminal convicts, gang members and foreigners who came back after
being expelled. Other groups of immigrants -- elderly people, children, military
veterans, college students and parents of young citizens -- are low priorities
who can be allowed to stay, even if they are here illegally. A New York Times
reporter sat through an abbreviated version of the seminar.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said the policy was based on
existing statutes and was intended to make good use of strained resources. With
each deportation costing at least $23,000, she said, immigration agencies have
money for 400,000 removals each year, a goal that the Obama administration has
met in each of the past three years. But an estimated 11 million immigrants live
here illegally.

The training asks ICE agents what they should do, for example, with a young
illegal immigrant turned over to the agency after being arrested by a state
trooper for driving without a license. She has been living in this country since
1993 and has an infant son, an American citizen because he was born here. But
she lied to ICE officers, failing to tell them she had a conviction for
shoplifting in 1995.

Answer: She is not a threatening criminal and may still be nursing her American
baby. Officers should close her deportation case.

How about the migrant who has been living here since he crossed the Southwest
border illegally in 1996? He failed to appear for a crucial immigration court
hearing back then. But he has no criminal record, and he coaches soccer at the
school where his twin daughters, both citizens, are enrolled.

Answer: This case, too, should be closed.

Then there is the man from an Asian Pacific island, a legal resident of the
United States since 1984 who even served two distinguished combat tours in Iraq.
But he left the military and is now finishing a six-year prison sentence for a
federal sex-trafficking felony.

Answer: Despite his service, because of his grave sex offense he loses his
resident status and will be sent by ICE to his birth country.

Cases against illegal immigrants who win favorable prosecutorial discretion will
be closed but not canceled, so ICE can easily reopen them. Mr. Morton said the
immigrants would remain in ''legal limbo,'' not gaining any legal immigration
status.

Mr. Crane told Congress that the Morton directives presented enforcement agents
with ''a roller coaster of arrest authority that has changed from month to
month, week to week and at times from day to day.'' He said some agents were
afraid to make any arrests.

It is not clear how deeply the union's resistance reaches into ICE ranks. ICE
officials say many field agents have been drawn to the professional appeal of
the high-profile anticrime operations against foreign street gangs, drug dealers
and sex offenders that the agency is conducting ever more frequently.

''Our folks understand that we have limited resources and we have to focus more
than ever on our priorities,'' said Chris Shanahan, the ICE field office
director who oversees deportation operations in New York City, where all
supervisors have had the training.

''What I see from my officers,'' Mr. Shanahan said, ''is that they understand
that criminal aliens and national security threats should be taken into custody
and removed before a single mother, a pregnant woman or someone with small
United States citizen children.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
picture caption last Sunday with an article about questions over a new policy to
focus on illegal immigrants with criminal backgrounds misstated, in some
editions, the credentials of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.
They are supervising ICE agents, not future ICE agents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supervising agents listening last month to John Morton, the
director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is asking its staff to
make nuanced decisions on when to initiate deportation proceedings. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Courts: The View From the Justice Dept.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 228 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Irrationality in Deportation Law'' (editorial, Jan. 3): While you correctly
portray the Supreme Court as critical of the Board of Immigration Appeals'
decision in Judulang v. Holder, your effort to extrapolate from the court's
holding to draw conclusions about the overall work of the board is unfounded.

You assert that the board, part of the Justice Department's Executive Office for
Immigration Review, ''rubber-stamps deportation rulings with no written opinion
or explanation.'' Several years ago, the board was criticized for its use of
''affirmances without opinion,'' which are one-line decisions. In fiscal year
2003, these decisions made up more than a third of the board's decisions. Today,
the board has virtually eliminated their use; in fiscal year 2011, they were
less than 3 percent of the board's decisions. Your criticism is out of date.

You accuse the immigration courts of using ''snarled and absurd processes''
without providing specifics. In fact, the immigration judges, the Board of
Immigration Appeals' members and staff members at the Executive Office for
Immigration Review are dedicated professionals who strive to interpret
immigration laws fairly and clearly and to provide due process to all who appear
in our tribunals.

JUAN P. OSUNA Director, Executive Office for Immigration Review, Justice Dept.
Washington, Jan. 5, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Test of Deportation Policy, 1 in 6 Get a Fresh Look and a Reprieve

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1391 words


DENVER -- A review ordered by the Obama administration of virtually all 7,900
deportation cases before the immigration court here has identified about 1,300
foreigners -- 16 percent -- who pose no security risk and will be allowed to
remain in the United States, although with no new legal status, immigration
officials said Thursday.

It was a fast-paced test run of the first comprehensive docket review in the
nation's immigration courts. Department of Homeland Security officials plan to
extend it in coming months to all of about 300,000 deportation cases before the
courts nationwide.

The court review is part of a broad effort by the administration, as President
Obama heads into his re-election campaign, to ease the impact of enforcement on
immigrant and Latino communities by stopping some deportations while also
reducing huge backlogs swamping the immigration courts. Based on an early
projection of results from pilot projects here and in Baltimore, as many as
39,000 immigrants across the country could see their deportation cases closed.

Officials said that number, though only a fraction of nearly 1.2 million
deportations in the last three years, would be enough to show that Mr. Obama had
heard increasingly bitter complaints from immigrant groups about families
separated by removals since he took office.

While the administration's strategy was generally welcomed by immigrant
organizations, advocates said they were frustrated that many of those permitted
to stay would be left in an indefinite limbo where they could not work or obtain
driver's licenses and might struggle to subsist.

''They will be in immigration purgatory,'' said Hans Meyer, an immigration
lawyer in Denver.

On another side, Republicans say Mr. Obama is doing an end run around Congress
with the prosecutorial discretion policy. ''This is part of a pattern of
granting de facto amnesty to the more than 11 million illegal immigrants in the
United States by the president's refusal to enforce U.S. immigration laws,''
said Representative Elton Gallegly, the Republican from California who is
chairman of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee.

Federal officials this month also proposed streamlining the procedures by which
illegal immigrants with American family members apply for legal residency.

In a blitz that started Dec. 5, 16 immigration prosecutors in Denver, laboring
long days and weekends, read through looming stacks of paper files to meet a
mid-January deadline set by the Department of Homeland Security in Washington.

Despite the immense workload, prosecutors said they liked their newfound
flexibility in pursuing cases -- more like the routine practice of their peers
in criminal courts. Each minor case closed clears time on the court's jammed
calendar for an immigration judge to expel a convicted sex offender or gang
member, prosecutors said.

''It makes us feel good to know that some of these low-priority cases will be
placed at the back burner,'' said Corina Almeida, who, as chief counsel for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Denver, is the senior prosecutor here.
''These cases free up others to move to the front of the line: the egregious
offenders, those who thumb their noses at the system or commit fraud.''

Under a policy unveiled in June by John Morton, the director of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, or ICE, the agency's officers are asked to be more
discriminating with its resources, using prosecutorial discretion to hasten
deportations of criminals while avoiding illegal immigrants charged only with
civil violations who have strong family bonds in the country.

''If the only thing they did is enter illegally, they have established ties,
they have U.S. citizen children, they are productive members of society, they
have no criminal records, it makes prosecutors feel good when you know you can
do something,'' Ms. Almeida said. ''They don't have to worry about someone
knocking on their door.''

But as the pilot project unfolded here, it became clear that ICE prosecutors,
while closing deportations, were not offering any new legal status that would
allow immigrants to work or drive legally or receive college assistance.

Among the first to benefit under the Denver review was a student from Mexico
whose parents had brought him to Colorado when he was 9. The student, Jesus
Gerardo Noriega, now 21, was put in deportation proceedings after a traffic
officer pulled him over for a burned-out license plate light. A 2006 Colorado
law requires state and local police to report any suspected illegal immigrant to
ICE.

Mr. Noriega met the standard for prosecutorial discretion in several ways: his
parents are legal residents, and his three brothers are American citizens. His
application for residency is stalled in the system. He graduated from high
school and wants to go to college -- to study automotive engineering to design
energy-efficient cars, he specified.

Mr. Noriega was arrested 12 days before he would have completed 10 years living
in the United States, when he would have become eligible to have his deportation
canceled definitively, his lawyer, Mr. Meyer, said.

''My parents didn't want me sent back, and they wanted to see me again,'' Mr.
Noriega said, recalling the days when he was detained. ''We've always been a
close family, and having your son put in jail and taken away from you definitely
brought sadness and depression to the house.''

He learned just before the holidays that his deportation had been suspended. ''I
thought it must have been a miracle,'' Mr. Noriega said.

But he is worried that without being able to work or drive, he cannot enroll in
the courses he needs for the automotive degree.

''It definitely is a step forward,'' he said. ''But at the same time, I don't
think it's a solution.''

Administration officials said they were going as far as they could under
existing laws and would continue to press Congress for legislation giving legal
status to illegal immigrants.

After being chosen for discretion, an immigrant must pass background checks
against federal criminal and national security databases. Then ICE prosecutors
offer to file a joint motion with the immigrant to close the deportation case.
If both sides agree, the approval of an immigration judge is relatively quick.

The deportation then becomes a ''sleeping beauty,'' one ICE prosecutor said; it
is closed and off the docket, but in theory it can be reopened at any time.

Judges and court administrators here were cheered by the prospect of reduced
backlogs. With six immigration judges handling on average more than 1,300 cases
each, the Denver courts are among the most clogged in the nation, and immigrants
wait as long as 18 months for a hearing.

Another case closed in Denver was that of Raul Cardenas, who came here illegally
from Mexico. He has been married for 11 years to an American citizen, and he and
his wife, Judy, are raising three children, all citizens.

After eight years in a job driving heavy tunnel-boring machinery, Mr. Cardenas
was arrested in 2009 when ICE determined that the Social Security number he had
presented belonged to someone else. All serious criminal charges against him
were dismissed, but he was placed in deportation proceedings.

''It was an absolute violation of the security and safety of my family,'' said
Mrs. Cardenas, a public school kindergarten teacher. With the help of their
Unitarian Universalist church, they held rallies, petitioned lawmakers and
sought support on YouTube.

Mr. and Mrs. Cardenas said they were greatly relieved that his deportation was
stopped. But they remain frustrated, since he cannot get authorization to work.

''It's anxiety-filled limbo,'' Mrs. Cardenas said.

In cases where discretion was denied, prosecutors and lawyers said, ICE leaned
toward caution, passing over many immigrants who did not have criminal records
but also did not show deep ties to the United States.

In many cases, lawyers for illegal immigrants are not accepting prosecutors'
offers because the immigrants have good chances of winning legal residency in
court. Laura Lichter, the president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, who practices in Denver, said ICE could have done far more to
reduce backlogs by rapidly completing those strong cases.

''It is a major undertaking,'' she said of the docket review. ''But it is also a
major lost opportunity.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jesus Gerardo Noriega, a student who was facing deportation, at
his home in Aurora, Colo., last week.(A13)
Deportation proceedings against Raul Cardenas, here with his wife, Judy, last
week at their Denver home, were halted.
 Lynn Marrero, an assistant chief counsel in Denver, reviewed her files for
cases to apply prosecutorial discretion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)(A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Advertising: Union Seeks to Turn Hispanics Against Romney

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 493 words


The Service Employees International Union began airing a Spanish-language radio
spot in Florida on Tuesday that seeks to turn the state's Hispanic voters
against Mitt Romney by accusing him of being two-faced on immigration policy.

The ad, which is running in Tampa and Orlando, says that while Mr. Romney has
run a commercial in Florida saying he shares the values of the state's Hispanic
voters, he has boasted in other states that he had the endorsement of Kris
Kobach, an architect of anti-immigrant laws in Arizona and Alabama.

The union's ad, called ''The Two Faces of Mitt Romney,'' says, ''Romney says he
cares about our children, but he has promised to veto the Dream Act that would
open the doors of opportunity for young Hispanics.'' That legislation would
grant legal status to some illegal immigrants who came into the United States as
children, especially those who serve in the military or graduate from college.

''Romney started running ads in Spanish in Florida with a message trying to get
our votes, while in English he's running a campaign attacking immigrants,'' said
Eliseo Medina, the union's secretary-treasurer. ''To make matters worse, Romney
embraces Kris Kobach. We can't let them get away with saying something in one
language while attacking us in another language.''

The ads are co-sponsored by Priorities USA, a Democratic ''super PAC.''

In a news release, the union said that while Mr. Romney professes concern for
Hispanics, he backs harsh treatment of immigrants to cause them to
''self-deport''; i.e., return to their homeland.

Mr. Romney has taken a relatively hard line on illegal immigration, and his
campaign has been running a television spot featuring his son Craig speaking in
Spanish about liberty and opportunity.

Albert Martinez, an adviser to Mr. Romney, called the union's ad ''a dishonest
smear from President Obama's liberal allies and a desperate attempt to distract
from his abysmal record,'' and said, ''It will do nothing to help the millions
of Hispanics who have been hit especially hard as a result of the Obama
economy.''

The service employees' union, with around two million members, has long been one
of the unions most supportive of the president. It has also been at the
forefront of organized labor's effort to persuade Congress to enact a law that
establishes a path to legalization for illegal immigrants. The service
employees' union has joined the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees in running anti-Romney ads in Florida even though it remains
unclear whether he will be the Republican nominee.

''We want to act sooner rather than later,'' Mr. Medina said. ''We want to make
sure that the Latino community is part of the process for this presidential
election.''

The union said in a news release that it did not see Newt Gingrich or Rick
Santorum as ''viable alternatives for Hispanic voters.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Up Front

BYLINE: By THE EDITORS

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 302 words


Last year, Jose Antonio Vargas was a young journalist in the midst of a thriving
career when he made a choice he knew would change his life: He decided to come
out as an undocumented immigrant, in a first-person article published in The New
York Times Magazine. ''At age 16, I found out that I'm not supposed to be
here,'' said Vargas, who was born in the Philippines and had been living in
America for four years when he discovered his mother had sent him here bearing
fake documents. When he finally resolved to tell his story, he explained via
e-mail, social media served as a catalyst. ''On Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, I
saw young undocumented Americans coming out. I felt responsible. I had to speak
out. I didn't consider it brave; I considered it necessary.''

On Page 12, Vargas reviews ''Revolution 2.0,'' a memoir by Wael Ghonim, the
Google executive who was detained in Egypt for nearly two weeks last year after
he used Facebook to organize protests during the Arab Spring. Like Ghonim,
Vargas has turned to social media to drive a new project with a clear political
objective, an initiative called Define American, which is collecting
testimonials ''to elevate and broaden how we talk about immigration,'' he said.
''Illegal immigration is not just about undocumented people; it's also about
citizens who aid people like me every day, in schools, churches and communities
around the country.'' Vargas is also writing a memoir based on his Times
Magazine article. ''What's been surprising to me is how many people see
themselves in my story -- I recently got e-mail from young readers in Chile and
Italy. Then I realized that America, after all, is a global story, and defining
what it means to be an American in a borderless digital era concerns not just
Americans but people from around the world.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TINA BERNING)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nebraska: Mixed Ruling On Immigration Crackdown

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING PLAINS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 205 words


A federal judge has rejected part of a controversial city ordinance in Fremont
that sought to ban hiring illegal immigrants and renting property to them. Much
of the ordinance could still take effect next month. Judge Laurie Smith Camp of
Federal District Court said part of the ordinance that would have denied housing
occupancy permits to illegal immigrants is discriminatory. Kris W. Kobach, a
lawyer who wrote the ordinance and who is now the Kansas secretary of state,
said that 75 percent of the ordinance, which was approved by voters in 2010, was
upheld. That includes requiring that employers use the federal E-Verify database
to ensure that potential employees are legally allowed to work. Mr. Kobach said
the ruling also allows the city to require anyone seeking to rent property from
a landlord to apply for a $5 city permit, and allows the city to check the
prospective tenants' citizenship status. Mr. Kobach says the ruling simply
prevents the city from revoking those permits. The ordinance has been suspended
during the legal challenge, which was filed by the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund and the American Civil Liberties Union. Fremont is
a city of 25,000 about 30 miles northwest of Omaha.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo and G.O.P. Quiet So Far on Tuition Aid for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 927 words


ALBANY -- With immigration still a contentious issue around the country, Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo and Republican lawmakers have maintained a noticeable distance
from New York State proposals that would make financial aid available to illegal
immigrants at colleges and universities.

Advocates for the so-called Dream Act have the backing of Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg, who said at a recent budget hearing that maintaining a system in
which illegal immigrants cannot gain access to scholarship aid ''is just asking
us to continually have a group of people who can't share in the American
dream.''

But thus far the advocates have been unable to win public support from Mr.
Cuomo, a Democrat who has generally been supportive of immigrants but who faces
the possibility that his position could reverberate if he runs for president in
2016.

Mr. Cuomo's spokesman would say only that the governor was studying the
legislation.

Advocates for the legislation are also hoping to win support from at least some
Republican lawmakers, as party leaders have increasingly promoted their outreach
to the state's fast-growing Hispanic population. But Republicans have so far
issued only cautionary statements about the Dream Act.

New York, a state in which about 22 percent of the population is foreign-born,
is one of a handful of states that allow illegal immigrants to receive in-state
tuition at public universities. The City University of New York system has
nearly 6,000 illegal immigrants enrolled at its schools, a spokesman said; the
State University of New York does not track the immigration status of its
students, according to its spokesman.

This year, seeking to broaden educational opportunities for residents who were
brought to the United States illegally as children, lawmakers are offering
several proposals to make it easier for them to pay for higher education.

Two versions of the Dream Act have been proposed in the State Legislature. One
would allow illegal immigrants who graduated from a high school in the state to
get a piece of the roughly $900 million in the state's Tuition Assistance
Program. The other bill would create a private fund that the students could tap
for aid; donors would get tax credits for contributing to the fund.

These Dream Act proposals differ from federal legislation of the same name,
backed by President Obama, which would create a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants who go to college or serve in the military. The federal bill was
defeated in December 2010 and reintroduced last spring.

Daniela Alulema, a proponent of the New York version of the Dream Act and a
board member at the New York State Youth Leadership Council, said the
legislation would be an investment ''in the education of undocumented youth.''

''These are young, dedicated, hard-working students who could be part of a more
educated and productive work force,'' Ms. Alulema said.

But critics are outraged.

The Dream Act ''sends the message that there's no distinction between being here
legally or illegally,'' said Steve Levy, the former Suffolk County executive and
a vocal critic of the state's immigration policies. ''It's hard enough that the
government doesn't enforce its borders, but now taxpayers would be subsidizing
the undocumented residents.''

State Senator Adriano Espaillat, a Democrat from Washington Heights who is a
sponsor of a version of the Dream Act, said he was hoping for ''the political
muscle of the governor'' to get the measure passed.

''I haven't heard him individually, voluntarily speak up on it,'' Mr. Espaillat
added. ''That's a concern, yes.''

Some advocates are optimistic that Mr. Cuomo will ultimately support the tuition
measures, especially given his past support for immigrants.

''My instinct is, when the moment does come and he needs to come out, he will,''
said Javier H. Valdes, the deputy director of Make the Road New York, an
organization that has supported the bill.

Advocates for the legislation also argue that Republicans should back the
measure, as the population of immigrants in some Republican districts rises.
Several conservative pockets of the state, mostly on Long Island and in
Westchester County, have growing Latino and immigrant populations.

''This is not a constituency that is just in Washington Heights or a
constituency that is just in traditional communities of color,'' said Bill
Perkins, a Democratic senator from Harlem who is sponsoring a version of the
Dream Act. ''I think it offers those who might be Republicans the opportunity to
bring something home to their base of support.''

Democrats are looking for support particularly from two freshman Republican
senators from Long Island, Lee M. Zeldin and Jack M. Martins.

Mr. Zeldin, whose district is more than a quarter Hispanic, said he was keeping
an open mind about the proposal but had questions about whether it would help
some students at the expense of others. He said the government could also help
immigrants by addressing areas like education, gang violence, foreclosures and
property taxes.

''The fact is there are several issues we also are paying attention to,'' Mr.
Zeldin said. ''I don't see any one issue being an end all, be all to fix that
community's problems.''

Mr. Martins, whose district is 13.8 percent Hispanic, said he wanted to make
sure the Dream Act was targeted at immigrants who arrived as children.

''The issue is far more prevalent and far more important,'' he said, ''when
you're dealing with younger children who've come to this country and are here
for 10, 15 years and are literally as American as anyone else.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lee M. Zeldin, left, and Jack M. Martins are Republican state
senators from Long Island with sizable Latino constituencies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vying for Campus President, Illegal Immigrant Gets a Gamut of Responses

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1099 words


COLLEGE STATION, Tex. -- Jose Luis Zelaya stood with a crowd of other students
waiting to hear the news. It was election day at Texas A&M University here, and
he was running for student body president. A victory for Mr. Zelaya, a
24-year-old graduate student from Honduras, would make history at Texas A&M: He
would become its first Hispanic student body president -- and the first illegal
immigrant to hold the position.

Mr. Zelaya came to the United States at age 14, fleeing an abusive father and
gang violence and hoping to reunite with his mother and sister in Houston. Last
year, at a campus rally organized by supporters of the proposed Dream Act, which
would provide a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who go to college, he
spoke of being undocumented, and described his journey from cleaning windshields
at stoplights and sleeping under a bridge in the Honduran city of San Pedro Sula
to attending the sixth-largest university in the United States.

Long after midnight one night last month, as students gathered outside a student
services building to hear the election results, Mr. Zelaya's campaign to lead a
student body of 50,000 came to an abrupt end. He had lost: Out of 14,074 ballots
cast, he had received 1,142 votes, coming in fourth out of six candidates.

For Mr. Zelaya and the other roughly 300 Texas A&M students who are illegal
immigrants, feeling both welcome and unwelcome are part of life at one of the
most conservative colleges in the country. On the one hand, Mr. Zelaya and other
undocumented students receive support and encouragement from university
administrators, faculty members and fellow students. As Mr. Zelaya walked around
campus recently, he greeted Hispanic and white friends, talked about an
encouraging Facebook message he received from the university's president, R.
Bowen Loftin, after the election and hugged Marisa Suhm, the assistant director
of the Department of Multicultural Services. When Mr. Zelaya graduated in
December with a bachelor's degree, he led the invocation at the ceremony.

Yet at the same time, undocumented students say they have been made to feel
unwelcome. At last year's rally, a student who is a member of a campus
conservative group approached Mr. Zelaya and bluntly told him that he had
reported him to the federal immigration authorities. In 2010, the student senate
passed a bill opposing the state law that allows illegal immigrants to qualify
for in-state tuition rates at public colleges and universities, though it was
vetoed by the student body president.

And while Mr. Zelaya spent no money on signs or a Web site for his campaign --
one of his rival candidates spent $900 on T-shirts -- some students were
reluctant to vote for him, either because of his immigration status or because
they felt he would be more of a minority advocate than a student advocate.

''A lot of people were worried that someone who isn't completely following the
law might be representing our university,'' said Thomas McNutt, 21, who also ran
for student body president. ''Whether you agree with the undocumented student
issue or disagree with it, the law is the law as it is right now.''

Justin Pulliam, who graduated in December and was a co-founder of Texas Aggie
Conservatives, the group whose member notified immigration officials last year
and which endorsed Mr. McNutt for president, put it another way. ''Most Texas
A&M students don't want a taxpayer-funded illegal immigrant activist to hijack
the student body president's office in order to advance a pro-amnesty agenda,''
said Mr. Pulliam, 22, who pointed out that student candidates in the past had
been criticized for minor run-ins with the law. ''These candidates have been
attacked and discredited, but now people are celebrating when an out and proud
illegal immigrant runs to lead the student body.''

While many undocumented students found Mr. Zelaya's campaign inspiring, his
defeat was a reminder to some of the difficulties they face gaining widespread
acceptance on a campus that last year came in third in the Princeton Review's
rankings of colleges with the most conservative students. ''I think we could
have won'' the election in any other university, said Greisa Martinez, 23, an
undocumented student who co-founded a group with Mr. Zelaya called the Council
for Minority Student Affairs. She said a Hispanic student told her of being in a
class during which the professor, discussing the growth of Hispanics in Texas,
said the state could have a Hispanic governor in the future. A number of
students in the class hissed.

''It was an audible insensitive thing,'' Ms. Martinez said. ''People aren't open
to a Latino being in that kind of position. When it comes to issues like this,
there's always that divide, and it's, 'Am I welcome or not?' ''

Mr. Zelaya said inspiring others, not necessarily winning votes, had been his
goal. ''It's not about being undocumented,'' said Mr. Zelaya, who wants to
become a teacher and is seeking a master's degree in curriculum and instruction.
''It's about inspiring people to go to college, inspiring the parents to inspire
their kids, to inspire that person who mows the lawn that they can do better.''

If his campaign had any success, then perhaps it was in the extent to which his
immigration status had become a nonissue. During candidate debates, immigration
came up only briefly, at the end of one of the events, when Mr. Zelaya was asked
how his status would play a role if he was elected. Students said Mr. Zelaya
lost votes for reasons that had nothing to do with his status, like his lack of
name recognition. ''The issue that he is an openly undocumented citizen did not
come up really at all in the election,'' said John Claybrook, 21, who ran
against Mr. Zelaya and was named student body president-elect this week.
''Nobody used that as a weapon against him.''

Mr. Zelaya is struggling to pay all of his $3,500 tuition this semester. His
main source of income comes from selling beanies that he crochets. He plans on
pursuing a doctorate after receiving his master's, but expressed frustration
that although he volunteers as a tutor at a middle school, he cannot teach
there, because he cannot legally work in the United States. To do that, he says,
he would have to return to Honduras and wait years or even decades for legal
entry.

''The only reason why I want to be legalized and I want to have documentation is
that I can teach,'' he said. ''I don't want to do anything else in this life but
teach. Because it's a teacher that inspired me to go to college. All I want to
do is to be able to do the same thing.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jose Luis Zelaya on the phone last week at Texas A&M. He
finished fourth of six candidates running for student body president.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Decreases, But Tensions Remain High

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1034 words


PHOENIX -- The impact of steep declines in the number of migrants illegally
crossing the border with Mexico in recent years has rippled across Arizona and
other border states, with federal and local law enforcement seeing big drops in
crime related to illegal immigration.

In Arizona, federal agents have found far fewer drop houses, where smugglers
stash border crossers. Police chiefs in Arizona cities say their crime rates are
low and are falling, along with the numbers and costs of illegal immigrants
coming through their jails.

Federal officials met with state and local police departments on Tuesday and
Wednesday at the Border Security Expo in the convention hall in downtown
Phoenix. They broadly agreed that the decrease in illegal crossers --down to
about 340,000 migrants apprehended in 2011 from a peak of 1.1 million in 2005 --
has lightened the workload for the police, but has also brought worrisome
changes in the type of crimes they confront.

While they no longer see huge flows of illegal migrants heading for low-wage
work in the United States, federal and local officials said they now faced
smaller numbers of more determined and potentially more dangerous crossers,
including migrants carrying illegal drugs.

Sharp differences, even tension, arose between federal officials, who pointed to
statistics and charts showing plummeting illegal entries as the border was
reinforced over the last five years, and some local officers, particularly
sheriffs who patrol the sun-seared expanses of desert in counties along the
international line.

''We've got a lot of rural county, a lot of ranch families, and a lot of those
people are living in fear every day,'' said Rodney W. Rothrock, chief deputy
sheriff of Cochise County, which borders Mexico in southeastern Arizona.

In a bright hall next door to the law enforcement conclave, dozens of technology
vendors were offering the latest military-style tools to make the border even
more secure. Contractors large and small displayed radar devices that can see
through walls, thermal imaging cameras mounted on mobile masts that retract in
seconds and unmanned drone boats to scout rivers too perilous for human
navigation.

The face-off between state and federal officials started with an opening speech
on Tuesday by Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, who said federal border
enforcement was an ''overarching outrage.'' Ms. Brewer, a Republican, is leading
Arizona's legal fight against the Obama administration over a state law that
would give the police new powers to arrest anyone suspected of being an illegal
immigrant.

''No amount of distortion can hide the absolute truth,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''For
years, Washington has stood idly by, letting our borders grow more porous and
more dangerous.''

In a riposte, Jayson P. Ahern, a former top official at the Customs and Border
Protection agency, described Ms. Brewer's criticism as ''a very individualized
opinion.'' Channeling many officials who were less outspoken because they are
still in federal office, Mr. Ahern said border security had undergone
''remarkable improvements.''

He cited the expansion of the Border Patrol to more than 21,000 agents, the
highest number in its history, and an array of new technology that is in use,
including remote video surveillance systems and seven unmanned drones.

Matthew C. Allen, the special agent in charge of investigations for Immigration
and Customs Enforcement in the state, said 51 migrant smugglers' drop houses
were raided in Phoenix last year, down from a peak of 186 in 2008. About 800
illegal migrants were arrested in those raids in 2011, compared with about 3,200
migrants in 2008, Mr. Allen said.

The police chief of Mesa, just east of Phoenix, said the crime rate was the
lowest since the 1960s. The chief, Frank Milstead, said that only about 2
percent of the 17,900 people arrested in Mesa last year were suspected of being
illegal immigrants. ''The operational impact on our jails,'' he said, ''is
minimal.''

Raymond Cobos, the sheriff of Luna County, 3,000 square miles of border
scrublands and sierras next door in New Mexico, said his deputies now arrested
an average of eight illegal immigrants a day, down from a daily average of about
300 three years ago.

Chief Deputy Rothrock also acknowledged a new reality. In 2010, he said, more
than 300 illegal crossers detained by the Border Patrol were turned over to
Cochise County because they were wanted for crimes in the United States. Last
year, he said, the number of illegal crossers with open warrants was seven.

But Chief Deputy Rothrock warned that Cochise deputies were beginning to
encounter ''a different type of illegal alien'': migrants alone or in small
groups toting backpacks loaded with marijuana or methamphetamine. The migrants
often plan to hand off the narcotics to a courier and return quickly to Mexico,
he said.

''A lot of times they take the opportunity to help themselves to the citizens'
property,'' Chief Deputy Rothrock said, breaking into homes.

Jeffrey Scott Kirkham, the police chief in Nogales, the busiest legal port of
entry in Arizona, said his city's crime rate was very low, with two homicides in
the last seven years.

But in an arrest that shocked Chief Kirkham, a high school student was recently
found with nearly four pounds of heroin, worth about $80,000, in his backpack.

Federal investigators also reported ''an alarming increase'' in attacks by
migrants on border agents, according to James Turgal, the F.B.I.'s special agent
in charge in Arizona. In 2011, the agency opened investigations of nearly 500
assaults on federal officers along the Arizona border, from rock-throwing to
shootings. That was more than four times the 117 assaults in 2008, he said.

Federal officials said they were confident progress would continue, since
handling fewer illegal migrants means they can devote more agents and
surveillance equipment to drug trafficking.

But even optimists urged caution. ''The primary magnet that draws people across
our border from Mexico is employment,'' said Mr. Allen of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. ''I think we all recognize that the real test for us is
going to come when the economy turns around in a very significant way.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  An attendee at the Border Security Expo last week in Phoenix.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dream Act for New York

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 282 words


The Dream Act is an aptly named-but-star-crossed piece of federal legislation
that would open a path to legal status for young unauthorized immigrants who
pursue college degrees or serve in the military. Its goal is to help ambitious
youths who were brought here as children and are American in all but the
paperwork.

But, since the bill has been stalled in Congress, some states have found a way
to help these blameless young people. Though they cannot fix anyone's visa
problems, some states have passed their own versions of the Dream Act to make
college more affordable to undocumented students. Thirteen, including New York,
allow the undocumented to qualify for in-state tuition rates. Only three --
Texas, New Mexico and California -- allow them to receive government tuition
aid.

New York should become the fourth. It has long been a global beacon for
immigrants and a leader in higher education. One bill in the Legislature would
make undocumented students eligible for the state's Tuition Assistance Program;
another would provide aid through a fund with private donations.

Yet Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who should be leading this effort, has been on the
sidelines, studying the legislation. It's hard to see why Mr. Cuomo should be
hesitant to support these measures. It shouldn't be the expense; a new study by
the Fiscal Policy Institute found that the Dream Act would add roughly $17
million, or only 2 percent, to the cost of the Tuition Assistance Program.
Students with college degrees make a state more attractive to businesses, earn
more and pay more in taxes. Giving a boost to the dreams of undocumented young
people is not only the decent thing to do, it's also a wise investment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fewer Illegal Immigrants Stopped for Traffic Violations Will Face Deportation

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 876 words


Fewer illegal immigrants stopped by police for minor traffic violations would be
held for deportation under changes announced Friday to a federal fingerprinting
program, Department of Homeland Security officials said.

The policy change on how federal agents will handle illegal immigrants arrested
by state and local police for offenses like driving without a license came in
the department's response to a report by a task force on the federal program.

One of the task force's central recommendations was that the program, called
Secure Communities, should avoid deportations of traffic violators.

The sharply critical task force report, issued last September, argued that such
deportations were inconsistent with the department's stated priorities of
removing foreigners with serious criminal records. The increase in deportations
of minor offenders under Secure Communities, the task force concluded, was
undermining vital ties of trust between local police and immigrant
neighborhoods.

In a 19-page response released Friday, Homeland Security officials forcefully
reasserted their support for the program, which has been the center of fierce
controversy since it began in October 2008. The program has put President Obama
at odds with governors in Illinois, Massachusetts and New York, who are his
political allies, and eroded support for him in Latino communities. Both
Democrats and Republicans acknowledge that Latinos will be crucial voters in the
presidential election.

Homeland Security officials also accepted almost all of the task force's
recommendations, acknowledging that poor communications by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the administering agency, had caused major confusion about
the program's goals and how it works.

The Obama administration's changes came after a hearing at the Supreme Court on
Wednesday where government lawyers argued against an Arizona law that would
expand the powers of the police to enforce immigration laws. Administration
officials say Secure Communities is an example of the aggressive federal
enforcement that makes action by state police unnecessary and counterproductive.

In its response on Friday, the department said the program remains ''the single
best tool'' for focusing deportation resources on immigrants who have been
convicted of serious crimes, pose a threat to public safety or repeatedly
violate immigration law.

Under the program, fingerprints of anyone booked by the police are checked
against F.B.I. criminal databases -- long a routine procedure -- and also
against databases of the Department of Homeland Security, which include
immigration violations. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE, has
been rapidly extending the program with the goal of reaching all 3,181
jurisdictions in the country by next year.

Homeland Security officials contended that the new policy on traffic violators
could bring a major change in the program's impact.

As the program spread, more local arrests resulted in immigration holds, and
illegal immigrants who did not have criminal convictions found themselves facing
deportation because of tickets for speeding, burned-out tail lights or driving
without a license.

In all but a handful of states, immigrants here illegally cannot obtain driver's
licenses.

Under the refinement, when illegal immigrants are arrested solely for traffic
offenses and do not have a prior criminal record, federal agents will only
consider placing a hold -- known as a detainer -- after they are convicted.

''ICE agrees that enforcement action based solely on a charge for a minor
traffic offense is generally not an efficient use of government resources,'' the
department response says.

Immigrants arrested for drunken driving would not benefit from the new policy,
officials said.

In practice, most traffic violators are released well before they are convicted,
and now immigrants stopped by traffic police will not remain in custody to be
picked up by federal agents.

Detainers are only in effect as long as the immigrant is in local police
custody, homeland security officials said.

ICE also reported that it held more than 700 meetings last year with law
enforcement agencies and immigrant advocates to explain the program.

In February, ICE created a public advocate to hear concerns of immigrants facing
deportation, and has stepped up training for its staff.

The task force chairman, Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police
Executive Research Forum, praised the department's response.

''It is encouraging in that they are not defensive and they recognize the issues
we raised and appear to be committed to dealing with them,'' Mr. Wexler said.
His group conducts research on crime for police chiefs.

But dissension arose among task force members. Benjamin E. Johnson, executive
director of the American Immigration Council, a pro-immigration group in
Washington, said that ICE had not actually accepted the task force's key
recommendation, which was that no traffic offenders should be detained under
Secure Communities.

Mr. Johnson said ICE would only further confuse local police by issuing
immigration holds after traffic convictions.

''In a traffic setting, we were very clear that ICE should just get out of the
business of issuing detainers,'' Mr. Johnson said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Change in Police Policy Has Immigrants Hoping for More

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1019 words


LOS ANGELES -- The weekend checkpoints set up along intersections here were
always meant to catch those who had had too much to drink. In an operation
intended to be equal parts deterrent and enforcement, the police would stop
every car, testing drivers suspected of being under the influence of alcohol or
drugs.

But for years, advocacy groups have complained that the checkpoints unfairly
targeted illegal immigrants, who cannot get driver's licenses, ensnaring far
more unlicensed drivers than drunken ones. And in March, the Los Angeles Police
Department decided that it would no longer automatically impound the vehicles of
drivers without licenses.

The change was a significant shift here in the country's second-largest city,
home to thousands of illegal immigrants who, like many other residents, see
driving as the only viable way to move around a sprawling metropolitan area
larger than Delaware and Rhode Island combined. And it is in marked contrast to
debates in other places around the country where local governments are cracking
down harder on illegal immigrants living within their borders.

The Police Department here has for years tried to cultivate trust among
immigrants, who often view law enforcement as a threat. The city's police chief,
Charlie Beck, has repeatedly said that the impound change was an issue of
''fairness and compassion'' and that he hoped it would improve the department's
relationship with immigrants and help persuade more of them to cooperate with
police investigations.

Immigrant advocacy groups and some political leaders hope that the department's
shift will encourage other cities to make similar changes -- and open the door
to the prospect of granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, an idea
Chief Beck has endorsed.

''It is good to show some sense of understanding of their plight,'' Chief Beck
said when the city's Police Commission approved the change in March.

But the new policy faces a legal battle. Last month, the union representing
police officers filed a lawsuit to stop the change, saying that it placed
officers at risk and would make the city's roads less safe.

''We need to find a way to be compassionate, yes, but also keep the roads
safe,'' said Tyler Izen, president of the union, the Los Angeles Police
Protective League. ''I'm not sure the right way for us to deal with this is at
the local level.''

The city attorney's office assured the Police Department that it had the
authority to change the policy, but the district attorney for Los Angeles County
and state legislative lawyers disagreed, saying it contradicted state law. While
the state's attorney general was expected to issue an opinion in the coming
days, the matter will most likely be settled in state court.

Under the new policy, drivers who are pulled over for minor traffic violations,
including speeding, are asked to show valid identification and proof of
insurance. If unlicensed drivers do not have a previous citation, they will not
face a 30-day impound, where fees can often reach into the thousands of dollars
(often more than a car is worth). If a licensed driver is able to come to the
scene immediately, that driver usually will be allowed to take the car. If not,
the car will be towed but can be picked up as soon as the owner comes to
retrieve it with a licensed driver.

''You have situations where you are pulling someone over and you've got a
husband pulling out the baby seat from the car and a wife crying,'' said Andrew
Smith, a Police Department spokesman. ''For us, that's a really difficult thing
when we want to show some humanity.''

Several other California cities have already put similar policies into effect,
including Oakland, San Francisco and San Jose, and a lawmaker representing
Northern California has introduced legislation to create a similar law for the
entire state. But in the vast majority of cities, including the dozens patrolled
by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, unlicensed drivers still face a
30-day impound if they are caught.

Advocates have their sights set on a more sweeping change -- simply allowing
anyone to get a license after passing a driving skills test. Chief Beck has said
he favors such a plan, although he said such licenses should not be identical to
a regular license. The Los Angeles County sheriff, Lee Baca, has also said he
would support a similar idea.

It is impossible to know precisely how many illegal immigrants drive in
California, but Chief Beck and advocates say that not having a license does
little to discourage them from getting on the road.

''After all these years, has not providing driver's licenses ameliorated
immigration?'' asked Angelica Salas, the executive director of Coalition for
Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, which has lobbied for licenses for more
than a decade. ''The answer is no. It has only made things more dangerous on the
road. We should just go back to really what was the whole purpose of them in the
first place: to have safety on the roads.''

The battle to grant licenses to illegal immigrants in California began in the
mid-1990s. State Assemblyman Gil Cedillo of Los Angeles pressed for and got
legislation passed giving illegal immigrants the right to a license in 2004, but
facing a statewide referendum opposing the change, he withdrew it. Now, with
just a few months left in his final term in office, Mr. Cedillo has vowed to
pass the legislation again.

Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat like Mr. Cedillo, has not taken a clear stand on
the issue, although during his 2010 campaign he indicated that he would oppose
such a law, calling it ''piecemeal'' immigration reform.

But advocates said they were encouraged by the fact that Mr. Brown had signed
other legislation, including the state's Dream Act, which allows all students to
received state financial aid for college, regardless of immigration status.

''Everyone wants to be skeptical, but I'm as optimistic as I ever have been in
the 15 years we've been talking about this,'' said Daniel Savage, Mr. Cedillo's
chief of staff. ''For us now, this is the most important piece of legislation
for the community.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Los Angeles has decided not to impound unlicensed drivers' cars
automatically. Checkpoints aimed at drunken drivers often turn up illegal
migrants. (A18)
 A driver being detained in 2010 for not having a license in San Jose, where an
impound policy is less strict than in many cities. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN
RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Power Players of New York: Immigration

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 274 words


Among the residents of New York, there may be no population with less power than
illegal immigrants. Most live in the shadows of society, trying to avoid the
kind of scrutiny that might lead to their deportation.

But some illegal immigrants have cast off their anonymity: the Dream activists.
The name comes from proposed federal legislation known as the Dream Act, which
would create a path to legal status for young illegal immigrants who go to
college or serve in the military. The legislation has surfaced in various forms
over the past decade and has been repeatedly defeated, but some states have
passed or, like New York, are considering versions that would make young illegal
immigrants eligible for financial aid at public colleges and universities.

Hundreds of Dream activists, working individually and under the banner of
youth-led groups like the New York State Youth Leadership Council and United We
Dream, have become the face of the campaign, organizing demonstrations, lobbying
politicians and sharing their personal stories in the news media. They include
the scores of people who, at their own peril, rallied in March outside Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo's office in support of the legislation; the group that walked
last month to Albany from New York City to raise awareness of their cause; and
the 10 City University of New York students, all illegal immigrants, who came
forward in March to accept Dream Fellowships.

Mr. Cuomo has been noncommittal on the legislation so far. But regardless of
whether it passes, supporters say the Dream activists have irrevocably changed
the complexion of the immigration debate in New York. KIRK SEMPLE

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Dream activists (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mere Tinkering With a Bad Program

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 434 words


The Obama administration announced last month plans to repair Secure
Communities, the program that compels state and local police to join its wide
and expanding hunt for illegal immigrants. From now on, when illegal immigrants
are stopped for traffic violations by local police, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement will consider detaining and deporting them only after they have been
convicted, not before.

In theory, this minor policy shift could reduce the number of people arrested on
a pretext and held for deportation. But that's unlikely. And it doesn't fix the
fundamental flaws in a discredited program.

The administration has faced fierce criticism from law-enforcement officials and
immigrant advocates for ensnaring far too many minor offenders and noncriminals
as it has rapidly expanded Secure Communities and ramped up deportations to a
record pace of 400,000 a year. It contends that most are criminals, though that
still includes many minor offenders.

Last June, the leader of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE,
issued memos directing officials to exercise ''prosecutorial discretion'' -- to
refrain from pursuing people who pose no threat to public safety or national
security. To clear up clogged immigration courts, the administration announced
in November that it would review the backlog of about 300,000 pending
deportation cases to see if discretion could apply to low-priority cases there
as well. But its promises have not led to any significant change. As of last
month, ICE had reviewed nearly 228,000 cases and closed only about 3,000 of
them.

That's the problem with ''discretion'' and Secure Communities -- as long as the
government outsources the initial decision on whom to stop and pull over to
local police officers, many of them poorly trained and supervised, the danger of
harassment continues. Trust is eroded in immigrant communities when people are
too fearful to report crimes and cooperate with the police. That flaw is not
going to be fixed by tweaking the detention policy.

It's telling that the policy change on traffic offenses came just two days after
the oral argument in the Supreme Court on Arizona's abusive immigration law.
Paul Clement, the attorney arguing for Arizona, aptly pointed out a
contradiction in the Obama administration's challenge to the law: ''The federal
government doesn't like this statute, but they are very proud of their Secure
Communities program.'' The administration is trying to have it both ways,
attacking local crackdowns on defenseless immigrants while entangling state and
local police in the same cruel mission.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 12, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Opposition, Immigration Agency to Expand Fingerprint Program

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Kirk Semple contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 799 words


Obama administration officials have announced that a contentious fingerprinting
program to identify illegal immigrants will be extended across Massachusetts and
New York next week, expanding federal enforcement efforts despite opposition
from the governors and immigrant groups in those states.

In blunt e-mails sent Tuesday to officials and the police in the two states,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said the program, Secure
Communities, would be activated ''in all remaining jurisdictions'' this Tuesday.

Last June, Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts declined to sign an agreement
with the immigration agency to expand Secure Communities beyond a pilot program
in the Boston area since 2006. Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York said he wanted to
suspend the program, which had already been initiated in a number of counties.

Opponents argued that it was an overly wide dragnet that was deporting many
illegal immigrants with no criminal histories who were arrested for minor
offenses and that it encouraged racial profiling and eroded trust in law
enforcement among immigrants.

Governors Patrick and Cuomo are Democrats and close allies of President Obama.
They made the uncomfortable choice to challenge him on a centerpiece of his
immigration policy because of pressure from immigrant and Latino organizations
and some local law enforcement officials. The mayor of Boston, Thomas Menino,
also a Democrat, became an especially outspoken critic.

The governors were caught in a tangle of confusion about states' role in the
program that officials from the immigration agency, known as ICE, have since
acknowledged they created. After Secure Communities was formally started in
2008, ICE officials gave many states the understanding that participation was
voluntary.

Last year, officials at the agency said they had determined that they did not
require consent from states to start the program. Citing antiterrorism
legislation that Congress passed in 2002, the officials canceled agreements they
had signed in 40 states and said they would extend the program nationwide by
2013.

Under Secure Communities, fingerprints of anyone booked by the local or state
police are sent through the F.B.I. to be checked in databases of the Department
of Homeland Security which include immigration records. If there is a match,
officials at the immigration agency decide whether to issue a detainer, asking
the police to hold the person to be picked up by federal agents.

ICE officials said that they made changes to respond to state officials'
concerns and to focus the program on deporting serious criminals.

They said they revised the detainers to clarify that suspected illegal
immigrants could be held for only 48 hours. They provided civil rights training
for the police in places where the program was started, officials said.

A recent change in arrest procedures would decrease detentions of illegal
immigrants stopped for speeding or driving without a license, the officials
said.

''Secure Communities has proven to be the single most valuable tool in allowing
the agency to eliminate the ad hoc approach of the past and focus on criminal
aliens and repeat immigration law violators,'' Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman
for ICE, said Friday.

ICE officials said they had spoken with officials in New York and Massachusetts,
but did not consult on when to expand the program.

''At the end of the day, this is a federal program,'' a Department of Homeland
Security official said. ''We have to make our own decisions based on our law
enforcement operational needs.''

Both governors had measured reactions to the news that the administration had
taken a politically fraught decision off their hands.

In New York, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo said he remained opposed to the program.
''We are monitoring the situation,'' the spokesman said.

In Massachusetts, after a young motorcyclist was killed last fall in an accident
that the police said was caused by an illegal immigrant driving drunk, Governor
Patrick came under fire from county sheriffs and state lawmakers for blocking
the program.

On Thursday, Mr. Patrick minimized the practical effect of the program's
expansion, saying the state already shares arrest information with federal
authorities. He said changes in the program had addressed some of his concerns.

But, he added, ''It is very important to me that people not see this as a
license to profile.''

In an interview Friday, Mayor Menino said he remained staunchly opposed. ''It's
dangerous to target immigrants when you are trying to build a community,'' he
said. ''The information gets put into a computer and sent to Washington and the
wrong person gets deported.

''I want to make this city work,'' he said, ''and to have the feds come in and
tell me you have to do this or to do that is just wrong.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Many Illegal Entrants Into U.S., a Particularly Inhospitable First Stop

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Michelle O'Donnell contributed reporting from
Houston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1033 words


EDINBURG, Tex. -- For decades, the first stop for illegal immigrants making
their way across the Texas border has often been a stash house or drop house, an
apartment or rental home where they might spend hours or days in squalor waiting
to be transported elsewhere. Often it is where they are held until their
families pay the smugglers' fees.

But in recent months, stash houses have proliferated in border towns in the Rio
Grande Valley and in cities farther north, like Houston, a trend that has been
occurring in Texas but not in other states on the border.

And local, state and federal authorities in Texas say these houses are becoming
increasingly overcrowded, with smugglers packing in dozens of people and
treating the occupants not so much like customers but prisoners whom they
starve, beat or rape.

In this South Texas town this month, as the police approached a house and a
trailer on a dead-end dirt road, illegal immigrants scattered and fled. But
those inside a third residence -- a two-bedroom house made of white-painted
cinder block, no more than 800 to 1,000 square feet -- could not escape, because
of chains on the doors and security bars on the windows.

There was no air-conditioning, no electricity. A total of about 115 men and
women were being held at the property, but the largest group -- at least 50,
perhaps more -- were locked in the cinder block house. A few of them told
investigators that they had been warned they would be killed or beaten if they
did not remain quiet. Some had not been fed in days.

One of two men who subsequently pleaded guilty to the charge of conspiracy to
harbor aliens, Marcial Salas-Garduino, 23, greeted newcomers to the house the
same way, according to court documents.

''Welcome to hell,'' he told them.

Fourteen miles away, in a rural area near the town of Alton, 33 immigrants were
found in a 400-square-foot house in March. The man who ran it gave them two eggs
and three tortillas once a day and forbade them to go outside.

In March and April, the authorities discovered 32 people crowded into a trailer
in Edinburg, 49 in a three-bedroom house in Houston, about 60 in a house in
Brownsville and 60 others in a three-bedroom residence in McAllen.

''We were used to encountering 10 to 15 people per stash house in the past,''
said Enrique Sotelo, the Alton police chief. ''Now we are not surprised when we
see 40 to 75 people crammed into small two- or three-bedroom houses.''

Overcrowding has become routine in stash houses, where there is often no
furniture and people sleep on the floor. Chief Sotelo said he had been in stash
houses where people were packed so tight that some slept sitting up, leaning
against the walls. Border Patrol agents in South Texas have not only raided more
stash houses this year than they did last year, they have also found
substantially higher numbers of people inside them.

In the federal Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley sector -- a
large area of Southeast Texas that includes Edinburg, Brownsville and McAllen --
more than 2,000 illegal immigrants have been apprehended this fiscal year in
nearly 80 stash houses, up from 1,012 in 69 stash houses in the entire 2011
fiscal year.

''You've got people stacked on top of people,'' said Jerry Robinette, special
agent in charge with Immigration and Customs Enforcement in San Antonio. ''When
you have a two-bedroom house that's made for a family of 4 or 6 and you have 30
or 40 people in there, you can imagine how things can escalate in that kind of
an environment.''

Occupants of stash houses in Texas have been sexually assaulted, denied food or
water, forced to work for their captors and tortured. One of the 21 people found
at a stash house last year in Edinburg told investigators that the man in charge
had hit him with a baseball bat because the occupants connected the refrigerator
after being told not to.

Smugglers often hold the immigrants as ransom to extort more money from their
families. Even those who are not being used for extortion are held captive to
avoid detection by neighbors and to prevent the loss of money that would result
if they escaped before all the fees were paid.

The rise of stash houses in Texas comes as an opposite trend unfolds in parts of
Southern California and Arizona, where such activity has declined in recent
years. The Phoenix area was once known as the drop house capital of America, but
no longer -- federal agents discovered 805 immigrants in 51 homes there last
fiscal year, down from 3,221 people in 186 homes in the 2008 fiscal year.

Law enforcement officials said the reason behind the trend was unclear.

Some said that while the authorities in Arizona had been focused on drop houses
for years -- federal agents in the Phoenix area helped reduce the number after
forming a drop house task force in 2009 -- those in Texas were now detecting
more of them in part through improved coordination and increased enforcement.

Others said the smugglers operating in Texas appeared to be doing whatever they
could to increase their profits at a time when illegal immigration into the
United States at the Mexican border has slowed.

''I can only guess that at this point it's more economical for them to keep
people in one house,'' said Sean McElroy, deputy special agent in charge with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Houston. ''I think they're just trying
something different. They're definitely feeling a lot of pressure.''

And as human smuggling across the border has become dominated by Mexican drug
cartels, the treatment of those inside the stash houses has worsened. ''The
detection and apprehension of illegal aliens right now is becoming more like a
rescue operation,'' said Steven McCraw, the director of the Texas Department of
Public Safety.

These days, the first phone calls or tips that lead the authorities to the
houses often come from those locked inside or from their relatives. In Edinburg,
a town of 77,000 about 16 miles from the border, neighbors said they never saw
or heard large numbers of people inside the cinder block house. The police were
summoned by a 911 call made by a Spanish-speaking man who was locked inside.

In a hushed voice, he asked the dispatcher to send help.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dozens of illegal immigrants were discovered this month in a
stash house in Edinburg, Tex. Border Patrol agents in South Texas have raided
more such houses this year than they did last year and have found higher numbers
of people inside them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REY MENDOZA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Students Press for Action on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 854 words


Young illegal immigrants, saying President Obama has done little to diminish the
threat of deportations they face despite repeated promises, have started a
campaign to press him to use executive powers to allow them to remain legally in
the country.

The campaign is led by the United We Dream Network, the largest organization of
young immigrants here illegally who would be eligible for legal status under a
proposal in Congress known as the Dream Act.

The young people are among the most visible activists in a growing immigrant
movement. Their push to focus pressure on the White House reflects deep
frustration with Congress for its lack of action on the legislation and with the
administration for continuing to deport illegal immigrant students, although Mr.
Obama says he supports them.

This week student leaders presented White House officials with a letter signed
by more than 90 immigration law professors who argued that the president has
''clear executive authority'' to halt deportations of illegal immigrants who
might benefit from the student legislation. The professors, from universities
across the country, pointed to several measures the president could take under
existing laws to defer deportations and permit young immigrants to stay
temporarily.

On May 17 the students held small-scale actions to publicize their demands in 19
locations around the country, including at the Obama re-election campaign
offices in Miami. Gaby Pacheco, a leader of the student network, said Wednesday
that they were preparing larger protests for mid-June if the White House did not
respond.

''They say all the time that Dreamers shouldn't be deported,'' Ms. Pacheco said,
referring to the young immigrants. ''We've heard a lot of talk, but we have not
seen action.''

The students' escalating actions could be a problem for Mr. Obama, who is
counting on strong support from Latino voters to win again in several states
that supported him in 2008, particularly Colorado, Florida, Nevada and New
Mexico. Polls show very high support among Latinos for some version of the Dream
Act, including 91 percent in the 2011 National Survey of Latinos from the Pew
Hispanic Center.

The law professors' letter, which reads like a legal brief, was intended as a
response to administration officials who have said Mr. Obama does not have the
authority to issue a reprieve for large groups of illegal immigrants. One
measure they cite was used by President Jimmy Carter to admit thousands of
Cubans to the United States in 1980, during the mass exodus known as the Mariel
boatlift.

''We did not want doubt about the president's legal authority to muddy the
waters of the debate,'' said Hiroshi Motomura, a law professor at the University
of California, Los Angeles, who was an author of the letter.

Young illegal immigrants say they are impatient because each year more of them
graduate from high school and cannot attend college because of high tuition
rates and barriers to financial aid they face because of their status. More
recently, students who did attend college are graduating and facing larger
obstacles because they cannot legally work in the United States.

''It's not a question of whether the president can or can't, '' said Lorella
Praeli, 23, a student from Peru here illegally who also is a leader of the
immigrant student network. ''It's a question of whether he will or he won't.''

Administration officials said this week that Mr. Obama was not likely to take
sweeping action on illegal immigrant students before the election. Officials
fear an angry reaction from Republicans in Congress, who have warned the White
House against what they see as an amnesty by fiat. The officials fear Republican
opposition would ruin any chance for future legislation.

In a speech this month at an immigration forum in Washington, Cecilia Munoz, the
director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, referred to more limited
actions Mr. Obama had already taken to avoid deporting students. ''It is
unreasonable to expect that these tools, no matter how faithfully applied, can
fix what is broken about our immigration system,'' she said.

A senior administration official added on Wednesday, ''The main focus needs to
be on Congress, because only legislation they pass can provide Dream students
with a permanent solution, which is what they deserve.''

The current proposal of the Dream Act would give legal status to foreign-born
high school graduates who came to the United States illegally as children, if
they complete two years of college or military service. Mr. Obama pushed
Congress to pass the legislation in 2010. It passed the House but was blocked by
Republicans in the Senate.

Opposition to the measure has since grown among Republicans, and the party's
presumptive presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, has said he would veto some
versions of it.

Last month Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said he was preparing a
new bill that would give temporary status to illegal immigrant students, but
might not include a path to citizenship. Details of Mr. Rubio's proposal remain
unclear because he has not yet submitted a written bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Bill Keller)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

'llegals'

BYLINE: BILL KELLER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 811 words



HIGHLIGHT: Addressing readers' objections to the word "illegals," as I used it
in my last column.


A number of readers have written or tweeted their objection to my use of the
word "illegals" as shorthand for "illegal immigrants." A couple of samples from
the in-box:


     ·    I am bothered by your use of the word "illegals" in your recent column
          ("The Good Newt"). I am writing to you personally because comments are
          already closed for your piece at nytimes.com.
     ·    "Illegal" is an adjective, not a noun.
     ·    This is not simply a matter of grammatical correctness. Shortening
          "illegal immigrants" to "illegals" reduces human beings to a status
          label, and a morally loaded one at that. It reduces the essence of a
          person to an act of violation, an offense. When you use "illegals" as
          the object of a sentence it literally erases the human beings who the
          sentence is about and makes the grammatical object of the sentence an
          abstraction, a label of condemnation.
     ·    This paper ran a thoughtful editorial several years back titled "What
          Part of 'Illegal' Don't You Understand?," which highlighted some of
          the problems with using the value-laden and over-determined adjective
          "illegal" rather than alternative words like "unauthorized" or
          "undocumented." I highly suggest reading it.
     ·    If you choose to refer to people who have immigrated to this country
          without the authorization of the U.S. Federal Government or those who
          stayed past the expiration of their visas as "illegal immigrants" that
          is your prerogative. It is a morally loaded rhetorical choice that
          reduces the essence of a person to a status label, and it is not a
          choice I agree with, but it is your choice to make and it is not
          technically an incorrect one.


And this:


     ·    I am wondering if you refer to rapists and murderers as "illegals."
          This is a made-up word with an agenda, which is why I had a difficult
          time reading your otherwise informative piece.
     ·    We can't have a civil conversation about immigration in this country
          with this derogatory, made-up word tossed around. As a Latina, who was
          born and raised in the United States, I find this deeply offensive.
     ·     Also, it is important to note the complexity of simply labeling
          people "illegals." Many immigrant families, as I have seen here in
          California, have mixed status households. One spouse will lack
          documentation while another spouse is a U.S. citizen. (It isn't enough
          to marry a U.S. citizen to gain papers anymore.) Or, the parents are
          undocumented and the children are U.S. citizens.


Just to be clear, I used the word only to refer to people who are actually in
this country illegally. I was careful not to apply it to families, which are
often of mixed legal status. And I used it in a context where the subject was
their legal status.

I checked the NYT style book, and found the guidance not terribly helpful.  The
entry is not explicit on "illegals." It says only this: "Illegal immigrant is
the preferred term, rather than the sinister-sounding illegal alien. Do not use
the euphemism undocumented."

All labels are reductive. Liberals. Hispanics. Evangelicals. It's a curse of
language that clarity (and word limits) means simplification. And it did not
seem to me that "illegals" is more reductive than "illegal immigrants," or that
either is offensive if it is accurate. On the other hand, it's generally a bad
idea to use words that distract readers from the substance of what you are
trying to say.

For further guidance I turned to Phil Corbett, The Times newsroom's arbiter of
style and taste. His response was, as usual, a dose of good sense:

I had a feeling you would be hearing from folks on this one.

Yes, while it's not explicit in the style book, our practice is to avoid
"illegals" as well as "illegal aliens," and on the other hand, to also steer
clear of the euphemistic "undocumented workers."

I do think "illegals" as a shorthand noun has an unnecessarily pejorative tone,
and it is routinely used by the anti-immigration side. I think it's wise to
steer clear. We also get push back over "illegal immigrant," but to me that's
just factual and neutral. However, I also encourage people to follow the lead of
Julia Preston [who covers immigration issues for The Times] and look for more
explicit descriptions when appropriate in specific cases, both to avoid
formulaic repetition and to provide more information: "who overstayed his visa,"
"working without a legal permit," "who entered the country illegally," etc.,
etc.

It might be worth cautioning against "illegals" in the style book entry, though
if i do that, I will wait for a decent interval - otherwise some suspicious
observer will assume the change is aimed at you.

It's treacherous ground, as Julia can attest.

Well, vigilant readers, the good news is, you seem to have gotten the style book
updated. And I'll resist that particular shorthand in the future.


     ·    More 'Good Newt'
     ·    The Politics of Economics: Feedback
     ·    A Few Words About the Occupiers
     ·    The Republican Scramble, Continued
     ·    Life Without Government


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            January 20, 2012 Friday

In Legal Limbo

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 130 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why is the Obama administration trying out a new course with respect
to illegal immigrants?


WHO are being permitted to remain in the United States?

WHAT will their status be?

WHERE will 16 percent of those facing deportation receive legal offers to stay
from the government?

WHEN was a law enacted in Colorado requiring police to report any suspected
illegal immigrant to the proper authorities?

WHY is the Obama administration trying out this new course with respect to
illegal immigrants?

HOW have government agents like judges and immigrant communities responded to
the practices being tested?



     ·    Oct. 28, 1886 | Statue of Liberty Is Unveiled
     ·    Of Coyotes, Crossings and Cellphones
     ·    Are Children of Illegal Immigrants Entitled to a Public Education?
     ·    Film Festival | Documentaries for Hispanic Heritage Month
     ·    100 Years Later: Examining the Impact of the Triangle Shirtwaist
          Factory Fire


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Tampa, Fla., Debate Fact-Check

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1478 words



HIGHLIGHT: Times reporters take a closer look at some of the statements made by
the Republican presidential candidates in Thursday night's debate.



Santorum and Terri Schiavo

Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, was asked about his
involvement in the case of Terri Schiavo, the young Florida woman who suffered
brain damage in 1990. After her husband filed a petition to remove her feeding
tube, a state court ruled in 2000 that she was in a persistent vegetative state.
Her feeding tube was removed but then reinserted after her parents appealed the
ruling.

After the tube was removed once again, Congress intervened in 2005,  enacting a
law allowing for the parents' case to be heard in federal court.

Tonight, Mr. Santorum said he "didn't call for Congressional intervention, I
called for a judicial hearing" to review a case in which the parents, who were
constituents of his from Pennsylvania, and Ms. Schiavo's husband were on
different sides.

But a New York Times Magazine article in May 2005 about Mr. Santorum said he
"not only pushed the Senate to intervene in the Terri Schiavo case, but he also
traveled to Florida and prayed with her parents."

-

Rate of Illegal Immigration

Rick Santorum said the rate of illegal immigration in the United States was
dropping.

That is correct. Illegal immigration from Mexico and Central America has dropped
sharply in recent years.

In 2010, the number of apprehensions by the Border Patrol along the Southwest
border dropped to 448,000, the lowest number since 1972, and a decline of 35
percent in the two years since President Obama took office, according to the
Department of Homeland Security.

The decline under the Obama administration accelerated a drop in border
apprehensions that began under President George W. Bush. Since 2005,
apprehensions at the Mexican border are down 61 percent. The apprehensions
figure is widely accepted as a rough guide to the number of immigrants crossing
illegally.

The Mexican census has reported a sharp drop since 2008 in the number of Mexican
migrants leaving Mexico. During the Obama administration, the population of
illegal immigrants from Mexico living in the United States has dropped by about
500,000, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

-

Dodd-Frank and Small Banks

In condemning the new Dodd-Frank law tightening regulation of the financial
sector, Mitt Romney cited the law's negative effect on smaller community banks
in particular. But  lobbyists  won exemptions for community banks from many if
not most of the Dodd-Frank limitations on banking. A top lobbyist for the sector
publicly described the legislation as beneficial for smaller banks because it
leveled the playing field with bigger banks and set a limit on their size.

-

American Presence in the Persian Gulf

If there has been one major theme to the foreign-policy debate among the
Republican candidates, it has been a race to show who -- save for Representative
Ron Paul -- can get tougher on Iran and its suspected nuclear weapons program.

But it is possible that President Obama already has a tougher plan in place in
the Persian Gulf than Mitt Romney is imagining. He said that to counter the
Iranian threat, "we ought to have an aircraft carrier in the gulf.''

In fact, White House and Pentagon officials say they keep an average of 1.8
carriers in the gulf at any one time now -- that allows one to go off station
periodically -- and have built up antimissile defenses around Iran.

-

Size of the U.S. Navy

Mr. Romney repeated a statement he has made before, and it is still wrong, or
misleading at best. "Our Navy is now smaller than at any time since 1917," he
said.

Nonpartisan fact checkers at PolitiFact have described the claim as "pants on
fire" wrong, calling it "a statement that, despite being close to accurate in
its numbers, uses those numbers in service of a ridiculous point."

In a lengthy explanation, PolitiFact concluded: "A wide range of experts told us
it's wrong to assume that a decline in the number of ships or aircraft
automatically means a weaker military. Quite the contrary: The United States is
the world's unquestioned military leader today, not just because of the number
of ships and aircraft in its arsenal but also because each is stocked with
top-of-the-line technology and highly trained personnel. Thanks to the
development of everything from nuclear weapons to drones, comparing today's
military to that of 60 to 100 years ago presents an egregious comparison of
apples and oranges."

Moreover, given the long lead times for major military acquisitions, if the Navy
or other military services were woefully small, that development would have
begun long before Mr. Obama took office.

-

Gingrich as Lobbyist

Newt Gingrich repeated once again that he was never a lobbyist.

It is true that Mr. Gingrich never registered as a lobbyist at the federal or
state level.  But he did many of the same things lobbyists do, including meeting
with state lawmakers, members of Congress and federal officials to promote
issues important to companies that were paying his consulting firm as much as
$200,000 a year.

In at least two states, Georgia and Florida, Mr. Gingrich pitched the services
of his clients to legislators who were considering changes to state health care
laws. Records from his firm, the Center for Health Transformation, show that he
also talked to federal health officials about projects that two of his clients,
I.B.M. and HealthTrio, were working on, and he urged members of Congress to
approve changes to Medicare that would benefit other companies that were paying
him.

His dealings with  Novo Nordisk, a drug maker, show how his work could easily be
viewed as lobbying. Novo, a Danish company, paid Mr. Gingrich to help expand the
market for its diabetes treatments in the United States. A spokesman for the
company said Mr. Gingrich did no lobbying, and provided only "guidance and
strategic advice."

But in its annual report to shareholders, Novo Nordisk offered a different take.
It listed Mr. Gingrich's work for the company under the category of public
policy activities, noting,   "Such activities are often referred to as
lobbying.''

-

Santorum's Loss in 2006

Mr. Santorum said that when he lost his re-election bid for the Senate from
Pennsylvania in 2006 - by 18 percentage points - it was a "meltdown" year for
Republicans and that at least he "stood tall for what I believed in."

It was a bad year for Republicans, but Mr. Santorum omitted at least one factor
in his loss that infuriated conservative voters: he had endorsed Senator Arlen
Specter, then a Republican, for re-election in the 2004 Republican primary over
a conservative, Pat Toomey.

Mr. Santorum has said he supported Mr. Specter because Mr. Specter, who
supported abortion rights, had agreed to support President George W. Bush's
nominees to the Supreme Court. Mr. Specter has said there was no  such
agreement.

-

Romney's Inheritance

Mr. Romney said at one point that he and his wife Ann did not inherit their
wealth from his parents.

This is not entirely accurate, according to Mr. Romney's previous remarks on the
topic.

In an interview with C-Span in March 2006, Mr. Romney said that upon the death
of his father, George, the wealthy former chief executive of American Motors, he
received an inheritance. But he quickly donated the money to Brigham Young
University, he said. (The younger Mr. Romney and his wife, Ann, attended the
college, which is tied to the Mormon Church.)

"I did get a check from my dad when he passed away," Mr. Romney told Brian Lamb
during the interview. "I shouldn't say a check, but I did inherit some funds
from my dad.

"But I turned and gave that away to charity," Mr. Romney said. "In this case I
gave it to a school which Brigham Young University established in his honor, the
George W. Romney School of Public Management."

Mr. Romney continued: "And as an institute of public management, it helps young
people learn about government and about serving in public service. And that's
where his inheritance ended up."

Even so, Mr. Romney benefited heavily from his father's wealth: he relied on
George Romney for a loan that he used to buy his first home, in Belmont, Mass.,
for $42,000.

-

Gingrich on Leaving the House

Mr. Gingrich made it sound as if he left the speakership out of a simple desire
to do something else. As Mr. Romney pointed out a moment later, Mr. Gingrich had
to resign in disgrace. Mr. Romney was right.

The proximate cause of his departure was that House Republicans, under Mr.
Gingrich's leadership, suffered unexpectedly big losses in the 1998 midterm
elections.

But his own conservative troops had turned against him a couple of years
earlier, saying that he had gone along with President Bill Clinton in spending
too much money and not reining in taxes. Mr. Gingrich's ouster created chaos in
the House and the party.

-


     ·    Charleston, S.C., Debate Fact-Check
     ·    South Carolina Debate Fact Check
     ·    Fact Checking the Concord Debate
     ·    Las Vegas Debate Fact Check
     ·    Fact Checking the Republican Debate on the Economy


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Romney's 'Self-Deportation' Solution

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 138 words



HIGHLIGHT: Asked at the debate how illegal immigrants would leave under a plan
that didn't round them up to deport them, Mitt Romney said, "The answer is
self-deportation."


TAMPA, Fla. -- Mitt Romney said that his immigration plans relied on what he
called "self-deportation" of illegal immigrants.

Asked how illegal immigrants would leave under a plan that didn't round them up
to deport them, Mr. Romney said, "The answer is self-deportation."

He explained that under his plan, a card would indicate who could work legally
and who could not. After a transition period, illegal immigrants would not get a
card.

"When that transition period was over, they would no longer have the
documentation to work here in this country legally," Mr. Romney said. "If they
can't get work here, they're going to self-deport."


     ·    Romney Says He Would Veto the Dream Act
     ·    Romney Holds Fire Against Gingrich in Debate
     ·    Caucus Video: Debate Wrap-Up
     ·    Next Two Debates Likely to Be Nasty
     ·    Gingrich Risks Conservative Outrage on Immigration


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday

The Deep Comic Roots of 'Self-Deportation'

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 812 words



HIGHLIGHT: While the Republican presidential candidates have now moved on to
Nevada, the brief campaign for Florida did introduce many Americans to a new
concept: "self-deportation."


I invented Self Deportation, please remember this on your way out. #fldebate

-mdash; Daniel D. Portado (@DanielDPortado) January 24, 2012

While the Republican presidential candidates have now moved on to Nevada, the
brief campaign for Florida did introduce many Americans to a new concept:
"self-deportation."

Last week, when Mitt Romney was asked how he planned to repatriate millions of
illegal immigrants without the use of force, he suggested that the ideal
solution was to encourage them to "self-deport," or return voluntarily to their
countries of origin. That immediately inspired a wave of mockery from pundits
and bloggers who thought the idea sounded like a joke, but, as my colleague
Julia Preston reported, the concept of making life in the United States so
uncomfortable for those who came here illegally that they might leave "is
central to tough laws passed in Arizona, Alabama and South Carolina, among other
states."

Still, there is something undeniably comic about a term that combines the
concepts of being compelled to leave a country and choosing to do so, and it
turns out that buried deep in the etymology of "self-deportation," there is
indeed a joke.

As the radio program "This American Life" reminded its audience on Tuesday,
there is an argument to be made that the term self-deportation was invented in
1994 by two Mexican-American satirists, Lalo Alcaraz and Esteban Zul. That year,
"sickened" by a ballot initiative known as Proposition 187, which aimed to
prohibit illegal immigrants from using state-run hospitals and schools in
California, the comedians began posing as conservative activists who backed the
measure.

The two men started a satirical media campaign to support the initiative, faxing
radio and television stations a fake news release that touted the benefits of
"self-deportation centers" and invited reporters seeking more information to
call a Latino Republican and "militant self-deportationist" named Daniel D.
Portado. Eventually the men founded "Hispanics Against Liberal Takeover," or
Halto, and produced a mock radio ad, in which Portado claimed to support
"California Gov. Pete Wilson's self-deportation message."

Apparently unaware that Portado was a fictional character, in November 1994 the
Spanish-language channel Telemundo invited him to appear on television defending
the proposed ballot initiative just days before voters went to the polls. The
comedians accepted the invitation, and Mr. Alcaraz showed up, pretending to be
Portado, with Mr. Zul at his side, playing the part of the conservative
activist's bodyguard. In an e-mail to The Lede on Tuesday, Mr. Alcaraz recalled,
"I was in character at the Telemundo show, and neither the participants nor the
producers were aware of our true identity." Two years after the event, Mr. Zul
told The Chicago Reader, "It was the longest half-hour of my life."

Mr. Alcaraz, who is now an award-winning editorial cartoonist and the editor of
the Chicano humor site Pocho.com, is convinced that California's governor at the
time only started using the phrase self-deportation after it was injected into
the body politic by the satirical news releases.

It is hard to say for sure if that is true, but the first news release using the
term was distributed on Sept. 16, 1994; according to the Nexis database, the
first printed record of Mr. Wilson using it was in a conversation with William
Safire, the New York Times Op-Ed columnist, that took place in mid-November of
that year. Asked about the goal of Proposition 187 (which was approved by voters
that year, only to be overturned by the courts later), Mr. Wilson told Mr.
Safire: "If it's clear to you that you cannot be employed, and that you and your
family are ineligible for services, you will self-deport."

As his Twitter feed - and that of his old alter ego, Portado, and a new one,
Mexican Mitt Romney - makes clear, Mr. Alcaraz has been closely following this
year's Republican primary campaign, particularly as it moves to states like
Florida and Nevada that have significant Latino populations.

In a recent interview with KPCC, a public radio station in Southern California,
Mr. Alcaraz said the 2012 campaign "has been a blessing" to comedians,
particularly Mr. Romney's efforts to connect with Latino voters by raising the
fact that his father was born in a Mormon colony in Mexico.

I'M SELF DEPORTING TO MY RANCHO, for the VICTORY PARTY! Ajuua! #FLDebate

-mdash; Mexican Mitt Romney (@MexicanMitt) January 24, 2012

Asked what he thought when he heard Mr. Romney advocate the idea of
self-deportation during last week's debate in Tampa, Fla., Mr. Alcaraz told The
Lede, "I felt like the world had stood still."


     ·    Cat-and-Mole Games on the Mexican Border
     ·    Latest Updates on Occupy Oakland Protest
     ·    Updates on Occupy Protests Nationwide
     ·    Police Fire Tear Gas at Occupy Protesters in Oakland
     ·    Another Immigration Misconception


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday

Romney Campaigner in Arizona Resigns After Accusation

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 432 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paul Babeu, a staunch opponent of illegal immigration, stepped down
after allegations that he threatened to deport a Mexican ex-boyfriend when the
man refused to keep quiet about their relationship.


Paul Babeu, an up-and-coming member of the Republican Party,  stepped down from
his role as a co-chairman of Mitt Romney's Arizona campaign on Saturday, in the
wake of allegations that he threatened to deport a Mexican ex-boyfriend when the
man refused to keep quiet about their relationship.

Mr. Babeu was the sheriff of Pinal County and made national headlines for his
tough stance on illegal immigration. He endorsed Mr. Romney in October and is
running for Congress in Arizona's Fourth District.

The news of Mr. Babeu's decision to step down from the Romney campaign was first
reported by The Arizona Republic.

On Thursday, The Phoenix New Times reported the allegations of a 34-year-old
Mexican man whom they identified only as "Jose." He claimed that when he refused
to sign an agreement that he would never mention his affair with Mr. Babeu,
which lasted years, the sheriff and his lawyer tried to intimidate him with
threats of deportation. Mr. Babeu has denied the charges.

"Sheriff Babeu has stepped down from his volunteer position with the campaign so
he can focus on the allegations against him," said Andrea Saul, a campaign
spokeswoman, in an e-mail statement. "We support his decision."

When Mr. Babeu threw his support behind Mr. Romney in October, however, he had
nothing but kind words for the sheriff.

"It is an honor to have the support of Sheriff Babeu," Mr. Romney said at the
time, in an e-mail announcement released by his campaign. "His efforts working
to protect our border are critical to lowering crime, reducing illegal
immigration and stopping both drug and human trafficking. Sheriff Babeu has been
a leader in the call for the federal government to secure the border. As
president, I will work with leaders like Sheriff Babeu to protect our Southern
border, provide the required assistance from the federal government and put an
end to the magnets that cause illegal immigration."

The Pinal County Sheriff's Department is standing behind Mr. Babeu.

"The entire sheriff's department supports the sheriff," said Elias Johnson, a
spokesman for the department. "He has a right to his private life. None of the
allegations happened when he was supporting the citizens of Pinal County. He has
a right to a private life just as every other citizen has a right to a private
life. His public record speaks for itself."


     ·    In Maine, a County Votes, Ron Paul Wins, but Not by Enough to Overtake
          Romney
     ·    Romney Still Ahead in Maine
     ·    In a Blow to Romney, an Endorser Switches Sides
     ·    Romney's Victory in the Maine Caucuses Is at Risk
     ·    Michigan Governor Endorses Romney, Calling Him a 'Native Son'


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday

That Fence Keeps Them Out, But Also Keeps Us In

BYLINE: MORT ROSENBLUM

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 501 words



HIGHLIGHT: The United States's hugely expensive, often inhumane measures to
combat illegal immigration do not work. Those drones we use in Pakistan fly over
the Mexican border. Arizona lawmakers want to deploy armed militias. A proposed
state scheme envisions 'red alerts' for people living within 62 miles of Mexico.
(I don't understand it, either.)


LOCHIEL, Arizona - Fray Marcos de Niza, a Franciscan friar with a spade beard
and black porkpie hat, was the first undocumented alien to enter what is now the
United States. In 1539, he crossed at what became the settlement of Lochiel,
Arizona. Early in the 1900s, Pancho Villa often raided Lochiel. And that's where
I used to breeze into Mexico in the 1960s to visit the crumbling mud missions
built by the conquistadors.

In a lifetime of travel, I've found nothing to match the aroma of early-morning
tortillas and beans warmed over mesquite coals in villages so remote we had to
bounce for hours up riverbeds to reach them. Since then, I've called myself
half-Mexican - only half-jokingly.

Mexico has plenty of poor, desperate people. It also has Carlos Slim Helú, the
world's richest man, whose pocket change Bloomberg estimates at $68.1 billion.

But Mexico's real wealth is human: an attachment to friends and family, a lively
spirit and a spiritual grounding you can find just about anywhere in those
remote hills beyond Lochiel.

Today, however, a fence runs through the ghostly town, and it blocks off the
abandoned border post on the other side. It is hardly the Berlin Wall that
divides Nogales to the west, only a rusty barrier low enough to scramble over.
At one stretch it doubles as the north end of some farmers' pigpens and chicken
coops.

Still, it gives me goose bumps.

The fence does not keep out drug runners or diehard migrants. But it keeps us
gringos in. Our irrational set of immigration rules has cut off our access to a
rich culture, historical treasures and spectacular landscapes at our very
doorstep.

Change began in 1964 when Washington ended the Bracero program. During two
decades, five million Mexicans came for seasonal labor and odd jobs. They worked
hard, paid taxes and then returned to their families.

Despite its problems, the program worked. No one died in the desert. People were
not forced into clandestine misery, fearful of not getting back if they went
home. Waiting for papers to enter legally can now take 10 years - or forever.

The best policy, it seems, would be to legalize those already here so they can
go home and return as needed. Terms can be improved for new migrants. Employers
who benefit ought to be obliged to follow tax and labor codes.

Our hugely expensive, often inhumane measures do not work. Those drones we use
in Pakistan also fly over Lochiel. Arizona lawmakers want to deploy armed
militias, ill-trained guys who washed out of police psychological tests. A
proposed state scheme envisions red alerts - crime warnings - for people living
within 62 miles of Mexico. (I don't understand it, either.)

Back when I was first crisscrossing the border, I hardly rolled to a stop in
either direction. Governments on both sides boasted of their friendly frontier.
Today in Lochiel, I imagine an echo of Ronald Reagan and an old Evil Empire: Mr.
Gorbachev, tear down that wall. We need it in Arizona.


     ·    Might Davos Be a Layover for Chinese 'Migratory Birds'?


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

The Uncertain Cost of Helping Illegal Immigrants Go to College

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 771 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of the main concerns about legislation in Albany is how much it
would cost the state, and projections rely in part on guesswork.


Much of the public debate surrounding proposals to allow illegal immigrants to
receive state financial aid for college has centered on questions of legality:
Would such legislation legitimize the status of people in the country without
authorization?

But lawmakers have also been puzzling over another critical matter: How much
would it cost the state?

Advocates for the bill who met this week with a member of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's
staff said costs seemed to weigh heavily on the minds of administration
officials.

"They said once they study all the fiscal impacts, the potential impacts of the
bill, they will get back to us," said Daniela Alulema, a board member at the New
York State Youth Leadership Council, one of the groups pushing for the
legislation. "That's all we were able to obtain from that meeting."

The State Education Department estimated the cost at $627,428 per year in a
measure it sent to the Legislature in December. That proposal is one of several
circulating in Albany, all of which are commonly known as the New York State
Dream Act.

The department's proposal would make state tuition assistance available to
illegal immigrants attending public colleges in the state. (A different measure
pending in the Legislature would expand eligibility to include illegal
immigrants attending private colleges in the state.) But the Education
Department's estimate has been criticized by some analysts as unrealistically
low.

Now the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization in New York
City, has taken a stab at the math and on Friday it published its estimates.

The report, called "The New York Dream Act: A Preliminary Estimate of Costs and
Benefits," estimates that opening the state's Tuition Assistance Program to all
students who meet the funding criteria, regardless of immigration status, would
increase tuition assistance expenditures by about $17 million per year, or 2
percent.

But the report's authors cautioned that their calculations were far from exact,
especially considering that any estimate of the size of the illegal immigrant
population involves guesswork.

"Given the high degree of uncertainty around numerous factors, the estimate here
should be understood to be a rough approximation," the report says.

The researchers began their number-crunching by estimating how many illegal
immigrant students graduated each year from high school in New York State
(3,627). This was based on  work by Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the
Pew Hispanic Center, who estimated the number of illegal immigrants graduating
from high school nationwide (65,000).

The researchers then used the  statewide figure to estimate the number of
illegal immigrants continuing on to college -- and here is where their
calculations diverged most significantly from the Education Department's.

While the Education Department estimated that about 227 illegal immigrants
enroll at the state's public colleges every year, the Fiscal Policy Institute
researchers said the number was more likely closer to 1,777. The institute's
estimate includes students enrolled at both public and private institutions, but
the overwhelming majority attend public colleges. The researchers also said that
the number might rise because the availability of tuition assistance might make
college more attractive to more illegal immigrants.

The institute's researchers then assumed that most illegal immigrant students
would have low family incomes and therefore qualify for the maximum amount of
tuition assistance, though the researchers predicted that only about two-thirds
of them would actually apply for it.

In assessing the benefits of the Dream Act, the institute concluded that a
better-educated immigrant work force would result in higher salaries and, thus,
higher local and state tax revenue. (The report provides a detailed analysis of
these cost-benefit estimates.)

"Increasing the education level of workers also increases their productivity,
and the more highly educated a state's labor force, the more attractive is that
state as a place to locate businesses," the report says.

"Having large numbers of undocumented workers should not be considered a
permanent situation: federal reform is urgently needed to fix immigration
policy," the report continues. "But gridlock at the federal level should not
prevent New York State from investing in its own economy."



     ·    Children of Immigrants Are Focus of City-Backed Education Project
     ·    Treating Patients When Language Is Only One of the Barriers
     ·    A One-Man Immigration Protest on 72nd Street
     ·    Podcast: Whose Huddled Masses?
     ·    9/11 Immigrant Survivors Move Toward Legal Status


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

At Least Grover Norquist Is Consistent

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 335 words



HIGHLIGHT: He defended the 14th Amendment's guarantee of citizenship to every
baby born on American soil, because changing the current system would result in
new taxes.


Here's the strange thing about Republicans who take a hard line on illegal
immigration - and who among them doesn't, these days? They profess to want
smaller government that spends little, and yet demand all-out war on illegal
immigrants through radically expanded police powers and blank-check spending on
fences and troops at the border.

Most conservatives - especially the Republican presidential candidates - are
happy to let that hypocrisy lie. Leave it to a true believer, the anti-tax
zealot Grover Norquist, to voice an uncomfortable truth. On Monday Mr. Norquist
spoke out against the cost of one anti-immigrant crusade: ending the 14th
Amendment's guarantee of citizenship to every baby born on American soil.

Restrictionists hate the thought of unauthorized immigrants giving birth to
American children. They want to rewrite or reinterpret the Constitution to
restrict citizenship only to those who can show the right native pedigree and
bloodline.

The trouble is, that will cost money - parents would have to pay about $600 in
government fees to prove each baby's citizenship status, and another $600 to
$1,000 in legal fees, according to a new report from the nonpartisan National
Foundation for American Policy. It estimates that direct fees to the federal
government would total $2.4 billion a year.

Mr. Norquist's rigid hatred of all tax increases of all kinds at all times is
nutty, but at least he knows what a tax looks like. He is right to call ending
birthright citizenship a "non-solution" and to urge a better way: a saner
immigration policy that is more welcoming to workers and includes a path to
legal status for the undocumented.

The study is here:

http://www.nfap.com/pdf/NFAPPolicyBrief.BirthrightCitizenship.March2012.pdf

Mr. Norquist's remarks on a taped conference call are here:

http://www.nfap.com/podcast/NFAP030512.mp3


     ·    Opinion Report: The BP Settlement
     ·    Opinion Report: Super Tuesday
     ·    Opinion Report: Charter Schools
     ·    Opinion Report: Raising Taxes in Maryland
     ·    Opinion Report: The Buffett Rule


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

At Least Grover Norquist Is Consistent

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 335 words



HIGHLIGHT: He defended the 14th Amendment's guarantee of citizenship to every
baby born on American soil, because changing the current system would result in
new taxes.


Here's the strange thing about Republicans who take a hard line on illegal
immigration - and who among them doesn't, these days? They profess to want
smaller government that spends little, and yet demand all-out war on illegal
immigrants through radically expanded police powers and blank-check spending on
fences and troops at the border.

Most conservatives - especially the Republican presidential candidates - are
happy to let that hypocrisy lie. Leave it to a true believer, the anti-tax
zealot Grover Norquist, to voice an uncomfortable truth. On Monday Mr. Norquist
spoke out against the cost of one anti-immigrant crusade: ending the 14th
Amendment's guarantee of citizenship to every baby born on American soil.

Restrictionists hate the thought of unauthorized immigrants giving birth to
American children. They want to rewrite or reinterpret the Constitution to
restrict citizenship only to those who can show the right native pedigree and
bloodline.

The trouble is, that will cost money - parents would have to pay about $600 in
government fees to prove each baby's citizenship status, and another $600 to
$1,000 in legal fees, according to a new report from the nonpartisan National
Foundation for American Policy. It estimates that direct fees to the federal
government would total $2.4 billion a year.

Mr. Norquist's rigid hatred of all tax increases of all kinds at all times is
nutty, but at least he knows what a tax looks like. He is right to call ending
birthright citizenship a "non-solution" and to urge a better way: a saner
immigration policy that is more welcoming to workers and includes a path to
legal status for the undocumented.

The study is here:

http://www.nfap.com/pdf/NFAPPolicyBrief.BirthrightCitizenship.March2012.pdf

Mr. Norquist's remarks on a taped conference call are here:

http://www.nfap.com/podcast/NFAP030512.mp3


     ·    Opinion Report: The BP Settlement
     ·    Opinion Report: Super Tuesday
     ·    Opinion Report: Charter Schools
     ·    Opinion Report: Raising Taxes in Maryland
     ·    Opinion Report: The Buffett Rule


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              May 13, 2012 Sunday

Mayoral Candidates Oppose Fingerprinting Program

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 598 words



HIGHLIGHT: A plan to implement a fingerprinting program in New York was opposed
by Democratic mayoral candidates because it placed undue hardship among illegal
immigrants.


The expected Democratic candidates for mayor may have their differences, but
they are unified in their opposition to New York City's participation in Secure
Communities, a controversial fingerprinting program meant to identify illegal
immigrants.

Last week, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials announced that they
planned to extend the program across New York and Massachusetts on Tuesday,
despite opposition from the governors of both states.

The program requires the fingerprints of anyone arrested by the local or state
police to be checked against databases of the Department of Homeland Security,
which include immigration violations. If someone is found to be in the country
illegally, immigration officials may ask the police to hold the person to be
picked up by federal agents.

On Sunday, William C. Thompson, Jr., the former comptroller and 2009 Democratic
candidate for mayor, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to reverse his
administration's position. Saying that New York City drew strength from its
immigrants, he said that the program would cause them hardship, while doing
little to make neighborhoods more secure.

"Studies show that this program does little to protect our neighborhoods," Mr.
Thompson wrote in the letter. "Instead, it drives many hard-working immigrants
into the shadows of our society, thus actually compromising public safety."

Last June, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said that New York was suspending participation
in the program, because of evidence that it was having detrimental effects on
law enforcement and crime reporting. This week, the governor's office said that
he remained opposed to the program.

Another expected mayoral candidate, the public advocate, Bill de Blasio, sent a
letter on Sunday to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., asking him to stop the
expansion of the program.

"Local law enforcement requires the active and sustained cooperation of
immigrant communities to effectively fight crime," Mr. de Blasio wrote. "The
implementation of this program intimidates immigrants, reducing the likelihood
that they will report crimes or come forward as witnesses for fear of risking
deportation."

A third likely mayoral candidate, Christine C. Quinn, plans to hold a news
conference at City Hall tomorrow along with other council members, immigration
advocates, and clergy, where she will call on the administration to halt the
activation of the program in New York City until it is significantly reformed.

A fourth, Scott M. Stringer, said in a statement on Sunday, "I strongly urge
President Obama and Department of Homeland Security officials to hear the calls
of so many around the country and make this program optional for the dozens of
jurisdictions that wish to withdraw. A state's participation in a program that
targets its own residents should be left up to local officials, and not dictated
from on high by Washington."

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has not commented on the program since its extension
was announced last week. However, a spokesman said that his administration would
prefer that the Secure Communities program track New York's own criteria in
dealing with requests from federal immigration officials to turn over prisoners
at Rikers Island.

New York City only turns over a prisoner if he or she has previously been
convicted of a misdemeanor or felony; is a defendant in a pending criminal case;
has an outstanding criminal warrant; is or has previously been subject to a
final deportation order of removal; is a known gang member; or is identified as
a possible match in the terrorist screening database.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday

What Romney Should Do About Immigration

BYLINE: C. STEWART VERDERY, JR.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1224 words



HIGHLIGHT: Five fresh ideas for the candidate to use as the foundation for a new
Republican policy on legal and illegal immigrants.


Earlier this month, asked about Mitt Romney's immigration policy, Bettina
Inclan, the director of Hispanic outreach for the Republican National Committee,
stumbled into the remark that "he's still deciding what his position on
immigration is." While the campaign distanced itself from the gaffe immediately,
the comment was actually good advice, even if unintentional.

During a lengthy primary season, Romney's effective use of base politics on
immigration was a key part of his victory, especially in snuffing out Rick
Perry's potential ascent. But after those strategic attacks, which included
Romney's awkward "self-deportation" plan for illegal aliens, Romney must execute
a creative pivot to the middle to attract moderate voters, especially Hispanic
moderates. In an election that looks to be razor-close, how effectively Romney
recaptures turf in the immigration debate could decide swing states like Nevada,
Colorado and Virginia. Looking longer-term, a President Romney would have to
find a solution to the immigration issue - a social crisis that has eluded
political consensus for two decades - if he wanted to save his party from
slow-fuse political suicide.

The immigration wars since 9/11 have left Republicans searching for a formula
that allows candidates to survive litmus tests from the right - they must oppose
any legalization for lawbreakers - while at the same time heeding the calls from
party strategists and business interests to make our wildly outdated immigration
policies reflect the realities of the modern international world.

Romney dedicated much of the speech he gave to the Latino Coalition earlier this
week to education, but here are five policy announcements - of varying degrees
of political controversy - that Romney should wrap into a high-minded address on
immigration and competitiveness that would capture the middle ground. While the
details are important, the tone would be, too - most Americans are weary of
bombastic talk radio rhetoric on this issue and are looking for thoughtful, bold
leadership.

High-skilled immigration: Romney has already endorsed proposals that would allow
more highly skilled scientists to enter the United States under temporary visas
and to allow foreign students educated here to receive green cards to allow them
to stay here and work. However, these proposals have been blocked in Congress by
proponents of a broad amnesty that is a non-starter with most Congressional
Republicans. Romney should demand passage of the high-skilled agenda before the
graduation of the class of 2013 next spring produces another crop of
international leaders, educated here in America, needlessly forced to return
home to compete against us. If you graduate with an engineering degree from
Stanford, we should staple a green card to your diploma.

Temporary travel: President Obama has seized travel as a means to create jobs in
the service sector. He released a national strategy to cut visa wait times and
endorsed an expanded list of countries from which tourists and business
travelers can come to the United States without a full-fledged visa interview.
Romney should build on these goals by promising to expand access to the United
States to job creators by allowing visa interviews by videoconference and
creating fast-track consideration for businessmen and women looking to purchase
American goods, attend American trade shows, or purchase American medical
services.

"Good Neighbor" visa: Romney opposes the Democratic version of the Dream Act,
which would provide legal status and citizenship to those who arrived in the
United States as children. What he needs to find instead is a class of
immigrants whose continuing contributions to society are worth protecting. He
should propose a new visa category of unlimited duration that allows "good
neighbors" to remain in the United States without gaining any special advantage
over those who have obeyed the law while seeking to become citizens. This "good
neighbors" group would include individuals with a clean criminal record working
in the military, in law enforcement, or as a first responder, people who are
running businesses with at least 10 employees, or serving as clergy members or
teachers. Hundreds of thousands of our neighbors in this "white hat" group are
viewed sympathetically by all but the fringes of the American electorate. This
would allow Romney to base his immigration policy on a person's good behavior
and contributions to society, rather than the circumstances of his or her
arrival. Even those seeking a broader amnesty might see some merit in showing
Americans the benefits of recognizing the contributions of immigrants who broke
the rules to get here.

Enforcement: Romney has pretty much endorsed a kitchen sink approach to
enforcement, but budget realities may complicate his ability to make major
additional investments. It is clear that the most cost effective enforcement
activity is to concentrate on criminal aliens via the Secure Communities
fingerprint program and to implement new employer enforcement checks under the
E-Verify program (in tandem with the Good Neighbor program). Even as President
Obama has increased deportations, the undeniable truth is that mandating
workplace checks is the only effective long-term approach to turning off the
jobs magnet attracting illegal labor to this country.

"American Dream" constitutional amendment: The antiquated provision of the
Constitution that requires the president to be born on American soil should be
repealed. In becoming the first Western democracy to elect a racial minority to
the highest office in the land in 2008, the United States once again
demonstrated its "melting pot" quality to the world. Allowing any United States
citizen, no matter where he or she was physically born, to run for president
would send a similar signal that Americans care most about a person's ideas and
character, not race and origin. This goal would also put an appropriate and
necessary end to the distraction of the Obama "birther" debate that has captured
a sliver of the far right's attention - most Republicans and moderate voters
would embrace this "American Dream" proposal as a way to demonstrate their
support of legal immigrants.

Wrapping these five policy announcements into a broader speech about how the
United States needs the best talent possible to compete internationally would
mesh well with Romney's broader economic game plan. More urgently, it would
reposition Romney for the general election fight by showing a different attitude
on immigration and diversity issues. Getting out in front of the issue would
also allow him to escape the current legislative debate over fine print of the
Dream Act.

To be sure, wading into the immigration battle brings risk of attack from the
right and from members of Congress who can coast to re-election in safe
districts without worrying about demographic changes that affect national
elections. However, unless Romney chooses to unveil a new immigration policy,
the election returns coming in from states like Nevada, Colorado and Virginia on
Nov. 6 may make this the first presidential election where the immigration issue
denied the Republicans a victory well within their grasp.



     ·    Believing in Obama
     ·    Romney's Weasel Problem
     ·    Richard Nixon's Model Campaign
     ·    Things That Really Matter
     ·    Boasting About Bin Laden


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Illegal Border Crossings Dip Sharply

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 549 words


Campaign rhetoric to the contrary, statistics show that the number of illegal
immigrants crossing the border is less of a problem now than it has been for
four decades.

While presidential candidates talk about how to secure the United States-Mexico
border, data show that their focus might instead be on dealing in a positive way
with the millions of illegal immigrants already here. Apprehensions by the
United States Border Patrol are at their lowest level since the Nixon era,
according to unofficial statistics from the agency that The Washington Post
reported this month.

A sour economy, increased enforcement by the Border Patrol and skyrocketing
smuggling fees are keeping more would-be crossers at home.

In 2010, the Border Patrol apprehended about 448,000 illegal immigrants on the
Southwest border, roughly 93,000 fewer than in 2009. This year, apprehensions
have dipped by more than 25 percent, to 327,500.

There are now 10.2 million illegal immigrant adults in the country and another 1
million illegal minors, according to data released this month by the Pew
Hispanic Center. The center estimates that 35 percent of those adults have been
in the country 15 years or longer, compared with 16 percent in 2000. Conversely,
only 15 percent have been in the country five years or less, compared with 32
percent in 2000.

''It's more expensive to get in, it's more dangerous to get in and there are no
jobs to be had,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, the senior demographer at the Pew
Hispanic Center. ''It's not surprising that the inflows are way down.''

James W. Ziglar, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute and a
commissioner of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service under
President George W. Bush, said there are so many people in the country illegally
because the system has long been dysfunctional.

''We are not going to deport these people,'' Mr. Ziglar said. ''We need to deal
with the problem and provide them with a way to a legal status.''

Mr. Ziglar's stance reflects the view of many of his fellow Republicans. In a
poll this year, the Pew Research Center for People and the Press found that 58
percent of so-called Main Street Republicans supported a path to legalization
while 39 percent opposed it. A poll by the Partnership for a New American
Economy, a bipartisan group of mayors and business leaders, found that only 16
percent of likely attendees at the Iowa Republican caucuses were opposed to
expanding legal immigration.

Along some parts of the Texas-Mexico border, violence is also down. Ciudad
Juarez, for example, is on pace for 1,000 fewer homicides this year -- a rare
bit of good news in a ravaged city. Howard Campbell, a professor of anthropology
at the University of Texas at El Paso, said the violence in adjacent Ciudad
Juarez has subsided because the gangs used by the Juarez drug cartel are weaker
and the Sinaloa cartel -- which has waged a war in the city since 2008 -- is
distracted with tougher battles to the west. Mr. Campbell also cited pressure on
President Felipe Calderon to make the police and the military more accountable
and to improve his country's image.

''In general,'' Mr. Campbell said, ''things hit bottom, and so there is an
almost natural cycle of improvement. Whether this improvement will last is
impossible to say.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fence along the Rio Grande in Brownsville and a sign are
meant to deter illegal crossers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS
TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leader in the Cancer Fight, and Son of an Illegal Immigrant

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com; Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 727 words


A few minutes before Ronald DePinho was to give a speech to his graduating class
at Fordham College in the Bronx, he sat with his father in a student lounge. It
was May 1977. His father had been in the United States for nearly 40 years. The
son was on his way to a career in medicine and research that would bring him to
the presidency of the biggest cancer center in the country. It was a time for
the father, Alvaro DePinho, to pass along some history.

In 1939, it turned out, the elder Mr. DePinho had made his first home in America
in the basement of one of the creaky three-story apartment buildings just
outside the gates of the Fordham campus. He had settled in the Bronx after
coming to New York as a stowaway, spending 13 days at sea in a cargo container:
an illegal immigrant.

On his way to work digging ditches, Mr. DePinho, who had had just a year or two
of grade school in rural Portugal, noticed the young scholars heading to
classes.

''He lived right across the street with another man in this refugee situation,''
Dr. DePinho said. ''I didn't know this. He talked about seeing these men in ties
and white shirts, the dress code back then, walking around the college. His only
thought was that he wanted his children to go to college.''

Which they did.

The third of the five children of Alvaro and Celeste DePinho, Dr. DePinho, 56,
has been visiting New York this week from Houston, where in September he became
president of the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, part of the University of Texas.
He is raising money and hiring people to study five cancers in depth, using
tools developed only in the last few years. The broad idea is to fill a void in
cancer drug development by combining Anderson's research brainpower and newly
available technologies with entrepreneurial tactics. ''The elements are in place
to make a decisive assault,'' Dr. DePinho said. ''We're in a moonshot moment.''

In the 1990s, the United States spent 10 years and $3.6 billion to sequence a
single human genome. ''Today, that can be done in hours for several thousand
dollars,'' Dr. DePinho said. ''One machine can sequence as much today in nine
days as the entire U.S. sequencing capacity in 2007.''

Other technology has made it possible to manipulate the genes in mice and to
replicate cancer's process in the lab. And, in what he says is the most
ambitious undertaking in the history of life sciences, the United States is
sequencing the genomes of thousands of cancers, a project on which Dr. DePinho's
wife, Dr. Lynda Chin, is a leading researcher.

In cancer cells, many of the ordinary mechanisms of cellular reproduction become
corrupted. These distortions are closely tied to aging, when the tips of
chromosomes change. A group in Dr. DePinho's lab reported last year that it was
able to partly reverse the aging process in mice by giving them an enzyme that
maintains the chromosome tips.

A fountain of youth for mice proved irresistible to Stephen Colbert, who brought
Dr. DePinho onto his television show, ''The Colbert Report,'' for an interview
and a scolding.

''What are you going to do with all the old people we're going to have?'' Mr.
Colbert asked. ''Isn't it more cost effective to catapult them into the sea?''

''That would be one scenario,'' replied Dr. DePinho, who had never heard of Mr.
Colbert before being invited on the show. ''Another perspective to have would be
that you could reverse the aging process and increase the years of healthy
living.''

Following Dr. DePinho, his wife and their three children to Houston are 55
scientists he recruited from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center, where he had
been director of the Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science. This week, he
said, he would be dining with at least one major New York scientist he hoped to
bring to Texas.

His own career, as a researcher and a clinician, took a sharp turn in 1998, when
he moved to Harvard. It wasn't the new address. That year, Alvaro DePinho, who
shed his status as an illegal immigrant by enlisting in the United States Army
in World War II, died of colon cancer.

''I had just gotten recognition for all these fancy schmancy papers, and I
couldn't do anything for this person I loved,'' Dr. DePinho said. ''I vowed that
it wasn't just about doing science. It was about making sure that those
scientific discoveries drove to things that would actually help patients.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Ronald DePinho leads the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in
Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Crackdown Also Snares Americans

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1190 words


A growing number of United States citizens have been detained under Obama
administration programs intended to detect illegal immigrants who are arrested
by local police.

In a spate of recent cases across the country, American citizens have been
confined in local jails after federal immigration agents, acting on flawed
information from Department of Homeland Security databases, instructed the
police to hold them for investigation and possible deportation.

Americans said their vehement protests that they were citizens went unheard by
local police and jailers for days, with no communication with federal
immigration agents to clarify the situation. Any case where an American is held,
even briefly, for immigration investigation is a potential wrongful arrest
because immigration agents lack legal authority to detain citizens.

''I told every officer I was in front of that I'm an American citizen, and they
didn't believe me,'' said Antonio Montejano, who was arrested on a shoplifting
charge last month and found himself held on an immigration order for two nights
in a police station in Santa Monica, Calif., and two more nights in a teeming
Los Angeles county jail cell, on suspicion he was an illegal immigrant. Mr.
Montejano was born in Los Angeles.

This year the immigration agency has been rapidly extending its leading
deportation program, known as Secure Communities, with a goal of covering the
whole country by 2013. Under that program, fingerprints of every person booked
at local jails are checked against Department of Homeland Security immigration
databases. If the check results in a match, federal immigration agents can issue
detainers, asking local law enforcement authorities to hold a suspect for up to
48 hours.

Detentions of citizens are part of the widening impact on Americans, as well as
on immigrants, of President Obama's enforcement strategies, which have led to
more than 1.1 million deportations since the beginning of his term, the highest
numbers in six decades.

John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
agency gave ''immediate and close attention'' to anyone who claimed to be a
citizen.

''We don't have the power to detain citizens,'' Mr. Morton said in an interview
on Tuesday. ''We obviously take any allegation that someone is a citizen very
seriously.''

Later this month, Mr. Morton said, the immigration agency will publish new forms
for its detainers. The forms, in several languages, will require the police to
notify suspects who are being held on federal immigration authority, he said.
They will also provide a hot line where detainees can call the immigration
agency directly.

Exact numbers of Americans erroneously held by immigration authorities are hard
to come by, since they are not systematically recorded. In one study, 82 people
who were held for deportation from 2006 to 2008 at two immigration detention
centers in Arizona, for periods as long as a year, were freed after immigration
judges determined that they were American citizens.

''Because of the scale of enforcement, the numbers of people who are interacting
with Immigration and Customs Enforcement are just enormous right now,'' said
Jacqueline Stevens, the study's author and a political science professor at
Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill.

Ms. Stevens has concluded that ''a low but persistent'' percentage of the nearly
400,000 people held for deportation each year are citizens.

One was Mr. Montejano, when a holiday shopping outing on Nov. 5 to a Los Angeles
mall with his four children ended badly. After his young daughter begged for a
$10 bottle of cologne, Mr. Montejano said, he inadvertently dropped it into a
bag of things he had already bought. As he left the store, he was arrested.

With no prior criminal record, Mr. Montejano, 40, expected to post bond quickly
at the Santa Monica police station on the misdemeanor charge and go home. He had
his driver's license and other legal identification, but because of an
immigration detainer he was denied bail and held even after a criminal court
judge canceled his fine and ordered the police to let him go.

Mr. Montejano was freed on Nov. 9 after American Civil Liberties Union lawyers
sent Immigration and Customs Enforcement his United States passport and birth
certificate.

''Just because I made one mistake,'' Mr. Montejano said, ''I don't think they
should have done all those things to me.''

He said he thought the police did not believe he was an American because of his
appearance. ''I look Mexican one hundred percent,'' he said.

Mr. Montejano had triggered a positive match in the Homeland Security Department
databases, A.C.L.U. lawyers discovered, because immigration officials had failed
once before to recognize his citizenship, mistakenly deporting him to Mexico in
1996. His records were not corrected.

An American college student, Romy Campos, was also trapped in a California jail
last month for four days on an immigration detainer. After her Nov. 12 arrest in
Torrance on a minor misdemeanor charge, Ms. Campos, 19, was denied bail and
transferred to a Los Angeles County jail. A public defender assigned to her in
state court said there was nothing he could do to lift a federal detainer.

''Can't they see in my file or something that I'm a citizen?'' Ms. Campos said
she asked him. ''He said: 'I'm sorry, but this is state court. I can't do
anything about it.' ''

After four days, Ms. Campos was released, soon after Jennie Pasquarella, an
A.C.L.U. lawyer, provided her Florida birth certificate to the immigration
agency.

Ms. Campos said the experience was shocking. ''I felt misused completely, I felt
nonimportant, I just felt violated by my own country,'' she said.

Ms. Campos, a citizen of both the United States and Spain, later learned that
she had a Department of Homeland Security record because she had once entered
the United States on her Spanish passport.

United States citizens can also be tagged in a Secure Communities fingerprint
check because of flukes in the department's databases. Unlike the federal
criminal databases administered by the F.B.I., homeland security records include
all immigration transactions, not just violations. An immigrant who has always
maintained legal status, including those who naturalized to become American
citizens, can still trigger a fingerprint match.

According to Margaret Stock, an immigration lawyer in Alaska, under the nation's
complex citizenship laws, many foreign-born people become Americans
automatically, through American parents or adoption. Often their citizenship is
not recorded in homeland security databases, Ms. Stock said.

Other cases of possibly illegal detentions of citizens have been recently
reported in Allentown, Pa., Indianapolis and Chicago.

I.C.E. agents generally cancel detainers immediately when they determine the
suspect is a citizen. In no recent cases was an American placed in deportation.

But Ms. Stevens cautioned: ''It's sort of like the canary in the mine. If those
who have the full due process rights of U.S. citizens are being detained, it
tells us a lot about potentially unlawful people who do not have those
protections.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An American college student, Romy Campos, was sent to a
California jail on an immigration detainer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Fence Blocks Bears In Migration, Study Finds

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 391 words


GILA BEND, Ariz. -- The much-ballyhooed border fence has not just made it more
difficult for illegal immigrants to slip across from Mexico into the United
States. It has also become an obstacle, researchers say, for migrating bears.

A study published in this month's edition of Biological Conservation warns that
the black bear population just north of the border in Arizona may be threatened
by the increasingly impermeable barriers at the border. Also fragmenting the
bear habitat are the growing urban sprawl in southern Arizona and the expanding
highway systems that slice through rugged terrain, the study found.

Researchers used hair snags -- pieces of barbed wire set up near bait to catch
genetic samples of foraging bears -- to track various bear populations in
Arizona. They found significant genetic disparities between black bears in the
east-central part of the state and the subpopulation just north of the border.
The border bears, the study said, were more closely related to bears found in
northern Mexico.

The population density of the border bears was substantially lower than the
bears living farther north, which had a wider habitat that was less vulnerable
to development, the study found. The border is a unique region, from a
biological point of view, researchers say, with many North American species
reaching the southern limit of their distribution there and many South American
species extending not much farther north.

''We want people to be cognizant of the impact of human activities and how they
are impacting wildlife populations,'' said Dr. Jon P. Beckmann, a bear
researcher with the New York-based Wildlife Conservation Society and co-author
of the bear study.

The authors, who include Todd C. Atwood and Julie K. Young of the United States
Department of Agriculture's National Wildlife Research Center, intend to share
their findings with the Department of Homeland Security and other state and
federal agencies along the border. Dr. Beckmann said that the paper could be
used to help generate innovative solutions that take bears and other large
carnivores into consideration when border security was discussed.

As for the efficacy of border fencing in stymieing illegal immigrants, an issue
that has come up in the Republican presidential primary contest, Mr. Beckmann
said, ''We're not weighing into that debate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Black bears just north of the border in Arizona may be
threatened by the increasingly impermeable barriers in the area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GEORGE ANDREJKO/ARIZONA GAME AND FISH DEPARTMENT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Next Immigration Challenge

BYLINE: By DOWELL MYERS.

Dowell Myers, a professor in the Price School of Public Policy at the University
of Southern California, is the author of ''Immigrants and Boomers.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 988 words



Los Angeles

THE immigration crisis that has roiled American politics for decades has faded
into history. Illegal immigration is shrinking to a trickle, if that, and will
likely never return to the peak levels of 2000. Just as important, immigrants
who arrived in the 1990s and settled here are assimilating in remarkable and
unexpected ways.

Taken together, these developments, and the demographic future they foreshadow,
require bold changes in our approach to both legal and illegal immigration. Put
simply, we must shift from an immigration policy, with its emphasis on keeping
newcomers out, to an immigrant policy, with an emphasis on encouraging migrants
and their children to integrate into our social fabric. ''Show me your papers''
should be replaced with ''Welcome to English class.''

Restrictionists, including those driving much of the debate on the Republican
primary trail, still talk as if nothing has changed. But the numbers are stark:
the total number of immigrants, legal and illegal, arriving in the 2000s grew at
half the rate of the 1990s, according to the Census Bureau.

The most startling evidence of the falloff is the effective disappearance of
illegal border crossers from Mexico, with some experts estimating the net number
of new Mexicans settling in the United States at zero. The size of the
illegal-immigrant population peaked in 2007, with about 58 percent of it of
Mexican origin, according to the Pew Hispanic Center; since 2008, that
population has shrunk by roughly 200,000 a year. Illegal immigrants from Asia
and other parts of the globe have similarly dwindled in numbers.

This new equilibrium is here to stay, in large part because Mexico's birthrate
is plunging. In 1970 a Mexican woman, on average, gave birth to 6.8 babies, and
when they entered their 20s, millions journeyed north for work. Today the
country's birthrate -- at 2.1 -- is approaching that of the United States. That
portends a shrinking pool of young adults to meet Mexico's future labor needs,
and less competition for jobs at home.

If the number of immigrants is declining, what about that other nativist
bugbear, assimilation? There's little doubt that immigrants' potential as
economic contributors turns on their ability to assimilate. Fortunately, recent
studies by John Pitkin, Julie Park and me show that immigrant parents and
children, especially Latinos, are making extraordinary strides in assimilating.

Today, barely a third of adult immigrants have a high-school diploma. But the
children of Latino immigrants have always outperformed their parents in
educational achievement. By 2030 we expect 80 percent of their children who
arrived in the 1990s before age 10 to have completed high school and 18 percent
to have a bachelor's degree.

But it is immigrants' success in becoming homeowners -- often overlooked in
immigration debates -- that is the truest mark of their desire to adopt America
as home. Consider Latinos. Among those in the wave of 1990s immigrants, just 20
percent owned a home in 2000. We expect that percentage to rise to 69 percent --
and 74 percent for all immigrants -- by 2030, well above the historical average
for all Americans.

Who will be selling these homes to these immigrants? The 78 million native-born
baby boomers looking to downsize as their children grow up and leave home.
Fortunately for them, both immigrants and their children will be there to buy
their homes, putting money into baby-boomer pockets and helping to shore up
future housing prices.

Indeed, with millions of people retiring every year, America's immigrants and
their children are crucial to future economic growth: economists forecast
labor-force growth to drop below 1 percent later this decade because of retiring
baby boomers.

Immigrants' extraordinary progress in assimilating would be faster if federal
and state policies encouraged it. Unfortunately, they don't. This year, the
Department of Homeland Security plans to spend a measly $18 million -- far less
than a tenth of 1 percent of its budget -- on helping immigrants assimilate.
Meanwhile, states with large immigrant populations are cutting the budgets of
community and state colleges, precisely where immigrant students predominantly
enroll.

How do we change course and begin treating immigrants as a vast, untapped human
resource? The answer goes to the heart of shifting from an immigration policy to
an immigrant policy.

For starters, the billions of dollars spent on border enforcement should be
gradually redirected to replenishing and boosting the education budget,
particularly the Pell grant program for low-income students. Some money could be
channeled to nonprofits like ImmigrationWorks and Welcoming America, which are
at the forefront of helping migrants assimilate.

Second, the Departments of Labor, Commerce and Education need to play a greater
role in immigration policy. Yes, as long as there remains a terrorist threat
from abroad, the Department of Homeland Security should have an immigration
component. But immigration policy is all about cultivating needed workers. That
means helping immigrants and their children graduate from high school and
college. It means that no migrant should have to stand in line for an English
class. It means assistance in developing migrants' job skills to better compete
in an increasingly information- and knowledge-based economy.

Thanks to our huge foreign-born population (12 percent of the total), America
can remain the world's richest and most powerful nation for decades. Shaping an
immigrant policy that focuses on developing the talents of our migrants and
their children is the surest way to realize this goal.

Correction: January 20, 2012, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this Op-Ed described the wave of retirement in the United States
incorrectly. Millions of Americans are retiring each year, not every week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOPOS GRAPHICS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Florida, Romney Plays Down Immigration

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1510 words


WEST PALM BEACH, FLA. -- When Mitt Romney pulled in for a campaign rally here
recently, he pointedly left his tough stance against illegal immigration far
behind in South Carolina, where he had trumpeted the issue repeatedly.

It was a tactical decision devised to avoid irritating Florida's coveted 450,000
Hispanic Republican voters, a group that is overwhelmingly Cuban-American, as he
headed into next Tuesday's presidential primary here, political analysts say.

But Mr. Romney, who takes a hard line on illegal immigration, was also banking
on the likelihood that the Hispanic voters -- a pivotal bloc in a pivotal state
-- care more about jobs and the distressed economy than green cards and the
Dream Act, a proposal to give legal status to some illegal immigrants who came
into the United States as children.

In this, Mr. Romney is right. Unlike many Mexicans and other Hispanics in
California and the Southwest, Cuban-Americans do not view immigration as a
defining issue in the election. That is because for decades Cubans arriving in
the United States have been automatically granted United States residency after
their first year here, a holdover from the cold war.

Puerto Ricans, who make up the second-largest group of Hispanics in Florida, are
already citizens and are also less concerned about immigration.

''The economy is what's most important to Hispanics here, unemployment,'' Sergio
Lostal, 59, an unemployed Cuban-American and Romney supporter who arrived in the
United States in 1984, said at the rally. ''That's the fundamental issue.''

Florida's unemployment rate is 9.9 percent, compared with 8.5 percent
nationally; the jobless rate for Hispanics nationally and in Florida is even
higher.

In polls taken before the South Carolina primary, Mr. Romney held a lead in
Florida as large as 22 percent over Newt Gingrich and another contender, Rick
Santorum. But Mr. Gingrich's strong victory over Mr. Romney in South Carolina is
shaking up some Hispanic Romney supporters, who are taking another look at Mr.
Gingrich.

And while Hispanic voters here have not seized on immigration as an issue, Mr.
Gingrich's more temperate view on illegal immigration has certainly not hurt
him. Mr. Gingrich said in a debate on Monday that he would support half of the
Dream Act -- the part that would grant citizenship to young illegal immigrants
who serve in the military, but not those who complete college. Mr. Romney said
he agreed with that position. But Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum had said they
would veto the Dream Act as written, a position that could dampen enthusiasm
among Latinos in a general election.

Mr. Gingrich also has proposed allowing many illegal immigrants who have been in
the United States a long time the opportunity to stay here as residents. Mr.
Romney, like Mr. Santorum, has taken an aggressive stance against legalizing any
illegal immigrants who do not deport themselves and apply for green cards from
their home country.

Like the candidates, Florida has long been conflicted over illegal immigration
in general; in its last session, the State Senate declined to pass a bill that
would have required businesses to verify the immigration status of workers.

But Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney have much in common when it comes to Cuba. Both
are making a point of talking tough on Cuba and the Castro brothers, saying they
would roll back family travel to the island, among other things.

Rosa Pestana, 67, a Cuban-American voter who attended the Romney rally nearly
two weeks ago, was planning to vote for Mr. Romney at the time. After Mr.
Gingrich, a candidate she said is intelligent and experienced, won the South
Carolina primary, she was torn. Now she is holding back until after Thursday's
debate to decide who to vote for, adding that she will most likely choose
whoever is the front-runner.

But, Ms. Pestana, who owns an assisted living center, said she viewed Mr.
Gingrich's position on immigration -- an issue she considers secondary -- as
more realistic. Her son recently tried to hire American citizens for his roofing
company, she said, and found no takers. ''Who will fix our roofs and pick our
tomatoes?'' Ms. Pestana asked.

Ms. Pestana's friend, Elaine Fandino, who had also seesawed between the
candidates after South Carolina, said she would vote for Mr. Romney after he
''took out the claws'' in Monday's debate. ''He is the one,'' she said.

Mr. Romney's campaign is well organized, and has spent several million dollars
on advertising in the state, including one television spot featuring his son
Craig, speaking in Spanish about liberty and opportunity. Mr. Romney was also
expected to benefit from Florida's absentee votes, which could break records.

Not to be outdone, Mr. Gingrich, who was in Miami recently raising money, made
the requisite pilgrimage to Versailles, a Cuban restaurant in Little Havana, to
sip a cafecito and denounce Fidel and Raul Castro. Mr. Santorum has ratcheted up
his own campaign in the state in the past two weeks.

Florida has 1.5 million Hispanic voters (13.4 percent of the state's total
electorate), and 32 percent of them are Cuban-Americans, who largely vote
Republican and mostly live in South Florida. Today, a majority of Hispanics are
Democrats. The state's booming Puerto Rican population, whose members are
generally less partisan than their New York peers but still tend to vote
Democratic, are the second-largest group of Latino voters in Florida, making up
28 percent of the Hispanic voters.

Other large Hispanic groups in the state -- Colombians, Nicaraguans, Peruvians
-- are swing voters who make up a small but growing slice of the electorate.

Because the vast majority of Cuban-Americans in Florida are citizens who
reliably turn out to vote, candidates passionately court them.

Cuban-American voters often take their cues from South Florida's two most
powerful Republicans in Congress, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart and Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, who are backing Mr. Romney despite his stance on immigration.
Senator Marco Rubio, the prized endorsement among Hispanic Republicans, has said
he would not take sides in the primary.

Mr. Diaz-Balart said that he disagreed in general with Mr. Romney and the
Republican Party on immigration, but that President Obama had failed to fulfill
his campaign promise to provide a path for longtime illegal immigrants to remain
here legally.

''President Obama's record on immigration is dismal,'' he said. But, he added,
immigration is an afterthought in this election for most Hispanics here. ''The
reality is, until you get the economy going, it becomes a secondary issue,'' Mr.
Diaz-Balart said. ''People don't want to talk about people who are here
illegally when people who are here legally don't have jobs.''

There was not always such an outpouring of support for Mr. Romney among
Hispanics in Florida. In 2008, he came in last among Hispanic voters in the
primary, which Senator John McCain of Arizona won.

In the end, Mr. Obama won 57 percent of the Hispanic vote in the state (a
majority of Cuban-Americans cast their ballots for Mr. McCain). But in 2010,
Latinos in Florida tilted back to Republicans, helping to elect Mr. Rubio, a
Cuban-American, and Gov. Rick Scott, who benefited from Mr. Rubio's presence on
the party's ticket.

''Florida Hispanics have always tended to lean toward the establishment
candidate,'' said Dario Moreno, a professor of political science at Florida
International University.

An aggressive stance on immigration could prove a problem down the road among
swing voters if a candidate were perceived to be disparaging Hispanics. Already,
some Dream Act supporters are planning to demonstrate at Mr. Romney's events.
Puerto Ricans, who live mostly in the Orlando area and are a crucial swing vote,
frown upon attacks that could be perceived as ethnic bias. Latin Americans in
Dade County have a vested interest in the immigration debate, and even
Cuban-Americans, who are no longer in lockstep with the Republican Party, could
react negatively to polarizing language on the issue.

''They are very sensitive to messages that can be perceived as anti-Hispanic and
very sensitive to the immigrant experience,'' Professor Moreno said of
Cuban-Americans and Puerto Ricans.

Mr. Gingrich is doing what he can to play up his differences with Mr. Romney on
immigration. Democrats, too, are eager to capitalize on the immigration debate.
They are already running radio ads in Florida calling Mr. Romney two-faced on
the issue. The Republican National Committee, though, recently named a national
Hispanic outreach coordinator to go head-to-head with her Democratic counterpart
in a bid to win over Latinos.

Like Mr. Romney, Republican officials are hoping that worries about the economy
will trump concerns about immigration.

''Immigration is an issue that always dictates in the Latino community, and the
debate plays an important role in the conversation,'' said Bettina Inclan, the
Republicans' Hispanic outreach coordinator, who grew up in Miami. ''But the
reality is that this election is going to be about the economy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Local Republican officials and voters talking in West Palm
Beach, Fla., on Thursday after a speech by Mitt Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER W.
CROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Politics and the Supreme Court

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 803 words


The Supreme Court underscored its power to shape American life when it took
major cases about the health care reform law, Arizona's anti-immigrant law and
the Voting Rights Act in an election year. But this is not simply a case of the
court thrusting itself into politics.

The way these cases developed and made their way to the highest court also
illustrates the reverse -- how politics shape the court. Each case grows out of
a struggle between left and right where politics have pushed the law: between a
quest for universal coverage and the defense of big health care providers;
between an emphasis on openness and hostility toward immigrants; and between a
promise of access to the voting booth made nearly 50 years ago and the
unyielding opposition to keeping that promise.

Each party has its program and works to turn it into law. The great example of
political change through legal change was the long, methodical effort to whittle
away at segregation from within the legal mainstream that culminated in the
court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education. The conservatives'
legal-political strategy draws from Brown, but it is also vastly different in
nature and design.

The struggle for school desegregation was waged by and on behalf of oppressed
minority groups seeking to make good on the Constitution's promise of equal
rights. They faced strong opposition from the most powerful people in our
society, in courts that were not necessarily sympathetic or overtly hostile to
their cause. And they fought a long, incremental campaign.

When Lewis Powell Jr. energized conservatives by writing in 1971 that ''the
judiciary may be the most important instrument for social, economic and
political change,'' he was himself an incrementalist and expected others to be.

But the conservative legal battles of our modern times are being waged by the
most powerful, often against the weak and oppressed. They began with a carefully
planned and successful effort to reshape the courts to be sympathetic to
conservative causes. They are largely aimed at narrowing rights, not expanding
them -- except where property and guns are concerned. And beginning with the
Reagan administration, conservatives became impatient with the pace of change
brought about from within the mainstream. They sought to remake law into a
weapon of aggressive action.

The court's health care reform case arose from a decision by Judge Roger Vinson
of Federal District Court in Pensacola, Fla., striking down the Affordable Care
Act as unconstitutional. It demonstrates the enduring influence of the Reagan
administration, which put a premium on picking judges who would carry out its
ideology and on countering liberalism with pointed conservatism any way
possible.

Besides nominating Judge Vinson and getting him confirmed by a
Republican-controlled Senate, the Reagan Justice Department published
conservative positions on states' rights and other issues in executive-branch
opinions to promote them before courts took them seriously.

Citing conservative scholarship about the narrow meaning of the Constitution's
commerce clause, the Vinson opinion presents the Reagan view of economic liberty
-- an idea that was judged faulty by established scholars during the Reagan era
but now carries great influence.

The Bush administration revived this practice, which led directly to the Arizona
case. One of its most notorious opinions asserts the power of states ''as
sovereign entities'' to crack down on illegal immigration even if the federal
government has not delegated them that power. The author of the Arizona law
cited the authority granted in the 2002 memo as a basis for it, and the memo
underlies similar efforts in a growing list of other states.

The Reagan administration expressed its antipathy to the Voting Rights Act in
politics and law -- in its effort to persuade Congress not to strengthen the act
in 1982, for example, though Congress did, and in a 1985 Supreme Court test of
the extension of the act that was passed.

The case has defined the sides in many battles since about control of American
democracy -- between Democrats' interest in protecting minority voters and their
representation and Republicans' insistence that the law is being misused to
create racial quotas in government.

In 2009, the Supreme Court ducked ruling on the constitutionality of the Voting
Rights Act in an opinion by Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. that nonetheless laid
out arguments for its unconstitutionality. The opinion is widely read as a
warning that the law is vulnerable to being struck down by the conservative
court.

The political influences on these major cases are important by themselves, but
also as a reminder that the makeup of the court for the next generation, and
thus the law's direction, are likely to be determined by the 2012 election.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain: Judge Orders Release on Bail Of Militant Accused of Qaeda Role

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 161 words


An immigration appeals judge ordered the government on Monday to release on bail
a militant Islamic preacher who is considered a leader of Al Qaeda in Europe,
despite government arguments that he is a threat to Britain's security. The
preacher, Abu Qatada, 51, whose real name is Omar Othman, has spent more than
six years in British jails since his arrest after the Sept. 11 attacks in the
United States, and had been described by a Spanish terrorism judge as ''Osama
bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe.'' Mr. Othman has been convicted in Jordan
of planning two bombing attacks, but the European Court of Human Rights
intervened last month to prevent Britain from deporting him to Jordan because of
concern that evidence that might be used against him in a new trial there could
have been obtained by torture. Officials at the Home Office said they would
comply with the court order to release him within a week, but would tightly
restrict his movements and contacts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain Releases And Curbs Extremist

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1260 words


LONDON -- Abu Qatada, a militant Islamic preacher held without charge for more
than six years as a threat to Britain's national security, was released from
prison on Monday night after an immigration judge signed off on strict bail
conditions earlier in the day.

The case has set off a national furor over a European court ruling that has
blocked the deportation of the Jordanian-born preacher, whose real name is Omar
Mahmoud Mohammed Othman.

The conditions of his bail, the tightest permitted under British law, include a
22-hour-a-day curfew. They bar Mr. Othman from traveling beyond his home
neighborhood and using cellphones, the Internet and public transportation.

They also prohibit him from attending mosques, leading prayers, or accompanying
any of his five children between his London home and school, and they allow him
to meet visitors only if they have been vetted by the police.

Television channels across Britain showed Mr. Othman hiding his face in the back
of a van that was leaving the Long Lartin maximum-security prison in
Worcestershire around 9:15 p.m. on Monday.

The developments were the latest in a long-running case that has inflamed
politicians and public opinion in Britain and turned Mr. Othman, 51, into a
symbol of Britain's difficulties in dealing with a pervasive network of Islamic
militants with cells in many of the country's largest cities.

Officials have said that the cost to British taxpayers in the case, including
legal aid for Mr. Othman's lawsuits and welfare support for his family, has
exceeded $:500,000, or about $790,000. He has spent much of his time in
detention at Long Lartin, about 100 miles west of London, and at other
high-security jails, without ever facing criminal charges or a trial. Britain
had hoped to deport him to Jordan for trial, but was barred from doing so last
month by the European Court of Human Rights on the grounds that some of the
evidence against him might have been obtained through the torture of potential
witnesses. After the European ruling, John Mitting, Britain's top immigration
judge, ordered his release last week, and approved his bail conditions on
Monday.

The case has been the focus of intensifying protests in Britain before the
Olympic Summer Games in London, beginning in July, for which a security force of
about 25,000 people, including some troops, has been assembled.

Mr. Othman, who is of Palestinian descent, was originally arrested in the
British police sweeps that followed the attacks in the United States on Sept.
11, 2001. British security officials have said that copies of his sermons were
found in the Hamburg, Germany, flat of Mohamed Atta, the lead Sept 11. hijacker,
who was in the cockpit of the American Airlines jet that struck the World Trade
Center's north tower.

Mr. Othman has also been accused of using sermons in Britain to encourage
attacks on Jews and other ''nonbelievers,'' and Scotland Yard has said that in
2001 it found him in possession of more than $250,000 in cash, some of it in an
envelope marked ''for the mujahedeen in Chechnya.'' He was arrested in October
2002.

A Spanish counterterrorism judge once described him as Osama bin Laden's
right-hand man in Europe.

The legal tangle over Mr. Othman has played out against the background of the
complexities Britain has faced in dealing with a succession of Islamic militant
figures identified in court hearings or by officials of security organizations
like Scotland Yard and MI5, the domestic security service, as posing
unacceptable dangers with their advocacy of Qaeda-style terrorism and what are
alleged to be their links with terrorist groups overseas.

Lacking the option of a Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, where the United States has held
terrorism suspects for years without charge to keep them away from the American
homeland and access to its civilian courts, Britain has been forced to handle
individuals it regards as terrorist threats through its normal courts, a process
that has led to recurrent rulings against the suspects' deportation.

In the case of Mr. Othman, successive governments have found themselves unable
to bring him to court on terrorism charges, partly because of what officials
have said are concerns among the security agencies about divulging intelligence
sources and methods.

They have also been unable, so far, to deport him because of legal obstacles
raised by British courts and, after the last of these was cleared by Britain's
Supreme Court last year, by the European human rights court last month.

Mr. Othman was convicted in absentia by Jordanian courts for what is alleged to
be his role in a series of terrorist bombing plots more than a decade ago that
included one against a hotel used by Western officials and tourists. Jordanian
officials have said he will face retrial for the bombings if he is repatriated
from Britain.

The case has led to a groundswell of opinion against the European court that has
crossed political parties, and drawn support from many prominent lawyers and
jurists.

In an emergency House of Commons session dedicated to the case after the
European ruling, the government of Prime Minister David Cameron faced a barrage
of demands, many of them from Mr. Cameron's own Conservative benches, for
Britain to ignore the ruling barring Mr. Othman's deportation. They have cited
the precedents set by France and Italy in overriding the court's provisional
rulings in several deportation cases involving Islamic militants.

Other lawmakers demanded that Britain withdraw from the jurisdiction of the
court, which Prime Minister Winston Churchill, intent on preventing any
recurrence of the Nazi atrocities of World War II, played a leading role in
establishing in the early 1950s in the wake of Nazi atrocities in World War II.

The anger against the court surfaced again as news of Mr. Othman's imminent
release spread. Robert Halfon, a Conservative backbencher, whose family migrated
to Britain from Libya in the 1960s, told the BBC on Monday that the case touched
on Britain's right to security. ''Are we a sovereign country, or are we not?''
he said. ''What about the human rights of people who want to be protected
against terrorists?''

Mr. Cameron, who has described the European order as ''completely
unacceptable,'' traveled last month to the court's base in Strasbourg, France,
to demand that the court abandon its interference in national security cases
that have been thoroughly reviewed in national courts, and focus instead on
issues involving broad principles of human rights.

Last week, he telephoned King Abdullah II in Jordan to appeal for a formal
pledge that no evidence based on torture would be used in putting Mr. Othman on
trial there. To meet judicial objections to Mr. Othman's deportation, Jordan and
Britain previously reached an agreement on a guarantee that Mr. Othman would not
be physically abused in Jordanian custody.

Looking beyond Mr. Othman's case, the Cameron government has been concerned that
several other Islamic militants detained in British jails could seek similar
legal rulings in Strasbourg that would prevent Britain from extraditing them to
the United States, where they are wanted on terrorism charges.

Lawyers for one of those men, known as Abu Hamza al-Masri, a former preacher at
London's Finsbury Park mosque who described himself before Sept. 11 as Al
Qaeda's chief representative in Britain, have said they will argue in
Strasbourg, if the case reaches the European judges, that the prospect of an
American prison term of 50 years or more for their client would be a breach of
his human rights.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abu Qatada had been held for six years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Who Was Jailed In Peru Is Blocked at Airport

BYLINE: By ANDREA ZARATE and ELIZABETH A. HARRIS; Andrea Zarate reported from
Lima, and Elizabeth A. Harris from New York. Anne Barnard contributed reporting
from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 537 words


LIMA, Peru -- Lori Berenson, the New Yorker paroled last year after serving more
than 15 years in prison here on a terrorism conviction, was blocked from leaving
the country for what was to have been her first visit home since her arrest, she
said Saturday.

A Peruvian court had granted Ms. Berenson permission to visit her family in New
York City for the holidays, but when she and her young son arrived at the
airport on Friday night, they were turned away by immigration authorities.

''They said I needed a document for immigration and I didn't have it,'' Ms.
Berenson said, ''so they wouldn't let me leave the country.''

It was unclear what document the immigration authorities wanted. Ms. Berenson
said she had all of the documents required for travel.

Peru's antiterrorism prosecutor, Julio Galindo, had filed a complaint late
Friday to the court that had granted Ms. Berenson permission to travel, arguing
that it violated the law. Ms. Berenson was freed on parole last year but had
been required to remain in Peru until her 20-year sentence, for collaborating
with a terrorist group in 1995, ends in 2015.

A spokesman for the Judiciary Department, however, said the prosecutor's
complaint should not have prevented her from leaving the country.

''We don't have anything to do with it,'' said Guillermo Gonzales, a department
spokesman. ''As far as the judiciary is concerned, she was allowed to leave the
country.''

Local news media, meanwhile, said that Ms. Berenson had arrived late to the
airport, and simply missed her flight. But witnesses said she was at the airport
hours before the flight was to leave.

Ms. Berenson's lawyer, Anibal Apari Sanchez, told The Associated Press that the
government had made a political decision to halt her departure, which he called
''an abuse of authority.''

''Administratively, you can't block a court order,'' he said.

Rhoda and Mark Berenson, who were waiting at their New York City apartment for
their 42-year-old daughter and her 2-year-old son, declined to comment on
Saturday morning.

Ms. Berenson was arrested on a bus in Lima in 1995, just hours before Peruvian
authorities raided a home she was renting. Inside, they found 8,000 rounds of
ammunition, 3,000 sticks of dynamite, and more than a dozen members of the Tupac
Amaru Revolutionary Movement, a rebel group that the government said was
preparing to launch an attack on the Congress.

Ms. Berenson was convicted of collaborating with the rebels, providing a safe
house and helping with logistics, and sentenced to 20 years in prison. She has
said that she did not know about their violent plans.

While in prison, Ms. Berenson married Mr. Apari, a member of the rebel group,
and the couple had a son, Salvador. They have since separated but Mr. Apari
serves as Ms. Berenson's lawyer.

Ms. Berenson remains a polarizing figure in Peru, which struggled violently with
rebel groups for 20 years, in a conflict that took 70,000 lives.

On Thursday, an appeals court granted Ms. Berenson permission to visit her
parents in New York City, leaving as early as Friday, on the condition that she
return to Peru by Jan. 11. If she did not return by then, she would be required
to finish her sentence in prison, a Judiciary spokesman said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori Berenson was stopped from going to New York because she
lacked a document. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENRIQUE CASTRO-MENDIVIL/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Rules for Guest Workers Are Issued by the Labor Dept.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 735 words


The Labor Department on Friday unveiled rules that reshape a program for foreign
migrants in work other than agriculture, which officials said would strengthen
protections for those workers and also spur recruitment of Americans for such
jobs. It was the latest move in a protracted battle between employers and the
Obama administration over the nation's temporary guest workers.

The extensive rules -- 575 pages long -- make important changes across the
program, which is known as H-2B. The changes were hailed by advocates for guest
workers, who said they would make it more difficult for businesses to exploit
vulnerable foreign migrants and hire them to undercut Americans.

But reflecting the divisions over the program, employers who use it regularly
said the new rules, which will take effect April 23, would make the process too
slow and cumbersome for their seasonal businesses and would ultimately lead to
the loss of American jobs.

''This is another log in the road to derail the whole industry here,'' said Jack
Brooks, a crab processor from the Chesapeake Bay in Maryland who is a member of
a group of employers in the H-2B program, the Coalition to Save America's
Seafood Industry. ''If you take the seafood people away, tens of thousands of
American jobs are at risk,'' Mr. Brooks said.

The H-2B program has long been used by many kinds of seasonal, mostly small,
businesses, including seafood fishermen and processors, amusement parks and
hotels and landscapers.

Under the new rules, the Labor Department will create a nationwide electronic
registry where employers must post all jobs they are seeking to fill with H-2B
workers. Also, the recruitment period of Americans is expanded, requiring
employers to hire any qualified local worker who applies up to three weeks
before the start of an H-2B contract.

The Labor Department also ended a labor market certification process that
allowed employers to simply assert that they had searched for American workers.
Now employers will have to consult formally with State Workforce Agencies to
demonstrate that they could not find Americans for the jobs.

Employers will be required to pay a guest worker's transportation costs from the
home country after the migrant completes half of the contract period. Employers
will also have to pay for the trip home when the worker finishes the job or is
dismissed early, as well as all visa fees.

For the first time, employers will be required to pay foreign workers for
three-quarters of the period of a contract, even if there is no work for the
migrants to perform. This provision was greeted by employers with particular
alarm.

The rules will ''ensure that the program is used as intended by making these
jobs more accessible to U.S. workers and providing stronger protections for
every worker,'' Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis said in a statement.

''Over all, we think these rules are a huge step forward,'' said Jennifer J.
Rosenbaum, the legal director of the National Guestworker Alliance, which is
based in New Orleans. ''They remove incentives to try to get around hiring an
unemployed American by hiring exploitable guest workers instead.'' She pointed
to new provisions ensuring that migrants can raise complaints and consult with
unions over work conditions without retaliation from employers.

The rules sharpened the different perceptions between Labor Department officials
and H-2B employers over the availability of Americans for the jobs they are
offering, which involve low-wage, often strenuous work.

''We would love to have it like we had it back in the 1960s and 1970s when we
had all the American workers we could get,'' said Mr. Brooks, the crab
processor. ''Now our search for American workers is never-ending. At the end of
the day we can't find local workers.''

The rules bar foreign recruiters from charging fees to workers who will come to
the United States under the H-2B program. The Labor Department is seeking to
eliminate foreign recruiters who saddle migrants with debts before they arrive
in the United States, which workers struggle to pay off on their wages here.

Last year, employers won one round in the H-2B fight by appealing to Congress
about a separate set of Labor Department rules on wages in the program.
Employers, who argued they would be forced to more than double wages, persuaded
Congress to pass an amendment that blocked them from taking effect at least
until October.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

If You Didn't Catch It the First Time

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 992 words


Through more than 20 Republican presidential debates, candidates have returned
to some phrases over and over and over again. More examples are available at
nytimes.com/politics.

NEWT GINGRICH

Mr. Romney is the only other candidate to mention American Express in a debate.

OUTSOURCING

Sept. 7

We ought to control the border. We ought to have a legal guest worker program.
We ought to outsource it, frankly, to American Express, Visa and MasterCard so
there's no counterfeiting, which there will be with the federal government.

Sept. 22

We'd be far better off to outsource E-Verify to American Express, MasterCard or
Visa because they actually know how to run a program like that without massive
fraud.

Nov. 5

American Express pays .03 of 1 percent of its gross revenue to crooks ... So you
as a citizen are 330 times as likely to pay a crook through the federal
government as you are through your American Express card.

I mean, if you simply passed a bill in Congress that said, 60 days from now
we're contracting out to American Express, Visa and MasterCard and IBM to create
a consortium. They're going to handle all payments.

Jan. 19

Fifth, I favor a guest worker program, and I would outsource it to American
Express, Visa or MasterCard, because they can run it without fraud and the
federal government's hopeless.

Jan. 26

You should have a guest worker program, probably run by American Express, Visa
or MasterCard, so they minimize fraud, which the federal government won't do,
and you should have much stronger employer penalties at that point because you
canvalidate it.

MITT ROMNEY

LIFE AS AN INVESTMENT

June 13

I spent my life in the private sector, 25 years.

Sept. 12

I spent my life in the private sector. I understand how jobs come to America and
why they go. And I want to use that experience to get America growing again...

I spent my life in the private sector. I've competed with companies around the
world.

Sept. 22

I love this country. I spent my life in the private sector, not in government. I
only spent four years as a governor. I didn't inhale. I'm a business guy.

I'm a conservative businessman. I haven't spent my life in politics, I spent my
life in business. I know how jobs come, how jobs go.

Oct. 11

I'm not going to have to call up Timothy Geithner and say how does the economy
work, because I've spent my life in the economy.

I would not be in this race had I spent my life in politics alone. Nothing wrong
with that, of course.

Oct. 18

I believe that, having spent my life in the private sector, having actually
created jobs is what allows me to have the kind of support that's going to allow
me to replace President Obama and get the country on the right track again.

Dec. 10

Well, having spent my life in the private sector, I understand where jobs are
created.

I spent my life in the private sector. I understand how the economy works.

If I would have been able to get in the N.F.L., like I hoped when I was a kid,
why, I would have been a football star all my life too. But I -- I spent my life
in the private sector.

Dec. 15

I spent my life, my career in the private sector.

RON PAUL

POLICEMAN STATE

Sept. 12

There's no authority in the Constitution to be the policeman of the world, and
no nation building.

Dec. 10

We have to quit the spending. We have to quit this being the policeman of the
world. We don't need another war in Syria and another war in Iran.

You know, if we took that oath of office seriously in Washington, we'd get rid
of 80 percent of the government, the budget would be balanced, we'd have sound
money and we would have prosperity and we wouldn't be the policeman of the
world.

This idea that we can be the policeman of the world and settle all these
disputes -- I mean, soon we'll have to quit because we're flat-out broke ...

Dec. 15

I emphasize civil liberties. I emphasize a pro-American foreign policy, which is
a lot different than policeman of the world. I emphasize, you know, monetary
policy ...

Jan. 19

We could work our way out of here and take care of these people on -- with these
medical needs, but we can't do it with the current philosophy of the government
taking care of everybody forever on medical care, cradle to grave, and being the
policeman of the world.

Jan. 23

... the role of government ought to be to protect liberty. It's not to run a
welfare state and not to be the policeman of the world.

RICK SANTORUM

No other candidate has mentioned his grandfather in a debate, but both Herman
Cain and Mr. Gingrich have referred to themselves as grandfathers.

THIRD GENERATION

June 13

My grandfather came to this country .... He didn't come here because he was
guaranteed a government benefit. He came here because he wanted freedom.

Sept. 7

But we want them to come here like my grandfather and my father came here. They
made sacrifices. They came in the 1920s. There were no promises. There were no
government benefits. They came because they wanted to be free ...

Sept. 12

My father and grandfather came to this country not speaking a word of English.
But it was the greatest gift to my father to have to learn English so he could
assimilate ...

Nov. 9

... opportunities for everyone in America, including those that don't have that
college skill set. People who built this country, like my grandfather who was a
coal miner.

Jan. 7

You also -- I also work for a coal company. As I mentioned the other day, my
grandfather was a coal miner. I grew up in the coal region.

Jan. 19

Well, I come at it from -- as being the -- the son of an immigrant. And my
grandfather came to this country and brought my dad when he was 7 years old. And
that's the story that I -- that I love, am familiar with ...

Jan. 23

Our country -- my father came to this country, my grandfather came to this
country. He left my dad behind for five years.

Jan. 26

People come to this country. My grandfather came to this country because he
wanted to come to a country that respected him, and a country that respects you
is a country that lives by the laws that they have.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEWT GINGRICH
MITT ROMNEY
RON PAUL
 RICK SANTORUM CHART (Source: Federal News Service transcripts)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Get College Scholarships

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 667 words


Among all the numbers that populate Nataly Lopez's life -- including phone
digits, addresses, pass codes and friends' ages -- there is one that she never
forgets: the cost of a semester's tuition at Baruch College, where she is a
sophomore.

Ms. Lopez, 21, is an illegal immigrant from Ecuador and has struggled to make
ends meet, working several jobs to be able to pay for school.

''Two thousand eight hundred and five,'' she said. ''I know that number because
I have to reach it to get to the next semester.''

State proposals that would make government financial aid available for illegal
immigrants like Ms. Lopez are pending in Albany. Frustrated with the pace of
federal and state legislative action, advocacy groups, with the support of New
York City officials, have developed a stopgap solution -- for a small number of
needy students, at least.

On Thursday, the groups announced the recipients of a new college scholarship
specifically for illegal immigrants, the first such program in the state, they
said.

The program is financed by foundations and private donors, not public sources.
But it has received crucial financing and support from the Fund for Public
Advocacy, a nonprofit arm of the office of the city's public advocate, Bill de
Blasio, a likely candidate for mayor in 2013.

''We all have to make up for the madness of our national policies,'' Mr. de
Blasio, a Democrat, said at a news conference to introduce the 10 recipients,
including Ms. Lopez. ''As an American and the grandson of immigrants, I'm
offended we even have to be standing here having this discussion.''

The first round of scholarships, called Dream Fellowships, was open only to
undergraduates in the City University of New York system. The program allocates
$2,000 toward a semester's tuition per recipient. It also places the students in
a leadership-development program and provides them with internships at
immigrant-advocacy organizations across the city.

Last year, the California Legislature passed a bill allowing illegal immigrant
students access to state financial aid. In the absence of similar legislation in
other states, advocates have created private scholarships specifically intended
for illegal immigrants, though they remain rare.

More than 100 students applied for the fellowships, which are coordinated by the
New York Immigration Coalition and receive additional financing from the Korean
American Community Foundation, as well as small contributions by several labor
unions.

The initial group of fellows immigrated from East and South Asia and Central and
South America. In the news conference, they said that the internships were an
opportunity to broaden their education, and that the money was a much-needed
windfall to help allay tuition.

They spoke of their ambitions to pursue advanced degrees and become highly
trained professionals -- in the United States. But they also described the
stresses of living in legal shadows, juggling jobs and classes while pressing
forward toward an uncertain future.

Yohan Garcia, 25, said he dropped out of high school in Mexico and came to the
United States nine years ago. While holding various low-wage jobs, including
washing dishes, he learned English and enrolled at the Borough of Manhattan
Community College. He now attends Hunter College and hopes to become a human
rights lawyer or senator.

''I am a dreamer,'' he declared.

Ms. Lopez, who immigrated at age 4, said she dropped out of college in 2009 when
she could no longer pay for her classes. As the gravity of her legal situation
dawned on her -- ''the realization that I can't do anything in this country,''
Ms. Lopez said -- she pitched headlong into depression.

It took her a year to return to college. Now in the last semester of her
sophomore year and pursuing a major in the psychology of language, she works
full time as a waitress and is also a social media consultant for a Web design
company and an English tutor.

''Our stories represent 65,000 students who are in the same position,'' she
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nataly Lopez, at lectern, and nine other City University of New
York students received financial aid packages Thursday. Illegal immigrants do
not have access to government aid under state law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY  MICHAEL
APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Number 11.5. Million

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
14

LENGTH: 88 words


About 11.5 million illegal immigrants were living in the United States in
January 2011, a figure essentially unchanged from the 11.6 million in 2010,
according to the latest estimates by the Department of Homeland Security, which
were based on 2010 census figures. Georgia saw the greatest increase between
2000 and 2011, with the number of illegal immigrants there increasing by 95
percent to 440,000. The number of illegal immigrants in the country peaked in
2007 at 11.8 million, the demographers found, and has been declining.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           December 31, 2011 Saturday

Romney Says He Would Veto the Dream Act

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 791 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney, for the first time, said that he would veto legislation
that would provide a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who were brought
into the country at a young age and then went on to attend college.


LE MARS, Iowa - In Le Mars, Iowa, the self-proclaimed ice cream capital of the
world, Mitt Romney ordered a scoop of rocky road before heading to his first
campaign stop of the day, a crowded restaurant filled with more than 200 voters.

But the metaphor enthusiasts - see: rocky road - may be disappointed, because
Mr. Romney did not sound like a candidate bracing for a long, hard slog.
Instead, the former governor of Massachusetts sounded an enthusiastic, upbeat
note, telling the crowd that, "If I'm the Republican nominee, I'll be back in
Iowa to win the general election, and we will win Iowa."

"We'll go to Washington with a mandate to make sure we get this country back on
the right track," he said. "I'm going to be back in Iowa."

Mr. Romney offered his usual stump speech - a focus on President Obama, with no
mention of his Republican rivals - but when a voter asked him if he'd veto the
Dream Act as president, Mr. Romney said, "The answer is yes."

Though Mr. Romney has previously been critical of the legislation, which would
provide a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who were brought into the
country at a young age and then went on to attend college, Saturday marked the
first time that he has outright declared that he would veto the legislation
should it cross his desk as president.

"I'm delighted with the idea that people who come to this country and wish to
serve in the military can be given a path to become permanent residents of this
country," he said. "Those who serve in our military and fulfill those
requirements, I respect and acknowledge that path. For those who come here
illegally, the idea of giving them in-state tuition credits or other special
benefits I find to be contrary to the idea of a nation of law."

He added: "If I'm the president of the United States, I want to end illegal
immigration so that we can protect legal immigration. I like legal immigration."

The Democrats and Mr. Obama's re-election team pounced on the remark. David
Axelrod, a former senior advisor to the president, took to Twitter to call the
comments, "Wrong on principle & politics."

@davidaxelrod David Axelrod

"@mviser: Romney tells voter in Le Mars, Iowa that he'd veto Dream Act if it's
passed while he's president."
Wrong on principle & politics.

Sat Dec 31 23:30:30 via David Axelrod

Mr. Romney, meanwhile, was busy criticizing Mr. Obama, describing the current
state of the economy and the country as "a detour, however, not a destiny."

"We know this is a great land," he said. "That's why when the president went
around at the beginning of his term and apologized for America around the world,
it made us just heartsick. I will never apologize for the greatness of the
United States of America."

He appeared with his youngest son, Craig, who took the microphone to recount a
Romney family tradition - an annual, mini-triathlon with "a short little swim
and a bike race and then a run at the end." Craig's wife had just had her second
child, but decided to compete anyways.

"All the boys had finished at that point and it was down to my wife and my dad
over here," the younger Mr. Romney said.

"I tripped her, I tripped her!" Mr. Romney cut in, to laughter.

In the end, the son explained, Mr. Romney came from behind to eek out his
daughter-in-law - "He did almost die trying, by the way, he passed out in the
lawn chair and we didn't see him the rest of the day," he quipped.

"And you see this fight to the finish, he went for this, he gave it everything
he had, he gave it a good kick and he beat her in the end," he continued. "It's
that type of hard work, it's that type of determination I think we need in the
White House. We need someone who can go in there and solve the challenges we're
facing in the country and my dad's the guy to do it."

After the Le Mars event, Mr. Romney headed to Sioux City, Iowa, to offer some
New Year's Eve remarks.

"I hope I'm not the highlight of the evening," Mr. Romney joked. "That would be
a pretty sad evening."

Mr. Romney's traveling press corps - for whom New Year's Eve is shaping up to be
a fairly sad evening - trailed behind him in a press bus, but not before
stopping at Blue Bunny to sample some of the ice cream that Mr. Romney and his
son had been touting. Inside the ice cream shop, the young woman behind the
counter confirmed that Mr. Romney had, in fact, ordered the rocky road.

So, pressed one reporter, had Mr. Romney sampled several flavors? Had he
flipped-flopped, or was he decisive? The verdict: He knew exactly what he
wanted, and went straight for the rocky road.


     ·    For Romney on New Year's Eve, Quirky Questions in Sioux City
     ·    Romney Says He Expects to Be the G.O.P. Nominee
     ·    Gingrich Hit Hard by Iowa Mailers
     ·    Romney's Son Strays From the Playbook
     ·    Democrats Keep Focus on Romney


LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Disillusioned Young Immigrant Kills Himself, Starting an Emotional Debate

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1208 words


MISSION, Tex. -- On the last night of his life, Joaquin Luna Jr., 18, filled the
pages of a spiral notebook with goodbyes. In brief letters to relatives, friends
and teachers, he asked one of his brothers to take care of his nephews and his
niece and told a friend he had left a memento for her in his Bible.

One letter was different from the rest. It was addressed to Jesus Christ, and in
it he asked for forgiveness. ''Jesus,'' he wrote, ''I've realized that I have no
chance in becoming a civil engineer the way I've always dreamed of here ... so
I'm planning on going to you and helping you construct the new temple in
heaven.''

In the days since Mr. Luna took his own life last month and since some of his
writings became public, his story -- of an illegal immigrant who suddenly lost
hope of becoming the first in his family to go to college -- has evolved into
something more.

To the immigrant rights movement in Texas, Mr. Luna has become a symbol of the
psychological toll that being in the country illegally can take on young people.
To others, he has become a political pawn, with his death being used by those
who support the passage of the Dream Act, which would provide a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants who go to college.

Still others have questioned what role, if any, Mr. Luna's immigration status
played in his suicide. Although his relatives claimed that he committed suicide
because of the pressure he felt, none of the letters mentioned his illegal
status. In his letter to Jesus, he suggested that another issue was troubling
him, saying he was ''fearful to fall in any temptation,'' though he did not
elaborate.

But beyond the reasons for his death, Mr. Luna's suicide has had an impact far
past the border towns of the Rio Grande Valley. It has given other illegal
immigrants in high school and college the courage to speak out about their own
depression.

It has also thrust a low-income family of immigrants into the national spotlight
and put a troubled teenager's final letters at the center of the immigration
debate, with relatives, activists, politicians and reporters dissecting them
seeking evidence for or against the family's claims.

Mr. Luna was a shy, lanky young man who played guitar in church bands and helped
care for his diabetic mother near the border in Hidalgo County, one of the
poorest counties in America, where 35.2 percent of the population lived below
the poverty level in 2009. His neighborhood is a rural, ragged place, with
run-down trailer homes and graffiti-tagged street signs. The skyline is
dominated not by tall buildings but by windswept palm trees that tower over dirt
yards, stray dogs and citrus groves.

Mr. Luna, who was born in Reynosa, Mexico, and came to the United States as an
infant, was not like most teenagers in Mission. He drew the blueprints that were
used to build his mother's new house and spoke often of becoming either an
architect or a civil engineer. He joked that he did not have time for a
girlfriend, spending many weekends mowing lawns to pay for his electric guitar
and lessons. At Benito Juarez-Abraham Lincoln High School, he was ranked 89th
out of 467 students in the senior class.

In recent weeks, administrators at the school and several people close to Mr.
Luna said he had given no indication that anything was wrong. But on Nov. 25,
the day after Thanksgiving, he put on a maroon shirt and a tie, lay down next to
his mother and told her he was sorry he was never going to be the person he
wanted to be, relatives said. Then he went into the bathroom, put a handgun
underneath his chin and pulled the trigger.

Mr. Luna's family told local reporters that he had killed himself because of the
despair he felt over his immigration status as he was applying to colleges and
that he had been affected by the Senate's failure to pass the Dream Act last
year. At that point, relatives had not read Mr. Luna's letters because the
Hidalgo County Sheriff's Office had confiscated them as part of its
investigation.

The story was quickly seized on by supporters of the Dream Act. College students
in Austin painted posters reading ''I am Joaquin.'' At a vigil honoring Mr. Luna
in Los Angeles, mourners listened to a message recorded by his relatives. In
Washington, a Texas congressman, Representative Ruben Hinojosa, a Democrat from
Edinburg, spoke of Mr. Luna on the floor of the House and urged Congress to pass
the Dream Act.

Guadalupe Trevino, the Hidalgo County sheriff, said that Mr. Luna's death had
been ruled a suicide, but that investigators had not established a motive.

''I'm very disappointed that some folks, and even some of our elected leaders,
have exploited and politicized this young man's ill decision to take his own
life, especially when we have found no evidence that points to any particular
motive,'' Sheriff Trevino said. ''Nobody knows why he did it. Only he knows for
sure why he did what he did.''

The sheriff's office provided the letters to the family on Dec. 2. Relatives
said that even though the letters failed to mention the issue, they continue to
believe that Mr. Luna committed suicide because of his immigration status, based
on their conversations with him and the references in the letters to his failure
to realize his dreams.

''We lived with him, so we know, and it doesn't matter what other people say,''
said one of Mr. Luna's brothers, Diyer Mendoza, 35, a truck driver who has
become the family spokesman. ''Every time he would put in an application, the
first thing that would pop up was 'Are you a U.S. citizen?' No. 'Resident?' No.
'Social Security number?' No. It was all just mounting and mounting on top of
him. I truly believe that if that Dream Act would have already passed, he would
still be here today.''

As it became clear that the letters mentioned neither immigration nor the Dream
Act, immigrant rights advocates went on the defensive as their conservative
opponents attacked their handling of the issue. On its Web site, Americans for
Legal Immigration said the claims about Mr. Luna's suicide had been ''proven as
a hoax by desperate and unscrupulous illegal immigrant invasion supporters.''

The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, which organized the
vigil there, issued a statement saying it believed that the family was not being
dishonest and was not exaggerating.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Hinojosa said he stood by his remarks because of
statements the family made to his staff. ''The congressman has no reason to
doubt what the family has said,'' said the spokeswoman, Patricia Guillermo.

Greisa Martinez, a senior at Texas A&M University and the coordinator of the
Texas Dream Alliance, said the contents of Mr. Luna's letters had not reduced
the effect his suicide had on students who are in the country illegally. ''We
can all share in that pain and that angst that he felt at that moment, because
we've all been there,'' said Ms. Martinez, 23, who is an illegal immigrant.

One of the colleges Mr. Luna applied to was the University of Texas-Pan
American, in nearby Edinburg. For a school project, he wrote that he wanted to
attend the university because it was close to home and inexpensive. Mr. Luna was
accepted, but he never found out: he died before his admission became official.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joaquin Luna Jr. came to the United States as an infant. (A25)
  Diyer Mendoza with work by his brother, who had hoped to become an architect
or civil engineer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABE HERNANDEZ/THE MONITOR) (A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Fight On Licenses For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 773 words


SANTA FE, N.M. -- It is legislative season in New Mexico, which means it is time
once again to debate whether illegal immigrants should be granted driver's
licenses.

For the third straight session, Gov. Susana Martinez, a Republican, will be
pushing to repeal a nearly decade-old law that allows New Mexico residents who
are in this country illegally to obtain the licenses.

Debate over the issue has not only bitterly divided lawmakers in the state --
one of only two that permits illegal immigrants to get the same licenses as
citizens -- it has also become a recurring theme of Ms. Martinez's tenure.

This year's legislative session, which convened Tuesday, promises to be no
different as both sides gear up for another contentious battle over the issue.

''The policy of giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, which nearly
every other state has repealed or opposed, leads to fraud, human trafficking,
organized crime and significant security concerns,'' said Scott Darnell, a
spokesman for Ms. Martinez, who gave a nod to the repeal efforts in her State of
the State address on Tuesday.

''The issue has been debated long enough; it doesn't take much time for
lawmakers to vote to repeal this dangerous law,'' Mr. Darnell said.

But opponents are vowing to beat back the first-term governor's latest efforts,
and say her fixation on the issue has spawned an environment of fear among
immigrants in New Mexico.

''I think voters are pretty tired of this issue,'' said Marcela Diaz, executive
director of Somos Un Pueblo Unido, a New Mexico immigrant advocacy group. ''We
know New Mexicans care about jobs and the economy and not wedge issues and this
kind of political posturing.''

Supporters of the current policy say it helps reduce unlicensed drivers and
fosters cooperation between law enforcement and immigrants. A coalition of
groups plans to converge on the State Capitol here on Tuesday to protest the
proposed repeal.

Aside from New Mexico, Washington State also allows illegal immigrants to have
driver's licenses. Utah allows illegal immigrants to get a driving privilege
card, but the document cannot be used as government identification.

It is still unclear if this year's bill has the votes to pass the New Mexico
Legislature, which is controlled by Democrats. Last year, repeal legislation
cleared the House but was defeated in the Senate, and efforts to revive the bill
in a special session failed.

But there are rumblings that some lawmakers who have opposed the repeal might
change their minds.

''We have an election coming up,'' said State Representative Andy Nunez, an
independent from Hatch and the bill's sponsor. ''I think legislators will take
into account that if the majority of their constituents tell them to vote for
it, I think they're going to vote for it.''

Mr. Nunez cited a 2010 poll in The Albuquerque Journal that found 72 percent of
New Mexican voters surveyed did not support the current law.

Still, this year's debate promises to be particularly heated. Over the summer,
Ms. Martinez's administration sent 10,000 letters to foreign citizens with New
Mexico driver's licenses, seeking proof of residency. The letters followed a
rash of scams aimed at getting local licenses for immigrants living outside the
state.

About a third of the letters were returned as undeliverable, raising suspicion
of fraud, Mr. Darnell said.

A state judge temporarily halted the program after the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund filed a lawsuit claiming the review was
unconstitutional. Arguments are expected this year.

Last week, the legal defense group filed a separate lawsuit in state court on
behalf of a woman who worked at the Motor Vehicle Division in Albuquerque. The
woman claimed she was not allowed to translate the letters for Spanish-speaking
foreign citizens and said she was fired after complaining about how the
immigrants were treated.

''It's incredibly divisive, and on top of that, it also has created an
atmosphere of hostility for many New Mexicans with lawful status and without
lawful status,'' said David Hinojosa, the group's Southwest regional counsel, of
Ms. Martinez's repeal efforts.

Demesia Padilla, secretary for the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department,
characterized the lawsuit as being filed by a political special interest group
''in their quest to defend a policy of giving driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants that most New Mexicans find to be indefensible.''

In a statement, she said the woman's claims were false and described her as a
part-time employee with a poor work record.

Mr. Nunez said that he planned to introduce the driver's license repeal bill
this week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The battle to repeal a New Mexico law has defined Gov. Susana
Martinez's first term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN MONTOYA BRYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detention for Immigrants That Looks Less Like Prison

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and TIM EATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 965 words


On a patch of Texas farmland near the Gulf of Mexico, immigration officials on
Tuesday unveiled one of the most visible results of a three-year-old plan to
overhaul the nation's immigration detention system: a brand-new center intended
to provide a less penal setting for detainees.

Just don't call it prison, they insist. The center is the nation's first to be
designed and built with the new reforms in mind and represents a shift from the
federal government's longtime reliance on jails and jail-like buildings that
immigrant advocates have long argued are inappropriate and unduly harsh for
people being held on civil violations. Detainees will be free to move through
much of the center 24 hours a day. Unarmed staff members, dressed in blue polo
shirts and khaki trousers, are known as ''resident advisers,'' not guards.

''To bring the fundamental changes to a system that was that big and that
diverse, we knew it was going to be difficult and time-consuming, but after
three years, we have a lot to show for it,'' Gary Mead, a top federal
immigration official, said in a telephone interview before the opening. ''This
is the most tangible evidence of that.''

The 608-bed center, in Karnes County, Tex., will house male detainees who
present minimal safety concerns or flight risk, officials said. The first
detainees are expected to arrive in about three weeks.

Spread across 29 acres, the center is designed according to the Obama
administration's new mandates calling for greater unescorted movement and
recreational opportunities in a less penal setting.

The gentler approach is immediately evident in the center's modernist facade,
which is painted in bright primary colors -- a far cry from the dreary
bunkerlike structures that have characterized the system.

Inside, behind high tan-colored walls, the center has the feel of a school, with
dormitories of bunk beds, a gymnasium, a library, computers with Internet
access, cable television, a medical center, landscaped courtyards, an outdoor
soccer pitch and courts for basketball and volleyball.

There are also courtrooms for immigration hearings, which will be conducted
before judges in San Antonio and Houston via video conferencing.

Plans for the center emerged from a comprehensive reform strategy that the Obama
administration announced in August 2009.

The system had for years come under fierce criticism by human rights and
immigrants' advocates who exposed detainee mistreatment, including poor -- and
sometimes fatal -- medical care. Critics also accused immigration officials of
impinging on detainees' civil rights by frequently transferring them from jail
to jail, often far away from their families and lawyers.

The stresses on the system quickly mounted under the Obama administration, which
increased immigrant detentions. More than 396,900 people were deported last
year, a record high for the third year. Of those, about 217,000 had criminal
convictions, also a record, officials said.

Among other goals, the Obama administration's reforms seek to establish more
centralized authority over the system; improve the system's efficiency by
enlarging capacity near big cities where the nation's immigrant populations are
concentrated; and upgrade living conditions by renovating existing centers
designed for penal detention, or build new ones.

The new Texas site, the Karnes County Civil Detention Center, is one of at least
three detention centers the Obama administration plans to build. Others are
planned for South Florida and the Chicago area, though they will also house
medium- and high-security detainees, said Mr. Mead, executive associate director
for enforcement and removal operations for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
an arm of the Department of Homeland Security.

The agency is also planning to upgrade a detention center in Essex County, N.J.

Meanwhile, immigration officials have consolidated the detention network,
closing about 90 substandard centers. About 400,000 detainees pass through the
system's remaining 250 centers every year. About 10 percent of the centers --
holding nearly half of all detainees -- are run by private companies under
contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Among other reforms, officials said, the agency has hired 42 on-site monitors
for the largest detention centers to ensure that the detainees are being treated
in compliance with the agency's standards.

The agency has also expanded its medical staff and streamlined the approval
process for detainee medical care, officials said. And it has sharply reduced
the number of detainee transfers, Mr. Mead said.

Last month, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which oversees the nation's
detention system, issued a revised set of ''detention standards'' governing the
care and treatment of detainees.

Human Rights First, a monitoring group, called the standards ''an important step
forward'' for the agency, but said the guidelines fell short of prescribing
''conditions appropriate for the majority of detained asylum seekers or other
immigration detainees,'' including what the group considered sufficient outdoor
access, freedom of movement and privacy.

But the new guidelines were also criticized by some as being too lenient.
Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, called the standards ''a hospitality guideline for illegal
immigrants.''

''The administration goes beyond common sense to accommodate illegal immigrants
and treats them better than citizens in federal custody,'' he said in a
statement.

When asked for a response to Mr. Smith's comments, Mr. Mead demurred.

''What these standards do is create a framework to house detainees based on
their individual threat to the community and risk of flight,'' he offered.
''They're not one-size-fits-all.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Mead, of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, leads a
media tour at the Karnes County Civil Detention Center in Texas.
 Exercise equipment will be available to detainees at the new center, and
toiletries and other supplies will be provided. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SKLAR FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Detainees Get a 'Better' Prison

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 367 words


Federal officials this week unveiled a new immigration detention center in rural
Karnes County, Tex., the first designed and built to reflect the Obama
administration's effort to stop treating all detainees like criminals. The
center is brightly painted and looks more like a school than a prison, with
dormitory-style rooms, a gym, library, medical office and soccer field.
Detainees can move around freely, exercise, watch TV and use computers. They can
also attend their hearings in rooms hooked up for video conferencing with judges
in Houston and San Antonio.

Cue the Republican outrage. ''The administration goes beyond common sense to
accommodate illegal immigrants and treats them better than citizens in federal
custody,'' said the statement from Representative Lamar Smith, the chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee. For Mr. Smith and his fellow immigration
hard-liners, the only acceptable approach to the undocumented is more aggressive
pursuit, harsher punishment and swifter exile.

We give credit to the Obama administration for recognizing what Mr. Smith and
his allies refuse to: that immigration detainees are far from a monolithic class
of dangerous criminals. They are people being held on violations of civil law,
or refugees and asylum seekers awaiting hearings. Most pose no threat, many have
no criminal records, many have children who are American citizens.

For too long, the challenge of making sure accused immigration violators appear
in court has had a one-size-fits-all answer: a jail cell, often far from family
and lawyers, in a sprawling system of private and public lockups. All too often,
inmates in shoddy, poorly monitored detention centers have been abused and
neglected. Some have died for lack of medical treatment.

The Karnes center is an encouraging first step toward building a better
immigration jail. But it's still a jail. The administration would do well to
pour at least as much effort into expanding alternatives to prison for low-risk
detainees. Many can be released on bond or in the care of sponsors or monitored
at home. It will cost the government far less and be far more humane and still
ensure that accused violators show up for their day in court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How We Treat Immigrants in Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 686 words


To the Editor:

''Detention Is No Holiday,'' by Edwidge Danticat (Op-Ed, March 28), offers a
grim insight into the realities of the United States immigration detention
system. I wish her description were the exception to the rule, but it's not.

Human Rights First's pro bono legal representation program for detained and
nondetained asylum seekers partners with pro bono lawyers in New York, New
Jersey and Washington. We see the realities of our country's broken immigration
detention system every day.

Beyond the problems outlined by Ms. Danticat, immigration detainees are
overwhelmingly detained in jails and jail-like facilities despite the limited
''civil'' authority under which they are held. Their detention is not
independently reviewed or assessed, and they face tremendous challenges in
acquiring legal counsel.

While this administration has taken steps to address some of these deficiencies,
more must be done. Immigration and Customs Enforcement should move to more
effective and much less costly detention alternatives. Ms. Danticat makes that
abundantly clear.

ANNIE SOVCIK Advocacy Counsel Refugee Protection Program Human Rights First
Washington, March 28, 2012

To the Editor:

The House Judiciary Committee has the responsibility to oversee the enforcement
of our nation's immigration laws. The Obama administration not only refuses to
enforce all immigration laws, but also goes beyond common sense to accommodate
illegal and criminal immigrants.

The Obama administration has made a joke out of federal detention by
dramatically expanding rights and privileges to illegal and criminal immigrants
in federal custody. While access to necessary and lifesaving medical care should
be provided to everyone in federal custody, excessive privileges and
questionable services should not be included.

But that is exactly what the Obama administration has done. Under its new
detention standards, detainees now have access to libraries with free Internet
access, cable TV, an indoor gym with basketball courts, soccer fields, and sand
and nets for beach volleyball. In addition to paying for these amenities,
American taxpayers have to foot the bill for many questionable services, such as
hormone therapy for transgender detainees and counseling and transportation
costs for elective abortions.

The United States prides itself on treating people with the utmost dignity and
respect. But the Obama administration has decided to upgrade accommodations for
detained illegal and criminal immigrants. While we would all like to be
upgraded, we don't have the luxury of billing American taxpayers or making
federal law enforcement agents our concierge. The Obama administration should
put the interests of American taxpayers ahead of those of illegal and criminal
immigrants.

LAMAR SMITH Washington, March 29, 2012

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

To the Editor:

Edwidge Danticat's poignant Op-Ed essay highlights the draconian consequences of
detaining asylum seekers. These vulnerable individuals come to the United States
seeking refuge from torture and persecution in their home countries, but all too
frequently they are greeted with imprisonment and conditions of confinement that
worsen their trauma and force many to relive the horrifying events that caused
them to flee in the first place.

New standards from Immigration and Customs Enforcement purport to address the
most egregious human rights violations that immigration detainees have suffered
in recent years, but they do not go far enough.

The United States asylum program reflects a longstanding commitment to human
rights, liberty and freedom. These principles are dramatically undermined when
we lock up the very individuals whom we have promised safe haven. As House
members examine the immigration detention system, they should consider whether
we are treating those who seek our protection in a manner that truly reflects
our nation's values.

KAREN MUSALO San Francisco, March 28, 2012

The writer is director of the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at the
University of California Hastings College of the Law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAXWELL HOLYOKE-HIRSCH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Opinion Report: Public Sector Cuts

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 231 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Detention centers for immigrants operate too much like correctional facilities.
The federal government should make good on its promises to reform its detention
centers and to make greater use of alternatives for people who pose no danger.

More than 35 percent of students nationwide need remediation when they reach
college. To lower that number, states need to strengthen curriculums and build
more robust teacher training programs.

Cutbacks in the public sector hit black workers particularly hard.

A new, Republican-backed bill would stop any major regulation issued by a
federal agency and costing more than $100 million from taking effect without
approval from both houses of Congress and the president.


Prior to Sunday's elections in Russia, a Washington Post editorial noted that
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin had "turned from glowering at the country's only
independent election watchdog to outright intimidation."

A Wall Street Journal editorial published after the fact noted that despite
fraudulent activity, Mr. Putin's United Russia performed less well than
expected, winning between 45 and 48 percent of the vote. This election "shows
that Russians are increasingly fed up with the regime's brazen corruption."


     ·    The Immigrant Fitness Test
     ·    Opinion Report: Alabama's Immigration Law
     ·    Gingrich Says the Right Thing! Film at 11
     ·    D.H.S. Responds on Deportation
     ·    Will They Stay or Will They Go?


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Broken, Dangerous System

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 381 words


After reports of chronic abuses -- of detainees beaten and sometimes left to die
of untreated injuries and illness -- the Obama administration in 2009 vowed an
overhaul of the nation's immigration detention system, the sprawling patchwork
of prisons and prison-like institutions that confines nearly 400,000 people a
year as they await deportation or asylum.

''The paradigm was wrong,'' Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said
then, acknowledging that detention centers operated too much like correctional
institutions and that the majority of detainees are not being held as criminals
and pose no threat. She promised to make the system less penal, with greater
freedom and dignity for those in it.

Despite that vow, the last two years have seen only meager progress toward
reform. Detainees are not being punished for crimes, but according to a recent
report by Human Rights First, half of them are still being held in jails, the
same proportion as in 2009. And while Immigration and Customs Enforcement has
begun to develop some less-restrictive facilities, those will house fewer than
15 percent of detainees. The rest will remain in a world of prison uniforms and
barbed wire. New standards to guide officials in making reforms have not yet
been developed.

Many critics have also noted the woeful absence of legal protections and
transparency in the system, which railroads detainees through overloaded
immigration courts, often without representation.

A recent American Civil Liberties Union report, based on documents obtained
through the Freedom of Information Act, uncovered almost 200 accusations of
sexual abuse of immigrant detainees. The A.C.L.U. has urged the Department of
Justice to abandon a proposed rule that would exempt immigration detention
centers from the Prison Rape Elimination Act, a federal law that sets standards
for detecting and preventing sexual abuse of people in custody.

The federal government needs to make good on its promises to reform its
detention centers and to make far greater use of alternatives for people who
pose no danger. Detainees should have more access to the courts to challenge
their detention, and rigid laws that demand automatic or mandatory detention
should be revised. The paradigm is wrong. The system is dangerously broken.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Homeland Security Dept., on Immigrant Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 212 words


To the Editor:

''A Broken, Dangerous System'' (editorial, Dec. 5) shortchanges the important
steps the Department of Homeland Security has taken to reform our nation's
immigration detention system, strengthening accountability while prioritizing
the health and safety of people in detention facilities across the country.

Since 2009, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has increased oversight,
including announced and unannounced inspections, the closing of some facilities
and additional detention services managers to ensure facility compliance.
Likewise, the department's Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties has
stepped up inspections, training and oversight.

The department strongly supports the Prison Rape Elimination Act, a federal law.
In fact, current detention standards adhere to the law's substantive
requirements, and new revised draft standards include even stronger provisions
on sexual abuse. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has terminated contracts
with facilities that fail to meet our standards.

The department remains committed to safe, secure, humane detention conditions --
and continues to make progress on that commitment.

MARGO SCHLANGER Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Department of
Homeland Security Washington, Dec. 7, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Company Is Given Jail Contract It Lost

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 444 words


Over the summer, Essex County, N.J., abruptly canceled plans for a contract with
a private company to house federal immigrant detainees after questions were
raised about the sole bidder, a company with close ties to Gov. Chris Christie.
But after county officials conducted a new round of bidding in October, the same
company was again the only participant, and on Wednesday night, county officials
unanimously approved the contract.

Essex County signed an agreement with federal authorities this year to house
1,250 immigrant detainees, for roughly $50 million a year.

Some 800 immigrants would be housed in the county jail and the rest would be
sent to a privately run facility.

At the time, Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., the county executive, hailed the deal as
a victory for his administration and for the county.

Federal immigration authorities have planned to make the New Jersey detention
center a model for other facilities across the country.

They say that increasing the number of beds in the Northeast will allow
detainees better access to lawyers, who are more numerous in the region, and to
their families, and curb the need to transfer immigrants to facilities as far
away as Louisiana and Texas.

Advocacy groups for immigrants have criticized Essex County's actions, saying
that the county government, and a private company, should not profit from
immigrant detention. About a dozen opponents attended the Board of Chosen
Freeholders meeting on Wednesday night to object to the awarding of the
contract.

The bidder, Education and Health Centers of America, is an affiliate of
Community Education Centers, a detention company based in in West Caldwell, in
Essex County.

Community Education has ties to several prominent New Jersey officials. John J.
Clancy, its chief executive, has donated to Mr. DiVincenzo's political
campaigns, as have his senior executives and several members of his family.

William J. Palatucci, a senior vice president at the company, is one of Mr.
Christie's closest friends and a former law partner.

''I and everyone that works for us will be committed to providing the highest
quality of services,'' said Mr. Clancy, who is also the president of the
affiliated bidder, at the Wednesday night meeting. Community Education offers
rehabilitative services to state and county inmates in locations in New Jersey
and across the country.

Community Education housed immigrants in a Newark detention facility in 2008,
but after a detainee escaped, the other immigrants were removed from the
company's supervision and transferred to county custody. With the approval of
the deal on Wednesday, immigrants will return to that same facility, Delaney
Hall.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

Might Davos Be a Layover for Chinese 'Migratory Birds'?

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD

SECTION: WORLD; global

LENGTH: 637 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some of the wealthy Chinese entrepreneurs attending the World
Economic Forum this week might well be conducting their due diligence before
emigrating. A survey of 980 Chinese millionaires revealed that 60 percent had
already left China or were considering it.


HONG KONG - Chinese business executives have become increasingly prominent at
the World Economic Forum in recent years, arriving  with larger entourages and
throwing splashier parties - as befits their enhanced economic standing.

Some of the Chinese tycoons attending Davos this week - despite the conflict
with the Lunar New Year celebrations back home - might well be conducting their
due diligence before emigrating. A recent survey of 980 Chinese millionaires
found that 46 percent of them were considering leaving China and another 14
percent had already emigrated or were completing the paperwork for relocating.

The survey by the Bank of China and the Hurun Report said 40 percent of the
would-be émigrés - they're known as "migratory birds" in China - would aim for
the United States, followed by Canada (37 percent), Singapore (14 percent),
Europe (11 percent), Hong Kong (5 percent) and Britain (2 percent).

The leading reasons for taking flight: better educational opportunities for
their children, advanced medical treatment, worsening pollution back home
(especially urban air quality) and food safety concerns.

But many potential émigrés, not surprisingly, are working on a Plan B in case
China's  economic growth begins to slow, widespread social unrest takes hold or
the political winds begin to blow against them.

"You get rich working with the government. If you don't work with the
government, you may get nothing and you may lose everything," said Oliver Hua, a
market researcher for Western companies in China, quoted in a National Public
Radio report last week. You can listen to the story .

"Many people have questions about the uncertainty surrounding China's economy,
so they start looking for a second or third option," Leo Yang, the manager of a
firm that helps wealthy Chinese applicants get residence visas, told NPR.

Mr. Yang said perhaps 10 percent of his potential customers were looking to
stash ill-gotten money abroad - illegally. "Washing - we call it washing money,"
he said.

Most Chinese investors quickly buy residential property when they emigrate,
primarily as assets they can pass on to their families. Citizens can own houses
and apartments in China - but not the land they sit on. That belongs to the
state.

A report by NTDTV quoted an investor from Shanghai who also was concerned about
signals from Beijing about a curb on further privatizations.

"Does it mean another robbery of private assets?'' said the man, identified only
as Mr Hu. "People think so. They're scared and want to run away.''

The United States has a ready-made program  - the visas are known as EB-5s - for
nervous Chinese and other foreign entrepreneurs: Investing $1 million in a
commercial enterprise in the United States gets you a green card that ensures
permanent residence. Or you can put  $500,000 into a rural locale or an area
with high unemployment.

Any investment must create or preserve 10 full-time jobs for American workers
within two years.  The number of applicants to the investor visa program has
nearly quadrupled in the past two years.

"Demand has grown so fast that the Obama administration, which is championing
the program, is seeking to streamline the application process,'' according to a
story by my colleagues Patrick McGeehan and Kirk Semple.  of the program showed
that its rules can appear somewhat elastic; critics of the program say it
amounts to visa-selling by the United States government.

Of more than 3,800 EB-5 applicants last year, 2,696 were Chinese mainlanders.
They received 934 of the visas, by far the most of any nationality. South Korea,
Britain, Taiwan and India rounded out the top 5.

Canada has a similar investor visa program, although with an annual cap of just
700 visas, it has already closed for the fiscal year.


     ·    The Emerging Gilded Age
     ·    Chinese Poets, Public Enemies


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday

How Not to Attract Tourists

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 329 words



HIGHLIGHT: Foreign travelers were more afraid of American immigration officials
than of terrorism or crime, a 2006 survey says.


"As Americans, we like to imagine our country as we think of ourselves:
open-hearted and welcoming; efficient and practical; easygoing, above all," Mark
Vanhoenacker writes in The New York Times. "These values are the foundation of
our culture, of an open economy fueled by ideas and immigration, and of our soft
power - America's ability to change the world simply because it is admired."

"Whatever foreigners think of the American experiment, though, it's unlikely the
experience of crossing our border has made them think better of it," Mr.
Vanhoenacker writes.

Imagine that you're the citizen of a prosperous, democratic ally like Britain,
Spain or Japan, and you'd like to visit America. Before traveling, you must pay
$14 to complete an online United States government form called ESTA, short for
Electronic System for Travel Authorization.

ESTA asks for basic personal data, like your name and birth date. It also asks
whether you are guilty of "moral turpitude," whether you're planning crimes or
"immoral activities" and whether you suffer from "lymphogranuloma venereum"
(don't ask). If you're involved in terrorism or genocide - and for some reason
you've decided to take this opportunity to inform the United States government -
there's a box for that. And if you're a spy - a particularly artless one -
please let us know.

Naturally, no one with anything to hide will answer honestly. Such purposeless
questions recall Thoreau - "I saw that the State was half-witted" - and should
astonish Americans, who know better than their government how to welcome guests.

Americans may be surprised by the conclusions of a 2006 survey by the U.S.
Travel Association, which found that,"foreign travelers were more afraid of
United States immigration officials than of terrorism or crime," Mr.
Vanhoenacker writes. "They rated America's borders by far the least welcoming in
the world. Two-thirds feared being detained for "minor mistakes or
misstatements.""

Read full article here.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             March 25, 2012 Sunday

Killing of Iraqi Woman in San Diego Draws Global Condemnation Online

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 713 words



HIGHLIGHT: The death of an Iraqi immigrant in San Diego on Saturday, an apparent
victim of a hate crime, provoked a wave of outraged comments from bloggers who
compared the killing to the shooting of an unarmed Florida teenager last month.



The death in San Diego on Saturday of an Iraqi immigrant, the victim of what
appeared to be a hate crime, provoked a wave of outraged comments from bloggers
who compared the killing to the shooting of an unarmed Florida teenager last
month. The woman, Shaima Alawadi, died three days after her daughter discovered
her body in a pool of blood inside their home along with a note that said, "Go
back to your country, you terrorist."

On Twitter, where her death became the most-discussed topic worldwide within
hours, bloggers and journalists traced a connection between the headscarf that
the pious mother of five wore and the hooded sweatshirt that the Florida
teenager, Trayvon Martin, was wearing when he was killed by a neighborhood watch
volunteer in Sanford.

Welcome to America, where you get killed for being suspicious for wearing a
hoodie & a Hijab. #RIPShaima#RIPTrayvonMartin

- Yemyoom (@Yemmeyummy) March 25, 2012

A family friend told the U-T San Diego newspaper thatMs. Alawadi, 32, was a
"respectful, modest muhajiba," meaning that she wore the hijab in accordance
with Muslim tradition. Josh Shahryar, an Afghan journalist, added the sardonic
warning, "CAUTION: Wearing a headscarf," to video of an emotional interview with
Ms. Alawadi's 17-year-old daughter, Fatima, who also wears the hijab.

Here's a video of Shaima's daughter, asking the question we're all asking.
(CAUTION: Wearing a headscarf): youtube.com/watch?v=RrnMYg#RIPShaima

- Josh Shahryar (@JShahryar) March 25, 2012

In the interview with KUSI, a local television news station, the girl, who had
returned home shortly after her mother was beaten unconscious with a tire iron,
addressed the attacker, saying: "You took my mother away from me. You took my
best friend away from me. Why? Why did you do it?"

A police spokesman told U-T San Diegothat family members said they had found a
threatening note outside the house earlier this month, but Ms. Alawadi had
dismissed it as a prank and did not report it to the authorities.

The spokesman, Lt. Mark Coit, said: "A hate crime is one of the possibilities,
and we will be looking at that. We don't want to focus on one issue and miss
something else."

After collecting angry comments about the killing of Ms. Alawadi, whose family
left Iraq in 1993, Andy Carvin of NPR aimed a barbed comment at Geraldo Rivera,
the Fox News pundit, who suggested last week that wearing a hooded sweatshirt
had made Trayvon Martin seem suspicious in Florida.

Curious to hear your thoughts on this, @GeraldoRivera. Is wearing a hijab as
dangerous as a hoodie? ow.ly/1JaCoJ#RIPShaima

- Andy Carvin (@acarvin) March 25, 2012

Shaheryar Mirza, a journalist in Karachi, Pakistan,  how the United States, a
nation of immigrants, could be so filled with rage at its new arrivals.

America's identity crisis is even worse than Pakistan's. Do that many people
really not realize that they are all immigrants as well?

- Shaheryar Mirza (@mirza9) March 25, 2012

YasirTineh, a Palestinian blogger who was born in Kuwait, also asked how Ms.
Alawadi's killing could be squared with the American tradition of welcoming
immigrants.

How did "Give me your tired, your poor,Your huddled masses yearning to breathe
free" become "Go home, terrorist" #RIPShaima

- Oregano&Olive Oil (@YasirTineh) March 25, 2012

The Associated Press reported that El Cajon, the town northeast of downtown San
Diego where Ms. Alawadi lived, was "home to some 40,000 Iraqi immigrants, the
second largest such community in the U.S. after Detroit." A family friend told
the San Diego newspaper that Ms. Alawadi's husband had worked in San Diego as a
private contractor for the Army, serving as a cultural adviser to train American
soldiers who were to be deployed to the Middle East. Ferrari Sheppard, an
American blogger, connected the killing to what he called the Islamopohobic
climate that arose with the United States invasion of Iraq.

All politicians who sold that false Iraq war, slaughter has Shaima Alawad's
blood on their hands. Those who continue to push Islamophobia

- Ferrari Sheppard(@stopbeingfamous) March 25, 2012


     ·    Cat-and-Mole Games on the Mexican Border
     ·    The Deep Comic Roots of 'Self-Deportation'
     ·    Latest Updates on Occupy Oakland Protest
     ·    Updates on Occupy Protests Nationwide
     ·    Police Fire Tear Gas at Occupy Protesters in Oakland


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

The Danger of Flying While Khan

BYLINE: SRUTHI GOTTIPATI

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 431 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shah Rukh Khan's detention at a New York airport Thursday is the
latest for famous Khans.


Shah Rukh Khan, India's Tom Cruise, got detained at an American airport.

Again.

Mr. Khan was held back by immigration officials for more than two hours without
explanation at Westchester County Airport in White Plains, New York, after he
arrived with Nita Ambani on her private jet, spokeswoman Shailja Gupta said. The
holdup delayed his scheduled appearance at Yale University.

Mr. Khan was detained for the same amount of time back in 2009 at Newark Airport
in New Jersey.

"Whenever I start feeling too arrogant about myself I always take a trip to
America," he told students at his lecture at Yale on Thursday with his trademark
dimpled smile. Tongue in cheek about immigration officials, he added, "They
always ask me how tall I am and I always lie and get away with it and say 5 feet
10 inches. Next time I am getting more adventurous. 'What color are you?' I am
going to say white."

Mr. Khan is not the only actor to embark on adventures with U.S. immigration
officials. Or even the only Khan.

Aamir Khan, another popular actor, not related to Mr. Khan, was strip searched
at a Chicago airport in 2002. Irrfan Khan, who has acted in Hollywood movies,
including the Oscar-scooper "Slumdog Millionaire," was detained twice in the
past. Irrfan is also not related to the other two Khans. Director Kabir Khan,
was reportedly detained at least three times in 2008 while shooting (a film) in
the United States.

It's not just the Khans. Actor Neil Nitin Mukesh was reported to have been
grounded by immigration officials at New York airport because "they couldn't
believe he was from India."

The actor and producer Mammootty, who works in the southern state of Kerala's
movie industry, was questioned at New York's JFK airport. Media speculated it
was because part of his passport name, Mohammad Kutty Ismail Paniparambil, was
on the U.S. Homeland Security watch list.

Buff model turned actor John Abraham was detained by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation at a New York airport in 2009 for having visited Afghanistan.

Some of these actors have, ironically, performed in films about Muslims facing
discrimination in a post 9/11 America: Shah Rukh Khan in "My Name Is Khan";
Irrfan Khan, Mr. Mukesh and Mr. Abraham in "New York", which Kabir Khan
directed.

Besides Bollywood celebrities, other Indian notables who landed in trouble
include former President Abdul Kalam, ex-defense minister George Fernandes, a
previous Indian ambassador to the United States, and a former civil aviation
minister. India's United Nations envoy was also held at Houston airport for
refusing to remove his Sikh turban.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

Trickle of Returning NRIs to Become a Flood

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 235 words



HIGHLIGHT: Children of immigrants to the United States are returning to India
and China in significant numbers.


"Samir N. Kapadia seemed to be on the rise in Washington, moving from an
internship on Capitol Hill to jobs at a major foundation and a consulting firm.
Yet his days, he felt, had become routine," Kirk Semple writes in The New York
Times.

So Indian-born Mr. Kapadia made an increasingly common decision -- he moved to
Mumbai.

"In growing numbers, experts say, highly educated children of immigrants to the
United States are uprooting themselves and moving to their ancestral countries,"
Mr. Semple writes. "They are embracing homelands that their parents once spurned
but that are now economic powers."

The United States government does not collect data specifically on the
emigration of the American-born children of immigrants - or on those who were
born abroad but moved to the United States as young children.

But several migration experts said the phenomenon was significant and
increasing.

"We've gone way beyond anecdotal evidence," said Edward J. W. Park, director of
the Asian Pacific American Studies Program at Loyola Marymount University in Los
Angeles.

Mr. Park said this migration was spurred by the efforts of some overseas
governments to attract more foreign talent by offering employment, investment,
tax and visa incentives.

"So it's not just the individuals who are making these decisions," he said.
"It's governments who enact strategic policies to facilitate this."

Read the full article here.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                               May 7, 2012 Monday

Life on Both Sides of the Border

BYLINE: DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 795 words



HIGHLIGHT: Joseph Rodriguez documents the life of several immigrant families on
both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border.


"Family is complicated," the photographer Joseph Rodriguez said. "That's all."

Mr. Rodriguez was talking about "Migrantes," his long-term project following
several immigrant families as they journeyed from rural Mexico, past the border
in Arizona and on to various parts of the American South. They encounter
hardship - even death - as they go on to accept menial, backbreaking jobs on
farms. But they face all these challenges together, as family.

Other photographers may be content to settle for a single dramatic image of
people crossing the border. But for Mr. Rodriguez, it's about teasing out the
subtle relationships that sustain people on both sides of the line.

"Family has always been important for me in every project that I do," Mr.
Rodriguez said. "Growing up in New York, my family was very much not there. The
other reason I look at family is that most photographers don't. They tend to go
in, grab and leave I always felt it was important for me to hang out in the
living room. It slows me down and makes me listen."

His immersion in the lives of his subjects is not new. From his early work on
the streets of East Harlem, to his series on the lives of gang members in East
Los Angeles, Mr. Rodriguez's approach has been marked by getting as close as
possible for as long as possible. Small surprise, then, that as he followed the
Chavez and Tapia families, he took the time to watch for meaningful moments - at
religious ceremonies to bless the journey, while working the fields or when
sitting down for a family dinner.

An early selection of these images has already been published in "Crossing
Over," a book he collaborated on with the author Ruben Martinez. Their hope now
is to turn a decade's worth of photographs into a more expanded, definitive
document.

"What we tried to do as photographer and writer was to make our own 'Let Us Now
Praise Famous Men,' from a Latino perspective," Mr. Rodriguez said. "We would
always see Western photographers and others go down and work the border, but we
felt there was a lot more to this story than just that. We wanted to go deeper
into the mindset and culture of crossing over."

As chronicled in their earlier work, the story started in the mid-1990s with the
Chavez family, which lost three brothers when their truck crashed into a ravine
as they were headed into California. Despite the tragedy, other siblings were
determined to make the journey. Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Martinez worked together
for a while, then followed the stories separately before teaming up again.

When the group they were following was apprehended in California, others shifted
to making the crossing in Nogales, Ariz. While Mr. Rodriguez was in Nogales, he
started photographing homeless children who lived along the border and would
sneak into the U.S. through storm drains. As he followed them deeper into the
U.S., he spent long days in the fields.

"We worked those fields, and it was nasty," he said. "The big farms use a lot of
chemical sprays. I was in the field a lot. It's no joke. From five in the
morning until the sun went down. Then we'd go back to their room, everybody's
tired. They sleep, get up and start it all over again."

This attention to detail was not unnoticed by his collaborator, Mr. Martinez.

"He gets amazingly close to his subjects," Mr. Martinez said. "He wants to know
what cereal they eat. He wants to spend the night. It was just a whole other
level of intimacy that I was not used to, frankly. I was shy. He can walk right
through doors that are closed to other people."

Looking back on the project, Mr. Rodriguez admits the crossing has become more
dangerous because of the drug trade that shares some of the same migrant routes.
And it has been harder to go back and forth in a post-9/11 world, too. Yet
people continue to come, which speaks to another theme in his work.

"Personally, it's about the browning of America," Mr. Rodriguez said. "Look at
Los Angeles. All around America I started to see this. Even now, in those
discussions about Mexicans moving into the South. These were depressed
communities, like in that picture I took of men standing in front of a video
store. But those stores helped rebuild the community. The browning of America
was helping that town grow."

Like family, it's complicated.

"I think it's important for me to show life is complex," he said. "It's not
always about the most dramatic or violent image. I talk to a lot of editors
about working in Mexico, and they always gravitate to the narco story. But
there's a lot more. If I show the negative, I need to find the hope in the story
as well."



     ·    Neighborly Portraits in Mexico
     ·    Civil Rights Battles, in Black and White
     ·    Behind the Scenes: The Canvas as Lens
     ·    Readers' Photos: Burning, but Breathing
     ·    Showcase: The Puerto Rican Diaspora


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

Australians Come to Visit (Or to Work or to Study)

BYLINE: KENAN CHRISTIANSEN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 362 words



HIGHLIGHT: Travel to the United States has become the fastest growing tourist
market in Australia and the effects are starting to be seen in popular
destination cities, like New York City.


Last year nearly 800,000 Australians traveled to the United States, an 81
percent increase over 2006. At a time when overall tourism to the United States
has dipped, travel here has become the fastest growing market for Australians,
according to Australia's Department of Resources, Energy and Tourism.

This surge is starting to change the composition of popular tourist markets like
New York City, where, since 2006, Australians have climbed from the 12th to
sixth largest group of visitors, and have become the third biggest spenders,
second only to the British and Brazilians.

"New York City has been an aspirational destination and city for Aussies for
many years. The events of 9/11 and more generally the iconic nature of the city
have held strong messages with Australians," said Jayson Westbury, Chief
Executive of the Australian Federation of Travel Agents.

While the increase is driven largely by cheaper airfare, increased flight
connectivity and a strong Australian dollar, it also appears to be helped by an
influx of young professionals seeking opportunities overseas.

"The statistics are changing, because Australia is playing a greater role in the
migration to the United States," said Michael Wildes, an immigration lawyer in
New York City. "The number of Australian clients for whom we have secured work
visas in the last few years has grown exponentially." According to him, many
young Australians in New York have extended their stays by enrolling in schools
or finding jobs.

"We've seen an increase over the past few years because Australians love New
York City, it's diversity, it's opportunities in the world of media, fashion,
marketing, and finance are unparalleled," said Mr. Wildes. "And it's important
to stress that we want the Australian dollar spent here in the United States.
The good commerce that comes from this collegiality between nations is important
for both our countries."


     ·    Shows in Amsterdam and New York Offer 'Glimpses' Into Cities' Futures
     ·    In London, a Slice of Downtown New York, Circa 1970s
     ·    Disney Cruises Adds New York as Port of Call
     ·    Feting the Royal Couple Without Leaving New York
     ·    At W, Ice Skating Five Stories Above Downtown Manhattan


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do-It- Yourself Deportation

BYLINE: By ANTONIO ALARCON.

Antonio Alarcon is a high school student and a member of Make the Road New York,
an immigrant advocacy group. This essay was translated by Natalia
Aristizabal-Betancur from the Spanish.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 896 words


ONE of my happiest childhood memories is of my parents at my First Communion.
But that's because most of my memories from that time are of their being absent.
They weren't there for my elementary school graduation, or for parent-teacher
conferences.

From the time I was just a baby in Mexico, I lived with my grandparents while my
parents traveled to other Mexican states to find work. I was 6 in 2000 when they
left for the United States. And it took five years before they had steady jobs
and were able to send for me. We've been together in this country ever since,
working to build a life. Now I am 17 and a senior in high school in New York
City. But my parents have left again, this time to return to Mexico.

Last week, when asked in a debate what America should do about the 11 million
undocumented immigrants living here, Mitt Romney said he favored
''self-deportation.'' He presented the strategy as a kinder alternative to just
arresting people. Instead, he said, immigrants will ''decide they can do better
by going home because they can't find work here.''

But really this goes along with a larger movement in states like Arizona and
Alabama to pass very tough laws against immigrants in an attempt to make their
lives so unbearable that they have no choice but to leave. People have called
for denying work, education and even medical treatment to immigrants without
documentation; many immigrants have grown afraid of even going to the store or
to church.

The United States is supposed to be a great country that welcomes all kinds of
people. Does Mr. Romney really think that this should be America's solution for
immigration reform?

You could say that my parents have self-deported, and that it was partly a
result of their working conditions. It's not that they couldn't find work, but
that they couldn't find decent work. My dad collected scrap metal from all over
the city, gathering copper and steel from construction sites, garbage dumps and
old houses. He earned $90 a day, but there was only enough work for him to do it
once or twice a week. My mom worked at a laundromat six days a week, from 6 a.m.
until 6 p.m., for $70 a day.

But the main reason they had to leave was personal. I have a brother, 16, a year
younger than me, still living in Mexico. He was too little to cross the border
with me when I came to the United States, and as the government has cracked down
on immigration in the years since, the crossing has become more expensive and
much more dangerous. And there was no hope of his getting a green card, as none
of us have one either. So he stayed with my grandparents, but last year my
grandmother died and two weeks ago my grandfather also died. My parents were
confronted with a dilemma: Leave one child alone in New York City, or leave the
other alone in Mexico. They decided they had to go back to Mexico.

Now once again I am missing my parents. I know it was very difficult for them to
leave me here, worrying about how I will survive because I'm studying instead of
earning money working. I'm living with my uncles, but it is hard for my mother
to know that I'm coming home to a table with no dinner on it, where there had
been dinner before. And it's hard for me not having my parents to talk to, not
being able to ask for advice that as a teenager you need. Now that they are in
Mexico, I wonder who will be at my graduation, my volleyball games or my
birthday? With whom will I share my joy or my sad moments?

I know a girl named Guadalupe, whose parents have also decided to return to
Mexico, because they can't find work here and rent in New York City is very
expensive. She is very smart and wants to be the first in her family to attend
college, and she wants to study psychology. But even though she has lived here
for years and finished high school with a 90 percent average, she, like me, does
not have immigration papers, and so does not qualify for financial aid and can't
get a scholarship.

People like Guadalupe and me are staying in this country because we have faith
that America will live up to its promise as a fair and just country. We hope
that there will be comprehensive immigration reform, with a path to citizenship
for people who have spent years living and working here. When reform happens,
our families may be able to come back, and if not, at least we will be able to
visit them without the risk of never being able to return to our lives here. We
hope that the Dream Act -- which would let undocumented immigrants who came here
as children go to college and become citizens and which has stalled in Congress
-- will pass so that we can get an education and show that even though we are
immigrants we can succeed in this country.

If, instead, the political climate gets more and more anti-immigrant, eventually
some immigrants will give up hope for America and return to their home
countries, like my parents did. But I don't think this is something that our
presidential candidates should encourage or be proud of.

Immigrants have made this country great. We are not looking for a free ride, but
instead we are willing to work as hard as we can to show that we deserve to be
here and to be treated like first-class citizens. Deportation, and
''self-deportation,'' will result only in dividing families and driving them
into the shadows. In America, teenagers shouldn't have to go through what I'm
going through.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS SILAS NEAL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney's Tough Immigration View Is at Odds With His Church

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1181 words


While Mitt Romney is taking a hard line on immigration even as the Republican
primaries head toward the heavily Hispanic states of Nevada, Colorado and
Arizona, the Mormon Church to which he belongs has become a decisive player in
promoting policies that are decidedly more friendly toward immigrants.

The church was instrumental last year in passing controversial legislation in
Utah that would provide ''guest worker'' permits to allow illegal immigrants
with jobs to remain in the United States. The church also threw its weight
behind the Utah Compact, a declaration calling for humane treatment of
immigrants and condemning deportation policies that separate families, which has
been adopted by several other states.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is known for its reluctance to
be seen as meddling in politics. But on immigration, the church actively lobbied
legislators, sent Presiding Bishop H. David Burton to attend the bill signing
and issued a series of increasingly explicit statements in favor of allowing
some illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work.

The church's endorsement helped shift the debate on immigration in a Republican
state where more than 80 percent of legislators are Mormons. It was the church's
most overt involvement in politics since 2008, when it joined other conservative
churches in the campaign to pass Proposition 8, which banned same-sex marriage
in California.

''They were the defining factor in passing that immigration legislation,'' said
Ronald Mortensen, a Mormon who is co-founder of the Utah Coalition on Illegal
Immigration, which opposed it. ''It was probably the most obvious intervention
by the Mormon Church on any piece of legislation up here for years. They're
usually a lot more subtle.''

Mormons in Utah who back an accommodating approach to immigrants say they have
been disturbed to see Mr. Romney align himself with his party's anti-immigration
flank and with Tea Party members. Mr. Romney has dismissed as ''amnesty'' any
proposal to create a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. He at first
said he would veto the ''Dream Act,'' which would offer legal status to young
illegal immigrants in the United States if they earned a college degree or serve
in the military. He later revised his position to say he favored legal status
for those who serve in the military.

In contrast, the Mormon Church has said that any immigration reform must balance
the principles of loving one's neighbor and keeping families intact with the
imperative to secure the nation's borders and enforce its laws.

Church officials have made no effort to reach out to Mr. Romney to discuss their
differences on immigration and do not plan to do so, said Michael Purdy,
director of media relations for the church, who declined to be interviewed but
answered questions by e-mail. (Two officials with the Romney campaign did not
return several e-mails asking for a response.)

Mr. Purdy wrote, ''The Church's position on political neutrality states: Elected
officials who are Latter-day Saints make their own decisions and may not
necessarily be in agreement with one another or even with a publicly stated
Church position.''

Mormon immigration advocates who know Mr. Romney personally said they did not
know where his heart was on the issue. They noted that when he served as a
Mormon bishop and area leader in Boston in the 1980s and '90s, he ministered to
struggling immigrants from Asia and Latin America. (He later had to explain why
he hired a lawn care company that employed illegal immigrants.) But they said
they understand that to get the nomination, Mr. Romney has to appeal to the
Republican Party's right wing. And they said it may behoove him to demonstrate
that he departs from his church's position on important issues.

Mark Shurtleff, the Utah attorney general and a Mormon who helped draft the Utah
Compact, endorsed Mr. Romney's candidacy and recently attended an event with him
but did not bring up immigration. ''I wish I could sit down with him and
explain,'' he said. ''I would tell him there are very good law enforcement and
public safety reasons to support the Utah Compact, besides that it's right.''

Mr. Romney's chief rival for the nomination, Newt Gingrich, has struck a softer
tone on immigration, but he too is not entirely in step with his own Roman
Catholic Church. Catholic bishops support the Dream Act and advocate broad
immigration reform, including citizenship for the nation's 11 million illegal
immigrants; Mr. Gingrich said he supports only ''half'' the Dream Act -- the
part about military service.

The Utah Compact was conceived as a counterpunch to the stringent immigration
law passed in Arizona in 2010, which gave the police broad power to detain
anyone suspected of being in the country illegally. The compact's principles
call for federal solutions to immigration reform, policies that support families
and individual freedom, acknowledgment of the contribution of immigrants in the
economy, and local law enforcement focus on crime, not immigration laws.

In Utah, the Chamber of Commerce and the Roman Catholic church were the first to
champion the compact, but after many discussions, Mormon Church leaders
eventually supported it too, Mr. Shurtleff said. The church has faced the ire of
some of its members, including legislators, who are strongly opposed

The main proponent of the Arizona law was Russell Pearce, a Mormon who served as
State Senate president. In November, Mr. Pearce was recalled and replaced by
Jerry Lewis, who is also a Mormon but who had spoken out against the immigration
law. Mormons in Arizona said their church's support for the Utah Compact was the
turning point in the recall election.

The Mormon Church has a variety of motives for its immigration stand: it is
eager to be perceived positively by Hispanics in the United States, and in
Mexico and Latin America, where it is making new converts; it identifies with
the immigrant experience, having fled persecution before settling in Utah; and
it places a strong premium on keeping families intact, in this life and the
next.

Paul Edwards, editor of The Deseret News, a church-affiliated newspaper in Utah,
said, ''Latter-day Saints, because of their history of persecution and
forcefully being dispossessed of their livelihoods and properties, do have
compassion and understanding'' for immigrants.

Charlie Morgan, a sociologist who studies immigration at Brigham Young
University, a church-affiliated school in Provo, said: ''One doctrine that
separates the L.D.S. church from others is an eternal family. You get married in
a temple and you're sealed for all time and eternity.''

The issue is not purely spiritual. Estimates are that 70 percent of Latino
converts in Utah are illegal immigrants, said Tony Yapias, director of an
immigration advocacy group, Proyecto Latino de Utah, and a Mormon.

''In the last year, we had some very high-profile members, a stake president --
a branch president -- who were deported,'' he said. ''People have been living in
fear, and finally there's a ray of hope for them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tony Yapias, above, said many Latino converts were illegal
immigrants. Paul Edwards said Mormons had compassion for immigrants.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTIN MURPHY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


International

FOR GREEK TAX REFORMERS,

GOOD IDEAS AREN'T ENOUGH

The Greek government is proving powerless to transform an inefficient public
administration that has served as a power base for the same political leaders
now being asked to dismantle it. Page A4

RUSSIA RALLY FACES THE COLD

The leaders of Russia's protest movement will face a challenge at its next rally
that greater than any government force: temperatures as low as minus 10. Page A4

U.S. PLAYS DOWN WARNING

A senior Israel official said that a Iranian missile-testing site that was
destroyed three months ago, was developing missiles that could reach the United
States. But American officials questioned that claim. Page A10

TERRORIST LEADER KILLED

Philippine military officials said that a raid had killed one of the top leaders
of a regional terrorist network with links to Al Qaeda, as well as other senior
terrorism suspects. Page A11

PANETTA CLARIFIES U.S. PLAN

Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said that American troops would not step back
entirely from combat in Afghanistan next year but would allow Afghan security
forces a lead role. Page A12

National

ROMNEY AND HIS CHURCH

ARE SPLIT ON IMMIGRATION

While Mitt Romney is taking a hard-line stance on immigration, the Mormon Church
to which he belongs has become a decisive player in promoting policies that are
far more friendly toward immigrants. Page A13

SUCCESS FOR ONLINE PETITION

An online petition on Change.org helped change Sallie Mae's policy requiring
those who could not afford their monthly loan payments to pay a $50 fee every
three months to suspend their payments temporarily. Page A13

HOLDER PRESSED ON GUN CASE

The attorney general testified for the sixth time on Operation Fast and Furious,
a gun-trafficking investigation that ended after the death of an A.T.F. agent.
Page A17

New York

RABBI ADMITS HIS STORIES

OF SAVING TORAHS WERE FAKE

For years Rabbi Menachem Youlus told captivating stories of traveling to Eastern
Europe and beyond to search for historic Torahs that were lost or hidden during
the Holocaust. But inside the federal courthouse in Manhattan, he confessed to
inventing those tales. Page A20

Business

STAGNANT JOB GROWTH

IS EXPECTED IN REPORT

The economic pie is growing, but the share going to American workers is at a
record low. The latest jobs report is expected to show that Americans will not
be getting a bigger cut anytime soon. Page B1

DIET SUPPLEMENT INQUIRY

The United States Army is investigating whether certain dietary supplements for
athletes, available until recently at stores on military bases in the United
States, may have played a role in the deaths of two soldiers. Page B1

NEW PENSION REGULATIONS

The Treasury has issued several new regulations meant to make it easier, and
maybe cheaper, for middle-class people in retirement to transfer the money they
accumulated in their 401(k)s into an annuity that would guarantee monthly
payments until they die. Page B4

Sports

COMPANY TRANSFORMS CITY

BEFORE SUPER BOWL BEGINS

Sport Graphics, a company based in Indianapolis, produced the signs and created
the vinyl adhesive building wraps that have transformed the city for the Super
Bowl. Page B14

Weekend

A FREQUENT PRESENCE

AT RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART

Since the Rubin Museum of Art in Chelsea opened in October 2004, Rosanne Cash
has become its unofficial musician in residence. Her 12th appearance will be
with the violinist Mark O'Connor. Page C29

OP-ED

Paul Krugman PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Adding Prologue and Epilogue to Ellis Island's Story

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 703 words


Officials of Ellis Island estimate that as many as one in three Americans can
trace their ancestry to immigrants who landed there from overseas.

Now, the officials are focusing on the other roughly 200 million newcomers who
arrived in the United States before Ellis Island opened its doors or after it
stopped becoming a portal for immigrants. The national historic site in New York
Harbor is halfway through a transformation into a more inclusive National Museum
of Immigration.

''The Ellis story is a finite story; American immigration is continuing,'' said
David Luchsinger, the National Park Service superintendent who oversees the
island and the Statue of Liberty.

And Stephen A. Briganti, president of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation, said, ''If we didn't tell the current story we would be obsolete in
25 years.'' As part of a $20 million project privately financed by the
foundation, 20,000 square feet, comprised of a former railroad ticket office and
offices for Park Service staff, are being converted into a new museum that
encompasses the story of immigration from the 16th century through today. The
first phase, which covers 1550 to 1892, when Ellis Island began operating as an
immigration station, opened informally last fall. The second phase, which
focuses on the period after 1924-, when strict quotas on foreigners were imposed
and the island was used primarily as a detention center-, and especially on the
influx following World War II, is scheduled to open about a year from now with a
formal ceremony to celebrate the new museum.

Improvements to the main building's exhibition space also include a digital
''flag of faces'' - photographs of immigrants that people can submit online -
and a giant globe that will trace patterns of immigration through history.

Ellis Island draws about two million visitors a year, and even more are expected
this year while the interior of the Statue of Liberty is closed for structural
renovations.

''The government originally wanted to get rid of it,'' Mr. Briganti said of its
outpost on Ellis Island. ''No one was going to let the statue go, but this place
well could have disappeared.''

About 12 million immigrants passed through Ellis Island over three decades.
Planning for restoration began in 1984. The first year was spent pumping warm
air into the buildings to dry them out after years of exposure to the elements.
Later, the main building was renovated. Records of arrivals of 25 million
foreigners were computerized and can be searched online. The new museum is
replacing a bare-bones exhibit that was considered thin and anachronistic.

''We wanted it to be accurate, not mythical,'' said Mr. Briganti, a former
junior high school history teacher whose grandparents arrived through Ellis from
Naples a century ago.

The first phase is titled ''Journeys: The Peopling of America 1550-1890.''
Guided by a panel of historians and designed by Edwin Schlossberg's ESI Design,
it features translucent panels and video screens that explain why people left
their homelands, how they got here (voyages took weeks, even on steamships), how
they were dispersed across the country in immigrant enclaves (more than half of
those who came through Ellis Island did not remain in metropolitan New York),
and how they struggled and survived to build America.

The exhibition also explores the experience of slaves who arrived involuntarily
(a panel for children asks: ''How would you feel if you were taken from your
family and sent to a strange country?'') and a narrative of the American Indians
whom immigrants displaced.

The panel of historians recruited by the foundation also mined history for
controversies that resonate today. Among them were illegal immigration (paupers
were deported under a 1794 Massachusetts law; Chinese immigrants were excluded
in 1882) and bilingualism (German was considered a second language; in the late
18th century, Congress considered requiring that all government documents be
published in English and German).

''I hope,'' Mr. Briganti said, ''that people who visit will leave with an
appreciation of what immigrants have done for this country.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ellis Island is halfway through a $20 million transformation
into a more inclusive National Museum of Immigration.
 Ellis Island draws about two million visitors a year. A part of the museum
focusing on the period after 1924 is scheduled to open in a year. Above is the
American Immigrant Wall of Honor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Immigration Agent Shoots Colleagues

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 111 words


At least one agent from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency is dead
and another is injured after a shooting at the federal building in Long Beach on
Thursday. The agency confirmed in a statement that one agent had been killed at
the scene, while a second had been taken to a hospital and was in stable
condition. The shooter was also killed in the confrontation, according to The
Associated Press. The violence is believed to have begun when one agent opened
fire on his supervisor during a confrontation, and then fired on another agent
who tried to subdue him, The Los Angeles Times reported. It is unclear whether
the shooter then turned the gun on himself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration and the Campaign

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 669 words


The Republican presidential candidates have not made immigration a focus of
their campaigns. But, as they head toward a debate on Wednesday in Arizona,
ground zero for anti-immigrant hostility, it is a good time to ask them hard
questions about immigration. The odds are bad that they will have sensible
answers.

These candidates have abandoned decades of Republican moderation on immigration,
disowning views once held by Ronald Reagan, both Presidents Bush and
Congressional Republicans -- like Mel Martinez, Sam Brownback, Lindsey Graham
and John McCain -- who once led a sizable coalition for bipartisan reform but
have since either left the Senate or their principles behind.

Mitt Romney has moved farthest to the fringe. His scheme for fixing immigration
is mass expulsion: a fantasy of ridding the country of 11 million unauthorized
immigrants by making their lives unbearable. The key to his harsh vision is
''self-deportation,'' the deceptively bland-sounding policy that he introduced
at a debate. It accepts that arresting and expelling so many millions would be
impossible -- like deporting the State of Ohio. But it replaces that delusion
with another: That people can be made miserable enough to leave on their own.

Mr. Romney lifted this scheme from a campaign adviser, Kris Kobach, the
mastermind of a host of crackdowns that seek to leave unauthorized immigrants
not just unable to work, but unable to drive, rent or heat a home, afraid to
take children to school or the doctor. In states where ''self-deportation'' is
official policy, the results have been deplorable. In Arizona, Sheriff Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County sweeps neighborhoods making mass arrests, and people
are afraid to leave home. In Alabama, farm and construction workers have fled by
the thousands; tornado victims are afraid to go to a shelter.

These laws hijack the federal government's responsibility for immigration and
have caused a civil-rights emergency. But Mr. Romney's response has been to
condemn the Obama Justice Department for fighting them in court.

Newt Gingrich is slightly less extreme than Mr. Romney. He rightly scoffs that
''self-deportation'' is a pandering fantasy, and he supports legalizing a few
grandmothers and students who join the military, though, like Mr. Romney, he
would deny them any chance to become Americans. He, too, staunchly defends rogue
states against federal civil-rights enforcement. And, speaking of fantasies, Mr.
Gingrich has pledged to complete a double-wall border fence by the end of next
year.

Rick Santorum and Ron Paul have been less explicit in their immigration
prescriptions, though Mr. Paul has voiced a libertarian's doubts about a border
fence and acknowledged that Hispanics are being made ''scapegoats.'' He and Mr.
Santorum, like the others, support an immediate border lockdown, oppose the
Dream Act and want the government to enforce English as an official language.

Poll after poll has shown that the American public supports moderate reform.
Many conservatives do, too. In Utah, the Mormon Church has joined a broad
coalition of business, civic and religious organizations in endorsing humane
immigration measures, free of shrill hostility. In Kansas, Mr. Kobach's home
state, businesses are trying to draft a plan to be more welcoming to immigrant
workers. But the Republican presidential hopefuls are busy pandering to the
far-right voters that dominate the primaries.

President Obama has hardly been inspiring on this issue. He has pushed
deportations to record levels while failing to reform immigration more humanely.
But he, at least, understands that the right immigration solution is one that
doesn't reward illegality but channels immigrant energy and aspirations to
fruitful ends. It is the hard-won compromise that combines tougher border and
workplace controls with a legalization path and a well-designed future flow of
workers to meet our economy's needs.

That's a plan that Mitt Romney, a few Mitt Romneys ago, once admired. It's the
one he deplores now.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday
                                National Edition

Far From Family, Alone, Homeless And Still Just 18

BYLINE: By MERIBAH KNIGHT; Idalmy Carrera contributed reporting..

mknight@chicagonewscoop.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE
CAST AWAY; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1546 words


One said goodbye, embracing his anxious parents. One left without a word,
indignant and angry.

After traveling thousands of miles by bus, train and on foot, the two young men
met in a homeless shelter on Chicago's Northwest Side.

Oscar was a shy 15-year-old when his parents hired a local ''coyote'' in July
2008 to help him leave Veracruz, Mexico, and cross the border to seek work in
the United States. Jorge, gregarious, bright-eyed and also 15, gathered up his
6-year-old cousin six months later and left Tegucigalpa, Honduras, in the middle
of the night, to escape abuse that he said had escalated into fistfights with
his father. He also planned to work and send money back to his mother.

Without knowing it, both were headed toward homelessness. In that, they joined
thousands of other immigrant children who have left their native country -- for
work, family reunification or refuge -- crossed into the United States and wound
up alone.

Last year, the Office of Refugee Resettlement reported that 8,244 children
entered the United States unaccompanied and without immigration documents and
eventually ended up in its custody. Illinois received 627 of them.

One of a dozen states with federal centers for unaccompanied immigrant youths
taken into custody by the Department of Homeland Security, Illinois is home to 4
of the nation's 53 facilities.

The state offers 147 beds to unaccompanied immigrant youths.

When young people turn 18, they are released from the facilities, some into
adult detention centers, others to family members. In some cases, homeless
shelters become their only refuge as they apply for asylum or special visas.

Today, Jorge and Oscar are both 18, with no family to house them and no criminal
histories that would warrant a transfer to a detention facility.

They arrived in June at Solid Ground, a nonprofit youth homeless shelter in
Humboldt Park, where they will most likely remain until a decision is made on
their applications for immigration relief. The process can take years.

With the help of local advocates and lawyers working pro bono, Jorge is seeking
asylum, citing family abuse and the pressure and influence of gang recruitment
in Honduras. Oscar applied for a visa for victims of human trafficking, claiming
eligibility because he was exploited as a migrant farm worker.

While they wait, Oscar and Jorge must stay close for court-ordered interviews
and proceedings that they hope will allow them to remain in this country. Both
asked to be identified only by their first names for fear of jeopardizing their
cases.

The handful of people in Chicago who work with young homeless immigrants -- who
come mainly from Central America, Mexico, Africa, India and China -- say such
young people are often neglected.

''It's been very challenging to find spaces for these kids,'' said Jennifer
Nagda, the associate director of Chicago's Young Center for Immigrant Children's
Rights. ''There is not exactly a wealth of beds to begin with for the domestic
population, let alone unaccompanied youth.''

Sol Flores, executive director of La Casa Norte, the nonprofit organization that
operates Solid Ground, said she was surprised by the increasing number of
undocumented youths at the shelter. ''We never thought we would have a young
person who was brought to this country from Sudan and abandoned by his
caretaker,'' she said.

Advocates say young, homeless immigrants typically come to the United States to
seek work, reconnect with family or flee persecution, abuse or violence.

Susan Trudeau, the executive director of child welfare programs at Heartland
Human Care Services, operator of the four Illinois facilities for unaccompanied
immigrant youths, said she had seen an increase in the number of young people
fleeing Central American gangs.

''They are being recruited; their families are being threatened,'' she said.
''They are being threatened. So it is just easier to run away.''

Fleeing such gangs one night in the winter of 2009, Jorge took along his
6-year-old cousin, Eric, who longed to reunite with his mother, who was working
in the United States. The cousins began a monthlong, nearly 4,000-mile journey
from Honduras -- first by bus, then by freight train and finally on foot.

When Jorge left, his backpack held a change of clothes for him and his cousin
and enough money for bus fare and some food, he said. After taking the bus to
Guatemala, they began the most treacherous part of the trek: illegally riding on
the tops and sides of freight trains that snaked through Guatemala and into
Mexico.

For five days they walked along the tracks, following them to the station where
the train originated. When it finally came, he and hundreds of other would-be
migrants sprang from the tall grass that hid them and clambered aboard. To keep
Eric safe, Jorge carried his cousin on his back and placed his backpack over the
boy, effectively strapping him in as they jumped on and off the moving trains,
he said.

After two weeks, they arrived in Mexico and found a man willing to take them
across the border into the United States.

They walked for seven days, barely sleeping and sharing food among the other
migrants.

''We would stop to rest,'' Jorge said. ''But not for too long because it was so
cold out and we knew we had to keep moving to stay warm. When we did stop and
sit for a while, no one slept. We just sat quietly near each other.''

When he arrived in the United States, Eric went to live with his mother nearby
in Arizona. Jorge, with limited English, no visa and no family, said he began
supporting himself by dealing drugs -- cocaine and heroin.

He was eventually arrested in Colorado, taken into federal custody and sent to
the Illinois Children's Center, one of the four Illinois detention facilities
for immigrant youths. Jorge remained at the low-security center for seven
months. When he turned 18, he was required to wear a GPS monitoring anklet as a
condition of his release to Solid Ground.

Oscar's sojourn began on the evening of July 28, 2008. After hugging his family
goodbye, he left alongside his 16-year-old cousin, Victor.

The coyote his family enlisted to enable his journey cost them 18,000 pesos,
roughly $1,700 at the time, money his father borrowed from a family friend,
Oscar said.

''Take care of yourself and call us when you get to the border,'' he recalled
his mother saying apprehensively as he left, with a few hundred pesos in his
pocket, to board a bus bound for Sonora, Mexico, a border state. From there, he
walked for seven days and six nights through Mexico toward Arizona.

By the third day in the desert under the August sun, Oscar's backpack, once
heavy with canned vegetables, water, Gatorade and fresh tortillas, was empty
except for water. His iPod, filled with music by Intocable, a popular Norteno
band, had no charge for its battery. He walked three more days with no food
before crossing, penniless, into Arizona.

Oscar soon found migrant farm work, traveling with two friends to wherever the
crops were: watermelons in Delaware and Georgia, apples in Pennsylvania, oranges
in Florida.

But the conditions were exploitative, he said. According to an affidavit filed
with his relief application, Oscar was not paid regularly and not allowed to
leave the work camps. His employers said immigration authorities would find him
if he fled. Oscar was not fed adequately and was forced to sleep on the floor
without blankets, his social worker said.

''When I came here, my only objective was to work,'' Oscar said. ''I wasn't
thinking about finishing school or learning English. I came to work.''

In May 2010, after an altercation with an employer over unpaid wages, Oscar
said, he was arrested and taken into federal custody in Georgia. After detention
at a youth facility in Miami, he was released that fall to an uncle in
Champaign, Ill. But soon after Oscar arrived, his uncle returned to Mexico
because he feared that Oscar's presence might draw attention to his illegal
status, Oscar said.

Last May the Office of Refugee Resettlement confirmed Oscar's eligibility as a
victim of labor trafficking. This status should help Oscar obtain his visa, his
lawyer said. According to the department's annual report, 91 youths received
such letters in 2010, up from 50 the previous year.

Since arriving at La Casa Norte, Oscar and Jorge fill their days with G.E.D. and
English classes.

Over the winter Oscar received a work visa and is employed part time at a
Mexican restaurant on Chicago's Northwest Side.

Jorge, still awaiting work papers, spends his time drawing, painting murals and
playing soccer. But if the ball hits his ankle, it sets off the monitoring
device, forcing him report to immigration officials.

Despite his arrest, detention and homelessness, Jorge said he would make the
journey to the United States again. The country has fewer gangs and less
violence than his homeland.

Oscar, though, said he regretted coming to the United States He is thankful for
the opportunities, but if he knew then what he knows now, he said, he would
still call Mexico home.

They phone home every few weeks. Yet neither Oscar nor Jorge has seen his family
since walking away.

Cast Away: The last of a series of articles on the rising number of homeless
youths and families in Chicago, often living beyond the reach of helping hands.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oscar, right, an illegal immigrant living in Chicago, in his
room at La Casa Norte Solid Ground housing in Humboldt Park.
 Jorge, left, taking an online test. He came to the United States when he was 15
and helped create the mural in the computer room at La Casa Norte Solid Ground,
a nonprofit shelter for youths. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS
COOPERATIVE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's About Immigrants, Not Irishness

BYLINE: By PETER BEHRENS.

Peter Behrens is the author, most recently, of ''The O'Briens.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 771 words


Brooklin, Me.

ON this side of the Atlantic, St. Patrick's Day has become a boisterous, often
bogus, celebration of America's Irish roots. For most, the holiday is an excuse
to drink, and perhaps pinch people who aren't wearing green.

But for many Irish-Americans and Irish-Canadians, including me, St. Patrick's
Day isn't really about Ireland. It's about our ancestors leaving that country,
often in bitter circumstances, and risking everything on a hazardous journey and
being met with fierce hostility and scorn. It is about immigrants struggling,
and mostly succeeding, in their new life, or making success possible for their
children and grandchildren.

It is a story that should describe all newcomers to America. This March 17, on
this side of the water, we ought to be celebrating immigration, not just
Irishness.

Before the mass exodus from Ireland provoked by the great famine of the 1840s,
new arrivals to North America were either settlers or slaves. The Catholic
Gaelic Irish were the first cohort consistently labeled as ''immigrants'' in the
modern, quasi-pejorative sense, and their experience established a stereotype, a
template, applied ever since to whichever national or ethnic group happened to
be the latest impoverished arrivals: French-Canadians, Chinese, Italians,
Eastern Europeans, Hispanics.

It's embarrassing to listen to prosperous 21st-century Americans with Irish
surnames lavish on Mexican or Central American immigrants the same slurs --
''dark,'' ''dirty,'' ''violent,'' ''ignorant'' -- once slapped on our own,
possibly shoeless, forebears. The Irish were seen as unclean, immoral and
dangerously in thrall to a bizarre religion. They were said to be peculiarly
prone to violence. As caricatured by illustrators like Thomas Nast in magazines
like Harper's Weekly, ''Paddy Irishman,'' low of brow and massive of jaw, was
more ape than human, fists trailing on the ground when they weren't cocked and
ready for brawling.

Soon it was another people's turn. During the 1890s, when hundreds of thousands
of French-Canadians were quitting rocky farms in Quebec for jobs in New England
textile towns, The New York Times wrote, ''It is next to impossible to penetrate
this mass of protected and secluded humanity with modern ideas or to induce them
to interest themselves in democratic institutions and methods of government.''

It was bad enough to be invaded by unmoderns. But the real danger was in the
numbers, because, as The Times went on, ''No other people, except the Indians,
are so persistent in repeating themselves. Where they halt they stay, and where
they stay they multiply and cover the earth.''

I live in Maine, where these days Hispanics and Somalis, not French-Canadians,
are the most visible immigrant groups. I wonder if our governor, Paul LePage,
born in Lewiston, oldest of 18 children in a family of French-Canadian descent,
ever came across that thoughtless article while formulating a raft of
anti-immigrant policies.

After all, the governor's grandparents were immigrants, members of a generation
commonly treated as a despised minority in New England. From the Civil War
through the 1950s, many if not most newly arrived French-Canadians looking for
work in Maine's mill towns or north woods were illegal immigrants.

If it's really true that all politics are personal, Governor LePage ought to be
an immigrant champion. However, in one of his first acts upon taking office in
January 2011, he issued an executive order encouraging officials in state
agencies to question people about their immigration status.

LePage insisted his action was needed to prevent welfare and social service
programs from being squandered on non-Mainers. Civil libertarians, however,
claimed there was no evidence of illegal immigrants' getting special treatment,
and the governor produced none. But in Maine, as anywhere, especially during
hard times, it's sound political strategy to blame the people from away, whether
''away'' is Quebec, Mexico or Somalia.

Since we have all been more or less constantly on the move since our ancestors
decamped from the old neighborhood in Ethiopia, 195,000 years ago, you'd think
that, as a species, we might have worked through our hostility and suspicion of
newbies by now. But we haven't.

So let's have one day -- March 17 -- where the word ''immigration'' is not
immediately followed by the word ''problem'' in our national conversation.
Because that has never, ever been our real immigrant story. St. Patrick's Day
reminds us to celebrate, not despise or fear, immigrants. And the
hyphenated-Irish, descendants of the first ''immigrants,'' ought to lead the
parade.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PING ZHU)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Globalist Is Homesick

BYLINE: By SUSAN J. MATT.

Susan J. Matt is a professor of history at Weber State University and the author
of ''Homesickness: An American History.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1005 words


Ogden, Utah

ACCORDING to a recent Gallup World Poll, 1.1 billion people, or one-quarter of
the earth's adults, want to move temporarily to another country in the hope of
finding more profitable work. An additional 630 million people would like to
move abroad permanently.

The global desire to leave home arises from poverty and necessity, but it also
grows out of a conviction that such mobility is possible. People who embrace
this cosmopolitan outlook assume that individuals can and should be at home
anywhere in the world, that they need not be tied to any particular place. This
outlook was once a strange and threatening product of the Enlightenment but is
now accepted as central to a globalized economy.

It leads to opportunity and profits, but it also has high psychological costs.
In nearly a decade's research into the emotions and experiences of immigrants
and migrants, I've discovered that many people who leave home in search of
better prospects end up feeling displaced and depressed. Few speak openly of the
substantial pain of leaving home.

This emotional style became common among mobile Americans in the 20th century,
but represented a departure from the past. In the 19th century, Americans of all
stripes -- pioneers, prospectors, soldiers and the millions of immigrants who
streamed into the nation -- admitted that mobility was emotionally taxing.
Medical journals explored the condition, often referring to it by its clinical
name: nostalgia.

Stories of the devastating effects of homesickness were common. In 1887, an
article in the Evening Bulletin of San Francisco had the headline, ''Victim of
Nostalgia: A Priest Dies Craving for a Sight of his Motherland'' and reported
that the Rev. J. M. McHale, a native of Ireland, had fallen ill with nostalgia
after arriving in Brooklyn. Shortly before he died, he declared: ''I am
homesick. My dear country, I will never set a foot on your green shores again.
Oh, my mother, how I long to see you.''

Today, explicit discussions of homesickness are rare, for the emotion is
typically regarded as an embarrassing impediment to individual progress and
prosperity. This silence makes mobility appear deceptively easy.

Technology also seduces us into thinking that migration is painless. Ads from
Skype suggest that ''free video calling makes it easy to be together, even when
you're not.'' The comforting illusion of connection offered by technology makes
moving seem less consequential, since one is always just a mouse click or a
phone call away.

If they could truly vanquish homesickness and make us citizens of the world,
Skype, Facebook, cellphones and e-mail would have cured a pain that has been
around since ''The Odyssey.''

More than a century ago, the technology of the day was seen as the solution to
the problem. In 1898, American commentators claimed that serious cases of
homesickness had ''grown less common in these days of quick communication, of
rapid transmission of news and of a widespread knowledge of geography.''

But such pronouncements were overly optimistic, for homesickness continued to
plague many who migrated.

Today's technologies have also failed to defeat homesickness even though studies
by the Carnegie Corporation of New York show that immigrants are in closer touch
with their families than before. In 2002, only 28 percent of immigrants called
home at least once a week; in 2009, 66 percent did. Yet this level of contact is
not enough to conquer the melancholy that frequently accompanies migration. A
2011 study published in the Archives of General Psychiatry found that Mexican
immigrants in the United States had rates of depression and anxiety 40 percent
higher than nonmigrant relatives remaining in Mexico. A wealth of studies have
documented that other newcomers to America also suffer from high rates of
depression and ''acculturative stress.''

Ricardo Valencia, an immigrant from Guadalajara, puts a face to such statistics.
In 2005, he traveled to Nevada to work so he could pay off a mortgage on his
house. The day after he arrived in Nevada, he thought, I want to leave! As he
explained to me: ''I've always been really close with my family. ... I had to
stand it, we had to stand it ... but returning was always in mind.'' He used
e-mail and phone cards to keep in touch with his wife, calling her several times
a week. But even this regular communication could not assuage his tremendous
homesickness. He finally returned to his family in 2009.

Like Mr. Valencia, 20 to 40 percent of all immigrants to the United States
ultimately return to their native lands. They know that Skype is no substitute
for actually being there.

It is possible that these new technologies actually heighten feelings of
displacement. Maria Elena Rivera, a psychologist in Tepic, Mexico, believes
technology may magnify homesickness. Her sister, Carmen, had been living in San
Diego for 25 years. With the rise of inexpensive long-distance calling, Carmen
was able to phone home with greater frequency. Every Sunday she called Mexico
and talked with her family, who routinely gathered for a large meal. Carmen
always asked what the family was eating, who was there. Technology increased her
contact with her family but also brought a regular reminder that she was not
there with them.

The immediacy that phone calls and the Internet provide means that those away
from home can know exactly what they are missing and when it is happening. They
give the illusion that one can be in two places at once but also highlight the
impossibility of that proposition.

The persistence of homesickness points to the limitations of the cosmopolitan
philosophy that undergirds so much of our market and society. The idea that we
can and should feel at home anyplace on the globe is based on a worldview that
celebrates the solitary, mobile individual and envisions men and women as easily
separated from family, from home and from the past. But this vision doesn't
square with our emotions, for our ties to home, although often underestimated,
are strong and enduring.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KAYE BLEGVAD

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Unfriendly Greeting at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 297 words


To the Editor:

''How Not to Attract Tourists,'' by Mark Vanhoenacker (Op-Ed, March 16), about
the poor treatment of foreign tourists coming into the United States, struck a
chord with my wife and me.

Most Americans with United States passports know little or nothing of the
humiliation and badgering that foreigners suffer when passing through United
States immigration.

I am an American citizen married to a Canadian and have been crossing the border
for decades. My wife is anything but unpleasant or argumentative, but she has
been shouted at, dressed down, badgered and bothered multiple times,
particularly in recent years.

Many Europeans we meet in Europe tell us that they don't travel for pleasure to
the United States anymore owing to the misery of passing immigration.

The reality is that there is little to no monitoring of agents, who therefore
have a license to treat visitors pretty much according to their whims. Passing
through security is a pleasure by comparison.

TONY WEBB Bonita Springs, Fla., March 16, 2012

To the Editor:

Mark Vanhoenacker addresses but a small part of America's thuggish attitude
toward visitors. In every other country I've visited, I've found both customs
and law enforcement officials courteous, friendly and helpful compared with the
brutal demeanor here.

A recent visit to Canada is exemplary.

My wife and I are native-born, middle-aged, middle-class United States citizens
with spotless records -- not so much as a moving violation. On crossing the
border, a friendly young Canadian customs agent smilingly went through the
formalities and welcomed us; on returning to our native country, an armed agent
barked orders, searched our car and snapped questions.

It was the ''welcome home'' we have come to expect.

DAVID TALLMAN Atlanta, March 16, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Syrians in the U.S. Are Given Protected Immigration Status

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 331 words


Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano on Friday granted temporary
immigration status to Syrians in the United States, sparing them from having to
return home, in a new sign that Washington believes security conditions in Syria
are going from bad to worse.

Under the measure, Syrians already in the United States will be eligible for
temporary protected status, which had previously been given to citizens of seven
other countries who could not return home because of violent conflicts or
natural disasters.

In a statement, Ms. Napolitano said Syrians ''would face serious threats to
their personal safety'' if they were forced to go back.

Department of Homeland Security officials estimated that 2,500 to 3,000 Syrians
in the United States would be eligible for the status. Most are in the United
States legally, officials said. Based on the history of citizens of other
countries designated for temporary protection, once the status is granted,
officials are generally reluctant to cancel it.

Ms. Napolitano said Syrians would have to pass criminal and national security
background checks to gain approval. ''This is not a blanket waiver,'' a
department official said.

Syria is one of the countries of the Middle East whose citizens receive
heightened scrutiny when they travel to the United States.

The department will publish guidelines for Syrians early next week. Typically,
the temporary status lasts for 18 months before it must be renewed.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported last week that about
30,000 people had fled the expanding civil warfare in Syria to neighboring
Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan.

Other countries whose citizens have received temporary protected status are El
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and most recently Haiti, after they were
devastated by earthquakes or hurricanes.

Somalia, Sudan and South Sudan are also designated for the status. The
designation of Nicaraguans and Hondurans dates to 1999, but the status has been
regularly renewed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Dream Act Without the Dream

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 324 words


Republican politicians have overwhelmingly embraced an approach to immigration
reform that offers only misery, arrest and punishment to the undocumented. That
is popular with party's hard-right base, but toxic with Hispanic voters -- which
has led some Republicans to come up with proposals that seem to shimmer with
promise but lead to the same no-future dead end.

Take Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who has recently been floating his
stripped-down version of the Dream Act, a bill to legalize young unauthorized
immigrants -- Americans in all but name -- who serve in the military or go to
college. Mr. Rubio's idea to make it palatable to his party is to offer them
legalization without citizenship. ''You can legalize someone's status,'' he
says, ''without placing them on a path toward citizenship.'' He warns that if
Dream Act youths became citizens, they could -- horrors -- someday sponsor
family members to enter legally. This idea is nothing more than some newly
invented third-class status -- not illegal, but not American.

It's the Dream Act without the dream and should be dismissed out of hand, along
with similar half-measures embraced by Mitt Romney and other Republican
presidential candidates, who endorse legalization for military service but not
college, and not citizenship in any case. Representative David Rivera of Florida
has offered a limited Dream Act only for those who join the military and has
said that he would file another only for youths younger than 18-and-a-half who
earn four-year college degrees and wait 10 years to adjust their status.

The only Dream Act worth passing is simple. It tells high schoolers who want to
make something of themselves, for the good of the country, to go ahead. Join the
military or go to college and take your place as full-fledged citizens in the
only country you know. That Republicans reject this shows how far they have
strayed from American ideals of assimilation and welcome.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hong Kong Court Reverses Foreign Maids' Residency Ruling

BYLINE: By KEVIN DREW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 519 words


HONG KONG -- A Hong Kong court on Wednesday overturned a ruling from last year
that would have allowed foreign-born domestic workers to apply for permanent
residency, the latest decision in a closely watched case.

Chief Judge Andrew Cheung, writing for the three-member panel of the High Court,
said that an immigration ordinance restricting residency rights for domestic
workers was constitutional, a decision that strikes down a local court ruling
from September.

Mark Daly, a lawyer for Evangeline Banao Vallejos, the Philippine-born domestic
worker at the center of the case, said an appeal of Wednesday's ruling to the
Court of Final Appeal, Hong Kong's highest court is probable, but a decision had
not yet been made.

Many foreign-born residents are eligible to apply for permanent residency after
living in Hong Kong for seven consecutive years, a status that grants greater
rights, like being allowed to live in the territory without a visa, and access
to benefits including public housing and social security.

Ms. Vallejos, a domestic worker who has lived in Hong Kong for more than 25
years, challenged the immigration department ordinance and won a ruling last
Sept. 30, when a judge called the department's ruling a violation of the Basic
Law, Hong Kong's effective constitution since its return to Chinese rule in
1997.

Domestic workers who look after children and perform household chores form the
majority of non-Chinese residents in this territory of seven million. They are
generally given room and board, work six days a week and earn a minimum wage of
3,740 Hong Kong dollars, or $480, a month, below that set for other workers.

Rights advocates said that Hong Kong's guaranteed one day off a week and minimum
wage are standards for domestic workers that exceed those of other Asian
economies. But they called Wednesday's ruling a missed opportunity for the
territory to promote the rights of workers across the region.

''This is an example of where Hong Kong could have sent an example,'' said Nisha
Varia, a senior researcher in New York for Human Rights Watch. ''When workers
are on temporary contracts, usually they are at higher risk for discrimination
or abuse.''

In its ruling on Wednesday, the three-judge panel said the Basic Law does allow
the exclusion of foreign domestic workers from consideration for permanent
residency.

''It is a category of exclusion not different in kind, but only in degree, from
the pre-existing categories of excluded persons, for instance, Vietnamese
refugees and imprisoned or detained persons,'' Judge Cheung wrote in the
opinion.

Polls late last year showed broad public concern that granting domestic workers
the right to seek permanent resident status could raise the costs of welfare and
medical benefits.

An estimated 285,000 foreign domestic workers, most from Indonesia and the
Philippines, were living in Hong Kong at the end of 2010, 117,000 of whom had
resided in the territory for at least seven years, according to last September's
court ruling, which cited government figures.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                National Edition

GTT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HOINSKI.

mhoinski@texasmonthly.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 828 words


Our quirky, discerning picks for the most interesting things to do around the
state this week.

FORT WORTH

Entry Point

The inspiration for ''Forgotten Gateway,'' an exhibition that focuses on
Galveston as a mid-19th-century immigration hub, was a field trip that Suzanne
Seriff, the exhibition's curator, took to New York with a group of 10th graders
right after Sept. 11. En route to Ellis Island, they were sidetracked by a
memorial service.

''It was a symbolic moment,'' Ms. Seriff said. ''We looked behind us to the
glory days of a nation of immigrants. And we looked before us to our fear of the
immigrants who are coming into our nation now.''

Ms. Seriff has transformed that epiphany into a powerful show -- featuring oral
histories, slave manifests, Ku Klux Klan paraphernalia promoting nativism and
other resonant artifacts -- that challenges us to examine the hard truths that
lurk within our immigration policies. This is the final weekend to see the
traveling exhibition, which opened in Austin in 2009 and made a stop at the
Ellis Island Immigration Museum.

A panel discussion with Ms. Seriff will gauge the impact the exhibition has had
on the national immigration debate.

Fort Worth Museum of Science and History, March 30-April 1, various times.
fortworthmuseum.org

AUSTIN

Infinite Analysis

Admirers of David Foster Wallace, the cultish writer of ''meta'' insight, are
still mourning his 2008 suicide. Aside from their frustration that there will
never be another Wallace novel, there is the concern that we may never know the
true meaning of his famously complex tome ''Infinite Jest.''

A good place to commiserate is at the David Foster Wallace Symposium, featuring
some of the people who knew Wallace best: Bonnie Nadell, his agent; Michael
Pietsch, his editor; and D. T. Max, the New Yorker writer who is doing his
biography. The discussion will be complemented by a display of correspondence,
corrected proofs and other papers from the Harry Ransom Center's archive that
will help unlock verse whose footnotes alone can address the meaning of life.

''I remember reading Joyce's 'Ulysses' in grad school and feeling very alone as
I wrestled with the book,'' said Amanda Eyre Ward, an Austin novelist
participating in the symposium. ''Reading D.F.W., you're never alone with your
questions, unless you want to be.''

Harry Ransom Center, April 5-6, various times. hrc.utexas.edu

DALLAS

Shape of Things

Trenton Doyle Hancock, the star Houston artist whose fantastical works conjure
mythological worlds, has a loose definition of the word ''sculpture.'' While
most people think of it as something akin to a statue, Mr. Hancock considers it
anything that makes a work more than two-dimensional, whether that is appliques
on his paintings or the Bjorkian costumes and sets he designed for the 2008
ballet ''Cult of Color: Call to Color.''

''Sculpture is not confined to an actual tactile output,'' said Mr. Hancock,
whose works include a mural that hangs in Cowboys Stadium. As part of the 360
speaker series at the Nasher Sculpture Center, Mr. Hancock will use his own
works to explore the relationship between art and observer.

''I did this project where I created a nine-foot-long arm that hangs off the
wall,'' he said of a work called ''Vegan Arm.'' ''I wondered what it was like
for people to deal with it head on.''

The corollary Mr. Hancock draws between ''objecthood'' and ''art'' may even have
you considering yourself a sculpture.

Nasher Sculpture Center, March 31, 1 p.m. nasher sculpturecenter.org

GALVESTON

The Ultimate Competitor

The Tour de France's loss is the gain of the Memorial Hermann Ironman 70.3 Texas
triathlon, in which Lance Armstrong will compete this year. From a spot along
the route, you can cheer on a tremendous cyclist as he tries to become champion
of an arguably more difficult sport.

Fighting the doping allegations against him (the case was dropped in February)
has apparently made Mr. Armstrong stronger. If he can start out with a quick
1.2-mile swim, look out, because 56 of the remaining 69.1 miles are on bike --
and there's no way the 13.1-mile culminating run will be as tough as the Hill
Country terrain where Mr. Armstrong trains.

Moody Gardens, April 1, 7 a.m. ironmanlonestar.com

EL PASO

Flower Power

It is respectable to jump in the family roadster to check out the bluebonnets in
highway pastures, but wildflower extremists in search of gold may make the
pilgrimage to far west Texas to see the Mexican poppies, in their dense, sun
orange splendor, shooting out of the Chihuahuan Desert at the Franklin Mountains
Poppies Fest.

El Paso Museum of Archaeology, March 31, 10 a.m. chihuahuan desert.org

HOUSTON

Pitted

No pool party is complete without guacamole, but instead of recycling the recipe
from past summers, learn and sample innovative new ones at the Avocado Takedown,
a Bobby Flay-style challenge that will imagine new twists on salsa's cousin,
plus countless other avocado concoctions.

Warehouse Live, April 1, 2 p.m. thetakedowns.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  The 2011 Memorial Hermann Ironman 70.3 Texas triathlon. Lance
Armstrong will be among the competitors this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASI PHOTO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Die-Hard Conservative, but Not on Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1323 words


SALT LAKE CITY -- He is a Republican and a Mormon. He opposes abortion. Mark L.
Shurtleff, the attorney general of Utah, also rejects President Obama's health
care law as an assault on states' rights and he went to Washington last week to
urge the Supreme Court to throw it out.

On point after point, Mr. Shurtleff, now in his third term, meets the checklist
to qualify as a conservative. But on immigration, he sees things differently
from Republicans who have spoken most loudly on the issue in the states and from
the party's candidates for the presidential nomination -- including another
Mormon, Mitt Romney.

Mr. Romney has echoed lawmakers from Arizona and Alabama, calling for more and
tougher enforcement measures to corner illegal immigrants and force them to
''self deport.''

Mr. Shurtleff has been conducting a campaign of his own, spreading the word
about a more inclusive compromise that Utah adopted last year. A package of laws
included an enforcement bill, like one in Arizona, that expanded police
authority to identify illegal immigrants, coupled with a measure that recognized
a role for some of those immigrants by giving them state permits as guest
workers.

Mr. Shurtleff, 54, is probably the most prominent politician among an emerging
generation of Republicans trying to stake out an alternative to restrictionist
immigration laws modeled on Arizona's.

''It's only the loud, shrill voices we've been hearing,'' Mr. Shurtleff said in
his office in the marbled State Capitol on a hill above this city. ''But I
believe the majority of Republicans aren't this shrill, anti-immigration,
punish-'em-at-all-costs kind of mentality.''

He is well placed to bring his contrarian views to angry Republican voters. A
big man -- at 6 feet 5 inches -- with a big presence in Utah, he easily glided
twice to re-election. Hard on crime, he is also affable, plain-spoken and
surprisingly unguarded about discussing his evolving ideas and personal life.

He used to cruise his Harley-Davidson motorcycle around this city, until a wreck
in 2007 almost cost him a leg. He recently turned up at a Utah Jazz basketball
game with his five children and a dozen or so other relatives, his baseball cap
turned backward. Another evening he hunkered down for dinner in the back room at
the Red Iguana, a restaurant known for its authentic Mexican mole sauces,
drawing appreciative glances from other diners.

As Mr. Shurtleff sees it, the Arizona law, known as S.B. 1070, was divisive,
damaging to businesses and bad for public safety. ''You drive all these folks
underground,'' he said, ''and they will no longer cooperate with law enforcement
to get the drug runners and the human traffickers and the gangbangers and all
the truly criminal aliens who are here.''

He thinks such initiatives are based on misinformation. ''That it is an actual
invasion of our country by criminals, that 80 percent of Latinos commit violent
crime and all this other nonsense you hear, people believe it,'' Mr. Shurtleff
said. ''And it's because there hasn't been a good voice to the contrary telling
the truth about it.''

Mr. Shurtleff's truths are nurtured by like-minded groups in Utah. After
Arizona's law passed in 2010, an e-mail chain started among an odd coalition
that included Mr. Shurtleff and the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce, local police
chiefs, farm bureaus, Latino leaders, Democratic lawmakers and the Roman
Catholic Church.

An unexpected imprimatur of legitimacy came from Paul T. Mero, the president of
the Sutherland Institute, an influential conservative research group here. Mr.
Mero, also a Mormon, says he believes there is a solid conservative argument for
bringing illegal immigrants into the system rather than driving them out.

''The federal government failed, left the state holding the bag,'' Mr. Mero
said. ''And now the state is responding to protect its citizens, to protect its
economy and, frankly, to protect civil rights.''

In November 2010, the conversations produced a five-point statement of
principles known as the Utah Compact, which emphasized respect for the rule of
law but also the importance of keeping families together, supporting businesses
and welcoming ''people of good will.''

The compact received the vital endorsement of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. With that political cover, in 2011 the Legislature passed the
enforcement law, which is more cautious than Arizona's -- it authorizes the
police to verify the legal status of immigrants if they are suspected of serious
crimes. That bill was paired with the guest worker law.

As a young man, Mr. Shurtleff said, he went on his Mormon mission in Peru, where
he learned to speak Spanish fluently, traveled the Amazon rain forest and made,
he said, quite a few converts.

Last year, pursuing a fascination with Abraham Lincoln, Mr. Shurtleff published
a book of historical fiction -- ''Am I Not a Man?'' -- recounting the life of
Dred Scott, the slave whose quest for freedom led to a disastrous Supreme Court
decision that propelled the country to Civil War and spurred Lincoln to run for
president.

Mr. Shurtleff becomes emotional when he speaks of the children of illegal
immigrants and the efforts of some Republicans to repeal the 14th Amendment and
deny them American citizenship. After the Civil War, the amendment was adopted
to overcome the Dred Scott ruling by guaranteeing citizenship to anyone born in
the United States.

''I have a chance,'' he said, ''to speak to these kids in Spanish and see how
much they love America.'' Republicans, he said, ''need to realize they're not
the enemy.''

The Justice Department sued Utah to stop the enforcement law, as it did Arizona,
saying that the statute encroached on federal terrain. That law has been held up
by a federal court.

So far, Mr. Shurtleff has cajoled federal officials to refrain from suing over
the guest worker law. He offered an improbable solution, saying that Utah would
give the federal authorities lists of illegal immigrants who had been cleared by
the state for guest permits, so they could be exempted as a group from
deportation.

Proselytizing for the Utah strategy, Mr. Shurtleff has addressed law enforcement
conventions, convened regional strategy sessions and counseled lawmakers from
other states.

At a conference of his counterparts last year, he hotly debated Arizona's
attorney general, Tom Horne, a fellow Republican. On a radio show, he took on
Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a leading
restrictionist organization, dismissing as ''laughable'' Mr. Stein's critique of
Utah's laws.

Mr. Shurtleff has antagonized some Republican leaders in Utah. But he has also
won support from Latinos, who have turned away from Republicans elsewhere. Tony
Yapias, a longtime Latino leader in Utah, described Mr. Shurtleff as ''the most
compassionate Republican I know.''

The Utah Compact inspired similar alliances in Arizona, which advocates there
said had helped to power the recall last year of Russell Pearce, a Republican
Mormon who was the president of the Arizona Senate and a chief author of bills
against illegal immigrants.

Identical compacts were signed last year in Indiana and Iowa. And lawmakers in
Florida, Georgia, Kansas and Nebraska considered legislation based on the
compact's principles.

Mr. Shurtleff has said he would not run again for attorney general. He had a
punishing -- although victorious -- bout with cancer that started in his
appendix, and he said he would like a respite from public office. But he is
leaving the door open for a future race for a higher position.

He is waiting in frustration to speak with Mr. Romney, whom he supports, to tell
the candidate that he is wrong to think he has to satisfy immigration
hard-liners to win the nomination.

''What we want to prove here in Utah is that it's not true,'' Mr. Shurtleff
said. ''You don't have to pander to that shrill, really negative voice that is
harmful to our country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Attorney General Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, a Republican, took
cellphone pictures with his family at a Utah Jazz basketball game last month in
Salt Lake City.
Mr. Shurtleff keeps a copy of his historical novel, ''Am I Not a Man?'' -- about
the slave Dred Scott -- in his office in the State Capitol. (A9)
 Attorney General Shurtleff, a Republican who opposes abortion and the Obama
health law, at the Capitol in Salt Lake City. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN HOOLEY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Noncitizens Sue Over U.S. Gay Marriage Ban

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 739 words


Five legally married same-sex couples filed a lawsuit on Monday to challenge the
1996 law that bars the federal government from recognizing same-sex marriages,
arguing that its impact is particularly harsh on couples that include an
American citizen and a foreigner.

The lawsuit, filed in United States District Court for the Eastern District of
New York, was brought by Immigration Equality, a gay rights legal organization
that focuses on immigration issues. Same-sex marriage advocates said it was
likely to become the most prominent suit seeking to overturn the law, known as
the Defense of Marriage Act, based on its effect on gay or lesbian immigrants
who want to gain legal residence through marriage to American citizens.

Under immigration law, a citizen can apply for a foreign spouse to obtain legal
permanent residency, with a document known as a green card. Since unlike many
other visas, there are no limits on the number of green cards available to
spouses of citizens, those applications are among the fastest and most
straightforward procedures in the immigration system.

Under the marriage act, which is called DOMA, federal authorities do not
recognize same-sex marriages, even from states that allow them. In recent years,
as same-sex marriage became legal in several states, gay and lesbian couples
have come forward to say they were facing a painful choice: either deportation
for the immigrant or exile to life in a foreign country for the American.

''I'm a citizen of this country just like anybody else,'' said Heather Morgan,
36, a plaintiff in the lawsuit together with her spouse, Maria del Mar Verdugo
Yanez, 42, who is from Spain. After a 13-year friendship that evolved into a
romance, the couple was married in August 2011 in New York City, where they
live.

''I'm very proud of this country,'' Ms. Morgan said in an interview. ''I don't
want to feel like I have to leave here in order to be with the person I love. I
shouldn't have to choose.''

Rachel B. Tiven, the executive director of Immigration Equality, said the group
tried during the past year to persuade the federal government to put a hold on
consideration of green card applications from same-sex couples, while several
challenges to the marriage act made their way through the courts. But federal
authorities did not agree to the hold and had continued to deny the
applications, she said, prompting the group to proceed with the lawsuit.

In February 2011, the Obama administration announced that it regarded the
central provision of the marriage act as unconstitutionally discriminatory, and
said officials would no longer defend it in the courts.

On Wednesday, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in Boston
will hear arguments in the first marriage act case to advance to the appeals
level. That case contends that the act is unconstitutional because it denies
federal benefits to same-sex couples married in Massachusetts, the first state
to make same-sex marriage legal.

Justice Department officials have said that they will not defend the core
provision of the marriage act in that hearing, but will dispute other claims in
the case. A conservative legal group appointed by the House of Representatives
will argue in favor of the act.

Amid legal jargon, the unusual complaint filed Monday recounts five love
stories, describing people who married after years of courtship. Most of the
immigrants have been here legally on temporary visas that will soon expire.

Ms. Morgan said she and Ms. Verdugo would like to raise children. ''But we live
every day with the uncertainty that we will be separated because the government
didn't recognize that we are a family,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Tuesday about a lawsuit by same-sex married couples challenging
the Defense of Marriage Act -- arguing that the law is harsh on couples with an
American citizen and a foreigner -- described incorrectly the action gay
advocates sought from the federal government before filing the suit. While
advocates asked the federal government to halt deportations of immigrants in
those couples, they did not do so in connection with the lawsuit. The advocates
asked officials to postpone consideration of applications for permanent
residency, also known as a green card, for immigrants married to American
citizens of the same sex.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A green card is an issue for Heather Morgan's spouse, Maria del
Mar Verdugo Yanez, right, from Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


An article on Tuesday about a lawsuit by same-sex married couples challenging
the Defense of Marriage Act -- arguing that the law is harsh on couples with an
American citizen and a foreigner -- described incorrectly the action gay
advocates sought from the federal government before filing the suit. While
advocates asked the federal government to halt deportations of immigrants in
those couples, they did not do so in connection with the lawsuit. The advocates
asked officials to postpone consideration of applications for permanent
residency, also known as a green card, for immigrants married to American
citizens of the same sex.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 6, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family of a Murdered Immigrant Was in Crisis, Records Show

BYLINE: By WILL CARLESS and IAN LOVETT; Will Carless reported from El Cajon,
Calif., and Ian Lovett reported from Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 563 words


EL CAJON, Calif. -- When Shaima Alawadi, an Iraqi-born mother of five, was found
bludgeoned to death in her home last month with a threatening note beside her,
many members of the large Middle Eastern immigrant population here feared a hate
crime.

But court documents made public this week instead reveal details of a family in
crisis, with talk of divorce and a daughter resisting an arranged marriage, and
of Ms. Alawadi's survivors themselves coming under scrutiny from investigators.

From the beginning, the El Cajon police maintained that a hate crime was only
one of the possibilities they were exploring. The search warrant affidavit,
which was released by mistake to the Web site U-T San Diego on Wednesday and
then to other media outlets on Thursday, revealed that the police obtained
warrants to search the family's house and two cars, as well as their phones.

Ms. Alawadi, 32, had been planning to divorce her husband and move to Texas, a
family member told the police, according to the search warrant documents. The
police reported finding legal documents in Ms. Alawadi's car to prepare for a
divorce.

The affidavit also details turmoil between the family and Ms. Alawadi's oldest
daughter, Fatima, who called the police after finding her mother in a pool of
blood on March 21.

It was Fatima's impassioned plea before a local news camera several days after
the attack that helped draw international media attention to Ms. Alawadi's
killing. She told a local television station about finding her mother with a
note nearby calling her a ''terrorist.''

''You took my mother away from me,'' Fatima said. ''You took my best friend away
from me. Why?''

In November, according to the affidavit, El Cajon police officers responded to a
call about two people in a parked car, and found Fatima with a 21-year-old man.
Ms. Alawadi picked Fatima up from the scene, but as they drove away, Fatima
said, ''I love you, Mom,'' opened the car door, and jumped out while the vehicle
was moving about 35 miles per hour, the affidavit said.

At the hospital, where she was brought with minor injuries, Fatima refused to
talk to the police. But the paramedics told them Fatima had said she jumped
because she was being forced to marry her cousin against her will.

In addition, the affidavit states that on the day of her mother's death, while
Fatima was being interviewed by the police, a text message was sent from her
phone to an unknown correspondent that read, ''The detective will find out tell
them cnt talk.''

The police did not return multiple calls requesting comment on Thursday.

Ms. Alawadi's husband, Kassim Alhimidi, along with her two eldest children,
Fatima and Mohammed, 15, are now in Iraq for the funeral, according to Ms.
Alawadi's sister, Esmah Alawadi. They are due to return to the United States
later this month.

Esmah Alawadi, who lives in Texas with her husband, disputes a number of the
family details that were revealed in the affidavit. She said that she had been
her sister's closest confidante, and that she knew of no plans she had to
divorce her husband. She also said that Fatima's engagement was of her own
choosing, to a man she met last year while visiting Iraq.

She said she did not know of any major problems in her sister's family.

''Arguments have to happen in a family,'' Esmah Alawadi said. ''We're not
perfect. But we weren't talking about problems or anything.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fatima Alawadi, 17, with the body of her mother, Shaima, at the
airport in Najaf, Iraq, last week. At left, a niece of the dead woman with her
picture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAA AL-MARJANI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ATEF HASSAN/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mixed Reviews On Program For Immigrants With Records

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 786 words


Senior Obama administration officials created major confusion for state and
local authorities by providing inconsistent information about a high-profile
federal program to identify illegal immigrants who committed crimes, according
to a stinging report published Friday by the inspector general of the Department
of Homeland Security.

The mixed messages about the expansion of the program, known as Secure
Communities, from officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement led directly
to ''opposition, criticism and resistance in some locations,'' the inspector
general, Charles K. Edwards, found.

But in a second report released on Friday, the inspector general's office found
that despite the rocky start and continuing political disputes, Secure
Communities has been effective at rapidly identifying more immigrants who
committed serious crimes -- and in many more places -- than efforts in the past,
and at a very low cost to states. The program is a centerpiece of the Obama
administration's immigration enforcement policy, intended to increase the number
of convicted criminals among about 400,000 immigrants deported each year.

The second report found that enforcement officers had a good understanding of
priorities set by Immigration and Customs Enforcement for detaining and
deporting immigrants identified under the program, making decisions in line with
its priorities in 97 percent of 723 cases that auditors reviewed.

The back-to-back reports brought both an embarrassing critique of the
performance of officials at the immigration agency, known as ICE, as they
extended the program across the country, but also an endorsement by the
inspector general's office of its effectiveness in some aspects. Officials have
said they plan to spread Secure Communities nationwide by next year.

Amid conflicting statements from ICE officials about whether the program was
mandatory, governors of several states -- including Illinois, Massachusetts and
New York -- have sought to withdraw from Secure Communities. The program has
drawn an outcry from many immigrant organizations, which contend that it has led
to the separation of families and the deportation of many immigrants here
illegally who did not actually have criminal records.

Under Secure Communities, fingerprints of anyone arrested by the police are
checked against both F.B.I. criminal databases, a routine procedure, and also
against databases of the Department of Homeland Security, which hold records of
all foreign-born people in the immigration system. As of last December, the
program was operating in 44 states, covering 64 percent of local law enforcement
jurisdictions.

Under ICE's priorities, agents are instructed to accelerate deportations of
serious offenders, but exercise prosecutorial discretion to suspend deportations
of illegal immigrants who do not have criminal convictions.

The inspector general ''did not find evidence that ICE intentionally misled''
local officials or the public about Secure Communities.

But the report includes a chronological roster of misstatements and conflicting
documents issued by ICE officials -- including the director, John Morton --
about whether states could opt out of the program. While ICE indicated during
2009 and 2010 that the program was voluntary, officials eventually settled on
the position that states could not withdraw.

The report finds that the officials failed to set clear policies internally and
''missed opportunities'' to clarify the situation.

In a statement Friday, Nicole Navas, a spokeswoman for ICE, said that the agency
had taken ''aggressive steps'' in the past year to provide clearer guidance
about the program.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has acknowledged that her
department fumbled communications about Secure Communities. Homeland Security
officials said Friday that they were in the final stages of preparing new
guidelines to govern the program, as the inspector general urged.

Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, the ranking Democrat on the House
immigration subcommittee, wrote a letter last year that prompted the inspector
general's review. She said Friday that she was ''frankly disappointed'' with the
reports, saying they failed to answer several of her questions: ''Does the
program also ensnare victims and others with no criminal history? Is it
susceptible to racial profiling?''

Immigrant advocates said the inspector general reports showed that the Secure
Communities program should be canceled.

''In an attempt to justify the program, the reports inadvertently admit that ICE
has mutated S-Comm into an overreaching dragnet,'' said Sarahi Uribe, of the
National Day Laborers Organizing Network, one of the most staunch opponents of
the program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesting the Secure Communities program last year. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Volunteers Scramble to Save a School for Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDY LEONARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 812 words


As a result of the economic downturn and a dwindling endowment, the
International Center, which has taught English and helped immigrants assimilate
for decades, faces dissolution and eviction from its Manhattan home.

The center, which has more than 300 active volunteers and currently teaches
about 1,500 students, shocked its volunteers last month with the news that it
was behind on its rent and would have to close its doors on West 23rd Street,
where it has been for about 20 years.

Dr. Allen Keller, who directs a program at Bellevue Hospital Center for
international survivors of war and torture and often refers patients to the
International Center, said the center's closing would be a ''terrible loss for
us, for our city and our community.''

''They have helped over the years so many of the individuals we care for, who
are among the most vulnerable new New Yorkers,'' Dr. Keller said. ''We need to
be opening more centers and places like the International Center, not closing
them.''

But volunteers and the center's few staff members said they refused to let the
organization they described as a home, a family and a cultural hub die. In the
past week, they have formed committees to find a new location, advertise changes
and raise money (their goal is $100,000). Because the board is dissolving the
nonprofit organization, they hope to reincorporate with a slightly changed name
in a new location, said one volunteer, Winfield Cooper, 67.

Mr. Cooper, a retired teacher who has worked abroad, said he had been told that
the board had tried unsuccessfully to negotiate with the landlord and that the
center, which teaches about 200 immigrant students free of charge, would have to
close by the end of the month.

The board chairman, Jack Van Hulst, and board president, Gabriella Sperry,
declined to comment. The landlord, Two Trees Management, also declined to
comment. On Sunday, a pop-up box on the center's Web site indicated that no new
students were being accepted.

Lucy Benedict, a Holocaust survivor from Austria, started volunteering at the
center when it first opened above a garage near Carnegie Hall in 1961. Asked
what she would do without the center, Ms. Benedict said, ''I have not considered
that.''

For Jesus Benaventa, 43, an immigrant from Venezuela who started coming to the
center in August, it has been a place to learn new cultures and to develop
relationships with people from all over the world. ''It's not only a school,''
he said. Mr. Benaventa was at the center last week with a volunteer, Cliff
Cohen, 55, discussing items that might appear on the menu at a fried-chicken
restaurant.

The center offers more than a dozen courses on subjects including pronunciation,
academic writing and literature. In one class, students are reading John
Steinbeck's ''Of Mice and Men.''

Another volunteer, Sharron Davis, 72, teaches a class on getting a job in the
United States. At the end of her 10-week course, students have professional
resumes and are ''able to market themselves in a short conversation with anyone
they meet,'' she said.

''I spent my career dealing with ex-pats,'' said Ms. Davis, who has worked in
human resources. ''I know what it's like to live in a foreign country and not
speak the language very well and struggle to survive.''

But the center's mission, she said, was not just to teach English, but to help
immigrants ''become fully productive members of American society.''

Wilzrigue Paul, 33, an accountant from Haiti, came to the center five months ago
after completing basic instruction at the Riverside Language Program on the
Upper West Side.

''They told me there are many schools in Manhattan, but the best they can
recommend was the International Center,'' Mr. Paul said.

Patience Tamisimbi, 39, from the Democratic Republic of Congo, came to the
center three months ago at the recommendation of Dr. Keller's program at
Bellevue.

Last year, Ms. Tamisimbi said, the police in Kinshasa arrested her because of
her political affiliation. ''They tortured me, they raped me,'' she said. After
the police came looking for her at home a few days later, she fled the country.

Before she arrived in the United States, Ms. Tamisimbi said, she thought America
was a big country full of rich people, but she has come to realize that ''they
are just people like me.''

As her English improves, she hopes to get a job as a translator and eventually
study to be a laboratory technician.

Mahmood Ali, 25, came to the United States from Yemen five months ago and said
the center was where he interacted with other Arabic people. Its cafe offers a
space where religion and philosophy can be discussed openly, he said, and it was
the first place where he talked at length with an Israeli.

''This place cannot stop,'' Mr. Ali said. He compared the center to a tree: If
it is cut, he said, ''it will blossom again and grow up again, because it has a
soul.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sonomi Inoue, left, practiced English with Renee Elias, a
volunteer, at the International Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2012 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Kenneth Libo, 74, Scholar of Immigrant Life

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 703 words


Kenneth Libo, a historian of Jewish immigration who, as a graduate student
working for Irving Howe in the 1960s and '70s, unearthed historical
documentation that informed and shaped ''World of Our Fathers,'' Mr. Howe's
landmark 1976 history of the East European Jewish migration to America, died on
March 29 in New York. He was 74.

The cause was complications from an infection, said Michael Skakun, a friend and
fellow historian.

Mr. Libo's contribution was acknowledged by Mr. Howe and the publishers of
''World of Our Fathers,'' who listed his name beneath the author's on the cover
of the book: ''With the Assistance of Kenneth Libo.''

Scholars familiar with his archival work credit Mr. Libo with adding a level of
emotional detail, and a view of everyday life in the teeming tenements of the
Lower East Side of Manhattan, that the book might have lacked without his six
years of work. ''I don't think 'World of Our Fathers' could have been written
without the spade work done by Ken Libo,'' said Jeffrey S. Gurock, a professor
of Jewish history at Yeshiva University. ''He had a certain researching genius,
a feel for visceral detail.''

Mr. Libo worked with Mr. Howe on two more books and shared billing on both as
co-author -- ''How We Lived,'' a 1979 anthology of pictures and documentary
accounts of Jewish life in New York between 1880 and 1930; and ''We Lived There,
Too,'' an illustrated collection of first-person accounts by Jewish immigrant
pioneers who moved on from New York to settle in far-flung outposts around the
country, like New Orleans; Abilene, Kan.; and Keokuk, Iowa, between 1630 and
1930.

He became the first English-language editor of The Jewish Daily Forward in 1980,
lectured widely, taught literature and history at Hunter College, and later in
life helped several wealthy Jewish New York families research and write their
self-published family histories.

But throughout his life, Mr. Libo was known best for his involvement in ''World
of Our Fathers,'' a best seller that Mr. Howe, a socialist and public
intellectual, once described in part as an effort to reclaim the fading memory
of Jewish immigration from the clutches of sentimental myth, Alexander Portnoy
and generations of Jewish mother jokes.

The book was a large canvas -- depicting a lost world of tenements, sweatshops
and political utopianism -- written with elegiac lyricism.

By most accounts Mr. Howe gave the book its vision, its voice and its
intellectual legs. Mr. Libo gave it people and their stories.

He mined archives of Yiddish newspapers like The Forward, Der Tog and Freiheit;
the case records of social service organizations like the Henry Street
Settlement House; the letters of activists like Lillian Wald and Rose
Schneiderman; memoirs by forgotten people whose books he found in the 5-cent
bins of used bookstores. He interviewed old vaudevillians like Joe Smith of
Smith and Dale (the models for Neil Simon's ''Sunshine Boys'') for the story of
Yiddish theater.

In an essay about the book, published in 2000 in the journal of the American
Jewish Historical Society, Mr. Libo wrote that in the summer months ''Irving did
the bulk of the writing while I remained in New York with an assistant to run
down facts.''

Kenneth Harold Libo was born Dec. 4, 1937, in Norwich, Conn., one of two sons of
Asher and Annette Libo. His father was a Jewish immigrant from Russia, his
mother American-born. His parents operated a chicken farm, friends said.

He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1959, served in the Navy and taught
English at Hunter College of the City University until he began work on ''World
of Our Fathers'' in 1968 with Mr. Howe, who died in 1993.

He received his Ph.D. in English literature from the City University of New York
in 1974. He never married and no immediate family members remain.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Kenneth Libo

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An obituary on Monday about Kenneth Libo, a historian of Jewish immigration who
contributed to Irving Howe's book ''World of Our Fathers,'' misspelled the name
of one of the Yiddish-language newspapers whose archives he consulted as part of
the research for that book. It was Freiheit, not Freheit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth Libo (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL DUCKWORTH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Many U.S. Immigrants' Children Seek American Dream Abroad

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words


Samir N. Kapadia seemed to be on the rise in Washington, moving from an
internship on Capitol Hill to jobs at a major foundation and a consulting firm.
Yet his days, he felt, had become routine.

By contrast, friends and relatives in India, his native country, were telling
him about their lives in that newly surging nation. One was creating an
e-commerce business, another a public relations company, still others a
magazine, a business incubator and a gossip and events Web site.

''I'd sit there on Facebook and on the phone and hear about them starting all
these companies and doing all these dynamic things,'' recalled Mr. Kapadia, 25,
who was born in India but grew up in the United States. ''And I started feeling
that my 9-to-5 wasn't good enough anymore.''

Last year, he quit his job and moved to Mumbai.

In growing numbers, experts say, highly educated children of immigrants to the
United States are uprooting themselves and moving to their ancestral countries.
They are embracing homelands that their parents once spurned but that are now
economic powers.

Some, like Mr. Kapadia, had arrived in the United States as young children,
becoming citizens, while others were born in the United States to immigrant
parents.

Enterprising Americans have always sought opportunities abroad. But this new
wave underscores the evolving nature of global migration, and the challenges to
American economic supremacy and competitiveness.

In interviews, many of these Americans said they did not know how long they
would live abroad; some said it was possible that they would remain expatriates
for many years, if not for the rest of their lives.

Their decisions to leave have, in many cases, troubled their immigrant parents.
Yet most said they had been pushed by the dismal hiring climate in the United
States or pulled by prospects abroad.

''Markets are opening; people are coming up with ideas every day; there's so
much opportunity to mold and create,'' said Mr. Kapadia, now a researcher at
Gateway House, a new foreign-policy research organization in Mumbai. ''People
here are running much faster than the people in Washington.''

For generations, the world's less-developed countries have suffered so-called
brain drain -- the flight of many of their best and brightest to the West. That
has not stopped, but now a reverse flow has begun, particularly to countries
like China and India and, to a lesser extent, Brazil and Russia.

Some scholars and business leaders contend that this emigration does not
necessarily bode ill for the United States. They say young entrepreneurs and
highly educated professionals sow American knowledge and skills abroad. At the
same time, these workers acquire experience overseas and build networks that
they can carry back to the United States or elsewhere -- a pattern known as
''brain circulation.''

But the experts caution that in the global race for talent, the return of these
expatriates to the United States and American companies is no longer a sure bet.

''These are the fleet-footed; they're the ones who in a sense will follow
opportunity,'' said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president of the Migration
Policy Institute, a nonprofit group in Washington that studies population
movements.

''I know there will be people who will argue all about loyalty, et cetera, et
cetera,'' he said. ''I know when you go to war, loyalty matters. But this is a
different kind of war that affects all of us.''

The United States government does not collect data specifically on the
emigration of the American-born children of immigrants -- or on those who were
born abroad but moved to the United States as young children.

But several migration experts said the phenomenon was significant and
increasing.

''We've gone way beyond anecdotal evidence,'' said Edward J. W. Park, director
of the Asian Pacific American Studies Program at Loyola Marymount University in
Los Angeles.

Mr. Park said this migration was spurred by the efforts of some overseas
governments to attract more foreign talent by offering employment, investment,
tax and visa incentives.

''So it's not just the individuals who are making these decisions,'' he said.
''It's governments who enact strategic policies to facilitate this.''

Officials in India said they had seen a sharp increase in the arrival of people
of Indian descent in recent years -- including at least 100,000 in 2010 alone,
said Alwyn Didar Singh, a former senior official at the Ministry of Overseas
Indian Affairs.

Many of these Americans have been able to leverage family networks, language
skills and cultural knowledge gleaned from growing up in immigrant households.

Jonathan Assayag, 29, a Brazilian-American born in Rio de Janeiro and raised in
South Florida, returned to Brazil last year. A Harvard Business School graduate,
he had been working at an Internet company in Silicon Valley and unsuccessfully
trying to develop a business.

''I spent five months spending my weekends at Starbucks, trying to figure out a
start-up in America,'' he recalled.

All the while, Harvard friends urged him to make a change. ''They were saying:
'Jon, what are you doing? Go to Brazil and start a business there!' '' he said.

Relocating to Sao Paulo, he became an ''entrepreneur in residence'' at a venture
capital firm. He is starting an online eyewear business. ''I speak the language,
I get the culture, I understand how people do business,'' he said.

Calvin Chin was born in Michigan and used to live in San Francisco, where he
worked at technology start-ups and his wife was an interior decorator. Mr.
Chin's mother was from China, as were his paternal grandparents. His wife's
parents were from Taiwan.

They are now in Shanghai, where Mr. Chin has started two companies -- an online
loan service for students and an incubator for technology start-ups. His wife,
Angie Wu, has worked as a columnist and television anchor.

''The energy here is phenomenal,'' Mr. Chin said.

The couple have two children, who were born in China.

Reetu Jain, 36, an Indian-American raised in Texas, was inspired to move to
India while taking time off from her auditing job to travel abroad. Everywhere
she went, she said, she met people returning to their countries of origin and
feeling the ''creative energy'' in the developing world.

She and her husband, Nehal Sanghavi, who had been working as a lawyer in the
United States, moved to Mumbai in January 2011. Embracing a long-held passion,
she now works as a dance instructor and choreographer and has acted in
television commercials and a Bollywood film.

''We're surrounded by people who just want to try something new,'' Ms. Jain
said.

For many of these emigres, the decision to relocate has confounded -- and even
angered -- their immigrant parents.

When Jason Y. Lee, who was born in Taiwan and raised in the United States, told
his parents during college that he wanted to visit Hong Kong, his father refused
to pay for the plane ticket.

''His mind-set was, 'I worked so hard to bring you to America and now you want
to go back to China?' '' recalled Mr. Lee, 29.

Since then, Mr. Lee has started an import-export business between the United
States and China; studied in Shanghai; worked for investment banks in New York
and Singapore; and created an international job-search Web site in India. He
works for an investment firm in Singapore. His father's opposition has softened.

Margareth Tran -- whose family followed a path over two generations from China
to the United States by way of Cambodia, Thailand, Hong Kong and France -- said
her father was displeased by her decision in 2009 to relocate.

''It's kind of crazy for him that I wanted to move to China,'' said Ms. Tran,
26, who was born in France and moved to the United States at age 11. ''He wants
me to have all the benefits that come from a first-world country.''

But after graduating from Cornell University in 2009 at the height of the
recession, she could not find work on Wall Street, a long-held ambition. She
moved to Shanghai and found a job at a management consulting firm.

''I had never stepped foot in Asia, so part of the reason was to go back to my
roots,'' she said.

Ms. Tran said she did not know how long she would remain abroad. She said she
was open to various possibilities, including moving to another foreign country,
living a life straddling China and the United States or remaining permanently in
China.

Her father has reluctantly accepted her approach.

''I told him, 'I'm going to try to make it in China, and if things work out for
me in China, then I can have a really great career,' '' she said. ''He didn't
hold me back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Reetu Jain, from Texas, in Mumbai, India. ''We're surrounded by
people who just want to try something new,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIARA
GOIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deporting Parents Hurts Kids

BYLINE: By HIROKAZU YOSHIKAWA and CAROLA SUAREZ-OROZCO.

Hirokazu Yoshikawa, the academic dean at the Harvard Graduate School of
Education, is the author of ''Immigrants Raising Citizens: Undocumented Parents
and Their Young Children.'' Carola Suarez-Orozco, co-director of immigration
studies at New York University, is an author of ''Crossroads: The Psychology of
Immigration in the New Century.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 713 words


LAST May, President Obama told an audience in El Paso that deportation of
immigrants would focus on ''violent offenders and people convicted of crimes;
not families, not folks who are just looking to scrape together an income.''

Two weeks ago, however, the Department of Homeland Security released a report
that flatly belies the new policy. From January to June 2011, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement removed 46,486 undocumented parents who claimed to have at
least one child who is an American citizen.

In contrast, in the entire decade between 1998 and 2007, about 100,000 such
parents were removed. The extraordinary acceleration in the dismantling of these
families, part of the government's efforts to meet an annual quota of about
400,000 deportations, has had devastating results.

Research by the Urban Institute and others reveals the deep and irreversible
harm that parental deportation causes in the lives of their children. Having a
parent ripped away permanently, without warning, is one of the most devastating
and traumatic experiences in human development.

These children experience immediate household crises, starting with the loss of
parental income. The harsh new economic reality causes housing and food
insecurity. In response to psychological and economic disruptions, children show
increased anxiety, frequent crying, changes in eating and sleeping patterns,
withdrawal and anger.

In the long run, the children of deportation face increased odds of lasting
economic turmoil, psychic scarring, reduced school attainment, greater
difficulty in maintaining relationships, social exclusion and lower earnings.
The research also exposes major misconceptions about these parents.

First, statistics about those who were deported in 2011 show that 45 percent
were not apprehended for any criminal offense. Those who were, were usually
arrested for relatively minor offenses, not violent crimes.

Second, most American-born children of undocumented parents are not ''anchor
babies''; most of the parents have lived and worked in the United States for
years before having their first child. ''Birth tourism'' is a xenophobic myth.

Finally, our studies in New York City and elsewhere show that these parents are
extremely dedicated to their children's well-being and development. Undocumented
parents typically work 12 hours a day, 6 days a week, at the lowest of wages.
Deporting them worsens the already precarious lot of their children.

A more humane deportation policy would not, as Mr. Obama pledged last May,
target those with strong family ties who posed no public safety threat.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in fact, began implementing such a
''prosecutorial discretion'' policy last fall, aimed at considering family ties
and other factors in deportation decisions and closing low-priority cases.

But preliminary data from Immigration and Customs Enforcement raise the question
of how committed the agency is to identifying and closing those cases. As John
Morton, the agency's director, testified in March, of 150,000 deportation cases
the agency has reviewed nationwide, about 1,500 -- a mere 1 percent -- have been
closed.

What does that mean for affected families? Consider Sara Martinez, 47, whose
daughter is an American citizen. Since arriving from Ecuador, Ms. Martinez has
paid her taxes, learned English and never broken a law, according to the New
York Immigration Coalition, which has taken up her case. In January 2011, she
was on a bus in Rochester with her daughter when three border patrol agents
asked her for identification. She could produce only her Ecuadorean passport,
and was arrested.

She has applied to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for prosecutorial
discretion three times and been denied, without explanation, even though she
meets new criteria for such discretion: she has close ties to the community and
is not a threat to public safety.

Ms. Martinez's six-year-old daughter has suffered from nightmares, had trouble
sleeping and eating and expressed fear that the ''police'' will come again and
take away her mother (who is not in detention while the case is pending) for
good.

The United States should not be in the business of causing untold hardship by
separating children from the love and care of their hard-working parents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Speeding Through Airport Lines

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1218 words


MORE than 10 years after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks completely altered the
airport experience, travelers have a variety of options that will shorten wait
times at security and immigration. But speedier processing has some downsides.
Some programs charge a fee, and all require surrendering such personal
information as employment background, travel history and biological data like
fingerprints.

Still, the days in which every passenger is treated as a potential terrorist are
over. As John Pistole, administrator of the Transportation Security
Administration, said recently, ''Most passengers do not pose a threat to
security,'' confirming what travelers have been saying for years.

Here is a guide to some of the options that will save you some time.

Global Entry

BEST FOR People who travel internationally several times a year.

COST $100

Last year I traveled outside the United States 10 times and, by my reckoning,
spent a total of eight hours in the immigration hall at Kennedy Airport. It was
the wraparound crowd-control line that I encountered in Terminal 4 in December
that inspired me to join Global Entry, which is run by the Customs and Border
Protection agency. The program allows travelers to re-enter the United States
with a quick stop at an electronic kiosk rather than wait in lengthy lines for
an interview with an immigration agent.

Applicants fill out an online questionnaire that takes about 15 minutes to
complete and includes consent to a background check. There are questions about
addresses, employment and travel -- past and present. After hitting the submit
button, the officials on the other end do a criminal background check and, if
approved, an in-person meeting with an agent follows.

Mine was scheduled for three weeks after my provisional acceptance, which I
received just hours after applying. I went to the Customs House in Manhattan,
the only off-airport site for interviews, where my fingerprints were taken and I
was photographed. (All 24 airports where Global Entry is in place can also
process applications.) Nothing in my background qualified me for closer
scrutiny, but sometimes agents do feel the need to ask whether an applicant has
had any customs or immigration issues in the past.

By summer, Global Entry will be operating at 26 domestic airports and 5 in
Canada. Membership is open to legal United States residents and citizens of
Mexico, Canada and the Netherlands.

Information: globalentry.gov

T.S.A. PreCheck

BEST FOR Members of American and Delta frequent flier programs.

COST Free

The upside of PreCheck, the Transportation Security Administration's trusted
traveler program, is that it is free. The downside is that it is open by
invitation only to frequent fliers on just two airlines: American and Delta.
This is not some secret club; these were the first two airlines to adapt their
passenger information systems to communicate with the agency's secure flight
database. Members must give the airline permission to share information from
their frequent flier accounts with the T.S.A.

What information is that? The agency won't say. But whatever it is, Greg Soule,
the agency's former spokesman, says it is enough for the agency to do a risk
analysis. ''It's nothing more than what would be provided as part of the
frequent flier program,'' he said. Nevertheless, the traveler's eligibility is
assessed anew for every flight.

Alaska, US Airways and United are currently working to coordinate their
passenger information systems with the T.S.A. ''We've been working with all of
the airlines to encourage participation,'' Mr. Soule said.

At present, PreCheck operates at a dozen airports, including American's base at
Dallas/Fort Worth International and Delta's home, Hartsfield-Jackson
International, in Atlanta. By the end of the year, PreCheck is scheduled to be
in 35 airports.

I'm a frequent flier on American and Delta, but my invitation must have gotten
caught in my spam filter. No matter. Like all 235,000 members of Global Entry,
I'm automatically enrolled in PreCheck. I'm anticipating an expedited stroll
through a special security checkpoint -- one in which I get to keep my shoes on
and my laptop stowed.

It is not a sure thing, however. I'll have to depart not just from one of the
select airports, but also from a terminal where space allows the T.S.A. to set
up a PreCheck line. I'll know it when I see the agency logo, and the absence of
a line.

Information: www.tsa.gov/what--we--do/escreening.shtm

Clear

BEST FOR Frequent users of the Orlando, Fla., and Denver airports.

COST $179 annually

If the T.S.A. program sounds a bit too unpredictable, there is a nongovernmental
alternative. Clear, a private traveler registration company based in New York,
promises reduced wait times to travelers by selling them identity cards backed
up with iris scans and fingerprints.

Clear members register by showing a government ID at one of the company's seven
offices in the United States and Britain and having their prints and iris scans
taken and entered into a database. Clear isn't ''clearing'' anyone, its just
issuing a chip-enhanced card that links travelers' identities to their
biometrics.

With the card, Clear members have basically automated the identity check
process. At airports with Clear card readers, passengers can bypass the T.S.A.
boarding card checker and pass, in a matter of seconds, to the regular security
screening. The process, start to finish, should take five minutes or less,
according to the company. Clear is being offered in Orlando, Denver and, soon,
San Francisco.

The biometric component makes Clear more scientifically advanced than T.S.A.'s
program, which relies on an agent's comparing photo IDs to boarding cards. The
next step for the company, according to Caryn Seidman Becker, the company's
chief executive, is to partner with the government or airlines.

Information: clearme.com/home

Other Options

Premium-class travelers walk to the head of the line -- that's been the case at
the boarding gate for a long time. Over the last few years though, airlines have
gone beyond expedited boarding for premium fliers to create priority check-in
counters and screening for anyone willing to pay the price. How much time a
traveler saves depends on how many other travelers have paid for the same
expedited experience. At only $9 on United, the premium experience may start
attracting a crowd.

Hotels have also gotten in on the act. At the Dallas/Fort Worth airport, guests
of the Grand Hyatt hotel may use the priority screening lanes, and there is a
T.S.A. checkpoint in the lobby of the Westin Detroit Metropolitan Airport hotel.

Rapid progress through security is also offered to holders of airline credit
cards. For example, American's Citi Executive credit card is $450 a year and
includes ''Enhanced Airport Experience'' benefits, so cardholders can feel like
hotshots no matter where their seats are in the cabin.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
The Practical Traveler column last Sunday, about ways to avoid waiting in
airport lines, gave outdated information about a Transportation Security
Administration official. Greg Soule, the agency's spokesman, is no longer with
the T.S.A. He left the job on April 20, after the section had gone to press.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY KOREN SHADMI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 934 words


International

U.N. OBSERVERS IN SYRIA

DO NOT DETER ATTACKS

Syrian government forces engaged in an extended game of cat and mouse with
United Nations observers, attacking cities like Hama after the monitors left and
adopting a low profile as the monitors visited the Damascus suburbs. The ability
and willingness of government forces to strike civilian centers even with
monitors in the country seemed only to confirm widespread feelings in Syria of
the futility of the mission. PAGE A4

NORTH KOREA MAKES THREATS

Although North Korea has regularly avowed to attack the government of President
Lee Myung-bak in South Korea, its threats in recent weeks have become harsher
and more specific, prompting some analysts to warn that North Korea's new
leadership might instigate a military provocation. PAGE A7

National

DEAL FOR POLICE CHIEF

TO RESIGN FALLS THROUGH

Several hours after the city manager publicly announced that he had reached an
agreement with Chief Bill R. Lee Jr. to resign over the Sanford Police
Department's handling of the Trayvon Martin case in Florida, the City Commission
voted to reject Chief Lee's resignation. PAGE A11

SLOWDOWN IN IMMIGRATION

Mexican immigration to the United States, the largest wave of migrants from a
single country in the nation's history, has stopped increasing after four
decades of surging growth and may be declining, according to a report by the Pew
Hispanic Center. The number of Mexicans leaving rose sharply in the five years
after 2005. PAGE A12

SOCIAL SECURITY'S WOES

The Obama administration reported a significant deterioration in the financial
outlook for Social Security while stating that the financial condition of
Medicare was stable but still unsustainable. PAGE A13

New York

FOR AN OLD ITALIAN GAME,

A BOOM OF SORTS

In New York, where bocce has long been found in Italian enclaves like Little
Italy, the game has increasingly spread to other neighborhoods and has been
embraced by a new generation of players, from hipsters in Brooklyn to
gray-haired ladies in the Bronx. The growing interest in bocce has spurred the
city to fix up more than a dozen courts. PAGE A17

END TO SEARCH IN PATZ CASE

Federal agents and police detectives ended their lengthy search of a SoHo
basement for evidence in the 1979 disappearance of Etan Patz, officials said, as
optimism seemed to wane that a significant break in the case was at hand. The
chief spokesman for the New York Police Department said that ''no obvious human
remains'' had been found. PAGE A17

Business

CHINA'S BIGGEST BANKS

ARE SQUEEZED FOR CAPITAL

China's banks are among the biggest and most profitable financial institutions
in the world, but the state-backed banks are also starved for capital. It may be
hard for them to raise more capital after Prime Minister Wen Jiabao called for
breaking up the monopoly held by the country's biggest lenders. PAGE B1

REGULATING AN OIL MONOPOLY

For seven decades, Pemex, Mexico's state-owned oil monopoly and a mainstay of
the government's revenue, regulated itself. But in the last few years a
commission of energy specialists has begun to question where and how the company
drills for oil, proving to be a surprisingly sharp thorn in Pemex's side. PAGE
B1

WAL-MART'S STOCK TUMBLES

Wal-Mart's stock fell almost 5 percent as investors reacted to a bribery scandal
at the retailer's Mexican subsidiary and a report that the company's
headquarters in Arkansas hushed up an internal investigation. PAGE B1

Sports

EVEN THE LITTLEST LEAGUES

COME WITH BIG PRICE TAGS

If you have not outfitted a little slugger lately, prepare for sticker shock.
The youth baseball circular for one major retailer advertises bats over $200,
and a glove for $130. The emergence of high-end junior league gear suggests that
youth baseball is yet another frontier in turning childhood into a commodity.
PAGE B11

OLYMPIC WRESTLER MARRIES

Less than 48 hours after making the United States Olympic wrestling team,
Stephany Lee married her longtime partner, Brigg McDonald. While some well-known
Olympians have come out after their athletic careers ended, Lee heads to London
as one of the few active athletes in history to publicly -- and officially --
acknowledge being gay. PAGE B11

Arts

PROWLING NEW ORLEANS

WITH GUNS AND CAMERAS

A team of bounty hunters chases down fugitives in New Orleans in ''Big Easy
Justice,'' a 10-part series on Spike on Tuesday nights. New Orleans has always
been full of colorful characters, both law-abiding and otherwise, and there are
plenty of bail jumpers to pursue. PAGE C1

SLOW-MOVING AFTERLIFE

A Hollywood hit about post-mortem romance comes to Broadway in ''Ghost the
Musical,'' at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater. Directed by Matthew Warchus, the show
relies mostly on elaborate video imagery, modestly ingenious special effects and
the familiarity of its ectoplasmic romance to entertain. Review by Charles
Isherwood. PAGE C1

INSPIRED BY SONDHEIM

The pianist Anthony de Mare, whose ''Reimagining Sondheim'' project has
commissioned 36 diverse composers to write an original solo piano work in their
own style based on a favorite Sondheim song, played 17 of these pieces in a
concert at Symphony Space. Critic's Notebook, Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1

Science Times

COUNTING THE SPECIES

ON A LITTLE PATCH OF EARTH

Rare life forms can sometimes show up on your doorstep, as a family in
Washington learned upon discovering a tiny moth that had never been seen alive
in North America. Any patch of earth, large or small, turns out to be a mad
surprise party of species and a microcosm of what is happening around the corner
and around the globe. PAGE D1

Op-Ed

DAVID BROOKS Page A21

FRANK BRUNI Page A21

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Immigration Is Off Sharply, Ending 40-Year Trend, Study Confirms

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 845 words


Mexican immigration to the United States, the largest wave of migrants from a
single country in the nation's history, has stopped increasing after four
decades of surging growth and may be declining, according to a report released
Monday by the Pew Hispanic Center.

In what the report called a ''notable reversal of the historic pattern,'' the
number of Mexicans leaving rose sharply in the five years after 2005, while the
new flow of migrants coming from Mexico into the United States fell steeply, Pew
demographers found.

For the first time in at least two decades, the population of illegal immigrants
from Mexico living in this country significantly decreased, according to the
report. In 2011, about 6.1 million Mexicans were living here illegally, down
from a peak of nearly 7 million in 2007, it said.

''We really haven't seen anything like this in the last 30 or 40 years,'' said
Jeffrey Passel, the senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center and a
co-writer of the report with D'Vera Cohn and Ana Gonzalez-Barrera. The center, a
nonpartisan research organization in Washington that does not advocate policy
positions, has provided some of the most reliable estimates for the elusive
numbers of Mexican immigrants.

Over all, the report said, about 58 percent of an estimated 11.2 million illegal
immigrants in the United States are from Mexico.

The report provides material for all sides in the fierce debate over immigration
policy. A major episode in that debate will take place on Wednesday when the
Supreme Court hears arguments over a law passed by Arizona in 2010 to expand the
powers of the local and state police to conduct immigration enforcement.

Arizona officials say that tough local enforcement measures like SB 1070, the
statute they passed, are the most effective way to curb illegal immigration
because they pressure migrants who lack legal status to return home. Immigrant
advocates say those measures serve to separate families and drive illegal
immigrants into the shadows, and they point to prolonged high unemployment in
this country as the primary reason for reduced immigration.

Mr. Passel said the data does not allow Pew demographers to say which factor was
most important in reducing the population of illegal immigrants. The report
cited a mix, including high unemployment in the United States, particularly in
the construction industry; heightened border enforcement and increased
deportations by the American authorities; and a long-term decline in birth rates
in Mexico.

The migration from Mexico that began after 1970 brought, by far, the largest
numbers of immigrants from one country in American history, the report said,
with about 30 percent of 39.6 million immigrants today having been born in
Mexico. The 12 million Mexican-born people who live in the United States --
about one in every 10 Mexicans in the world -- comprise more than all the
immigrants in any other country, the Pew report said.

The report presents a striking change from earlier findings by the Pew Hispanic
Center on the number of Mexicans who have been returning to their country. While
earlier Pew studies said the data did not show any exodus, the report published
Monday includes new data from the 2010 Mexican census revealing that about twice
as many Mexicans returned home from 2005 to 2010 than in the previous five
years. In all, about 1.4 million people moved from the United States to Mexico
in that time, the Mexican census showed.

The report cited Mexican data showing a big increase in the number of United
States citizen children with Mexican parents who were living in Mexico -- to
about 500,000 in 2010 from about 240,000 in 2000. Some of those Americans are
the children of deportees, the data suggested.

The report found that more Mexicans who were deported after coming to the United
States to work said they were not likely to try to re-enter. About 20 percent of
deportees in 2010 said they would not try to return, up from 7 percent in 2005.
Still, in 2010, six in every 10 deportees said they would try to re-enter within
seven days, according to the new Pew report.

The report did little to quell a controversy among demographers over the scope
and causes of return migration to Mexico.

Steven A. Camarota, the director of research at the Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington, a group that advocates reduced immigration, noted that he
had first reported an outflow of Mexicans in 2009. ''The evidence is very
strong,'' Mr. Camarota said, ''that there is a slowdown of people coming from
Mexico and a big increase in people leaving.''

Wayne A. Cornelius, a director of the Center of Expertise on Migration and
Health at the University of California, said that in his most recent field
research, which drew on interviews with migrants in Mexico and California, there
were no signs of increased return migration. The ''overwhelming pattern,'' he
said, ''is that migrants who have made it to the United States and found
employment, particularly if it is relatively stable despite the recession, are
hanging in there and riding it out.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Migrant workers in Mexicali, Mexico, waited to legally cross
into Calexico, Calif. Many work for $9 an hour picking crops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rubio Is Latest Possible Running Mate to Join Romney on the Campaign Trail

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 839 words


CHESTER TOWNSHIP, Pa. -- Senator Marco Rubio of Florida looked on respectfully
Monday afternoon as Mitt Romney addressed a group of reporters in a suburb of
Philadelphia. He clasped his hands behind his back, rested them on his hips and
folded them in front of him. He nodded almost imperceptibly at the appropriate
times and, later, clapped along with the crowd.

As Mr. Rubio campaigned with him on Monday, standing at his side quietly as Mr.
Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, fielded questions on illegal
immigration, he also became the latest member of the up-and-coming Republican
establishment to try out as a potential vice-presidential candidate with the
party's likely nominee.

Mr. Rubio, whose appearance in Pennsylvania with Mr. Romney set off a new series
of vice-presidential ripples, stayed relentlessly on message: ''I'm not talking
about that process anymore,'' Mr. Rubio said when asked if he believed that, as
a first-term senator, he was experienced enough to be Mr. Romney's ''No. 2, a
heartbeat away.''

Last week, Mr. Rubio rolled out plans for a compromise version of the Dream Act,
the Congressional legislation that would offer illegal immigrants brought into
the country as children a pathway to citizenship by earning a college degree or
serving in the military. Mr. Rubio's compromise would grant a nonimmigration
visa to young illegal immigrants who have graduated from high school and have no
criminal record. Once the visas are secured, they would be able to work, get an
education and decide on their own whether to begin the standard process to
become citizens. Mr. Romney has said he would veto much of the Dream Act.

But when asked about Mr. Rubio's proposal, Mr. Romney said that it ''has many
features to commend it'' and was ''something we're studying.''

And in part of an effort to win over young voters in the general election, Mr.
Romney also was careful to say that, unlike House Republicans, he supports a
temporary extension of a low interest rate on federal student loans, which
President Obama also favors.

Though Mr. Romney carefully noted that ''the process for selecting a
vice-presidential running mate is just beginning,'' Mr. Rubio did seem to be one
of a series of potential running mates who have campaigned with Mr. Romney in
recent weeks. These men and women -- including Senator Kelly Ayotte of New
Hampshire, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South
Carolina and Senator John Thune of South Dakota -- have helped him stump in
early primary states, but their presence has also given Mr. Romney the chance to
learn who is perpetually late, who might overshadow him, who relates well to him
and who, of course, is a great campaigner.

Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia flew on a small chartered plane in South Carolina
with Mr. Romney; Ms. Haley barnstormed around her home state with Mr. Romney, as
well, clocking many hours of rallies -- and face time.

Senator Rob Portman of Ohio campaigned with Mr. Romney during his state's
primary, and hosted a small dinner with members of the news media and several
Romney staff members.

Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, meanwhile, introduced Mr. Romney to
Culver's for butter burgers and chocolate malts, and exhibited all of the
telltale signs of a ''bromance''; the two laughed and riffed off each other so
frequently that Mr. Romney joked about having to deny that Mr. Ryan was one of
his sons.

Though Mr. Romney and Mr. Rubio did not share notable personal chemistry and or
the easy banter of longtime friends, they did spend some time together on
Monday. They met at the airport, and rode and chatted on Mr. Romney's bus.

Mr. Rubio said little as he stood alongside Mr. Romney during a brief,
six-question news conference during a joint appearance, but Mr. Rubio often took
the microphone after Mr. Romney, frequently echoing the candidate's answers.

When he talked about his own life story, as the son of two Cuban immigrants
whose parents' hard work allowed him to experience the American dream and become
a senator, he seemed to underline Mr. Romney's campaign themes of economic
opportunity and American exceptionalism.

''I had the privilege and the honor of being born in the single greatest society
in all of human history,'' Mr. Rubio said. ''This is who we've been, this is who
we are, and this is what we must remain, but we will not if Barack Obama is
president another four years.''

If Mr. Romney was looking ahead to November, he also had a few moments to
reminisce. When a French television reporter asked Mr. Romney for a favorite
recollection of France, where he lived as a Mormon missionary, Mr. Romney said
his ''best memories'' were with his wife, Ann.

He recollected ''the last vacation we had there, walking around the city of
Paris, and walking not just in the Champs-Elysees, but also over to the Jardin
of Luxembourg and around the city,'' and called it ''one of the most magnificent
cities in the world.''

''I look forward to occasional vacations again in such a beautiful place,'' he
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida at an event in
Pennsylvania on Monday. Speculation has risen about a potential running mate for
Mr. Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Question Use of Temporary Shelter for Children in Country Illegally

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1017 words


SAN ANTONIO -- At lunchtime, teenage boys in red and blue T-shirts stood in line
as they entered a hushed cafeteria for hamburgers and hot dogs. Just days
earlier, many of them risked their lives crossing the border from Mexico into
the United States, but now they were spending their time in spotless, orderly
rooms, with police officers ensuring their safety, registered nurses monitoring
their health and a host of board games, movies and outdoor activities keeping
them entertained.

How these children were being cared for was not unusual. Where they were being
held was -- at an Air Force base here.

Thousands of immigrants under the age of 18 are arrested every year illegally
crossing the border on their own, unaccompanied by a parent or guardian.

They often flee their countries to join relatives in the United States or to
escape abuse and neglect at home. A majority are male, 14 to 17 years old and
come from El Salvador, Guatemala or Honduras, with a smaller number from Mexico.
They are usually detained in shelters while they wait for their cases to be
resolved.

But this month, federal officials began housing 200 of these children at
Lackland Air Force Base here, turning a vacant dormitory that was once the
living quarters of basic training recruits into an emergency shelter for young
illegal immigrants.

It is the first time that this subset of immigrants -- a particularly vulnerable
population, some of whom are as young as 8 or 10 and have been physically or
sexually abused -- has been housed on a military base.

The use of the Lackland building is only temporary -- no more than 60 days,
officials say -- and in response to what federal authorities describe as an
influx of these children. But the move has raised concerns among state
officials, immigration advocates and some conservative opponents of current
immigration policy.

A federal child-welfare agency is paying the Department of Defense for using the
dormitory, including electricity and maintenance costs, though officials said
they did not have an exact dollar amount.

Several lawyers who represent unaccompanied children questioned whether using
Lackland as an emergency shelter violated a settlement agreement from a
class-action lawsuit that establishes how the federal government can treat these
children while they are in custody.

In that agreement, reached in 1997 and known as the Flores settlement, federal
authorities agreed to seek state licensing of the facilities to house these
children, in response to accusations of substandard conditions.

The Lackland dormitory has not been licensed by Texas as a child care facility,
and state child welfare officials said the building was not subject to state
regulation because it is on federal property. The Flores settlement makes an
exception to the licensed facility requirement when there is an emergency or an
influx of minors, but requires that those minors be placed in licensed programs
''as expeditiously as possible.''

Officials with the Administration for Children and Families, the federal agency
that oversees the treatment and housing of such children, said that although the
Lackland shelter was not licensed by the state, they were adhering to the
licensing standards.

Children there are provided a number of services and resources, the officials
said, including clothing, medical care, two telephone calls per week and
assistance in family reunification.

But immigration lawyers are concerned that the federal officials were unprepared
to deal with even a small rise in the number of children and that a large number
of children have yet to be transferred out of the Lackland dormitory. Since it
opened on April 16, 83 children have left, federal officials said.

''Any shelter anywhere in the country can say, 'We're not licensed, but we meet
the standards anyway, trust us,' '' said Carlos Holguin, a lawyer for the Center
for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, which is based in Los Angeles and
represented the plaintiffs in the Flores case.

''That's not the way it's supposed to work,'' he said. ''To hold 200 kids on an
ongoing basis at an Air Force base where they don't have access to counsel, that
would be a concern. That's a long time for a kid to be warehoused on the pretext
that it's an emergency situation.''

Officials with the Administration for Children and Families said the licensed
shelters in the Southwest where these children would typically be sent are at
capacity. They said 7,000 to 8,000 of these children are served annually, but
this fiscal year, the number has already reached 6,300, from October through
April. In October, 709 were added to the program. In March, new arrivals rose to
1,390.

Agency officials said they had not determined the reason for the increase.
Border apprehensions over all have declined; there were 340,252 nationwide last
fiscal year, down from 1.2 million in 2005.

Whatever the reason, it has had an impact on San Antonio. Federal officials have
opened new shelters or expanded existing ones throughout the city, turning a
former Y.M.C.A. downtown into a temporary shelter for up to 125 children and
placing up to 75 other children who may have been exposed to chickenpox at
another newly opened shelter.

Texas child-welfare officials sent a letter to federal authorities, expressing
concern that the San Antonio emergency shelters would probably not meet minimum
licensing standards.

''We're seeing emergency shelters becoming more and more of a norm because they
just don't have a plan, either to stop this at the country of origin or to
handle this once the children are here,'' Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Gov.
Rick Perry, said of the federal government. ''You're seeing them having to
scramble to mitigate the effects of having an unsecured border.''

Marrianne McMullen, a spokeswoman for the Administration for Children and
Families, said it was working to move all children into permanent, licensed
facilities as quickly as possible.

''We have 851 permanent, licensed beds coming online between now and June, and
we plan to shut down all temporary facilities over the summer,'' she said in a
statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Lackland Air Force Base dormitory being used for children who
crossed the border alone. Federal officials say there is no room at licensed
shelters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS, ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN
AND FAMILIES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Parents Are Deported

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 191 words


To the Editor:

''Deporting Parents Hurts Kids,'' by Hirokazu Yoshikawa and Carola Suarez-Orozco
(Op-Ed, April 21), highlights the trauma of children whose parents are deported.
Every day, thousands of detained and deported immigrant parents live in fear of
permanent separation from their children. This is especially true when children
enter the child welfare system because their parents are in immigration custody.

I have talked to countless detained parents with children in child welfare care,
and most tell me that they would accept deportation if they knew they could
preserve their relationship with their children. But immigration and child
welfare laws and practices do not facilitate this, prompting many parents to
return to the United States after deportation in an effort to reunite with their
children.

Congress and the administration must enact policies that uphold immigrant
parents' parental rights. Such policies would be both humane and effective,
while honoring the family values that this country holds in high regard.

EMILY BUTERA Senior Program Officer, Detention and Asylum, Women's Refugee
Commission Washington, April 22, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Arizona and Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 187 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Arizona v. United States'' (editorial, April 26):

At the Supreme Court argument on Arizona's ''show me your papers'' law, Chief
Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and the government's lawyer were wrong to suggest
that the case didn't involve racial profiling.

Arizona's law was passed to force Latinos to leave. Officers are required to
detain someone they ''suspect'' is undocumented, and the only way to do that is
based on skin color and accent. That is racial profiling.

In Alabama, where the law wasn't stopped, we saw what happens when states
require racial profiling. People, including citizens, were afraid to go to work.
Children stopped going to school. Neighbors questioned neighbors about their
citizenship. License and tax bureaus were overwhelmed. Crops rotted.

No state passed such a law this year because it's clear how un-American racial
profiling is. It is bad for business, law enforcement and everyone's basic
rights. And it undermines our society's commitment to fairness and equality.

CECILLIA WANG Director, Immigrants' Rights Project American Civil Liberties
Union San Francisco, April 30, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Backward on Domestic Violence

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 333 words


In an all-too-rare show of bipartisanship, 15 Senate Republicans joined with the
Democratic majority last month to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act,
the landmark 1994 law that is key to efforts against domestic violence, sexual
assault and stalking.

Unfortunately, the lopsided 68-to-31 Senate vote halted G.O.P. opponents only
temporarily. The House Judiciary Committee last week approved its version of the
reauthorization bill, which not only omits improvements the Senate bill made to
the law but also removes existing protections for immigrant women, putting them
at greater risk of domestic and sexual abuse.

The Senate's measure ensures that victims are not denied services because they
are gay or transgender. It also strives to ensure that domestic violence crimes
committed by non-Indian men in tribal communities are prosecuted. The Senate
bill also would modestly expand the availability of special U-visas for
undocumented immigrants who are victims of domestic violence. That move was
supported by law enforcement to encourage victims to come forward and testify
against their abusers.

The regressive House alternative removes these and other improvements, including
new protections for students on college campuses. The House measure would
eliminate a confidentiality requirement in current law that protects the
identity of immigrant women who file domestic violence complaints against a
spouse who is a citizen or legal resident and allows the women to apply for
legal status on their own.

House Republicans claim there is a big fraud problem in this area, but there is
no hard evidence of that. And their plan to end the centralized handling of
these issues by a Vermont-based office would undermine the government's ability
to detect untruthful stories.

House members on both sides of the aisle who are serious about combating
domestic violence must work to defeat this atrocious bill. If that fails, the
Senate will need to insist on fixing it during the reconciliation process.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama's Disgrace

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 456 words


Alabamians should see on Wednesday, the last day of the legislative session,
just how badly the Republicans who control the Statehouse want to continue down
the path of anti-immigrant extremism.

The lawmakers' challenge was to fix last year's terrible immigration law, House
Bill 56, which turned state and local police officers into papers-checking
immigration agents and imposed a grab bag of criminal punishments and deterrents
on undocumented immigrants and on businesses and charitable organizations that
help or hire them. The only real solution is the full repeal of the law, but
bills to do that have died.

Republican leaders have said they want to make the law more ''efficient,'' but
have vowed not to weaken it. So the question as time runs out is whether the
Legislature will approve any ''tweaks'' through a new measure, House Bill 658,
that has already passed the House, or some other bill originating in the Senate.

It may be that only the courts can rescue Alabama from itself. Some parts of the
current law are temporarily on hold awaiting the outcome of a federal lawsuit,
including the requirement that schools collect students' immigration data and
sections criminalizing ''business transactions'' by the undocumented and
nullifying contracts they enter. But other sections are still in force,
including the one directing police to check the papers of those they stop.

House Bill 658 preserves the malign intent of the earlier law and makes some of
its provisions worse. It expands the ''papers, please'' requirement to target
passengers in a stopped car as well as the driver. It doubles, to 48 hours, the
time someone can be jailed while awaiting an immigration check. It increases
jail time and fines for newly created -- and surely unconstitutional -- state
immigration crimes. It does nothing meaningful to shield from prosecution those
who ''harbor'' or ''transport'' immigrants for religious or humanitarian
reasons. As for the expense of litigation, the harm to public safety as crime
victims avoid the police, and the misery inflicted on the working poor -- all of
those ill-effects seem quite intact.

The Supreme Court recently heard oral arguments on the constitutionality of
Arizona's immigration law, whose noxious spirit and letter Alabama has copied. A
ruling in that case is expected in June, and could unleash more Arizona-style
damage in other states. Meanwhile, the two Republican architects of Alabama's
immigration law, Micky Hammon in the House and Scott Beason in the Senate, are
pressing on. And The Associated Press reported this month that Alabama farmers
are planting less and shifting to mechanized crops as the reality of an
immigrant labor shortage -- the high price of xenophobia -- sinks in.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Soviet Immigrants' Politics

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 144 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Among City's Soviet Immigrants, an Affinity for Republicans'' (news
article, May 9): As a Soviet immigrant myself, in New York since 1979, I know
this affinity from the inside and know that it is almost universal among us
regardless of cultural sophistication.

The root cause of this paradoxical phenomenon is that Soviet immigrants are the
product of the Manichaean Soviet system, with its central notion of good versus
evil. Among the very first verbalized impressions was ''too much freedom,''
meaning that there is too little control here over societal factors that are
foreign to and interfere with the notion of the ''American dream.''

And of course the liberals are responsible for too much liberty for those who
cannot handle it. This is a multisided phenomenon, but the above described is
the essence.

VALENTIN LYUBARSKY Brooklyn, May 9, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mississippi Prison on Lockdown After Guard Dies

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 390 words


A private prison for illegal immigrants in Mississippi remained on lockdown
Tuesday after a violent outbreak on Sunday that ended with the death of a guard
and 20 people injured.

The F.B.I. was investigating what caused as many as 300 inmates to riot with
broomsticks and other makeshift weapons at the prison, the Adams County
Correctional Center, in Natchez.

A gang fight grew into a prisonwide riot that lasted eight hours before armed
guards retook control, Sheriff Chuck Mayfield of Adams County said. Inmates took
more than 20 prison workers hostage. They started a fire in the prison yard. And
they attacked a guard, Catlin Carithers, 24, who later died from blunt head
trauma, officials said.

All 2,542 of the prison's inmates are immigrants, from more than 70 countries,
who are serving time for felonies before they are deported, said Steve Owen, a
spokesman for the private company that operates the prison, the Corrections
Corporation of America, of Nashville. The inmates were classified as low risk,
Mr. Owen said.

''There's a risk with any prison population,'' he said. ''You always have to be
vigilant.''

The company is the nation's largest private prison contractor, with 75,000
inmates at 44 centers. This is the second time in its 30 years that an employee
has been killed by an inmate, the company said. Seventeen prison employees and
three inmates were injured and hospitalized in the riot.

Representative Bennie G. Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi, on Tuesday called
for an investigation into the company, saying the riot ''brings into question
the effectiveness of privately owned and operated prison facilities.''

No inmates escaped during the riot. Police officers surrounded the prison
grounds while F.B.I. agents and guards tried to subdue the inmates, Sheriff
Mayfield said.

The warden, Vance Laughlin, offered to negotiate with the inmates if they
released their hostages, the sheriff said. When that failed, special teams were
sent in with riot shields and weapons called pepper-ball guns and regained
control. The warden will not publicly discuss the riots while they are being
investigated, the prison operator said.

The prison is near maximum capacity. Before the riots, Mr. Laughlin told the
local newspaper, the Natchez Democrat, that its contract allowed for 2,567
inmates, meaning it is 25 people short of the limit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Police on Sunday surrounded a Natchez, Miss., prison for
illegal immigrants, where 17 workers were injured in an uprising. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LAUREN WOOD/THE NATCHEZ DEMOCRAT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Catlin Carithers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportations Go On Despite U.S. Review Of Backlog

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1196 words


After seven months of an ambitious review by the Obama administration of all
deportations before the nation's immigration courts, very few of them have been
halted, disappointing immigrants President Obama hopes to court for his
re-election bid.

Under the review of more than 411,000 deportation cases, the first of its kind,
fewer than 2 percent have been closed so far. The numbers fall far short of
expectations raised among immigrants, including many Latinos, when top
administration officials announced they would comb through backlogged court
dockets to close cases where the immigrants had strong family ties to this
country and no criminal records.

Department of Homeland Security officials say the review has been slowed by
bureaucratic delays with criminal background checks of the immigrants. They said
many thousands more deportations could be suspended in coming months.

Immigrant leaders and Democratic lawmakers said the review was faltering because
the administration was offering too little help to too few immigrants who would
qualify. Even when prosecutors close their cases, immigrants are left in legal
limbo, without immigration status or authorization to work.

The court review is the administration's most important effort to ease the
impact on immigrant communities of tough enforcement by Mr. Obama, with more
than 1.1 million people deported in the last three years. The president has made
no headway in Congress toward an overhaul he favors to give legal status to
illegal immigrants. Latino voters could be crucial for Mr. Obama in several
contested states.

The review started in November. As of May 29, immigration prosecutors had
examined 288,361 cases, according to new official figures. To date, 4,403
deportation cases have been closed.

''It's a lot of work for not very much,'' said Representative Zoe Lofgren of
California, a leader among Democrats in the House on immigration issues.

Department of Homeland Security officials said the review had identified about
20,600 immigrants facing deportation who were eligible to have their cases
closed, or about 9 percent. Thousands of those cases have been stalled in
background checks, they said, though few immigrants have failed the checks.

By the end of the review this year, the officials said, at least that many
illegal immigrants will be offered the chance to have their deportations
suspended.

''This is a massive undertaking,'' said one Department of Homeland Security
official, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the program. ''At the
end of the day we are going to say to more than 20,000 people: 'We will not
deport you.' That is a very significant thing.''

Immigrant leaders and lawyers said excitement surged in June 2011 when John
Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, announced a
strategy shift to focus deportations on criminals and to spare illegal
immigrants with clean records. Officials said the review would trim dockets,
clearing the way for judges to focus on deporting dangerous offenders.

But with so few deportations closed under the review, it has hardly registered
in communities. ''The prosecutorial discretion policy was received with a great
sense of hope,'' said Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for
Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. ''We thought this was a way we can keep
our families together. But at this point it feels like one more failed attempt
at relief.''

The review has entailed a huge effort by prosecutors and judges. In eight major
cities so far, all regular immigration court hearings were suspended for as long
as two weeks so prosecutors could focus on the review.

Guidelines from Mr. Morton for prosecutorial discretion favor illegal immigrants
who are close relatives of American citizens, or who came to this country as
children, or who have served in the military.

When cases are closed, deportations are suspended but not canceled and
immigrants do not receive work permits. Many have declined prosecutors' offers,
choosing instead to fight in court. If immigrants win, they could become full
legal permanent residents.

According to the figures, to date 3,998 immigrants have declined prosecutors'
offers, nearly half of those who received one. Many immigrants believed they had
strong arguments to present to judges, lawyers said, and they were discouraged
by the prospect of staying in the country without being able to work legally or
obtain a driver's license and other documents.

''We have been telling the administration they are not going to get good
results, because people are not going to take this offer,'' said Gregory Chen,
director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

The administration has proceeded cautiously with the prosecutorial discretion
policy because of strong criticism from Republicans, who say it is an end-run
around Congress that rewards illegal immigrants at a time when many Americans
are struggling to find jobs.

''Any discretion granted to the president by Congress was intended to be limited
and rarely used,'' said Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican
who is chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. ''Granting a
backdoor amnesty to tens of thousands of illegal immigrants in the process of
being deported is a clear abuse of the president's discretion.''

Results of the review have varied widely in courts across the country. In
Seattle, lawyers said prosecutors had worked with lawyers to identify immigrants
who qualified for help and would be deported if they did not take it.

''It definitely had a noticeable impact here,'' said Matt Adams, legal director
of the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project. ''We have to acknowledge that it has
been a positive change.''

But in Los Angeles and Chicago, immigrant leaders said very few deportations had
been canceled. Immigrant organizations have joined with federal lawmakers and
church groups to press Department of Homeland Security officials to offer relief
to a broader group of immigrants.

Homeland Security department officials said the new figures revealed a trend
indicating that many fewer illegal immigrants who have families here and no
criminal records will end up in immigration court in the future. In a
little-noticed change of policy, they said, immigrants who apply through legal
channels for immigration status and are denied will no longer be automatically
placed in deportation. That change led to a sharp drop in new deportation cases
this year.

But Jordana Vera, a young woman from Argentina who has lived illegally in the
United States since she was 12, said she spent nine months in detention after
her arrest last July in a raid where agents were looking for someone else.
Lawyers finally convinced officials that she had committed no serious offense
and met the criteria to have her deportation halted, but only after students in
New Jersey, where she lives, staged protests.

''The system is not working,'' said Mary Meg McCarthy, executive director of the
National Immigrant Justice Center in Chicago, which represented Ms. Vera.
''Families are being separated, and we are bleeding ourselves dry to get relief
for a handful of people.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jordana Vera, in Carteret, N.J., spent nine months in detention
and faced deportation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Yes, Racial Profiling Is Illegal

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 465 words



HIGHLIGHT: Representative Steve King doesn't get the idea that law enforcement
should only concern itself with the crimes you commit, not who you are.


If you know what racial profiling is, and why it's illegal, you're a step ahead
of Representative Steve King, the Iowa Republican who believes white men face
grave exclusionary policies in Obama's America.

Last Wednesday, Nov. 30th, the immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee held a hearing on Secure Communities, the national fingerprinting
program that runs immigration checks on people booked by local cops. Immigrant
communities see it as a license for racist local officers to sweep up Latinos
based on their idea of what illegal immigrants look like. Can't imagine why they
think that.

Mr. King used the hearing to parade his notorious brand of anti-immigrant
zealotry. He asked a witness, Art Venegas, the former Sacramento police chief,
whether Congress had ever explicitly prohibited racial profiling. That was a
mistake.

Here's an excerpt from the transcript:

REP. KING:  Is there a federal statute that prohibits racial profiling?

MR. VENEGAS:  Yeah, the Civil Rights Act and the --

REP. KING:  Actually, I don't think when [they wrote] the Civil Rights Act that
they even knew what racial profiling was.

MR. VENEGAS:  -- and the Constitution and the Fourth and the 14th Amendments of
the United States Constitution prohibits racial profiling and discrimination.

And our oath of office.

But Mr. King was undaunted. A few minutes later, he tried again, this time with
Gary Mead, executive associate director of enforcement and removal operations at
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Julie Myers Wood, who ran ICE under
President George W. Bush. They didn't do as well as Mr. Venegas:

REP. KING:  And then in conclusion, can you point to any existing statute that
prohibits racial profiling?

MR. MEAD:  I can't answer that question.

REP. KING:  Could you, Ms. Wood?

MS. WOOD:  No.  I'm aware of obviously the D.O.J. guidelines against racial
profiling.

REP. KING:  A guideline is as far up the ladder as we go. Congress has never
acted on racial profiling.

MS. WOOD:  That's right.  But ICE does use those guidelines in training. That's
what I would point out.

REP. KING:  No objection, just clarifying.

No, let me clarify. Law enforcement should concern itself with the crimes you
commit, not who you are.

Race, ethnicity and skin color are never reasons in themselves for any cop to
stop and question anyone. That's a bedrock principle of American justice. Mr.
King is a big fan of the Second Amendment, which provides for gun ownership. He
might want to check out the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments and take them
seriously, too, as Mr. Venegas suggested, but as Mr. Mead and Ms. Wood sadly did
not.


     ·    Opinion Report: Public Sector Cuts
     ·    The Immigrant Fitness Test
     ·    Opinion Report: Alabama's Immigration Law
     ·    Gingrich Says the Right Thing! Film at 11
     ·    D.H.S. Responds on Deportation


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

How a Music Site Disappeared for a Year

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 643 words



HIGHLIGHT: The federal authorities closed five music sites a year ago as part of
a sweep for suspected piracy and copyright infringement. This week, one of those
sites, Dajaz1.com, was returned to its owner, a Queens hip-hop fan named Splash.



11:42 a.m. | Updated
A year ago, the federal authorities closed down five music sites as part of a
Thanksgiving weekend sweep of dozens of sites, most suspected of selling
counterfeit sports jerseys, DVDs and other goods. This week, one of those music
sites, Dajaz1.com, was quietly returned to its owner, a Queens hip-hop fan who
goes by the name Splash.

In a statement, a spokesman for the federal agency involved, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security, defended the
seizure as legal but said that the government had decided not to pursue the
case. "In the case of this domain name - out of 350 seized - the government
concluded that the appropriate and just result was to decline to pursue judicial
forfeiture," said the spokesman, Ross Feinstein, referring to the total number
of sites the agency has seized in the last 18 months.

The news of the return of Dajaz1.com was first reported on Thursday by Techdirt,
a technology news blog.

To critics of the government's decision to close Web sites to address copyright
infringement or piracy, the Dajaz1.com case serves as a warning on the dangers
of overreach. The issue has become particularly charged now that Congress is
considering legislation to give greater power to the government to crack down on
Internet piracy and copyright infringement.

Dajaz1 and the other music sites were suspected of infringing on copyrights by
posting songs before they were officially released, and they were shut down
without warning. In a detailed affidavit, a federal agent described finding
dozens of "unauthorized" songs on the sites. But people in the music industry
were quick to note that a great deal of the music on those blogs had actually
been leaked by record companies to promote new releases.

Civil liberties groups also objected to the seizures because of free speech and
due process concerns.

Splash's lawyer, Andrew P. Bridges of the firm Fenwick & West, said that the
case against his client dragged on for months without explanation. The
prosecutor assigned to the case, Mr. Bridges said, had obtained several
extensions to a court deadline to apply for forfeiture of the property, but the
orders were all sealed by the court. Finally, on Nov. 18, the lawyer said, the
prosecutor told him the government was dropping the case, but offered no further
information.

"I have never seen a piece of paper in this case, period," Mr. Bridges said.
When asked whether Splash would pursue any legal action against the government
for the seizure, he said, "He is considering his options."

Two bills proposed in Congress - the Stop Online Piracy Act in the House, and
the similar Protect I.P. Act in the Senate - would give law enforcement expanded
powers to shut down sites suspected of copyright infringement, and would also
compel Internet service providers to monitor their customers' activity and block
suspicious sites.

The bills are supported by copyright holders like the Hollywood studios and
major record labels, who complain that the authorities are ill equipped to curb
illegal sites. Technology companies, civil liberties groups and Web activists
have objected to the bills as an "Internet blacklist bill."

Dajaz1.com was reactivated this week, and it displays a video opposing the Stop
Online Piracy Act, as well as a notice in a graffiti font saying, "Dajaz1.com
will be back shortly."

Mr. Feinstein, the ICE spokesman, did not respond to a question about the status
of the other music sites' cases. But lawyers for two of the sites, the hip-hop
blog OnSmash.com and torrent-finder.com, a search engine to find media files
elsewhere on the Internet, said that they were in discussions with ICE to have
their domains returned.

Due to an editing error, and earlier version of this post failed to credit
Techdirt with first reporting the news of the return of Dajaz1.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

A Start-Up Incubator That Floats

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 785 words



HIGHLIGHT: What if you created a floating, visa-free incubator 12 miles out to
sea from Silicon Valley?


Technology gurus have long lamented how hard it is for foreign talent to secure
American visas and create start-ups here. As Congress spins its wheels with
endless debate over immigration, an ambitious venture based in Sunnyvale,
Calif., is trying to chart a more productive course aboard a 600-foot boat, or
possibly a barge.

That's the idea behind Blueseed, which aims to create a visa-free, floating
incubator for international entrepreneurs off the California coast near Silicon
Valley.

Blueseed's co-founders, Max Marty, 27, and Dario Mutabdzija, 31, envision a
seaworthy, 1,000-passenger hothouse for entrepreneurs from around the world,
moored 12 nautical miles offshore - just outside California's territorial waters
- with enough appealing amenities to make it a "Googleplex of the Sea."
Passengers could take a day trip by ferry to the mainland on temporary tourist
or business visas, returning to sleep in cabins that would rent for $1,200 to
$3,000 a month.

"Blueseed is a way to connect Silicon Valley with the amazing founders and
entrepreneurs out around the world," Mr. Marty said. "Existing visa policies
were designed for a different era. The nature of business has changed, and
what's lacking now is an avenue for people to be able to come in and create
great companies."

Peter Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal and prominent venture capitalist, signed on
recently as an investor in Blueseed. The company is currently seeking additional
investors to raise a total of $500,000 in seed capital.

"Tech innovation drives economic growth, and we need more of both," Mr. Thiel
elaborated in a written statement for this blog. "Many innovative people have a
really hard time getting visas, and Blueseed will help bring more innovation to
California with a solution that is itself as innovative as it is clever."

Mr. Thiel, a staunch libertarian, made a splash in August by contributing $1.25
million to the Seasteading Institute, a Sunnyvale nonprofit founded by Patri
Friedman (grandson of Milton Friedman, the economist) that explores the creation
of autonomous ocean colonies. He declined through a spokesman to say how much he
had invested in Blueseed.

Mr. Marty and Mr. Mutabdzija first met as directors of business and legal
strategy at the Seasteading Institute. They estimate that their current project
could end up costing $15 million, if they charter a vessel, to $40 million, if
they buy one. They hope - perhaps optimistically - to have it afloat in 2013.

Past efforts to ease immigration restrictions for entrepreneurs have seemed less
the stuff of science fiction. In February 2010, Senators John Kerry and Richard
Lugar introduced the first version of the Start-Up Visa Act, which would create
a path to citizenship for immigrant entrepreneurs who meet benchmarks for
raising capital and creating jobs. Though the bill has since been reintroduced,
it hasn't made any progress.

Champions of both Blueseed and the Start-Up Visa Act are quick to point out that
immigrants were founders of more than half of Silicon Valley's start-ups between
1995 and 2005, according to Duke University research. They add that, without
strivers from abroad like Sergey Brin and Vinod Khosla, companies like Google
and Sun Microsystems would not be part of America's tech ecosystem. (Mr. Marty's
parents are both Cuban immigrants and entrepreneurs; Mr. Mutabdzija was born in
Sarajevo.)

For Blueseed's founders, the first hurdle will be convincing potential investors
that their vision is not as far-fetched as it might seem. They believe it is a
matter of cobbling together best practices from well-explored, less exotic
territory - maritime engineering, international law - to create great
work-live-play spaces for tech dreamers. Foreign entrepreneurs, they say, are
hoping for the chance to marinate in Silicon Valley, and more than 60 of them
have expressed interest in the project through an online survey.

"I and many others are suffering over the situation that we cannot go to America
to be around these people," said Nico Schweinzer, a serial entrepreneur reached
by Skype in Graz, Austria, where he created JobGuru, an employment site, and is
building Oracly, a service that lets shoppers scan product bar codes with
smartphones to receive short reviews. "For me, it's not so much about the
investors, but more about being where you can exchange ideas and get skilled
people for your projects.

"Blueseed is a fantastic idea," he added. "You could go there and be very close
to the mecca of the tech scene."

What do you think?


     ·    Inside Our Plan to Open in Brooklyn
     ·    So You Want to Start a Business
     ·    A Start-Up Tries to Eliminate 'Food Deserts'
     ·    Starting a Teach for America for Entrepreneurs
     ·    Starting the 'Netflix of Flowers'


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday

Americans Still (Mostly) Welcome Immigrants, Survey Finds

BYLINE: JASON DEPARLE

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 464 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nearly two-thirds of Americans said the United States should admit
immigrants who were fleeing poverty, and more people said immigrants fill jobs
than take them away.


Immigration may be a hot button issue but you would not know it from the latest
public opinion survey, which shows Americans sharply critical of government
policy but still welcoming of legal immigrants.

Only 15 percent ranked immigration as one of the top two issues in the United
States; concerns about the economy ran four times as high. While 58 percent said
they worried about illegal immigration, only 18 percent called its legal
counterpart a concern.

The annual survey, by the German Marshall Fund, compares the United States and
five European countries. Concerns about immigration ran highest in Britain,
where 30 percent called it a top two issue and nearly 40 percent said levels of
legal immigration were too high. (Germans, by contrast, were surprisingly
placid, with only 11 percent calling immigration a top issue.)

The American welcome mat was not unqualified. Slightly more than half of
Americans called immigration more of a problem than an opportunity. Nearly half
said there were too many immigrants in the country, and nearly two-thirds said
that immigrants burdened social services. The survey showed a sharp partisan
divide, with Republicans much more likely to call immigration a problem than
Democrats or Independents.

Still, nearly two-thirds of Americans said the United States should admit
immigrants who were fleeing poverty, and  more people said immigrants fill jobs
than take them away from citizens.

A slight majority favored retaining birthright citizenship - the provision under
the 14th Amendment that grants citizenship to people born inside the United
States, regardless of their parents legal status. And nearly two-thirds favored
the Dream Act, which would offer legal status to some people brought to the
United States illegally as children.  That included more than half of
Republicans, whose lawmakers in Congress blocked it last year.

"The public appears more moderate and nuanced in their views than extremists on
either side," said Susan Martin, at immigration expert at Georgetown University
who served as an adviser on the project. "Frankly, there was more optimism than
I was expecting."

Nearly three-quarters of American said the government was doing a bad job of
managing the issue. But a similar share said children of immigrants were
integrating into the economy. A majority in all countries said they supported a
preference for highly educated immigrants. But all countries also showed a
preference for low-skilled immigrants with job offers, rather than high-skilled
immigrants without them.

The report can be found online here.


     ·    Across the World, Less Interest in Leaving Home
     ·    More (Wealthy) Americans Are Renouncing Citizenship
     ·    As Minority Populations Grow
     ·    More Americans Dropping Out of the Labor Force
     ·    Can Gay Marriage Save State Budgets?


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday

Immigration Wars: How to Waste Money and Treat People Cruelly

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 293 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sometimes one person's story captures a big, national issue.


We have written a lot on our editorial page about immigration policy - or rather
the lack of a coherent, comprehensive immigration policy. Sometimes big national
issues can boil down to one person's story.

Lawrence Downes, who covers immigration issues for the editorial page, pointed
out an article today by Nina Bernstein about a Mexican immigrant in Brooklyn, a
waiter named Angel, whose kidneys are failing. Dialysis keeps him alive. His
brother is willing to donate a kidney, but Angel can't get a transplant because
he is here illegally.

Hospitals won't agree to the transplant because they are not sure they'll get
reimbursed. So they want to be paid up front, with money Angel doesn't have. He
can't buy private insurance because of his pre-existing condition. And he can't
go home to Mexico without risking both his livelihood and his family. His
children are American citizens.

Instead Angel gets outpatient dialysis, which costs taxpayers $75,000 a year
because it is emergency treatment under Medicaid in New York. A transplant would
cost $100,000, end the dialysis and double Angel's life expectancy.

Ms. Bernstein talked with Dana Rohrabacher, a Republican Congressman from
California who is one of the most unreasonable anti-immigrant voices in the
House, which is really saying something.

He had a simple formula for illegal immigrants: "If they're dead, I don't have
an objection to their organs being used. If they're alive, they shouldn't be
here no matter what."

And that highlights one of the many reasons we have no immigration policy: Plain
old cold-hearted xenophobia.


     ·    Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out
     ·    Yes, Racial Profiling Is Illegal
     ·    Opinion Report: Public Sector Cuts
     ·    The Immigrant Fitness Test
     ·    Opinion Report: Alabama's Immigration Law


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday

Latinos Support Obama, Despite Deportation Policies

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 863 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a poll of Latino voters, President Obama is overwhelmingly favored
over the Republican presidential candidates.


Although Latinos strongly disapprove of President Obama's immigration policies,
which have brought high numbers of deportations, they would favor him by wide
margins over a Republican candidate in the presidential race, according toa poll
released on Wednesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group
in Washington.

The Pew poll is the first to put numbers on the growing discontent among Latinos
with Mr. Obama's immigration policies, which have  led to nearly 400,000
deportations in each of the last three years. According to the poll, 59 percent
of Latinos disapprove of the deportations; only 27 percent approve.

Yet if the election were held now, the poll suggests, Mr. Obama would win a
matchup with Mitt Romney: 68 percent of Latino voters said they favor Mr. Obama;
only 23 percent favored the former Massachusetts governor. In a hypothetical
contest with Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, Mr. Obama would win  69 percent
to 23 percent.

The survey by the Pew Hispanic Center was taken largely in November, before the
rise of the former House speaker, Newt Gingrich, in the primary polls. A
separate poll in early November by a related group, the Pew Research Center for
the People and the Press, found that Hispanic voters favored Mr. Obama over Mr.
Gingrich  61 percent to 36 percent.

The nationwide poll was conducted Nov. 9 to Dec. 7 with 1,220 adults of Latino
origin or descent.  Interviews were conducted in English and Spanish using
landlines and cell phones.  The margin of sampling error for all respondents is
plus or minus 4 percentage points; it is larger for subgroups.

Latinos are the fastest-growing minority group, and the number who have
registered to vote has grown rapidly in several states that could prove crucial
in the 2012 vote, including California, Texas, Nevada, Colorado, New Mexico and
Florida.

The Pew Hispanic poll offers some clues to why Mr. Obama's immigration policy,
which has been loudly criticized by many Latino organizations, has not done more
to hurt his standing with Latino voters.

Among registered Latino voters, immigration is not a primary concern. For Latino
voters, immigration is sixth in importance, the poll found.

Their top three issues are jobs, education and health care, the same issues
identified as most important by Latino voters before the midterm elections in
2010 and the presidential vote in 2008, Pew pollsters found. On these issues,
Latinos appear to trust Democrats more.

Almost all of the immigrants who were deported in 2010 - 97 percent - were
Hispanic, according to Department of Homeland Security figures cited by Pew, a
disproportionate number since about 81 percent of an estimated 11.2 million
illegal immigrants in the United States are Hispanic.

But awareness of those numbers and the impact of the Obama administration's
deportations is higher among foreign-born Latinos than among those who are
native-born American citizens - by 55 percent to 25 percent. The rate of
registration among foreign-born Latinos is lower, since many may not be eligible
to vote.

The Pew survey does not assess Latinos' views of the Republican candidates'
positions on immigration issues. But it finds that Latinos overwhelmingly - by
91 percent-- support legislation, known as the Dream Act, that would give legal
status to illegal immigrants who are in college. And 84 percent of Latinos said
those students should be allowed to pay state resident tuition rates at public
colleges.

Mr. Romney has forcefully opposed both policies. Mr. Perry at first spoke out in
support of a Texas law that allows in-state tuition rates for illegal immigrant
students, but more recently he distanced himself from that position. In the
Republican field, only Mr. Gingrich has supported a plan to open a path to legal
status for some illegal immigrants.

The poll indicates there is still room for Republicans to maneuver. Mr. Obama's
overall approval has dropped sharply among Latinos in the last year - to 49
percent from 58 percent. And more than half, 56 percent, of Hispanics say they
have not given much thought yet to the individual candidates in the race.

"As the election draws near and Latino voters become more informed about the
devastating effect the president's policies are having on their community, they
will increasingly look more seriously at the Republican candidate," said Alfonso
Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative
Principles, a Republican group. "And the Republican candidate only needs to get
40 percent of the Latino vote to win the election."

Mr. Obama's job-approval rating took a sharp drop down to 49 percent, from 58
percent in 2010.

The nationwide poll was conducted Nov. 9 to Dec. 7 with 1,220 adults of Latino
origin or descent.  Interviews were conducted in English and Spanish using
landlines and cellphones.  The margin of sampling error for all respondents is
plus or minus 4 percentage points; it is larger for subgroups.


     ·    Obama Team Likes Prospect of Long Republican Fight
     ·    For Romney's Rivals, New Hampshire Is Crucial
     ·    Huckabee Questions Obama Birth Certificate
     ·    Poll Shows Emanuel Ahead in Chicago Mayor's Race
     ·    Poll: Congress's Top Focus Should Be Job Creation


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Police Demographics Unit Casts Shadows From Past

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 623 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nearly 100 years ago, the authorities created maps identifying large
concentrations of certain immigrant groups as part of a state legislator's
efforts to root out socialists, communists and anarchists.


Ethnic and racial profiling by the authorities. Concerns about the true
loyalties of Americans whose roots are elsewhere. Tracking where New Yorkers of
potentially suspect racial, ethnic or religious backgrounds live.

When it comes to the question of how the New York Police Department behaves,
those steeped in local history might ask: What's new?

News reports that the Police Department has created a demographics unit to
monitor, as Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly explained, "a lot of different
communities," have provoked alarm and criticism among civil liberty advocates
who consider the program as unfairly placing entire groups of people,
particularly Muslims, under a shadow of suspicion.

While Mr. Kelly told a City Council committee recently that information was
compiled on the basis of geography, not ethnicity, concerns were expressed that
the Police Department was singling out Muslim New Yorkers.

But the unit also echoes a similar effort nearly a century ago.

In 1919, a legislative committee headed by State Senator Clayton R. Lusk
conducted a sweeping investigation into organizations and individuals suspected
of being socialists, communists or anarchists. Some people were caught
red-handed. Others suffered guilt by association. Many, including Emma Goldman,
a well-known anarchist activist, were deported to Russia.  So-called
"hyphenates" - Irish and German New Yorkers, in particular - were suspect.

In the course of its investigation, the committee commissioned maps prepared by
the New York Police Department and the State Police identifying neighborhoods in
which certain immigrants and their offspring predominated. There was no attempt
to disguise the maps as "geographic" or to conceal their purpose. They were
clearly labeled "ethnic map," prepared under the direction of a deputy attorney
general for Mr. Lusk's Joint Legislative Committee Investigating Seditious
Activities.

Mr. Lusk was a Republican from upstate Cortland who eventually became the Senate
majority leader. He later likened the New Deal to socialism and communism.

The maps identified enclaves of Germans, Irish, Russian Jews, Austro-Hungarians,
Syrians and blacks, among other groups.

Mr. Lusk addressed a patriotic rally in Carnegie Hall by the American Defense
Society at which John R. Rathom, the editor of The Providence Journal,
complained about English immigrants who declined to become naturalized citizens,
and then took a broad swipe at Irish newcomers.

"There are hundreds of thousands of Irish in this country who are not loyal, not
American and never will be American," said Mr. Rathom, who often warned of the
dangers of Bolshevism.

The maps survive in the state archives in Albany, where they were rediscovered
by Christopher Finan when he was researching his 2003 biography of Alfred E.
Smith, who was governor when Mr. Lusk was mounting his campaign.

Mr. Finan, who is the president of the American Booksellers Foundation for Free
Expression, said the maps were used by the legislative committee "to justify a
series of laws violating First Amendment rights" - loyalty tests and other
provisions - which Mr. Smith vetoed in 1920 as striking at "the very foundation
of one of the most cardinal institutions of our nation: the fundamental right of
the people to enjoy full liberty in the domain of idea and speech."

Mr. Finan said of the latest effort by the Police Department, "This mapping
exercise is as silly - and dangerous - today as it was in 1919."


     ·    Criticism of Undercover Operation Aimed at Smartphone Thefts
     ·    Mayor Says Crime Is Down in 2011, With an Asterisk
     ·    8 Charged in Death of Fellow American Soldier
     ·    Police Commissioner Criticizes Officers' Slurs Against Paradegoers
     ·    Readers Respond to the Plight of Mexican Students


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Opinion Report: Romney Lurches Right on Immigration

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 141 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Although generals in Pakistan say they don't want to govern, the military keeps
pulling the strings. No civilian government will ever succeed under these
conditions.

Health care spending in the United States increased at the slowest rate in half
a century in 2009 and 2010. It's too early to know whether the trend of slower
growth will persist after the economy improves.

There's something disheartening about a cold woodstove, so Verlyn Klinkenborg
lights his despite the mild weather.

Mitt Romney has flipped and flopped all over on immigration, but in allying
himself with Kris Kobach, architect of the nation's most radical immigration
crackdowns, he has lurched toward the extremist right.


     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out
     ·    Healthcare: What Might Have Been
     ·    Opinion Report: The Egyptian Election
     ·    The Arizona Show


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday

Cute but Tough, With a Nose for the Food in Your Bags

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 775 words



HIGHLIGHT: Izzy, a four-legged inspector armed with a keen sense of smell, is
trained to sniff out contraband food inside baggage at Kennedy International
Airport.


New York City does not lack for exotic and specialty food shops, but perhaps the
most diverse display of ever-changing imported produce can be found in what is
called the grinding room in the customs area of John F. Kennedy International
Airport's Terminal 4, the major gateway for international arrivals.

On Thursday afternoon, there was a cornucopia of hard-to-identify foodstuffs on
a large metal table in the inspection area. There was sugar cane, dusty yams,
dragon fruit and a panoply of herbs. There were strange tubers and a variety of
homemade sausages and rodent meat. There was a load of red prickly fruit, small
citrus fruits and of course plenty of mangoes.

"Everyone thinks their country has the best mangoes," said Meghan Caffery, a
United States Customs and Border Protection officer. Officer Caffery gets a
daily tour of illicit goods from her partner: a 6-year-old female beagle named
Izzy, an agricultural products sniffer dog who is something of a four-legged
first line of defense to guard against contraband items entering the country
that may be a threat to agriculture and public health.

Since it is difficult to know immediately what agricultural products carry
viruses, pests and diseases that may be harmful, Izzy is trained to whiff a wide
variety of food. Two-legged inspectors then decide what may pass through and
what must be confiscated.

But as Izzy scoots off to whiff baggage arriving on a flight from Paris, why not
let Izzy show us the drill first-hand? This is how Officer Caffery makes her
rounds, being pulled by Izzy's leash from bag to bag. Every few minutes, Izzy
sits pointedly on the floor and looks up expectantly at Officer Caffery. And now
she was doing just that, at the feet of a woman who was a passenger on the Paris
flight.

"I only have an apple," the woman said, digging in her handbag and pulling out
the fruit she received as an in-flight snack in business class.

Officer Caffery reaches into a pouch full of pepperoni treats on her waist and
slipped one to Izzy as a reward, and then marked the woman's declaration card to
notify officers to search all her bags. The woman was led off to a special
inspection area and her male travel companion waved his arms angrily.

Off to the side, James Armstrong, a Customs supervisor in the agricultural
canine unit, smiled.

"The public knows about drugs, and now post-9/11 about bombs," he said. "But
when it comes to food, they all say, 'It's just an apple.' Yes but it's coming
in from another country."

Kennedy is the busiest airport in the United States for international flights,
and about 400,000 passengers a month use Terminal 4. About 2,000 bags pass
through every hour and what Izzy can nose out during a quick ramble through the
baggage area, would take human inspectors hours to find by opening and searching
bags, said Mr. Armstrong, who rattles off a litany of import trends.

Passengers go to elaborate lengths to conceal the goods, Mr. Armstrong said,
including dousing items with perfume, or packing it with car deodorizers. People
have been known to wrap sausages around their legs or torsos.

Inspectors said that nothing surprised them anymore. They have seized dried deer
penises from China, lemon trees, roots and all, from Italy, goat heads from
Haiti, and skinned pig heads for soup, from China.

Izzy's size and demeanor make her ideal for working in crowded areas - as well
as her acute sense of smell, which is honed by constant training. At one point
on Thursday, Izzy sniffed the lingering odor in a woman's purse of a sandwich
the woman said she had eaten hours before.

Seized items are brought to the steel table in the grinding room, which has a
large opening in the middle leading down to a grinder that pulverizes and heats
confiscated goods. Contraband meat is incinerated. Samples are analyzed under
microscopes at a nearby counter and sometimes sent to a lab for analysis.

A flight from Moscow had arrived, and Izzy detected apples in the bag of a
Russian woman who had arrived with her family for a vacation. Oleg Gelfand, a
Customs agricultural specialist who speaks Russian, opened their bags and pulled
out plastic bags of herbs. Medicinal herbs, the family said. Then he pulled out
cans in bubble wrap. The salmon caviar was O.K., he said, but the potted beef
was seized.

Another Russian passenger's bag was opened and an inspector pulled out a pair of
white figure skates. Inside were thick horse-meat sausages. Those were also
seized.


     ·    Answers From a Dog Expert: Part 2
     ·    Answers from a Dog Expert
     ·    Q. and A. With William Berloni: Which Doggy in the Window?
     ·    What Are the Best Dogs for City Living?
     ·    Complaint Box | Patter by Proxy


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

G.O.P. Council Member to Switch Parties

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR and DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 673 words



HIGHLIGHT: Even as a Republican, Councilman Peter Koo had held moderate,
sometimes liberal, views on issues, particularly those involving immigration.


5:13 p.m. | Updated And then there were four.

Peter Koo, one of only five Republicans on the 51-member City Council, is set to
announce early next week that he will switch parties to become a Democrat,
according to people briefed on the decision.

Mr. Koo was elected in 2009 from the Queens district previously represented by
John C. Liu, a Democrat who is now the New York City comptroller. His election
came as a bit of a surprise - at least to people who live outside Flushing -
because the district is strongly Democratic. But Mr. Koo, who spent more than
$277,000 of his own money and received the endorsement of Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg, is a well-known community leader and has been called "mayor of
Flushing" by some.

An immigrant from Hong Kong who built a successful chain of pharmacies in
Flushing, Mr. Koo has carved out a reputation as a centrist on the Council. He
has staked out moderate or liberal positions on social issues, supporting a
Council bill to make it more difficult for federal authorities to deport
immigrants from Rikers Island and endorsing a state bill that would provide
college tuition assistance to illegal immigrants.

But Mr. Koo has also been a strong supporter of initiatives to bolster small
businesses and has expressed concerns, in the past, with versions of a so-called
living wage proposal that would require business in certain projects that
receive taxpayer money to pay more than the minimum wage to employees.

A spokesman for Mr. Koo would neither confirm nor deny on Thursday that the
councilman had been telling political leaders he would change parties. But Mr.
Koo has reached out to Representative Joseph Crowley, the Queens Democratic
Party chairman; Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker; Assemblywoman Grace
Meng; and other Democratic officials in anticipation of an announcement on
Monday.

Mr. Koo has crossed party lines in his support for candidates. He endorsed a
Democrat, Assemblyman David I. Weprin, in a special Congressional election last
year for the seat previously occupied by Anthony D. Weiner; Mr. Weprin lost to
Bob Turner, a Republican.

Mr. Koo has also been a strong supporter of Mr. Liu, who is considering a run
for mayor, and was listed as a bundler of donations in Mr. Liu's recent campaign
finance filing - though for a relatively small amount: $7,200.

There were differing accounts, from people familiar with his decision, about his
motivation. Some said that he did not feel appreciated by the Queens Republican
party and that infighting in the county organization had made him increasingly
uncomfortable. One person who had been briefed on his decision said Mr. Koo
believed that as a Democrat, he could get more city money for his district,
could increase his odds of becoming a Council committee chairman and could do
more to support aspiring Asian-American politicians in the city.

"It's so hard to be a Republican in this town," said the person, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because Mr. Koo was not publicly discussing his
decision until Monday.

The five on the Council make up the largest Republican contingent since the
mid-1990s, when for a time there were seven.

Councilman James S. Oddo of Staten Island, the minority leader, would not
confirm Mr. Koo's change of party, but, in a text message, he described him as
"a gentleman."

"He is and will continue to be my friend whatever party affiliation he chooses,"
Mr. Oddo wrote.

Philip Ragusa, the chairman of the Queens Republican Party, was not aware of Mr.
Koo's plan when asked about it by a reporter.

"Well, I'm disappointed, to tell you the truth," Mr. Ragusa said.

He said he would like to speak to Mr. Koo and find out his reasons.

"Everybody's a citizen, is an American, and they can follow whichever party they
want," he said. "I think he's making a mistake, but that's my opinion."


     ·    Councilman Won't Run for Fossella's Seat, Leader Says
     ·    Election Reflects New Dynamic in Brooklyn and Queens
     ·    A Republican in Enemy Territory
     ·    Republicans Win 2 Council Races in Queens
     ·    Koslowitz Will Return to City Council


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

English Proficiency Classes Shrink as Demand Climbs

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 562 words



HIGHLIGHT: The shortage in state-financed English-language classes for adults
could undermine the state's economic growth, researchers report.


Every year, New York State attracts more and more immigrants from around the
world seeking new jobs, new opportunities, new lives. Many of them, not
surprisingly, arrive not knowing how to speak English well, inhibiting their
search for work and their ability to assimilate.

But as the demand for English-language courses has soared, the supply has
dropped, according to a report issued Thursday by the Center for an Urban
Future, a research institute based in Lower Manhattan.

Between 2005 and 2009, the number of adults in New York State who spoke English
"less than very well" grew by 6 percent, to about 1.7 million from about 1.6
million, the report said, citing Census Bureau figures. But during the same
period, the reach of specialized state-financed language classes decreased: In
2009, only 4 percent of New York's adults with low English proficiency were
enrolled in English for Speakers of Other Language classes, down from 5 percent
in 2005, the report said.

This widening gap between demand and supply could have far-reaching economic
consequences for New York, the report said. The shortage  "threatens the state's
ability to tap the skills of immigrant entrepreneurs and workers to strengthen
local economies," said the report, which is titled "Bad English."

The lack of programs offering English classes is becoming a problem across the
state as a growing number of communities experience a sharp increase in their
immigrant populations, including jumps in Albany, Dutchess, Erie, Onondaga and
Rockland Counties, the report said.

But the most severe drop in the capacity of the state-financed programs was in
the New York metropolitan area. The  number of adults in the city lacking
English proficiency rose by 3 percent between 2005 and 2009, to about 1.3
million from about 1.2 million, while enrollment in English-language classes
dropped 6 percent, the report said.

In  Westchester County, the English-deficient population rose 3 percent from
2005 to 2009 as enrollment in English classes fell 15 percent, the report said.
Meanwhile, the  number of adults lacking English proficiency on Long Island rose
by 12 percent while enrollment in English classes plunged 25 percent.

The authors of the report said a decline in state financing was "the most
significant cause" of the drop in enrollment. Adjusting for inflation, they
said, state allocations for English for Speakers of Other Languages programs
have dropped every year since 1995, when the state capped financing for the
largest adult literacy program, Employment Preparation Education, at $96
million.

But the researchers at the Center for an Urban Future also found some
encouraging developments. Even though a smaller percentage of adults lacking
English proficiency are receiving state-financed language education, innovations
in the state's Education Department have resulted in greater achievement among
those adults who are enrolled.

The rate at which English-language students climb at least one literacy level
increased to 55 percent in 2010, up from 38 percent in 2005, the report said.

"Nevertheless, the growing unmet demand for ESOL instruction is a cause for
great concern," the report said. "Increasing English instruction capacity would
almost certainly yield benefits for the state economy."


     ·    Complaint Box | Pre-Ponderance
     ·    Land of Lonely Tongues
     ·    Speaking the Language of School Control


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Opinion Report: The Transfronterizos

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 156 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Just as Americans visit the Old World in search of their roots, tourists are
showing up at the Brooklyn Historical Society, in hopes of tracking down their
grandparents' neighborhood ties in the New World.

Newt Gingrich, an insider whose personal wealth and political experience are
entirely creations of Washington, cast himself as the anti-establishment
candidate in South Carolina. Oddly, this deception worked.

Every weekday morning, young Mexican-American "transfronterizos" cross the
border from Tijuana to Chula Vista to attend school.

The latest report from the Council on Jobs and Competitiveness went too far in
the direction of the Republican political agenda, drawing the ire of the panel's
two union members.


     ·    Opinion Report: Romney Lurches Right on Immigration
     ·    Immigration Wars: How to Waste Money and Treat People Cruelly
     ·    Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out
     ·    Yes, Racial Profiling Is Illegal
     ·    Opinion Report: Public Sector Cuts


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Councilman Switches to Democratic Party

BYLINE: MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 411 words



HIGHLIGHT: Peter Koo, an immigrant from Hong Kong, said he had been lured by the
influence of the Democratic leadership in Queens, but added that the
anti-immigrant tenor of the national Republican Party had also played a role.


Republicans, a rare breed in New York City politics, may now qualify for the
endangered species list.

Peter Koo, a councilman from Queens who was elected as a Republican in 2009,
officially defected to the Democratic Party on Monday, reducing the Republican
contingent on the Council to four,  or 7.8 percent of its 51 members.

Mr. Koo, an immigrant from Hong Kong who started a chain of pharmacies in
Flushing, said he had been lured by the reach and influence of the Democratic
leadership in his borough. But he also said that the anti-immigrant tenor of the
national Republican Party had played a role in his decision.

"They can do more, surely they can do more to attract different minority groups
to join the party," Mr. Koo said, when asked about the policies of the
Republican candidates  for president. "So far, they haven't done enough."

He spoke of his support for the Dream Act,  federal legislation that would make
it easier for some illegal immigrants who arrived in the country  as minors to
become permanent residents. The bill is vociferously opposed by many of the
leading Republican presidential candidates.

"People have come here for so long," Mr. Koo said. "We are supposed to have a
way for them to stay here, instead of turning our back to them and forcing them
to go back to their countries."

"It's not fair to them," he added. "I understand how hard it is to be a
newcomer."

Mr. Koo is known as a centrist on the Council, and as a businessman, he often
takes positions traditionally held by more conservative politicians. But he has
actively sought to protect the rights of the city's immigrants.

At his announcement on Monday, Mr. Koo was surrounded by top Queens Democrats,
who described his defection as a "a New Year's gift," referring to the Chinese
New Year, which began on Monday.

Rory I. Lancman, a Democratic state assemblyman from Queens, joked that he had
been surprised when Mr. Koo had initially sought office as a Republican. After
all, Mr. Lancman said, "he's a nice guy, he likes people, he likes the immigrant
community."

The line drew hearty laughter from the crowd, and, later, Mr. Koo made his own
confession: "From the beginning," he said, "I am always a Democrat at heart."


     ·    G.O.P. Council Member to Switch Parties
     ·    Criticism of Undercover Operation Aimed at Smartphone Thefts
     ·    Council Will Not Require Mayor to Disclose Travel
     ·    Council Members Call for Change to Marijuana Possession Law
     ·    The Guilty Pleasure of a Drive Through Central Park


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Carpetbagger)

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

A Nominee Toasts His Good Fortune

BYLINE: MELENA RYZIK

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 464 words



HIGHLIGHT: Raise a glass of tequila to Demian Bichir -- that's what he'd want
you to do.


"I'm already drunk!"  Demian Bichir announced when he called the Bagger from
Mexico City on Tuesday morning, just a few hours after becoming a best actor
nominee for his turn as an undocumented immigrant and gardener in "A Better
Life."

"I have the best selection of tequila in this house," Mr. Bichir continued. "And
it's gone."

No wonder he was celebrating: Mr. Bichir's nomination was something of a
surprise, though he did also earn a nod from the Screen Actors Guild. But "A
Better Life," the story of an immigrant father and son set in East Los Angles
and directed by Chris Weitz, was not widely seen. Mr. Bichir's  nomination may
help it find an audience. "We lost the first round at the box office," he said,
"and we have this new chance. We've been getting so much attention our hopes are
growing and growing that people will be going to iTunes and Netflix and
downloading the film."

In taking on the role and in discussing his nomination, Mr. Bichir made sure to
mention the 11 million undocumented immigrants who live in the United States,
and whose struggle - to fit in, to count -- he hoped would be encapsulated by
the film.

"It's not a political issue, it's a human issue," he said. "It's just stupid to
think that we don't need these 11 million human beings around us. They're not a
new enemy, as many politicians call them. They help our lives to be easier and
happier every day. There's not an activity in everyday life where an
undocumented worker isn't involved."

That includes, in some cases, Oscar voting, the Bagger told Mr. Bichir. Some
Academy members have admitted that they have their household staff help them
fill out  ballots. "No way," he said. "No way! Really? That is crazy. I only
hope they see everyone's films, and they are fair."

Mr. Bichir, a big star from a  in Mexico and who now calls Los Angeles home, was
in Mexico City rehearsing a play, an adaptation of the Kevin Spacey film
"Swimming With Sharks." He has Mr. Spacey's role, that of a venomous Hollywood
agent, and his brother Bruno will direct. The play has a short run, and Mr.
Bichir cannot afford cancellations, even for awards ceremonies, but he has a
ready understudy: his other brother, Odiseo.  "No one else could do that but a
real brother," he said.

In the meantime he is looking forward to meeting his fellow nominees, stars like
George Clooney and Brad Pitt.  "I haven't met anybody," Mr. Bichir said, "I'm
going to go to the SAG ceremony this Sunday, and I hope to see some of them
there and tell them how much I admire their work."

And perhaps have a drink with them. He prefers his tequila straight.

"And if it's silver, that's my thing," he said. "Hopefully they have some of the
good stuff. I might bring my flask. I can't trust catering in any other place.
You gotta bring your own."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday

Newt Gingrich Gets a Grilling on Univision

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 695 words



HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich is aggressively courting Hispanic voters in Florida.


MIAMI -- Where was Jorge Ramos when John King and Juan Williams needed him?

Mr. Ramos, a journalist for the major Spanish-language television station
Univision, subjected Newt Gingrich to one of his toughest interviews of the
campaign, pressing him on nuances of his immigration policies, his former wife's
accusation that he sought an open marriage and his attacks on the news media at
debates in which he flayed Mr. King, of CNN, and Mr. Williams, of Fox News, for
their questions.

Mr. Gingrich is aggressively courting Hispanic voters in Florida and he has
scheduled several events before the primary on Jan. 31 focused on Hispanic
issues, including a speech on Latin American policy.

But Mr. Ramos noted that in a poll released Wednesday by Univision, ABC News and
Latino Decisions that matched Mr. Gingrich against President Obama, a vast
majority of Hispanic voters chose Mr. Obama.

"You would lose the general election with these numbers," he warned.

Mr. Gingrich's policy proposals for the 11 million illegal immigrants in the
country are a shade more moderate than those of some of his rivals.

Asked what he thought of Mitt Romney's idea that illegal immigrants would
"self-deport" if they are denied jobs and services, Mr. Gingrich snorted, then
answered, "I think you have to live in worlds of Swiss bank accounts and Cayman
Island accounts and automatic $20 million a year income with no work to have
some fantasy this far from reality.''

He accused Mr. Romney of lacking "concern for the humanity of the people who are
already here."

But when Mr. Ramos pressed him on why, if he were compassionate, he did not
support the Dream Act, which would offer some illegal immigrants brought to this
country as children a path to citizenship - President Obama called on Congress
to pass the bill in his State of the Union address on Tuesday -- Mr. Gingrich
said he was for "half the Dream Act," giving citizenship to people who enlist in
the army.

Mr. Ramos said that two million students were brought to the country as children
by illegal-immigrant parents and that Mr. Gingrich favored policies "punishing"
them.

"They can go to college," Mr. Gingrich demurred. "I wasn't suggesting we run
around and try to deport them. I have suggested that if they want to become
citizens, they can join the military."

Mr. Ramos asked why Mr. Gingrich has attacked the news media for asking about
his former wife's accusation that he asked her to tolerate an adulterous affair.

"Do I blame you for asking? No, let me explain," Mr. Gingrich said, and he went
on to say he had been angry at ABC News for interviewing his former wife,
Marianne Gingrich, while not interviewing people the Gingrich campaign suggested
would rebut the account. His campaign fought with ABC for equal time "because
it's a lie," he said. "It's not true."

Mr. Ramos then suggested that Mr. Gingrich had been hypocritical, as House
speaker, to lead impeachment proceedings against President Bill Clinton over the
Monica Lewinsky affair at a time he himself was in an adulterous relationship.
"At the same time you were doing exactly the same thing," Mr. Ramos said.

Mr. Gingrich pushed back, making the case that Mr. Clinton was impeached for
lying under oath, a felony, not for an extramarital affair.

"I understand," Mr. Ramos said, "but people think that's hypocritical to
criticize President Clinton for doing the same thing that you were doing at the
same time."

"O.K., there is some place there where there's a mental synapse missing," Mr.
Gingrich said. "I didn't do the same thing. I never lied under oath, I have
never committed perjury, I have never been involved in a felony - he was."

In pursuit of Hispanic support, Mr. Gingrich started a Spanish news site, and he
has taken Spanish lessons. Mr. Ramos began the interview, excerpts of which will
be broadcast by Univision, one of the top five broadcast networks, by addressing
him in Spanish.

"I speak pidgin Spanish," Mr. Gingrich said. The interview was conducted in
English.


     ·    Gingrich Threatens to Skip Debates if Audiences Can't Participate
     ·    Pro-Romney Group Makes Post-Iowa Ad Buy
     ·    Romney's Spanish Ad
     ·    2008: Debates and Cover Stories
     ·    Univision Postpones G.O.P. Debate


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday

Romney Defends Stance on Immigration

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 250 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney angrily rejected Newt Gingrich's accusation that he is
"anti-immigrant," calling it "very sad" to resort to epithets.


MIAMI -- Mitt Romney on Wednesday angrily rejected Newt Gingrich's accusation
that he is "anti-immigrant," calling that a personal attack that is out of
bounds.

"It's very sad for a candidate to resort to that kind of epithet," Mr. Romney
said at a candidate forum sponsored by Univision. "We don't attack each other
with those kind of terrible terms. I am not anti-immigrant. I'm pro-immigrant."

Mr. Romney defended his proposal for "self-deportation," saying that if illegal
immigrants were no longer able to find work they would voluntarily decide to go
back to their home country.

He said that by criticizing his proposals before the same group, Mr. Gingrich
was pandering for Hispanic votes,.

"It's very tempting to come into an audience like this and to pander to the
audience," Mr. Romney said. Later, Mr. Romney took the opportunity to recognize
Mel Martinez, a former senator from Florida.

Jorge Ramos, who interviewed Mr. Romney, pressed him on his wealth and on his
taxes, and asked him directly how much money he had.

"Between 150 and 200 some-odd million," Mr. Romney said, looking a bit
uncomfortable and referring Mr. Ramos to the financial disclosure reports that
his campaign has filed.

Mr. Ramos noted that Mr. Romney's father was born in Mexico and asked whether
Mr. Romney could claim to be Mexican-American.

"I don't think people would think I'm being honest if I said I was
Mexican-American," Mr. Romney said, laughing. But he added: "I would appreciate
it if you could get that word out."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday

Gingrich Ad Faulting Romney on Immigration Stirs Furor

BYLINE: GERRY MULLANY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 191 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Spanish-language radio ad run calling Mitt Romney "anti-immigrant"
draws wide denunciations from Florida's Hispanic leaders.


Newt Gingrich faced a rising chorus of demands Wednesday that he pull a radio ad
that calls Mitt Romney "anti-immigrant." In a letter released by the Romney
campaign, Hispanic leaders said the ad was "untrue, offensive and unbecoming a
candidate for the Republican nomination for president."

The Miami Herald reported Wednesday that the Gingrich campaign was pulling the
ad. But it has already been up for roughly a week.

The ad calls Mr. Romney "the most anti-immigrant candidate."

The letter from Hispanic leaders supporting Mr. Romney, including former Senator
Mel Martinez, said:

"For a Republican candidate for president to reinforce President Obama's attacks
on Republicans is counterproductive, and damaging to the national dialogue on
immigration issues. It will also help President Obama get re-elected."

The ad also drew condemnation from Senator Marco Rubio, who said it was
"inaccurate, inflammatory and doesn't belong in this campaign." Mr. Rubio has
said he is neutral in the race.

The flare-up occurred as three of the candidates - Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich and
Rick Santorum - were courting Hispanic voters ata Univision forum in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Latinos on the Economy: Hard Hit but Hopeful

BYLINE: NICK CORASANITI

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 36 words



HIGHLIGHT: Our colleagues over at the Economix blog explain why, as Mitt Romney
and Newt Gingrich battle it out in Florida for Latino votes, jobs and the
economy, rather than immigration, are the leading issues for many Latinos.


Our colleagues over at the Economix blog explain why, as Mitt Romney and Newt
Gingrich battle it out in Florida for Latino votes, jobs and the economy, rather
than immigration, are the leading issues for many Latinos.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (The 6th Floor)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Could Marco Rubio Solve Mitt Romney's Hispanic Problem?

BYLINE: ANDREW GOLDMAN

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1015 words



HIGHLIGHT: A lot has changed since I interviewed Senator Marco Rubio of Florida
on the morning of Jan. 17. That evening Newt Gingrich unleashed theatrical
opprobrium upon John King, and Mitt Romney went from presumed nominee to
bloodied establishment candidate.


A lot has changed since I interviewed Senator Marco Rubio of Florida on the
morning of Jan. 17. That eveningNewt Gingrich unleashed theatrical opprobrium
upon John King, and Mitt Romney went from presumed nominee to bloodied
establishment candidate. Rubio's home state of Florida, which votes Jan. 31, has
become, pick your metaphor - ground zero, Armageddon, The Last Exit To
Somewheresville - for both candidates.

The young, dreamy-for-a-pol senator long vowed to withhold his endorsement. But
Rubio has tipped his hand a few degrees. Earlier this week, he trumpeted
Romney's conservative bona fides and blasted the Gingrich campaign. So even
though Rubio continues to blow off speculation he'll be in the V.P. slot, he
seems to be cementing a special friendship with Romney, who, as you'll see in
the following outtakes from my Talk column, will undoubtedly encounter some
issues with Hispanic voters that Rubio could help sort out.

In debates, Mitt Romney tacked so hard to the right on immigration that some
have said he cost himself the Hispanic vote - which he will need to take Florida
in the general election. Can Romney win it back?

I'm not going to do the political analysis on immigration. I think ultimately
whoever the Republican nominee is will become president and confront the reality
that the status quo in our immigration system is not sustainable. We need a
functional guest-worker program so that when there is the need for seasonal
labor, that there's a way for people to enter this country legally for a defined
period of time. But we cannot just give citizenship to 9 million to 11 million
human beings in this country without the proper documentation.  It rewards
people who have not done it the right way and serves as a magnet for people in
the future to do the same thing. On the other hand it's not reasonable to ask
the United States government to help round up and deport nine million people.

During the last presidential election, Mitt Romney offended the Cuban-American
community in Miami by saying onstage, "Patria o muerte, venceremos," which was
Fidel Castro's signoff for many years.

Obviously someone helped prepare that speech and gave him bad advice. I don't
think anyone walked out of there thinking that somehow Mitt Romney was a
supporter of Fidel Castro. I don't think that's going to be an issue for him.

In the same speech, he also referred to you as "Mario Rubio."

I think Mario is much more common than Marco. He's not the first or the last one
to do that.

There has been a great deal of consternation among Hispanics that you don't
support the Dream Act, which provides a path to citizenship for the children of
illegal immigrants. The conservative columnist Ruben Navarette wrote: "Marco
Rubio is the Republican Party's Superman. And the immigration issue, if not
handled correctly, is his kryptonite."

The Dream Act is the wrong way to do the right thing. There is support helping
out these kids in this country who were brought here at a very young age
illegally through no fault of their own, who have something to contribute to our
country. But the Dream Act is not the right way to do it, because it leads to
issues of chain migration and other things like that. Sure, 85 percent of the
Hispanic/Latino voters support the Dream Act because to them the Dream Act is
symbolic of an effort to help these kids who find themselves in this
predicament. But the specific bill, the Dream Act, has things in it I don't
think can gain majority support.

On "Face the Nation" last July you said that unemployment has risen
significantly under Obama, and the only way we could solve our budget crisis was
by getting people back to work and contributing taxes. In December, unemployment
was down to a two-year low of 8.5 percent. By the election, how low would that
number have to be to demonstrate that Obama has actually succeeded by your
measure?

I think what you're looking for is long-term trends that show that there's
growing confidence and permanency in the economy. I'm not going to root against
the economy. I'd much rather have unemployment go down than win elections. I
think the fact that we've gone two years without a new stimulus package, without
a new health care bill has been helpful to some extent in helping this happen,
but part of it is just the resiliency of the American economy.

But you very clearly blamed the president for the poor shape of the economy. You
seem unwilling to give him any credit at all if there's an upswing.

Hold on a second. What I said is everyone needs to be judged by their record,
and the record is clear. When his party controlled the Senate and the House, he
could have passed any public policy he wanted, and what he asked for was the
health care law and the stimulus package, and both of those have failed to turn
our economy around. The public-policy decisions that president has made have
actually slowed down this recovery. If you look at similar downturns in the
American economy, the steeper the decline, the steeper the recovery. That has
not been the case here, and in many ways the recovery has been stagnated by
uncertainty in the tax code, by the rhetoric out of Washington, by the nastiness
and the back and forth of the entire political culture.

Considering you once vowed to end partisan squabbling in the Florida House and
recently said you're not interested in playing the role of attack dog, I was
surprised to see you on TV refer to the "Democrat Party." You know Democrats
consider it an epithet, right?

Why is it an epithet? I didn't even know that.

It's actually been considered derisive since at least 1940. I looked it up. You
really had no idea it drives them crazy?

No, that's silly. I don't believe in partisanship for the sake of partisanship,
but I think there are dramatic differences between the parties on key issues
including the role of government. There's nothing wrong with having an energetic
debate about those issues.


     ·    More From the Bin Ladens' American Confidante
     ·    DVD Extras From the Barbara Sinatra Interview
     ·    Mo' Mamet, Mo' Mamet
     ·    The Truth About Sharon Stone and Wes Craven


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            January 30, 2012 Monday

Helping Unlicensed Chinese Contractors by Bridging the Language Gap

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON and JEFFREY E. SINGER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 918 words



HIGHLIGHT: There are countless Chinese immigrant contractors performing home
improvement projects without a city license, according to teachers preparing
contractors to take the licensing test.


If New York City's licensing test for home improvement contractors were given in
Chinese and included the finer points of bamboo scaffolding, contractors like
Gary Lin, 42, of Queens would breathe much easier taking it.

Mr. Lin worked on bamboo platforms while working in construction in Changle, his
home city in the Chinese province of Fujian. Now, despite speaking very limited
English, he is trying to start a legitimate home improvement company in
Flushing, which is rife with unlicensed contractors.

And since the city does not allow bamboo scaffolding - and currently does not
offer the test in Chinese - Mr. Lin found himself in a new class with about 20
other Chinese immigrants one recent Saturday preparing for the city-administered
test for a home improvement contractor license, a requirement for contracting
with a homeowner to do work like repairs, renovations and remodeling.

The class, offered by the Queens Economic Development Corporation, is aimed at
familiarizing contractors with the test, which is administered by the city's
Department of Consumer Affairs and consists of 30 multiple choice questions. It
is offered in English, Spanish, Korean and Bengali.

Starting in February, the test will also be available in Chinese, city officials
said.

To Nicholas Hardie, who teaches Mr. Lin's class in Mandarin, the change is long
overdue. The classes, which cost $100, are part of a pilot program to explore
ways of addressing challenges faced by immigrant entrepreneurs. Mr. Hardie, a
Wisconsin native, said he believed that there were an enormous number of Chinese
immigrant contractors in Queens working without city home improvement licenses.

"A main reason is the language barrier," said Mr. Hardie, who said he had
arranged with Department of Consumer Affairs officials to take groups of
students from two of his classes for the test next month.

He said that his students would be ready to take either the English or the
Chinese test, and that he was helping them with the application process, which,
among other things, demands proof of liability and disability insurance, and
workman's compensation insurance.

In response to a listing for the class , 78 Chinese immigrant contractors
inquired, Mr. Hardie said. But many opted not to take the class or the exam
because they thought the language barrier would make passing the test
impossible. Of the 37 who registered, most have either been working as employees
or have been working for cash under the table, he said.

Burton Hung, a developer and licensed contractor in Queens who volunteered to
help Mr. Hardie teach the class, said that oftentimes a Chinese immigrant
contractor would save money to buy a van and tools and then hire day laborers.

"If you don't speak English, you can always hire people to speak English, so you
can work outside the Chinese community," said Mr. Hung, who worked in
construction as a child and after immigrating to the United States started as a
small contractor and eventually earned a master's degree in business. But
unlicensed contractors have to dodge authorities, and they often get bargained
down on prices. And they find it much harder to work under the heavy scrutiny in
Manhattan for higher-paying jobs.

At a class on Jan. 21, about 6 of the 20 students could speak some English.

Mr. Hardie explained to them how to collect a deposit and give a written
estimate, how to draw up a contract and how to legally cancel one. He covered
the finer points of certificates of occupancy and charging sales tax, as well as
complying with sanitary, fire and health regulations.

He handed out Chinese translations of the contractor's exam and license
information, as well as translations he made of previous tests.

Mr. Hardie said that, in the past, some contractors who spoke no English still
managed to pass the English-language test by memorizing earlier test questions
and also by training themselves to recognize key words, phrases and numbers.
Adopting this technique, he taught students how to spot such clues.

For example, the mention of $200 in a question most likely refers to the rule
that a license is not necessary for jobs paying less than that amount. And the
number six in a question may refer to the number of years a contractor must keep
contracts on file. The number three may very likely refer to the number of days
a contractor must wait between signing a contract and beginning work.

On the subject of contracts, one worker, Kevin Zhang, 36, who immigrated to
Flushing four years ago, held up his phone and asked if the contracts could
simply be recorded, instead of written. No, Mr. Hardie said.

One of the other Chinese immigrant students was Rose Lu, who owns United
Structure Solution, a metal shop in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that has many
large contracts and 10 full-time employees. Ms. Lu said she wanted a home
improvement license in order to do interior work at a hotel because the license
covers lodging establishments.

Ms. Lu said many unlicensed Chinese contractors in Brooklyn and Queens operate
as fly-by-night operations.

"A van can bring in a lot of laborers, but there's no address, no sense of
responsibility," she said, adding that more licensing would help legitimize
things.

"The more people who know what they're doing, the better," she said.


     ·    The Lam Family of Ludlow Street
     ·    Police Demographics Unit Casts Shadows From Past
     ·    8 Charged in Death of Fellow American Soldier
     ·    Readers Respond to the Plight of Mexican Students
     ·    For an Immigrant, a Shrinking Business and a Maze of Obstacles


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Carpetbagger)

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Demian Bichir on What It Means to Be American

BYLINE: MELENA RYZIK

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 191 words



HIGHLIGHT: "A Better Life's" star, Demian Bichir, and director, Chris Weitz,
weigh in on immigrants' rights.


"The Help" is not the only movie this Oscar season that deals with
still-relevant issues of race, class and the political landscape. There's also
"A Better Life," which earned its star Demian Bichir asurprise best actor
nomination (and a  fun, tequila-filled morning of celebration). In the film,
directed by Chris Weitz ("American Pie," "About a Boy"), Mr. Bichir plays an
undocumented Mexican immigrant struggling to make a place for himself and his
son by working as a gardener around Los Angeles.

Though it hasn't made much of a dent at the box office (along with most of the
other nominees this year ), "A Better Life" has been embraced by advocates for
immigration rights. Jose Antonio Vargas, the former Washington Post writer who
last year in a moving story for The New York Times Magazine, has started a
nonprofit, nonpartisan group called Define American  and a related video series,
modeled after the "It Gets Better" campaign, in which people do just that. Mr.
Bichir, a Mexican star who now lives in Los Angeles, supplied his own
definition,  as did Mr. Weitz, whose family comes from Europe and Mexico.


     ·    A Nominee Toasts His Good Fortune


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Choice)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday

Worker Firings at a California College Spur Immigration Debate

BYLINE: LILY ALTAVENA

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 377 words



HIGHLIGHT: An intense debate of immigration policy embroils Pomona College after
17 illegal immigrants working in the dining halls are fired.


Pomona College, one of the lauded Claremont Colleges in California, has come
under fire for dismissing 17 dining hall employees because they could not
produce proof of legal residency. Students and school officials alike are
questioning whether dismissing the workers betrays the school's liberal ideals.

Jennifer Medina elaborates:

The dining hall workers had been at Pomona College for years, some even decades.
For a few, it was the only job they held since moving to United States.

Then late last year, administrators at the college delivered letters to dozens
of the longtime employees asking them to show proof of legal residency, saying
that an internal review had turned up problems in their files.

Seventeen workers could not produce documents showing that they were legally
able to work in the United States. So on Dec. 2, they lost their jobs.

Now, the campus is deep into a consuming debate over what it means to be a
liberal college, with some students, faculty and alumni accusing the
administration and the board of directors of betraying the college's ideals. The
renewed discussion over immigration and low-wage workers has animated class
discussions, late-night dorm conversations and furious back and forth on alumni
Listservs. Some alumni are now boycotting donating to the college, while some
students are considering discouraging prospective freshmen from enrolling.

For the last two years, many of the dining hall workers had been organizing to
form a union, but the efforts stalled amid negotiations with the administration.
Many on campus believe that the administration began looking into the employees'
work authorization as a way to thwart the union effort, an accusation the
college president, David Oxtoby, has repeatedly denied. But that has done little
to quell questions and anger among the fired workers and many who support their
efforts to unionize.

Pomona is the second Claremont College to come under scrutiny this week, after
years of SAT data tampering at Claremont McKenna were revealed.



     ·    What the New Dean at Pomona Looks for in an Essay
     ·    Seeking Your Questions on the Big Decision
     ·    One Dean's Perspective on the Common Application
     ·    Viewing College as a 'Joyful Celebration,' as Yet Unaffordable
     ·    A Sheaf of Rejections, But Still 'Fabulous'


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (The Fifth Down)

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday

N.F.L. Says to Leave Mace and Sticks at Home

BYLINE: BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 346 words



HIGHLIGHT: In hopes of increasing security at the Super Bowl, the N.F.L. has
released a list of items banned from Lucas Oil Stadium. So fans will have to
leave their Frisbees at home.


As at any major event, security is a top concern at this year's Super Bowl. It
is an issue that should be taken seriously by everyone. But that doesn't mean
there is no opportunity for humor.

For instance, the list of banned items at this year's game includes the standard
items like weapons, fireworks and mace. But it also has the following:


     ·    Poles, Sticks (Apparently the N.F.L. does not recognize the holiday of
          Festivus.)
     ·    Cans, Hairspray (Are they unaware that the Giants play in New Jersey?)
     ·    Umbrellas (This one seems fair since the game is being played in a
          stadium with a roof.)
     ·    Frisbees (This, apparently, is why people have nicknamed it the No Fun
          League.)


Fans can bring cameras, but cannot bring cases for them. They can bring
binoculars, but those similarly will have to be unprotected. No camcorders will
be allowed, but since virtually every camera and phone manufactured at this
point can shoot video, it's unclear how they intend to prevent people making
videos.

It is not just security at the game that the N.F.L. is concerned with, as the
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Thursday that a raid of
fake merchandise had seized more than $4.8 million in fake N.F.L. merchandise
and shut down 307 Web sites over the last few months.

Proving that in sports people count everything, the total haul of counterfeit
goods was 42,692 items of fake Super Bowl memorabilia and an additional 22,570
items representing other sports leagues.

The raid was called Operation Fake Sweep by I.C.E., and you have to assume that
whatever government official came up with that name was quite proud.

Finally, on Sunday the airspace above Lucas Oil Stadium will be restricted
during the game, so it is unclear if there will be any F-18's doing a flyover.
The concept may seem ridiculous, as the stadium has a roof, but that did not
stop them from doing one over Cowboys Stadium last season.


     ·    The QB Files: Tom Brady vs. Terry Bradshaw
     ·    Whither 'Sweet Child O' Mine'?
     ·    The QB Files: Tom Brady vs. Troy Aikman
     ·    Faulk Has Fans in High Places
     ·    Confident Rolle Is Out of the Prediction Game


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            February 12, 2012 Sunday

On Ellis Island, Examining Those Who Arrived Before and After

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 723 words



HIGHLIGHT: When a museum opens in 2013, an exhibition will trace the story of
the 200 million American immigrants who came by other routes.


Officials of Ellis Island estimate that as many as one in three Americans can
trace their ancestry to immigrants who landed there from overseas.

Now, the officials are focusing on the other roughly 200 million newcomers who
arrived in the United States before Ellis Island opened its doors or after it
stopped becoming a portal for immigrants. The national historic site in New York
Harbor is halfway through a transformation into a more inclusive National Museum
of Immigration.

"The Ellis story is a finite story; American immigration is continuing," said
David Luchsinger, the National Park Service superintendent who oversees the
island and the Statue of Liberty.

And Stephen A. Briganti, president of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation, said, "If we didn't tell the current story we would be obsolete in
25 years."

As part of a $20 million project privately financed by the foundation, 20,000
square feet, comprised of a former railroad ticket office and offices for Park
Service staff, are being converted into a new museum that encompasses the story
of immigration from the 16th century through today. The first phase, which
covers 1550 to 1892, when Ellis Island began operating as an immigration
station, opened informally last fall. The second phase, which focuses on the
period after 1924-, when strict quotas on foreigners were imposed and the island
was used primarily as a detention center-, and especially on the influx
following World War II, is scheduled to open about a year from now with a formal
ceremony to celebrate the new museum.

Improvements to the main building's exhibition space also include a digital
"flag of faces" - photographs of immigrants that people can submit online - and
a giant globe that will trace patterns of immigration through history.

Ellis Island draws about two million visitors a year, and even more are expected
this year while the interior of the Statue of Liberty is closed for structural
renovations.

"The government originally wanted to get rid of it," Mr. Briganti said of its
outpost on Ellis Island. "No one was going to let the statue go, but this place
well could have disappeared."

About 12 million immigrants passed through Ellis Island over three decades.
Planning for restoration began in 1984. The first year was spent pumping warm
air into the buildings to dry them out after years of exposure to the elements.
Later, the main building was renovated. Records of arrivals of 25 million
foreigners were computerized and can be searched online. The new museum is
replacing a bare-bones exhibit that was considered thin and anachronistic.

"We wanted it to be accurate, not mythical," said Mr. Briganti, a former junior
high school history teacher whose grandparents arrived through Ellis from Naples
a century ago.

The first phase is titled "Journeys: The Peopling of America 1550-1890." Guided
by a panel of historians and designed by Edwin Schlossberg's ESI Design, it
features translucent panels and video screens that explain why people left their
homelands, how they got here (voyages took weeks, even on steamships), how they
were dispersed across the country in immigrant enclaves (more than half of those
who came through Ellis Island did not remain in metropolitan New York), and how
they struggled and survived to build America.

The exhibition also explores the experience of slaves who arrived involuntarily
(a panel for children asks: "How would you feel if you were taken from  your
family and sent to a strange country?") and a narrative of the American Indians
whom immigrants displaced.

The panel of historians recruited by the foundation also mined history for
controversies that resonate today. Among them were illegal immigration (paupers
were deported under a 1794 Massachusetts law; Chinese immigrants were excluded
in 1882) and bilingualism (German was considered a second language; in the late
18th century, Congress considered requiring that all government documents be
published in English and German).

"I hope," Mr. Briganti said, "that people who visit will leave with an
appreciation of what immigrants have done for this country."


     ·    New York, Bastion of the Occult
     ·    Namath Reflects on His Immigrant Forebears
     ·    Statue of Liberty's Crown Will Reopen July 4
     ·    Seinfeld's Back Story, About Something
     ·    Thanks for the Ellis Island Memories ... Bob Hope?


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday

Opinion Report: Charter Schools

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 128 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Despite studies showing that charter schools are often worse than traditional
schools, the organizations that oversee charters are hesitant to shut them down.

President Obama's latest budget proposes cutting the Microbiological Data
Program, which tests fruits and vegetables for disease.

New York City still has not cleaned up its preposterous way of counting votes,
even though it got new electronic voting machines in 2010.

Wednesday night's debate in Arizona will be a good time to ask the Republican
candidates hard questions about immigration.


     ·    The Cost of a Bloody Florida Battle
     ·    Opinion Report: The Transfronterizos
     ·    Opinion Report: Romney Lurches Right on Immigration
     ·    Immigration Wars: How to Waste Money and Treat People Cruelly
     ·    Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday

Arizona Tip Sheet: Must-Reads From a Political Pro

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 239 words



HIGHLIGHT: All you need to know to understand Arizona politics before Tuesday's
primary, from Chip Scutari, a veteran political reporter turned Republican
consultant.


The competitive and high-profile Michigan primary has blocked some of the
sunlight from Arizona's contest on Tuesday, which will probably lead to a bigger
delegate haul because of its winner-take-all allocation rules. And the primary
is hardly a lock for Mitt Romney, whose own advisers have been grumbling about
his approach to the state.

Chip Scutari (@cscutari), the Republican part of a bipartisan political
consulting firm in Phoenix, and before that a veteran political reporter for The
Arizona Republic, has assembled this list of must-read articles as a primer on
Arizona politics.


     ·    "Giffords Had Quick Political Rise; Future Unclear," The Arizona
          Republic, Jan. 22, 2012


     ·    "Obama Announces Education Initiatives at White House Science Fair,"
          The Caucus, Feb. 7, 2012


     ·    "How Undocumented Immigrants Helped Change Phoenix's City Council
          Race," The Phoenix New Times, Jan. 19, 2012


     ·    Editorial - "60 Executives Say 'No' to More Immigration Bills," The
          Arizona Republic, March 16, 2011


     ·    "Pearce's Ouster Viewed as Cautionary Tale for Immigration Hawks," The
          Arizona Capitol Times, Nov. 11, 2011


     ·    "$20 Million to Boost Fund for Affordable Living Near Light Rail," The
          Arizona Republic, June 2, 2011


     ·    "Claims, Missteps May Crack Arpaio's Political Armor," The Arizona
          Republic, Dec. 17, 2011


This tip sheet is available "to go" on our Election 2012 mobile app, which
features this and more of the best handpicked political coverage from around the
Web.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday

A Criminal Virus Born of Russia and the Soviet Past Spreads

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 356 words



HIGHLIGHT: A sprawling conspiracy to scam insurance companies in New York is
traced to the city's Russian-speaking immigrant community, raising uncomfortable
questions.


A network of immigrants from the former Soviet Union conspired to steal more
than a quarter of a billion dollars by manipulating the insurance laws in the
state of New York, reports William K. Rashbaum.

Another chapter in the story of the dark side of globalization, this criminal
enterprise - the largest example of its kind of insurance fraud in U.S. history
to come to light - did not rely on modern technology like money transfer scams
or stealing credit cards' electronic imprints. This scam relied simply on
exploiting insurance laws in a state that awards drivers and passengers of
vehicles registered in the state benefits of up to $50,000 per person for
injuries they suffer in accidents, regardless of fault.

In the piece, law enforcement officials and academics attempt to explain why the
Russian-speaking immigrant community in New York City has been connected to
complex criminal schemes in frequency greater than their numbers. "Most
immigrants from the former Soviet Union involved in health care in the United
States are law-abiding, and would be offended at the impression that such
schemes help to create," Willie reports. "Still, some experts in law enforcement
and academia believe that the cumbersome Soviet system, with its thicket of
strictures that governed almost every aspect of life, effectively helped to
groom a generation of post-Soviet criminals in the United States."

Willie reports that there is a global network of grifters and criminals that
take advantage of the free movement of people across borders, one of the
hallmarks of our age: "it is not just immigrants from the former Soviet Union.
Organized crime groups in Russia and other former Soviet republics currently
send people with no criminal records to the United States, Western Europe and
other places, where, with seed money, they will operate fraud schemes for a year
or two before returning."


     ·    Much Ado About 'Mandatory' Turkish Health Insurance
     ·    Putin Offers to Save Europe From Decline and Irrelevance
     ·    Who's Pulling the Strings in the Middle East? Little Qatar, Says
          Syria.
     ·    An Increasingly Insecure Geneva
     ·    Russia's Reasons for Saying 'No' on Syria


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday

Grand, Old and Anti-Woman

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 572 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Democrats want to expand and renew the Violence Against Women
Act. The Republicans don't.


Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska got it half right on Tuesday when she told her
Republican colleagues that their party was at risk of being painted as
anti-woman. It would be more accurate to remove the hedges and say flat out that
the G.O.P. is anti-woman.

There's really no other conclusion to reach from the positions Republican
lawmakers, and the contenders for the party's presidential nomination, have
taken on contraception, abortion and reproductive health services, including
their obsession with putting Planned Parenthood out of business.

Republican opposition to expanding the Violence Against Women Act certainly
won't help the party's reputation. That law, which provides federal money to
investigate and prosecute domestic violence, has had broad bipartisan support
since it was enacted in 1994. Congress renewed it in 2000 and 2005 without
struggle.

This year, Senate Democrats have revised the law to include LGBT victims of
domestic violence, dating violence and sexual assault. New provisions would also
allow more immigrant victims to claim temporary visas. The latest version has
five Republican co-sponsors, but it failed to garner a single Republican vote in
the Judiciary Committee last month.

Despite what Republicans might say to the press, the Democrats did not dream up
these changes to infuriate their opponents-they were responding to calls from
groups that help victims of domestic violence.  A 2010 report from the National
Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs detailed a woeful shortage of services for
LGBT violence victims - including scarce access to shelters. An expanded
Violence Against Women Act would reflect the reality of American life in the
21st century - when gay men and lesbians actually get married and illegal
immigrants cannot merely be deported or wished away.

Naturally, certain out-of-control right-wingers are eager to fight over this
bill. Phyllis Schlafly said last month that it promoted "divorce, breakup of
marriage and hatred of men." Because, I guess, women whose husbands are beating
them should stay in those relationships and just try to work it out. Or maybe
because if we provide assistance to lesbian women whose girlfriends beat them
up, straight women will hate their boyfriends. (Honestly, what is the logic
here?)

But Congressional Republicans are scared of another tussle. They are bleating
that it's not fair to attach these provisions in an election year, because
voting them down would make Republicans look bad. Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of Alabama, put it this way: "I favor the Violence Against Women Act
and have supported it at various points over the years, but there are matters
put on that bill that almost seem to invite opposition," he said.

They only invite opposition if you are ant-immigrant or homophobic.

Including same-sex couples in domestic violence programs would not diminish
their value for couples of opposite genders in any conceivable way. And giving a
battered illegal immigrant woman a temporary visa is not a threat to national
security.

The real agenda here is obvious: If a federal bill recognizes that there is such
a thing as domestic violence in same-sex families, then that implicitly
recognizes the legitimacy of those couples and that could lead - gasp - to
giving them actual rights.


     ·    Mississippi Madness
     ·    At Least Grover Norquist Is Consistent
     ·    Opinion Report: Super Tuesday
     ·    Santorum's Woman Problem
     ·    Opinion Report: Charter Schools


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday

Discovering a New Photo, Perhaps, of Ellis Island's Annie

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 500 words



HIGHLIGHT: After a three-year investigation, a genealogist who was instrumental
in rediscovering Annie Moore, the first immigrant at Ellis Island, says she is
convinced that a photograph is indeed Annie and her brothers Anthony and Philip.



Annie Moore seems to resurface every St. Patrick's Day, the poster child of
immigration to America. Arriving in New York with her two younger brothers in
1892, the "little rosy-cheeked Irish girl" was the first foreigner greeted at
the nation's new immigration station on Ellis Island.

She was immortalized in song, in bronze statues in New York Harbor andin
Ireland, and in the name of a bar near Grand Central Terminal. But for more than
a century, the real Annie Moore had been lost to history, until 2006 when
genealogists discovered that she had not gone to Texas where she was crushed
under the wheels of a streetcar, as had long been believed, but lived as a poor
immigrant on the Lower East Side until her death in 1924.

Family members found two photographs, which have been identified as a more
mature Annie Moore, but none of the youngster who was presented with a $10 gold
piece by the superintendent of immigration when she alighted on Ellis Island.

Now, after a three-year forensic investigation,  Megan Smolenyak Smolenyak, a
genealogist who was instrumental in rediscovering Annie Moore, says she is
convinced that a photograph found in an album donated to Ellis Island officials
by the family of its first superintendent, John B. Weber, is indeed Annie Moore
and her brothers Anthony and Philip.

She also says that Annie was 17 when she arrived, not 15 as had been reported
earlier.

"I offered $1,000 to anyone who could prove me wrong" -- in one of her columns
on The Huffington Post --  "and got not a single taker," Ms. Smolenyak Smolenyak
said.

Barry Moreno, a respected historian for the National Park Service, demurs.
"There is not the slightest shred of evidence that the picture is anything other
than a commonplace shot of a foreign girl and her two brothers at the Barge
Office," he said.

The Barge Office was the immigration station at the Battery where Weber worked
before Ellis Island opened.

But Ms. Smolenyak Smolenyak, who had teamed up with Brian G. Andersson, a former
city records commissioner, to find the real Annie, argues that the clothing and
physical appearance of the three figures in the foreground; the contrast with
other figures in the background (most of the arrivals on the liner Nevada were
Russian and German Jews, while only eight were Irish); the architecture of the
room; the juxtaposition on the same page of the album of another photo which
appears to be of Ellis Island; and the fact that Weber was among the officials
who greeted Annie all suggest that the trio is Annie Moore and her brothers.

Moreover, a forensic expert who compared that photograph with the two later
images of her said he found "no inconsistencies" and concluded that "it is
likely" they are of the same individual.

Decide for yourself.


     ·    O'Bama Shirt Gets More in Touch With Irish Roots
     ·    To Irish Eyes, an Error in the 'O'Bama' Campaign
     ·    On Ellis Island, Examining Those Who Arrived Before and After
     ·    Love, Bacon, and a Bit of Ireland
     ·    At Tammany Hall, Irish Bosses Ran a Well-Oiled Machine


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday

After Camps, New Horizons

BYLINE: SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 301 words



HIGHLIGHT: Pete Pin spent five months photographing a small Cambodian community
in the Bronx. For him, the work is personal: he was born in a refugee camp in
Cambodia.


Pete Pin spent five months last year photographing a small Cambodian community
that has settled in the Bronx. The quiet photographs - of a woman cutting green
beans on the floor, of a man walking in winter's first snow - are part of a
long-term project documenting Cambodian refugees in the United States.

For Mr. Pin, 29, the work is intensely personal. He was born in a refugee camp
in Cambodia. His parents spent years in labor camps. He doesn't know the names
of his grandparents, who died, along with 1.7 million others, under the Khmer
Rouge.

"I'm looking at the aftermath, how a community rebuilds after something like
this," he said.

As Cambodians look to strike a balance between adopting American customs and
holding fast to values from home, they face the same struggles as many immigrant
groups.

But the death toll during the Khmer Rouge's regime, from 1975 to 1979, sets
their experience apart. The killing fields form the inescapable backdrop to the
photos and the lives they depict, even if the horrors linger offstage.

"No one talks about it," Mr. Pin said. "When I interview Cambodians, I never
mention that history."

But the repercussions can be seen in the photographs. One focuses on an
identification card from a refugee camp; another shows an old man lost in
thought at twilight. A fuzzy television screen, flanked by family photos and a
miniature American flag, is broadcasting a Khmer Rouge trial.

Mr. Pin describes his photographs as existential, an effort to understand the
incomprehensible story of what happened to this group. "I will always feel
disconnected," he said. "That's the case with everyone in my generation."


     ·    'Missing Arms, Legs, Fathers and Mothers'
     ·    Inside a Cambodian Building, a Feeling
     ·    New Deal Utopias
     ·    On the Cliffs, a World Apart
     ·    In Brazil, Finding Dignity in Horror


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Opinion Report: Supreme Health

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 150 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Senator Marco Rubio is floating a stripped-down version of the Dream Act, which
offers legalization but not citizenship to young unauthorized immigrants who
attend college or serve in the military.

In ruling on the constitutionality of requiring most Americans to obtain health
insurance, the Supreme Court faces a central test: will it recognize limits on
its own authority to overturn well-founded acts of Congress?

A Federal District Court judge has ruled that the Environmental Protection
Agency exceeded its legal authority when it revoked a permit for a mine in West
Virginia.

Israel's Supreme Court ruled this week that Migron, an illegal outpost built by
Israeli settlers, must be dismantled by Aug. 1.


     ·    Opinion Report: Romney Lurches Right on Immigration
     ·    Public Work, in Private
     ·    Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out
     ·    The Politicization of the Solicitor General
     ·    Opinion Report: The Anti-Injunction Act


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Tortilla Factory Owner Arrested Over Business Practices

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 537 words



HIGHLIGHT: The 2011 death of a worker at his Brooklyn factory sullied the
reputation of Erasmo Ponce, who had become a symbol of immigrant success within
the city's Mexican population.


 The owner of a Brooklyn tortilla factory where a worker died after falling into
a mixing machine has been arrested on charges of underpaying employees,
falsifying business records and violating workers' compensation and unemployment
insurance laws, the authorities said on Wednesday.

The owner, Erasmo Ponce, faces 26 felony counts and 23 misdemeanor counts,
according to a complaint filed in Brooklyn Criminal Court by Eric T.
Schneiderman, the state's attorney general. Mr. Ponce surrendered to the
authorities on Tuesday and was arraigned and released without bail, his lawyer
said.

Mr. Ponce, a Mexican immigrant, declined to comment on the charges, but his
lawyer, Manuel Portela, said he did not think the case merited criminal
prosecution.

"We've been trying to resolve this case on an administrative  level," Mr.
Portela said, adding that his client "wants to resolve it and move forward in a
way that is fair and equitable."

Mr. Ponce's company, Tortilleria Chinantla, has been operating under the
investigative glare of state and federal officials since Jan. 24, 2011, when
Juan Baten, a Guatemalan worker at his tortilla factory in Bushwick, died after
falling into a large machine used to mix tortilla dough. Mr. Baten was crushed
in the machine's churning mechanism.

Several days later, state officials shut down the factoryafter discovering that
the company had been operating without workers' compensation insurance for
nearly a year.

The state eventually allowed the factory to reopen, but in July 2011, the
federal government cited the company for workplace safety violations carrying
fines of more than $62,000. The most serious violation, deemed "willful,"
involved the failure of the company to install a barrier on the mixer to prevent
employees from coming into contact with its fast-moving machinery.

Ted Fitzgerald, a spokesman for the federal Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, which conducted that investigation, said Wednesday that the
tortilla company had contested the citations and penalties and that the case was
still pending.

Mr. Baten's death and the ensuing investigations have darkened the reputation of
Mr. Ponce, whose life had followed the classic trajectory of the striving,
up-by-the-bootstraps immigrant.

Mr. Ponce was poor when he moved to the United States from Mexico in 1989 and,
after a few years of doing manual labor and saving money, he started a small
tortilla-making vending business in New York. Within a decade the company grew
into a national enterprise with revenue of several million dollars a year.

His success made him one of the wealthiest and most influential members of the
city's growing Mexican diaspora, and he burnished his reputation by donating to
various social and political causes in the New York region and in Mexico.

While he declined to speak on Wednesday about the new set of charges against
him,  Mr. Ponce chatted enthusiastically about a ceremony he was hosting on
Saturday to christen a new mural on his factory's facade. It depicts a workers
laboring in a cornfield, he said, and has been popular with the neighbors.

"I am working well with the community," he said.


     ·    Man Dies in Bronx After Being Pinned by Construction Equipment


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday

After 4 Years, Woman Accused in Baby's Death Leaves Rikers

BYLINE: JEFFREY E. SINGER and COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 817 words



HIGHLIGHT: Li Ying, a Chinese immigrant who has been accused in the shaken-baby
death of her daughter, was released on bail to await her trial.


A Rikers Island correction officer looked confused on Wednesday morning when a
group of Chinese immigrants - trailed by a crush of reporters from local Chinese
news outlets - arrived to pick up an inmate who had been in the jail for four
years.

"Four years, really?" the guard said, leaning back and wiping his hand over his
face skeptically, perhaps because Rikers Island is primarily intended for short
stays, with most inmates typically staying no more than three months.

But Li Ying, 26, a Chinese immigrant who is charged in connection with the
shaken baby death of her daughter Annie, has remained in the jail since her
arrest in March 2008. She is awaiting trial along with her common-law husband
and Annie's father, Li Hangbin, 27, who is also charged in the case. It was the
subject of an article in The New York Times in January.

Ms. Li was released on bail from Rikers Island on Wednesday, after a Queens
judge reduced her bail on Tuesday from $250,000 to a $10,000 bond.

The Lis are to be tried together in Queens, but a date has not been set.
Prosecutors say Mr. Li inflicted horrific injuries upon Annie on Oct. 22, 2007;
she died in a hospital five days later. He is charged with second-degree murder,
and if convicted, faces 25 years to life in prison. He remains in jail.

Ms. Li is charged with second-degree manslaughter and endangering the welfare of
a child, accused of failing to promptly call 911 when Annie became unconscious.
Her charges carry a maximum 15-year sentence.

The Lis say that they called 911 immediately after Annie, who was 2 months old,
lost consciousness while being fed. She was rushed to a hospital and died there
five days later.

After a five-month investigation, the Lis were arrested and have remained on
Rikers Island while their trial has been delayed because of language
differences, changes in lawyers and extensive court hearings.

In the past year, prosecutors have several times offered Ms. Li a chance to be
set free if she pleaded guilty to the charges. She has refused the plea deals,
she said, because she is adamant about proving her innocence in court.

The case has generated intense interest in the Chinese immigrant community in
Flushing, where the Lis lived with Annie. Michael Chu, a Flushing travel agent
and local activist, helped raise money and awareness for the couple. He used
some of the contributions to pay Ms. Li's bail.

According to the charges, Annie most likely died from the trauma of shaken-baby
syndrome, which occurs when a baby is repeatedly and violently shaken, causing
brain damage. Her injuries included a massive skull fracture from two
"non-accidental" blows that also caused brain damage, hemorrhaging and eye
injuries, as well as two broken legs and a fractured rib that had not fully
healed, according to prosecutors.

The Lis' lawyers argue that Annie's autopsy showed no fractures to Annie's
spinal cord and neck, and they say they hope to prove that the child suffered
from osteoporosis imperfecta, a condition that can cause weak bones.

When Ms. Li was arrested, she was pregnant with a second child. She gave birth
to a daughter while incarcerated and named her Nianni, whose name in Chinese
means "Remember Annie." Nianni has remained in the care of a friend of the Lis',
Zhou Meizhen, 59, who has been taking Nianni regularly to visit Ms. Li in jail.

After her release on Wednesday, Ms. Li was taken by Mr. Chu and Ms. Zhou to pick
up Nianni, who is now 3, at a Flushing day care center. Then they headed to Mr.
Chu's travel agency in Flushing, which has become a headquarters for supporters
of the Lis who believe the couple's poverty, lack of connections and
unfamiliarity with the United States justice system made them vulnerable targets
for prosecutors.

Regarding the supporters, Ms. Li said, "I don't know what I would do without
them -- I am so touched by how much everyone has done to help me."

She called her mother in China and sat with Nianni on her lap and ate a
traditional Fujian meal of rice noodles topped with two hard-boiled eggs, a dish
meant to symbolize overcoming hardships.

Ms. Li said that the city's child welfare agency had banned her from seeing
Nianni without supervision.

Ms. Li said she would begin working immediately at a nail salon to help support
Nianni and pay her debts. Tears came to her eyes when she said she hoped to
visit Annie's body, which is buried in a small pine box in a mass grave on Hart
Island.

Asked why it took so long to get her bail reduced, she said, "It's not fair --
why did they take until now to look into my case?"

An earlier version of this post stated erroneously that Li Ying and Li Hangbin
were arrested on Oct. 22, 2007.


     ·    Helping Unlicensed Chinese Contractors by Bridging the Language Gap
     ·    The Lam Family of Ludlow Street
     ·    Police Demographics Unit Casts Shadows From Past
     ·    8 Charged in Death of Fellow American Soldier
     ·    Readers Respond to the Plight of Mexican Students


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Goal)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

U.S. Denies Visa Renewal for Red Bulls' Rodgers

BYLINE: JACK BELL

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 386 words



HIGHLIGHT: The U.S. government on Friday denied a visa renewal to Red Bulls
striker Luke Rodgers.


The Red Bulls are in the market for another striker after the United States
government quashed the visa renewal for the English striker Luke Rodgers. The
league's transfer period end April 15.

In a statement Friday, the club said: "After going through the entire
immigration and appeals process, Luke's P-1 visa application has unfortunately
been denied by the U.S. government for now. We have spoken with Luke about
potential options and have mutually decided that it would be in all parties'
best interests to terminate his current M.L.S. contract so he could play
elsewhere. However, we will also continue to track his progress this year while
working with immigration officials with the goal that he could join the Red
Bulls sometime in the future."

Rodgers had been in limbo since early this year as he attempted to return to
Major League Soccer after scoring nine goals for the Red Bulls last season and
energizing the offense. He quickly became a fan favorite at Red Bull Arena for
his feisty nature. In the past, Rodgers had had encounters with law enforcement
officials in England, including his involvement in a fight outside a pub and an
automobile accident while in the car with his brother.

There has been little information forthcoming from the Red Bulls during the long
and drawn-out process that led to Friday's decision. The club is now left with
the prospect of quickly finding another striker, especially with the injury to
Juan Agudelo, which will sideline him for six weeks, or perhaps more.

Who do you think is more responsible for this fiasco, the Red Bulls or the U.S.
government? The team's General Manager Erik Soler hinted that Rodgers, a native
of Birmingham in the English Midlands, was less than forthcoming with the club
recently about the fact of the matter. What could possibly have but the kibosh
on the visa?

Updated | Rodgers to Norway Late Friday, the Red Bulls sold Rodgers to
Lillestrom of the Norweigian first division.

"He was transferred, as it was the most viable option for all parties,'' General
Manager Erik Soler told the Post's Extra Time blog. "However, we still hope to
obtain a visa so Luke can come back.''



     ·    Cooper Is Red Bulls' Man in the Middle
     ·    Red Bulls Rising
     ·    M.L.S.: Red Bulls Have a Pulse
     ·    Mr. Rodgers in a New Neighborhood With Red Bulls
     ·    Agudelo Optimistic About His Recovery


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

Turning a Bloody Attack Into a Musical

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 803 words



HIGHLIGHT: A composer has translated the story of how a partnership between two
cabdrivers ended in bloodshed and suicide in 2009.


It was a grisly story of two immigrant cabdrivers whose taxi-sharing partnership
ended with one attacking the other with a meat cleaver and then jumping to his
death from the Robert F. Kennedy Bridge.

It was chronicled in a 2009 article in The New York Times.

But can this drama translate into a musical?

Timothy Huang, a Manhattan composer, thinks so. He has written "Costs of
Living," which has been selected as a finalist for the American Harmony Prize,
which celebrates new musical theater works that involve American ethnic,
religious and gender issues.

It was also one of four shows selected for the Ascap Musical Theater Workshop,
which includes a staged reading of the piece for a panel of established
composers, including Stephen Schwartz, the creator of "Wicked" and "Godspell."

With that momentum, Mr. Huang, 37, thinks he has a good chance of interesting a
theater company in producing this 17-song musical for a run in New York.

It focuses on two immigrants in Queens who trade 12-hour shifts driving the same
yellow cab seven days a week. The cabbies have similar immigrant dreams that
wind up taking very different trajectories, culminating in a violent encounter
that leaves one dead and the other injured.

Throughout the musical, which Mr. Huang began writing in January 2011, the two
cabdrivers sing about their hope and heartbreak while struggling to make a
living in New York.

In the real-life case, the two cabbies were Nepali immigrants,  Debindra
Chhantyal and Pema Sherpa.

But Mr. Huang, whose parents immigrated from Taiwan, made his central characters
Chinese.

"I wanted to write something that had more to do with my personal journey, and I
felt I was more qualified to speak about my own culture," said Mr. Huang, who
considered the newspaper article a good basis for a musical because "music
transcends language" in expressing the emotional intensity of the story. He also
wanted to write about the immigrant experience.

"In this country, if someone speaks with an accent, they're considered lower
class," he said, "And I felt that using song form would be a cool way to show
that it's not true."

"Cost of Living" has plenty of jokes and quips but retains a dark depiction of
the troubles immigrants can face in New York. Mr. Huang held a rehearsal on
Tuesday to prepare for the panel reading, for which he is using eight actors,
most of whom are of Asian descent, including Telly Leung, who is currently
performing in "Godspell" on Broadway.

As were the Nepali drivers, both of Mr. Huang's cabbies were classmates at a
Queens taxi-driving school. Their long shifts are reflected in the song "Drive,"
in which they sing "the road's a climb" and "there is only drive."

Like Mr. Sherpa, the character Eng works the day shift and has friends and a
family, and dreams of buying his own medallion cab "with that great new-car
smell, no partners, no shifts, no boss," as his wife says.

The other main character, Chin, is patterned after Mr. Chhantyal, who worked the
night shift and whose life was unraveling. Like Mr. Chhantyal, Chin becomes
increasingly depressed and frustrated with his job and with family problems in
his homeland.

As it was with the real-life drivers, Eng and Chin's arrangement is amiable. The
attack is a surprise, much like in September 2008, when Mr. Chhantyal was
handing over the taxi to Mr. Sherpa before sunrise on a dark street near Mr.
Sherpa's home in Woodside, Queens.

Mr. Chhantyal suddenly pulled out the cleaver and began hacking at his partner.
As Mr. Chhantyal did, Chin then drives the cab to the bridge and leaps into the
East River.

During the rehearsal on Tuesday, the attack scene was accompanied by the cast
singing a version of "America the Beautiful" in a minor key and imbued with
dissonance, as if to accent an American dream turned sour.

"It's a song we associate with the kind of majesty and glory and beauty that
drew the two men to America, but which wound up corrupting them," Mr. Huang
said. "Immigrants are told that if they come here and work hard, things will be
great, and it's actually not true."

Reached by phone on Wednesday, Mr. Sherpa seemed bewildered that the horrific
episode could serve as grist for the musical theater.

"They're singing songs about it?" he said.

Mr. Sherpa, who now owns his own medallion cab, said he had gotten a couple of
Nepali friends to handle other shifts in his cab and he drove nights so he could
care for his 5-year-old daughter during the day while his wife worked. He said
his wounds had healed but he was still haunted by the attack.

Told more about the musical, he said, "I'd go to see that."


     ·    2 Taxi Medallions Sell for $1 Million Each
     ·    Vacant Taxi or Occupied? That Is the Question
     ·    To Hail a Livery Cab in the Bronx, Go to Albany
     ·    Cuomo Vows to Broker Deal for Hailing Livery Cabs
     ·    Bloomberg Defends Livery Cab Proposal


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                              April 9, 2012 Monday

Seeking to Clear a Path Between Yoga and Islam

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 337 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Muslim in Queens, New York, is encouraging others to practice yoga,
challenging those who consider it a sin against Islam.


"As a community activist in Queens, Muhammad Rashid has fought for the rights of
immigrants held in detention, sought the preservation of local movie theaters
and held a street fair to promote diversity, " Sarah Maslin Nir writes in The
New York Times. "But few of those causes brought him anywhere near as much grief
and controversy as his stance on yoga."

Mr. Rashid, a Muslim, said he had long believed that practicing yoga was
tantamount to "denouncing my religion," Ms. Nir writes. But after moving to New
York in 1997 from Bahrain, "he slowly began to rethink his stance."

Now Mr. Rashid, 56, has come full circle: not only has he adopted yoga into his
daily routine, "but he has also encouraged other Muslims to do so - putting
himself squarely against those who consider yoga a sin against Islam," she
writes.

In New York City, where yoga has become as secular an activity as spinning or
step aerobics, the potential sins of yoga are not typically debated by those
clad in Lululemon leggings. But in some predominantly Muslim pockets like
Jackson Heights, Queens, yoga has been slow to catch on, especially among
first-generation immigrants, newly arrived from cultures where yoga is
considered Hindu worship.

"Yoga is not for Muslims," he said. "It was forbidden."

When Mr. Rashid, who also tutors children, had his students learn yoga to help
improve their concentration, three Muslim students quit after a few yoga
sessions, he said, in part, he believed, because of their families' stance
toward the practice. "I am putting them in something extra that is not in the
Muslim religion," he said. "The parents did not accept it."

The religious opposition to yoga also extends to some Christian sects. One
widely publicized clash came in 2010, when R. Albert Mohler Jr., an evangelical
leader and the president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, declared
the practice of yoga blasphemous because of what he said were its pantheistic
roots.

Read full article here.


     ·    Diwali in the Big Apple
     ·    Bringing Yoga to the West


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday

A Team of Many Nations Competes for the National Chess Title

BYLINE: DYLAN LOEB MCCLAIN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 404 words



HIGHLIGHT: Members of the Edward R. Murrow High School chess team, which is
competing in the national championship, hail from four continents.


This afternoon, the chess team from Edward R. Murrow High School in Midwood,
Brooklyn, is off to Minneapolis to compete in the national championship after
winning the state last month.

It is a 1,200-mile journey, but for some of the team's members, that is an
almost incidental distance compared with how far they are from their homelands:
they hail from four continents, five if you count their parents.

Azeez Alade, 16, was born in Nigeria and moved to New York when he was 5. Vadim
Libo, 17, is from Minsk, the capital of Belarus. Shabieko Ivy, 18, is from
Kingston, Jamaica. Muhammad Raqib, 14, was born in Pakistan near the border of
Kashmir, India.

Alexis Paredes, Kristian Jacome and Shawn Swindell  were born in the United
States, but their parents emigrated from Paraguay, Ecuador and Jamaica,
respectively.

Markel Brown, 17, is the lone member of the team who is not a first- or
second-generation immigrant.

The students' reasons for playing chess are as seemingly diverse as they are.

"I really like puzzles," Azeez said. "I used to be one of those hyperactive
kids. But once I started playing chess, I calmed down a bit and became a
phenomenal student."

Muhammad, a freshman, said, "I like how it is really complicated and there is no
limit to how good you can become."

Vadim said he liked how the game helped him bond with his grandmother, who lives
with his family. "I play usually with my grandmother," he said, "even though she
is not so good."

Eliot Weiss, the chess team's only coach since its founding in 1981 and a math
teacher at the school, said the team was not always such a perfect reflection of
polyglot Brooklyn. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, Murrow's team was stocked
with recent transplants from chess-mad Eastern Europe who helped the school win
three consecutive national championships from 1992 to 1994 and four more from
2004 to 2007, when the team was anchored by two international masters from
Lithuania and Russia.

"People used to say I should go to Red Square and put up a sign saying 'Murrow
High School' or stand at J.F.K. with a sign saying 'Murrow'," Mr. Weiss said.
After Vadim graduates, Murrow's chess team could be "Russianless" for the first
time ever.


     ·    In One Place: Store, Cafe and Hangout
     ·    One Move Ahead of Opponents, and Two Ahead of Trouble
     ·    Charges Against Chess Players Dismissed
     ·    Outlaw Chess Players Likely to Have Charges Dismissed
     ·    With Its Move, City Gives Chess Players a New Spot


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

The Danger of Flying to America While Foreign

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 89 words



HIGHLIGHT: India's Tom Cruise got detained at an American airport. Again. Shah
Rukh Khan was held back by immigration officials for more than two hours without
explanation at Westchester County Airport near New York City, after arriving on
a private jet. (Imagine if he had been flying coach.) And Mr. Khan is not alone.
Read more »


India's Tom Cruise got detained at an American airport. Again. Shah Rukh Khan
was held back by immigration officials for more than two hours without
explanation at Westchester County Airport near New York City, after arriving on
a private jet. (Imagine if he had been flying coach.) And Mr. Khan is not alone.
Read more »


     ·    What Do You Think the BRICS Can Build?
     ·    Hindu Victory Could Ease Indian Anger With Russia
     ·    In India's Northeast, Peace Threatens to Break Out
     ·    Filipinos Debate Racism in a Men's Magazine
     ·    Celebrities Weigh Into Elle Dispute


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

Kobach and Romney

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 402 words



HIGHLIGHT: Latino voters. The Kris Kobach crowd. Mr. Romney can try to have one
or the other, but probably not both.


Mitt Romney is in a bind.

During the early stages of the primaries he decided to go ultra-hard-core on
immigration - so hard-core, in fact, that he locked  himself in an embrace with
the Kansas secretary of state, Kris Kobach, who wrote Arizona's and Alabama's
noxious racial-profiling immigration laws. Now as Mr. Romney tries to move
towards the center for the general election, he will have to win the votes of
people-including many Latinos- who don't necessarily view immigrants as an
invading army of criminals.

Latino voters. The Kobach crowd. Mr. Romney can try to have one or the other,
but probably not both.

In January, Mr. Romney gleefully accepted Mr. Kobach's endorsement and said he
was "so proud" to have "Kris on the team." Mr. Kobach hailed Mr. Romney as a
"true conservative." Four months later, the relationship is not so clear. Is Mr.
Kobach still on the team? This week the Romney campaign told Politico no - he
was not an adviser, just a "supporter."

Mr. Kobach begged to differ. He's still an adviser. "Nothing's changed," he told
Think Progress and The National Review.

If that's true, and this couple is still together, the Dream Act may drive them
into counseling. That's a bill to legalize young illegal immigrants who attend
college or serve in the military. Mr. Romney used to say he would veto the Dream
Act as written, but during the campaign started hinting that he might soften his
position, and recently told supporters at a fund-raiser that  the Republican
Party needed to have its own version of the Dream Act to win over Latino voters.

Mr. Kobach opposes legalization for undocumented  immigrants of any kind, under
any circumstances and rejects the Dream Act in any form. He told The Washington
Post that he expected Mr. Romney "to hold firm on his opposition to amnesty."

Mr. Kobach is not a bendy politician. Mr. Romney is. Immigration will be a test
of Mr. Romney's elasticity - how far can he stretch, clinging to an extremist
while collecting moderates' votes, without snapping?

"We're going to be able to get Hispanic voters," Mr. Romney promised his donors.
"We're going to overcome the issue of immigration," he said, making "the issue"
sound like some sort of medical problem - or at least a source of great
discomfort, if not grief.


     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    Opinion Report: Homeless Vets
     ·    Mississippi Madness
     ·    Grand, Old and Anti-Woman
     ·    At Least Grover Norquist Is Consistent


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday

Backwards Alabama

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 303 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Alabama House passed a revised but still-reprehensible version of
its immigration bill Thursday.


The Alabama House on Thursday passed an immigration bill, a revised but
still-reprehensible version of HB56, last year's law that criminalized thousands
of Latino immigrants, encouraged racial profiling and made Alabama  a national
symbol of intolerance.

Republicans who control the Legislature had vowed never to weaken or repeal
HB56, despite intense criticism from Alabama church leaders, business owners and
regular citizens who have condemned the law as unnecessary and unjust. Many have
called it un-Christian.

Opponents prayed and sang hymns at the Capitol on Thursday to get the
Republicans to reconsider. Democratic lawmakers tried to prevent the vote
through five hours of filibustering. They pleaded and invoked Scripture.

"Based on this immigration bill on the calendar, I don't think we love each
other," said Representative Darrio Melton, a Democrat from Selma. "I don't think
we love ourselves."

Patricia Todd, a Birmingham Democrat, said: "I prayed a lot about this, and I
got to tell you, there is nothing in my heart or in my faith that makes this
O.K."

But the Republicans cut off debate and the bill passed, 64-34. Now it goes to
the Senate.

We've said a lot about Alabama's self-induced humiliation. But we can't say it
any better than some Alabamians can. This is from The Anniston Star:

Instead of repealing the disaster known as HB56, Alabama lawmakers have
apparently decided to walk a fine line that closely resembles a gangplank.
Montgomery Republicans are stuck between two sides - the angry Alabamians
anxious to scapegoat a small Hispanic population and the rest of the state,
including Republicans, who fret over the damage done to our reputation.

The full editorial is here.


     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Opinion Report: Homeless Vets
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    Mississippi Madness
     ·    Grand, Old and Anti-Woman


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

U.S. v. Arpaio

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 441 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Justice Department is finally suing Sheriff Joe Arpaio of
Maricopa County, Ariz., accusing him of civil-rights violations.


 The Justice Department is finally suing Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County,
Ariz., accusing him of civil-rights violations, discriminatory policing and
abuse of power. The government's complaint against the man who calls himself
"America's Toughest Sheriff" reads like an indictment of a Southern sheriff in
the time of Jim Crow, only in this time and place the racism and violence are
directed at Latino immigrants and citizens.

Thomas Perez, head of the Civil Rights Division, announced the lawsuit on
Thursday morning in Phoenix. He said the sheriff had abused Latinos through
discriminatory policing, violated the rights of Latino jail inmates who don't
understand English and retaliated against his critics through "baseless criminal
charges, unfounded civil lawsuits and meritless administrative actions."

The rot in the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office "starts at the top and pervades
the organization," the lawsuit says, describing a culture in which jail
employees called Mexican inmates "wetbacks" and "Mexican bitches" and
supervisors shared racist emails. And that's just the little stuff in the
31-page complaint. The parts about rampant racial profiling, the arbitrary
neighborhood sweeps and mass arrests confirm what Arizonans have said for years:
For brown-skinned residents, Maricopa County is a police state.

The lawsuit creates an interesting contrast - O.K., a gulf - between the Justice
Department and the Department of Homeland Security, run by a former Arizona
governor, Janet Napolitano, who knows Sheriff Arpaio well. Ms. Napolitano has
treated the sheriff gingerly through the years, even as reports of his abuses
spread and as the sheriff defied any suggestion that there were limits to his
power to harass Latino immigrants.

It was only last December, after the Justice Department announced the findings
of its civil-rights investigation, that Ms. Napolitano's D.H.S. cut off his
participation in various Immigration and Customs Enforcement programs. She
remains an ardent defender of using local police as "force multipliers" to catch
illegal immigrants, a dangerous policy that makes it possible for mini-Arpaios
to sprout up all over the country.

Sheriff Arpaio remains a hero to the hard right, an emblem of the Arizona way of
home-brewed immigration cruelty, so it's good that the Justice Department has at
last moved to end his reign. Here's a corrido, or Mexican ballad, that explains
everything. It's by the Mexican-American roots group Los Cenzontles, and it's
called "Arizona, State of Shame":


     ·    Opinion Report: Hunts Point
     ·    Opinion Report: The Egyptian Election
     ·    The Arizona Show
     ·    Backwards Alabama
     ·    Kobach and Romney


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

City's Hispanic Makeup Shifts as Dominicans Leave and Mexicans Arrive

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 632 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new census analysis shows New York City becoming ever more diverse.



Reversing a trend that had held for decades, more Dominicans left New York City
than arrived since 2000, a new census analysis found. And a surge of Mexican
immigrants nearly bumped them ahead of South Americans into third place among
Hispanic groups.

Mexicans are also poised to overtake Puerto Ricans and Dominicans among mothers
giving birth in the city.  Birthrates among Mexican immigrants in North Corona,
Queens, are nearly as high as among Orthodox Jews in central Brooklyn, who have
one of the highest birthrates of any group in the city. During the last decade,
Hispanic residents of North Corona had the highest natural population increase -
births over deaths - in the city.

The analysis by the population division of the Department of City Planning
fleshes out raw 2010 census data and portrays dynamic shifts in every borough.
By the end of the last decade, Brooklyn rivaled Queens in ethnic, racial and
religious diversity.

A swath of the borough from Prospect Park to Brighton Beach does have some
homogeneous pockets, generally of Orthodox Jews, surrounded by immigrants from
South Asia, Russia, China and several Arab nations.

New housing lured residents to the south central Bronx, which experienced net
gains in migration and in births over deaths for the first time in decades. The
Bronx was the second-fastest-growing borough, after Staten Island.

Over all, the city gained population, according to the census, to 8.2 million
people from 8 million, with 642,000 more births than deaths while recording a
net loss of 475,000 people who migrated to other places.

Brooklyn, which accounted for 49,000 of the city's 100,000 loss in black
residents,  experienced its own version of suburbanization as blacks moved from
the borough's densely populated center to the fringes in Canarsie and East New
York.

Blacks were replaced by younger non-Hispanic whites - in the Bedford portion of
Bedford-Stuyvesant, the white share of the population soared, from 4 percent to
26 percent - and to a lesser extent by Hispanic and Asian New Yorkers along a
corridor flanking the L subway line. Brooklyn gained white, Hispanic and Asian
residents.

Queens became home to almost half the city's Asian population - 389,000 of
780,000. In southeastern Queens, Asian Indians moved into the periphery of
predominantly black middle-class neighborhoods, which shrunk for the first time.
In northeastern Queens, neighborhoods that were majority white a decade earlier
are now majority Asian or nearly so.

A Bangladeshi influx in  northwestern Queens was supplanting Chinese residents
and contributing to the variegated mosaic. Mexicans, vying with South Americans
for third place among Hispanic groups, after Puerto Ricans and Dominicans,
settled in Corona, Queens, and Sunset Park, Brooklyn.

Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College of the City University of
New York, found in a separate analysis that even with all the diversity and
greater racial integration, blacks and non-Hispanic whites were still more
segregated in Brooklyn than in any other large county in the country, and Queens
is second.

Manhattan registered gains among whites and Asians. Chinatown contracted and
Washington Heights became less of a Dominican domain.

Staten Island was the only borough where the numbers of black, Hispanic and
Asian residents all rose. An influx of Russians from Brooklyn was offset by the
loss of aging whites from the borough.

Deaths outpaced births among non-Hispanic whites in Queens and the Bronx. More
whites left than arrived in every borough except Manhattan.


     ·    Income Disparity Is Greatest in New York, Census Finds
     ·    Immigrants Play Key Role as City Entrepreneurs, Study Finds
     ·    'Worst' No Longer Describes New York Commuting Time
     ·    TimesCast: Slipping Into Poverty
     ·    More New Yorkers Living in Poverty


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

CUNY to Open Institute Devoted to Mexican Studies

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 517 words



HIGHLIGHT: The City University of New York inaugurates what will be the first
academic institute east of the Mississippi River specifically devoted to Mexican
and Mexican-American studies.


For many New Yorkers, the growth of the Mexican immigrant population has been
not unlike the experience of falling asleep at the start of a winter storm and
waking up to find the city covered in a foot of snow.

Subtly and quickly, the population has exploded, growing 27-fold in the past
three decades, to about 183,200 from about 6,740 in 1980, according to census
figures. It is now the third-largest immigrant population in the city, after
Dominicans and the Chinese.

In recognition of the growing importance of Mexicans to the city and its future,
the City University of New York is inaugurating a new institute on Friday
devoted to the study of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans, with a focus on the New
York region.

The center, called the CUNY Institute for Mexican Studies, will be based at
Lehman College in the Bronx, where 43 percent of the student body is Latino. It
will be the first academic institute east of the Mississippi River specifically
devoted to Mexican and Mexican-American studies, said Alyshia Galvez, assistant
professor of Latin American and Puerto Rican studies at Lehman College, who
spearheaded the effort to form the center.

The institute will have a hybrid mission, rooted as much in the city's Mexican
diaspora as in the campuses of CUNY: to provide support for research and for
community advocacy projects and organizations.

"At CUNY we don't do anything in the abstract only," Ms. Galvez, the institute's
acting director, said in an interview on Thursday. "So it's really a question of
combining world-class scholarship with advocacy and collaboration with the
community organizations."

The institute will help encourage the study of the Mexican diaspora in the New
York region through seminars and annual conferences, and by offering
study-abroad opportunities in Mexico.

In addition, it will promote the addition of a major in Mexican and
Mexican-American studies at CUNY well as a Mexican studies certificate for M.S.
and M.A. students in nursing, speech, education and other disciplines.

Ms. Galvez said she hoped the organization would serve as an "epicenter" for
community organizations working on social and political issues in the Mexican
community.

Unlike some other immigrant populations, like the Chinese and the Dominicans,
the Mexican population has no large geographical concentration in the city,
which undermines its ability to form communities and organize for social causes.

Under the auspices of the institute, Ms. Galvez said, she intends to promote
CUNY's campuses as a "home base" for these  efforts to meet and collaborate,
thereby strengthening the social fabric of the Mexican diaspora.

"We have CUNY facilities in the five boroughs, and we will make them available
to the community and enable conversations to happen that wouldn't otherwise
happen," she said. "It's something that will enable them to grow."


     ·    'Like Home,' if Home Is Mexico
     ·    CUNY Students Protesting Tuition Increase Clash With Police
     ·    Kushner Debacle Won't Be the Last of Its Kind
     ·    After Kushner Stumble, CUNY Tries to Dust Itself Off
     ·    Transcript of CUNY Trustee's Speech on Kushner Award


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Clashing Realities in a 'City of Champions'

BYLINE: ZARA KATZ

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 669 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mary Beth Meehan's photography project compels residents of a
Massachusetts town to confront racial and economic tensions.


There are two realities depicted in the photographs on the side of the Messiah
Baptist Church in Brockton, Mass. One is of an old white man entering a backyard
pool party for the Martel family on the Fourth of July (). The other is of a
young black woman wearing a bandanna on her head, midriff exposed, cigars tucked
into her pants ().

The images are part of a project by Mary Beth Meehan, "City of Champions," which
looks at the evolving dynamic when one immigrant group replaces another in
Brockton, her hometown. The project is about the division between whites and
blacks and about the psychology of post-industrial America.

"These immigrants were very much the parallel of the Western European immigrants
of 100 years ago," Ms. Meehan said of the changing demographics. "But the
economic underpinnings were so different that the landscape that they were
residing on had completely changed."

With a grant from the Massachusetts Foundation for the Humanities, Ms. Meehan
worked with the city of Brockton to hang 12 large-scale vinyl images on public
buildings downtown.

The day before the images went up, the secretary of the Messiah Baptist Church
called Ms. Meehan and told her that there was an issue with one of them. Ms.
Meehan was sure that it was the image of the black woman, who might be viewed in
the wrong light, as a gangster or drug dealer. But the secretary told her that
the pastor and predominantly black congregation were not happy with the image of
the white pool party.

Ms. Meehan was confused. That was the image that City Hall had wanted.

The secretary told Ms. Meehan that the pastor, a progressive, believed that the
flag in the image was a "symbol of false hope." He saw the image as a
representation of white nostalgia for old Brockton. He said that image was
getting in the way of progress. The image of the black woman was the reality
that Brockton needed to embrace.

The photographer and the church held a forum to come to an understanding about
the images. In the end, the pastor and the congregation agreed to have both
pictures stay up.

Once known for its shoe factories, Brockton is sometimes referred to as the
"City of Champions" because of the boxers Rocky Marciano and Marvin Hagler,
native sons. Until about 20 years ago, the city, about half an hour's drive
south of Boston, was populated mainly by Irish and Italian immigrants. In the
'80s, immigrants from Haiti, Cape Verde and Latin America started to flood in,
and the white population began to move out.

Ms. Meehan was born in Brockton in 1967 and lived there until 1985, when she
left for college. The narrative that she heard growing up was, "The blacks are
ruining my city."

As an adult, Ms. Meehan wanted to understand if there was truth to these ugly
racial statements, or if the downturn of the economy was the real culprit in the
city's demise.

In photographing the residents of Brockton, Ms. Meehan did see a distinct
separation between white and black people in the city, but came to realize that
the real issue was the economic situation. And blacks and Latinos were being
blamed for that.

To Ms. Meehan, this is a national story, not just a local one.

"All of these states had these powerful industrial engines and are now coping
with the lowering price of housing stock and immigrants coming in," Ms. Meehan
said. "It feels like a real identity crisis to me."

The 12 large-scale photographs are on display until September. Ms. Meehan holds
walking tours to discuss the images and the situation in Brockton.

While she doesn't claim that attitudes have changed in Brockton, Ms. Meehan
believes that connections have been opened, and understanding has blossomed,
between the older white neighborhoods and the newer black ones.

"I do think that some of these people have seen the links of their ancestors to
the newcomers," she said. "But the cultural divide is so hard."



     ·    Life on Both Sides of the Border
     ·    Growing Up Lost in Appalachia
     ·    It's Not About Winning the Game
     ·    Places Without Power (of Any Sort)
     ·    A Mirror on Growing Up in America


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Well)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

How to Mother a Mother

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1306 words



HIGHLIGHT: Intensive, round-the-clock care and pampering of new mothers is
common among immigrants and offers lessons for families everywhere.


During pregnancy, many women are pampered and cared for more than at any other
time of their lives. Husbands are attentive, family members call to see how the
mom-to-be is feeling, and friends host baby showers, lavishing a woman with
gifts and attention.

But what happens after the baby arrives? Suddenly, pampering of the mother stops
and attention shifts to the needs of the baby. The new mother, though physically
drained from the rigors of childbirth, gets to work caring not only for her
newborn but for others in the household as well.

It doesn't have to be that way, explains Claudia Kolker in her new book, "The
Immigrant Advantage: What We Can Learn From Newcomers to America About Health,
Happiness and Hope." This is not a book about immigration -- although it should
be mandatory reading for lawmakers debating immigration policy. Instead, it's a
book about best practices and the traditions that immigrants bring with them to
this country that could benefit the rest of us.

"I am a convert," writes Ms. Kolker, a contributing editor to The Houston
Chronicle whose reporting career took her to El Salvador, Cuba, Haiti and India,
among other places. "Many of these practices are so elegant and efficient at
reaching American goals, I believe newcomers need to hang on to them. And the
rest of us should consider trying them out for ourselves."

I recently spoke with Ms. Kolker about the lessons we can learn from immigrants,
why hot chocolate is good for new mothers and an ancient pampering ritual called
the cuarentena. Here's our conversation.

Q.


A.

My book is about the really smart practices that first-generation immigrants do
that help them achieve goals that Americans like myself really want -- healthier
moms, school success, thrift, the ability to save on a tight budget, how to
finance a house or a Ph.D. on a modest budget. Things all of us would really
like. These are practices that originated in other countries that translate
particularly well in this country.

Q.


A.

There is something called the immigrant paradox that actually shows an immigrant
advantage in terms of longevity, infant health, mental health. There are certain
elements to the immigrant profile that are very healthy. In many markers,
first-generation immigrants tend to be healthier than native-born Americans.

It's a paradox. Nobody has fully explained it, but the consensus is that
self-selection has a lot to do with it. You're not going to leave your country
and everything you know if you have poor health and don't have confidence you
can make your way in the world. There is an attitude that seems typical of
immigrants who leave everything they know because they want to improve their
family's life. And right now we are grappling with a lot of health challenges
that are connected to our affluence. Immigrants come from places where they
don't have these advantages, and paradoxically, they don't have some of the
health problems we have.

Q.


A.

It's called the cuarentena. It sounds like "quarantine," but it refers to 40
days. In traditional Hispanic culture, as well as many cultures around the
world, there is a real ritual attached to the first 40 days or so after a woman
has a baby. We attach a lot of ritual to the time before the baby, with baby
showers and foods to eat or not to eat during pregnancy and coddling the mother.
We don't really have a prescription for after a baby is born.

But in Mexican culture, it's highly ritualized. The idea is that women family
members traditionally surround a mother and help bathe and clean and diaper the
baby. But really the focus of the attention is the well-being and safety and
health of the mother for 40 days. The poorer and more rural and more remote a
community is, the more likely it is that they are going to take this ritual
seriously.

Q.


A.

There is no way to duplicate it because you don't have the family structure or
even the architecture. In a Chiapas village in Mexico, you are required to have
an aromatherapy sauna at least twice during the 40 days. There are stone
structures on the sides of mountains where you go for your ritual sauna. It
makes a mom feel pretty good. There is a woman in the community who is a
traditional postpartum massage therapist. You can't recreate all these things,
but what they try hard to do is recreate the intensive care, the idea that the
new mother is as vulnerable in many ways as a newborn baby.

Q.


A.

In my book I write about spending time in Akron, Ohio, with first-generation
laborers from Chiapas. They don't have an extended family of mothers and
sisters. What I found in Akron, which does not happen in Mexico, is that it was
men who were taking care of their wives. They were insistent that their wives
observe the cuarentena as best they could manage. The women were not allowed to
touch a dish or sweep the floor. There was a man who had never touched a broom
before. In some cases, they would drive their wives crazy because they didn't
really know how to clean a house. But that was the level of investment in a new
mother that they have.

Q.


A.

There are very prescribed rituals and foods. If there is chicken, she gets
chicken soup. She is given hot chocolate - they have this whole system of
certain foods that are cold and not suitable for a postpartum mom. You want to
keep her body warm and her system warm. Foods like cucumbers are considered
inappropriate for a recovering mother. There are emotions that are considered
hot and cold that you need to protect her from. Anger is a cold, frosty emotion,
and you need to protect a mother from feeling it or witnessing it.

One food is atole, a comfort drink made from toasted corn and thickened with
milk and sugar. It has a lot of symbolic meaning because this is a culture that
has revered corn as a divine gift. It's very good for you. The iron in it is
easily absorbed. But it also takes a lot of care to cook it. You have to cook it
slowly and reheat it, and every time you give it to someone, you need to reheat
it, add water and stir. What I found was that it really seemed to be about the
amount of attention and love and engagement with the mother's well-being.

Q.


A.

The mother is supposed to rest. She only has two jobs. One is to cuddle and
enjoy her baby. The other is to learn how to breast-feed from experts. Nobody
says "wing it" or "nature will take its course.'' People will help you. There
are no expectations that this is easy or spontaneous.

Q.


A.

There is a version of the cuarentena in many, many cultures. The length of time
can vary. Chinese women lounge in seclusion for 30 days, while the Onitsha women
of Nigeria rest for three months. From South Asia to the Philippines, the Middle
East to South America, new mothers and their babies rest for 40 days.

Q.


A.

The number 40 has a lot of mystical significance throughout history. There is a
lot of biology attached. It takes about 40 days for your reproductive organs to
return to their ordinary shape after having a baby. There is an observation
about how the human body works and the cycle of nature, and I believe a lot of
the folklore follows that.

Q.


A.

One of the things I learned is this idea of permission -- permission to take
care of yourself, to ask for help. This felt very revolutionary to me. It also
entails giving help -- stepping up and being there and not just sending an
e-mail or gift basket, with the understanding that you will be helped in the
same way. It's the power of a group of people getting together at their best to
do difficult things. With a cuarentena, you're not alone. It's difficult being a
new mother. To be surrounded, to have other people on the team, it's a happy
atmosphere. It helps you get through it.


     ·    Six-Word Momoirs: The Contest Winners!
     ·    Share Six Words About Your Mother
     ·    New Mothers Have Worse Health Habits
     ·    Doctoring and Mothering
     ·    Mad at Your Parents? Motherhood May Be Rocky


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             May 12, 2012 Saturday

Gone Hollywood, Bollywood Theater in Queens Still Struggles

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 304 words



HIGHLIGHT: Somasundaram Gunasegaram turned to showing American movies to keep
his Bollywood theater in Queens afloat. But he is already $100,000 behind on
rent.


"This is my exercise," said Somasundaram Gunasegaram "as he scrambled nimbly up
an iron ladder to the cramped projection booth in the Jackson Heights Cinema, a
tired old movie house on 82nd Street just off Roosevelt Avenue in Queens," Corey
Kilgannon writes in The New York Times.

Mr. Gunasegaram (pronounced gun-a-SAH-ga-ram) "stood at one projector - the size
of a refrigerator and a half-century old - and inspected the film: 'The
Avengers,' in English with Spanish subtitles," Mr. Kilgannon writes. But this is
supposed to be a "story about a Bollywood cinema impresario," what's with the
American movie? Mr. Kilgannon writes. "There isn't even an Indian title listed
on the marquee."

Mr. Gunasegaram, 52, known to his friends as Sagar, "was once a prominent cinema
owner among South Asian immigrants in New York City," he writes. After
immigrating to New York from Sri Lanka in 1979, "he gained a following by
renting neglected theaters all over the New York area and showing Indian films
to give immigrants a cinematic taste of home."

"People used to wait for two hours to get into my movies," he said.

But things have changed, thanks to the proliferation of bootleg movies on DVD
and the Web, as well as the increase in the number of art-film theaters and
multiplexes that show Bollywood films.

"When I started showing movies in New York, you might have five copies of a
popular Bollywood film in all of America," said Mr. Gunasegaram, who lives in
South Ozone Park, Queens. "Now, you have 300 copies in this country. There's
much more competition, but this is the only business I know."

Read full article here.


     ·    Slum Scenes in 'The Avengers' Criticized in India
     ·    A Conversation With: Actor Prosenjit Chatterjee
     ·    A Hit Maker Bets Future Earnings on India Expansion Plan
     ·    Mumbai Gets Its Own Walk of Fame
     ·    Newswallah: Bollywood Edition


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              May 14, 2012 Monday

For 2 Decades, Airport Worker Used Murder Victim's ID, Officials Say

BYLINE: HANNAH MIET

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 244 words



HIGHLIGHT: There has never been an arrest in the killing, but now a 54-year-old
illegal immigrant from Nigeria is charged with using his name and identity
documents.


On a July morning in 1992, a man named Jerry Thomas was shot to death in front
of the Y.M.C.A. on Parsons Boulevard in Jamaica, Queens. According to the
Queen's district attorney's office, no one was arrested for his murder.

Almost 20 years later, a security supervisor at Newark Liberty International
Airport was arrested on Monday  at his home in Elizabeth, N.J., and charged with
stealing Mr. Thomas's identity.

Bimbo Olumuyiwa Oyewole, a 54-year-old illegal immigrant from Nigeria, had been
using a birth certificate, Social Security card and other documents indicating
that he was Mr. Thomas, said the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

In a real-life case reminiscent of Dick-Whitman-as-Don-Draper of "Mad Men," Mr.
Oyewole worked at the airport for various private security companies for almost
20 years under the name Jerry Thomas, the Port Authority said. He had passed
multiple background checks, the agency said.

It was not clear how Mr. Oyewole obtained Mr. Thomas's documents, the
authorities said.

An investigation into Mr. Oyewole's true identity was initiated after the Port
Authority's inspector general received an anonymous tip, a  Port Authority
spokesman, Steve Coleman, said.

Mr. Oyewole was being held in Essex County Jail on Monday afternoon, awaiting
his arraignment, Mr. Coleman said.


     ·    111 Charged in Elaborate Identity-Theft Scheme
     ·    Speedy Tax Refunds, but to Identity Thieves, Suit Says
     ·    The Latest Victim of Identity Fraud: Mayor Bloomberg


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Los Angeles Times Gets $1 Million Ford Foundation Grant

BYLINE: THE EDITORS

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 72 words



HIGHLIGHT: The money will go toward expanding coverage of immigration and ethnic
communities in Southern California, United States-Mexico border issues and
Brazil, the newspaper reported.


The Los Angeles Times received a $1 million grant from the Ford Foundation to
expand its coverage of immigration and ethnic communities in Southern
California, United States-Mexico border issues and Brazil, the newspaper
reported. A Ford Foundation spokesman was quoted as saying, "We and many other
funders are experimenting with new approaches to preserve and advance
high-quality journalism." Read more at The Los Angeles Times »

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday

4 Senators Propose Easing Visa Limits for Highly Skilled

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 637 words



HIGHLIGHT: The proposal, introduced by a bipartisan group of senators during an
election year, challenges the fixed positions Congressional leaders of both
parties hold on the issue of immigration.


A bipartisan group of four senators proposed on Tuesday easing visa limits for
highly skilled immigrants and foreign students, a move that challenges
Congressional leaders on their fixed positions on the issue of immigration
during an election year.

Two Democrats, Senators Mark Warner of Virginia and Chris Coons of Delaware, and
two Republicans, Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Jerry Moran of Kansas,
introduced the legislation, which is a break for both parties. Democrats have
traditionally held highly skilled worker visas as a bargaining chip for measures
on lower-skilled immigrants that are far less politically popular. Many
Republicans have opposed any expansion of visas.

But the senators, appearing at a news conference on Tuesday, said the struggling
economy necessitated steps that move past those positions. Mr. Rubio is trying
to gather support for his version of legislation that would offer legal status
to young illegal immigrants brought to the country as children, but he said he
would not try to link his version of the Dream Act to the new high-skilled
worker proposal. That has to pass on its own merits, he said.

Senators Coons and Warner agreed, even as they reiterated their support for
comprehensive immigration legislation.

"We've got to grow jobs," Mr. Warner said.

"We can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good," Mr. Coons said.

The new legislation would create a new type of visa for as many as 50,000
foreign students graduating from American universities with master's degrees or
doctorates in science, technology, engineering or mathematics. Visa recipients
would have to show they stayed in science and technology fields for five
consecutive years before they could get permanent resident status. The proposal
would also create 75,000 new visas for immigrant entrepreneurs in the science
and technology field.

The legislation would also eliminate numerical limitations on employment-based
visas that use per-country quotas. And it would make tax changes that favor
start-ups, including making permanent President Obama's 100 percent exemption on
capital gains taxes for investments in small start-ups.

"It's new businesses that create jobs," said Robert Litan, vice president for
research and policy at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, not necessarily
small businesses.

The lawmakers are trying to build off the success they had with the JOBS Act,
which focused on easing capital to small businesses. Joining them at the news
conference was Steve Case, a co-founder of America Online and one of the JOBS
Act's biggest champions.

"This economy was built on risk-taking entrepreneurs," Mr. Case said. "It's
important that we double down."

For decades, immigration measures have been far more controversial than straight
business bills. Democrats and immigration advocates have held back visas for
highly skilled workers and temporary agriculture worker programs to martial
support among business groups, reasoning that once they passed, Republican
allies would have secured their priorities and any effort to get a pathway to
citizenship for illegal immigrants would lose the few Republican allies it has.

Immigration opponents have said high-skilled visa expansions take good-paying
jobs from Americans and work as a disincentive for students who should be
striving for those jobs.

Those factors make the new push for four relatively new senators an uphill
climb.

"As the new guys, we didn't get the memo that in an election year, we're
supposed to take the year off," Mr. Warner said. "Clearly, China is not taking
the year off."


     ·    Florida Republicans Now Back Arizona Immigration Law
     ·    Rubio Criticizes Arizona's Immigration Law
     ·    Justice Department Submits Correction Letter to Supreme Court
     ·    Bachmann Renews Attack on Gingrich Over Immigration
     ·    Gingrich Risks Conservative Outrage on Immigration


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday

Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 299 words



HIGHLIGHT: At the Latino Coalition's annual economic summit, Mitt Romney avoided
the elephant in the room.


Mitt Romney went to Washington on Wednesday and gave a big speech to a business
group called the Latino Coalition. The subject was education.

Do you think he mentioned one of the most high-profile education topics among
Latinos, one that he would be sure to confront if elected president - the Dream
Act, a bill that would grant legal status to children of illegal immigrants who
attend college?

No. It didn't come up. He said not a word, in fact, about immigration, though he
did say the school system's failure to help minority students is "the
civil-rights issue of our era."

I'd say  is still the civil-rights issue of our era. And one reason Mr. Romney
is so out of favor with so many Latino voters is his embrace of an immigration
radicalism that drags civil rights back to the Jim Crow era - with state and
local laws promoting racial profiling, harassment and abuse of Latinos.

Since the primaries, Mr. Romney has staked out immigration positions far out on
what used to be the right-wing fringe. He's stuck in the policy equivalent of
the Arizona desert, a state he has praised for its unconstitutional hijacking of
federal immigration enforcement, and whose polarizing demagogues and
co-conspirators (like Sheriff Joe Arpaio and Kris Kobach) he has wooed and
pursued.

Talk is cheap for Mr. Romney, who likes to slip into new positions whenever old
ones become ill-fitting or unpleasant. But in this campaign, in which he has
been consistently harsher on immigration than any of his opponents, he seems to
have concluded that it's better to shut up about it and hope Latinos don't
notice.

In this new Spanish-language Romney ad, the silence is deafening, the omission
glaring.


     ·    The Arizona Show
     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    The Cost of a Bloody Florida Battle
     ·    Alabama Doubles Down


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                              May 29, 2012 Tuesday

A Black Student Journalist Discovers in Turkey Her Color Is the Story

BYLINE: TOLU TAIWA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 500 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tolu Taiwa, a University of Illinois student, found it far more
challenging than her classmates to blend in, observe and report -- in fact, she
found it impossible.


ANTAKYA, Turkey - When my University of Illinois journalism class was preparing
to depart for  a three-week reporting trip to Turkey, I  wondered how my
"African-ness" would come across to Turkish people. My parents are Nigerian
immigrants, which makes me Nigerian-American. For most of my childhood, I've
been in the minority. Most of the people in my hometown are Caucasian and most
of my college friends in Urbana-Champaign, where our university is located, are
white or Asian.

That being said, I rarely think about my race. There are times when I do think
about my culture, like when I attempt to cook Nigerian food for my roommates.
But I never really think about how my skin color is vividly different from most
people around me.

Once I boarded the plane to Turkey, I was so preoccupied with finding Africans
to interview for my articles on Nigerians in Turkey, I never really thought much
more about how I would come across to Turkish people. In Istanbul, there were a
few comments. At the Grand Bazaar, shopkeepers yelled "Chocolate" to get my
attention, but I didn't feel that I was considered any more of a spectacle than
my blonde, blue-eyed classmates. However, when we traveled to Antioch, in
southern Turkey, to learn about Syrian refugees along the border, it was a
different story.

In the culturally diverse city,  one woman pointed to me, to her own arms and
face, and then back to my skin in amazement, as if she couldn't believe that a
human could be so dark. A little boy on the street stopped to stare at me for
two full minutes. I tried to engage in a conversation about his bike with him,
but he wasn't having it.

The owner of a local art store assured me that people's reaction was nothing to
fear. "They are not racist," he said, "Many of them rarely see someone of your
color."

And so, everywhere I went in Antioch people would stop to take my picture. And I
don't mean that they would just quietly snap a photo from across the street,
although that happened as well.

People frequently asked, "Photo, photo please?"  And before I could respond, I'd
be in the middle of a big, extended family, or a group of posing wide-eyed
teenagers. Once, while I was conducting an interview, a large group of people
swarmed around me, demanding that my picture be taken with them.  If you've ever
wanted to know how George Clooney might feel in a star-struck town, I can tell
you: exhausted. And a tad bit annoyed.

It felt strange. But to be fair, it was also understandable, and very civil. No
one was disrespectful, but it was uncomfortable.

Instead of focusing on my discomfort, I tried to put myself in their shoes: If I
saw someone so different from me for the first time, I'd give them a second
glance, too.



     ·    African Style Goes Global, Despite Little Tangible Support From
          African Leaders
     ·    In Cambodia, Sentencing of Women Activists Sparks Outcry
     ·    Released Journalist Denounces Turkish Repression
     ·    Time to Dial the Turkey-Syria Hotline
     ·    Kurds, Marginalized, Could Be Key to Syrian Revolt's Success


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

The Early Word: Diplomacy

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 518 words



HIGHLIGHT: y


In Today's Times:

President Obama has boasted that he handled the crisis in Libya more decisively
than some of his predecessors managed conflicts they faced, but his
unwillingness to take more forceful action to deal with the deteriorating
situation in Syria has led observers to believe he spoke too soon, Peter Baker
writes in a news analysis. Even as his ambassador to the United Nations predicts
that the Syrian crisis will escalate to a regional war, Mr. Obama is constrained
by limited options and a wariness at home about another military conflict.

Mitt Romney received an endorsement on Wednesday from Condoleezza Rice, the
former secretary of state, but other foreign policy stalwarts within the
Republican Party have been slow to embrace him. Richard A. Oppel Jr. writes that
their reluctance reflects uneasiness about Mr. Romney's hostile tone toward
Russia and his opposition to a new missile treaty.

The Jewish lobbying group J Street is bucking the trend that demands candidates
for elective office to take a hard-line stance in defense of Israel by
encouraging a moderate approach, Eric Lichtblau writes.

Young illegal immigrants are pressing President Obama to fulfill a campaign
promise to help them stay in the United States, Julia Preston writes. The young
people want Mr. Obama, who needs the Latino vote in several swing states, to use
his executive powers to protect them from deportation while Congress considers a
proposal known as the Dream Act that would give them  legal status.

Officially ending a political battle that saw threats to starve the
Export-Import bank, Mr. Obama signed legislation on Wednesday that will fund the
bank until 2014 at increased levels, Mark Landler writes. After highlighting the
bank's importance to his goal of doubling American exports, the president urged
Congress to address other items on his agenda like streamlining the refinancing
of home mortgages and creating tax breaks for companies that hire new workers.

Happening In Washington:

Economic data expected today include the second estimate of first-quarter gross
domestic product at 8:30 a.m., along with weekly jobless claims. Weekly mortgage
rates follow at 10.

At 9:30 a.m., the House Oversight and Reform Committee will hold a hearing to
assess Mr. Obama's "all of the above" energy strategy. A second hearing on the
topic is scheduled for 1:30 p.m.

At 11:30, high-level Obama administration officials will participate in a
town-hall-style meeting to discuss a finding that black and Puerto Rican
children develop asthma at higher-than-average rates.

Shortly after noon, former President George W. Bush and  Laura Bush will join
President Obama at the White House for lunch and the unveiling for the former
first couple's official portraits. The elder President George Bush and Barbara
Bush will also be on hand for the ceremony.

At 2 p.m., a bipartisan group of House lawmakers will hold a news conference to
push for a faster withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan.


     ·    The Early Word: Gloves Off
     ·    The Early Word: Hazards
     ·    The Early Word: Battlegrounds
     ·    The Early Word: Definition
     ·    The Early Word: Illinois


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

The Early Word: Diplomacy

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 518 words



HIGHLIGHT: y


In Today's Times:

President Obama has boasted that he handled the crisis in Libya more decisively
than some of his predecessors managed conflicts they faced, but his
unwillingness to take more forceful action to deal with the deteriorating
situation in Syria has led observers to believe he spoke too soon, Peter Baker
writes in a news analysis. Even as his ambassador to the United Nations predicts
that the Syrian crisis will escalate to a regional war, Mr. Obama is constrained
by limited options and a wariness at home about another military conflict.

Mitt Romney received an endorsement on Wednesday from Condoleezza Rice, the
former secretary of state, but other foreign policy stalwarts within the
Republican Party have been slow to embrace him. Richard A. Oppel Jr. writes that
their reluctance reflects uneasiness about Mr. Romney's hostile tone toward
Russia and his opposition to a new missile treaty.

The Jewish lobbying group J Street is bucking the trend that demands candidates
for elective office to take a hard-line stance in defense of Israel by
encouraging a moderate approach, Eric Lichtblau writes.

Young illegal immigrants are pressing President Obama to fulfill a campaign
promise to help them stay in the United States, Julia Preston writes. The young
people want Mr. Obama, who needs the Latino vote in several swing states, to use
his executive powers to protect them from deportation while Congress considers a
proposal known as the Dream Act that would give them  legal status.

Officially ending a political battle that saw threats to starve the
Export-Import bank, Mr. Obama signed legislation on Wednesday that will fund the
bank until 2014 at increased levels, Mark Landler writes. After highlighting the
bank's importance to his goal of doubling American exports, the president urged
Congress to address other items on his agenda like streamlining the refinancing
of home mortgages and creating tax breaks for companies that hire new workers.

Happening In Washington:

Economic data expected today include the second estimate of first-quarter gross
domestic product at 8:30 a.m., along with weekly jobless claims. Weekly mortgage
rates follow at 10.

At 9:30 a.m., the House Oversight and Reform Committee will hold a hearing to
assess Mr. Obama's "all of the above" energy strategy. A second hearing on the
topic is scheduled for 1:30 p.m.

At 11:30, high-level Obama administration officials will participate in a
town-hall-style meeting to discuss a finding that black and Puerto Rican
children develop asthma at higher-than-average rates.

Shortly after noon, former President George W. Bush and  Laura Bush will join
President Obama at the White House for lunch and the unveiling for the former
first couple's official portraits. The elder President George Bush and Barbara
Bush will also be on hand for the ceremony.

At 2 p.m., a bipartisan group of House lawmakers will hold a news conference to
push for a faster withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan.


     ·    The Early Word: Gloves Off
     ·    The Early Word: Hazards
     ·    The Early Word: Battlegrounds
     ·    The Early Word: Definition
     ·    The Early Word: Illinois


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Ross Douthat)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

When Is Sex-Selective Abortion a 'Problem'?

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 346 words



HIGHLIGHT: Dana Milbank's peculiar take on sex-selective abortion and Asian
Americans.


Here's an interesting paragraph from Dana Milbank's Washington Post column
assessing the political consequences of the House Republican push to pass a ban
on sex-selective abortions:

The problem with [the] proposal is that it's not entirely clear there is a
problem. Sex-selection abortion is a huge tragedy in parts of Asia, but to the
extent it's happening in this country, it's mostly among Asian immigrants.

As I said, interesting. The column as a whole makes some plausible points about
the possibility of an Asian-American backlash against the bill's implicit ethnic
focus, but that's a political question, not a substantive one. Here Milbank is
addressing the substance of the matter, and he's saying ... what? That if a
deplorable practice mainly affects Asian immigrants, it's not really worth
criminalizing?

Try to imagine a similar sentence being written about a different practice or
problem. "The problem with criminalizing female genital mutilation is that it's
not entirely clear there is a problem. The practice is a huge tragedy in parts
of Africa, but to the extent it's happening in this country, it's mostly among
African immigrants." Or: "The problem with criminalizing human trafficking is
that it's not entirely clear there is a problem. The practice is a huge tragedy
in parts of the developing world, but to the extent it's happening in this
country, it's mostly among Third World immigrants."

The underlying issue here, I suspect, is that the logic of the pro-choice cause
makes it extremely difficult even for people who acknowledge that sex-selective
abortion is a "tragedy" to make the leap to the idea that it should be treated
as a criminal offense. But Milbank's column demonstrates how these difficulties
can lead to further difficulties: In his zeal to minimize the gravity of the
issue, he's ended up strongly implying something I'm pretty sure (and hope!) he
didn't mean to say.


     ·    A Response to Mara Hvistendahl (II)
     ·    Patriarchy, Liberty and The 160 Million
     ·    Abortion and the Missing 160 Million
     ·    A Response to Mara Hvistendahl (I)
     ·    Daughters of the Revolution


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Ross Douthat)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

When Is Sex-Selective Abortion a 'Problem'?

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 346 words



HIGHLIGHT: Dana Milbank's peculiar take on sex-selective abortion and Asian
Americans.


Here's an interesting paragraph from Dana Milbank's Washington Post column
assessing the political consequences of the House Republican push to pass a ban
on sex-selective abortions:

The problem with [the] proposal is that it's not entirely clear there is a
problem. Sex-selection abortion is a huge tragedy in parts of Asia, but to the
extent it's happening in this country, it's mostly among Asian immigrants.

As I said, interesting. The column as a whole makes some plausible points about
the possibility of an Asian-American backlash against the bill's implicit ethnic
focus, but that's a political question, not a substantive one. Here Milbank is
addressing the substance of the matter, and he's saying ... what? That if a
deplorable practice mainly affects Asian immigrants, it's not really worth
criminalizing?

Try to imagine a similar sentence being written about a different practice or
problem. "The problem with criminalizing female genital mutilation is that it's
not entirely clear there is a problem. The practice is a huge tragedy in parts
of Africa, but to the extent it's happening in this country, it's mostly among
African immigrants." Or: "The problem with criminalizing human trafficking is
that it's not entirely clear there is a problem. The practice is a huge tragedy
in parts of the developing world, but to the extent it's happening in this
country, it's mostly among Third World immigrants."

The underlying issue here, I suspect, is that the logic of the pro-choice cause
makes it extremely difficult even for people who acknowledge that sex-selective
abortion is a "tragedy" to make the leap to the idea that it should be treated
as a criminal offense. But Milbank's column demonstrates how these difficulties
can lead to further difficulties: In his zeal to minimize the gravity of the
issue, he's ended up strongly implying something I'm pretty sure (and hope!) he
didn't mean to say.


     ·    A Response to Mara Hvistendahl (II)
     ·    Patriarchy, Liberty and The 160 Million
     ·    Abortion and the Missing 160 Million
     ·    A Response to Mara Hvistendahl (I)
     ·    Daughters of the Revolution


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

For Incoming International Students, a College Checklist for June

BYLINE: KATHY STEINER-LANG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 537 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kathy Steiner-Lang, the director of the Office for International
Students and Scholars at Washington University of St. Louis, advises students to
make their travel arrangements this month to prepare for college in the United
States.



For this week's installment of The Choice on India Ink, we present an
international version of this month's college admissions checklist for
graduating seniors. We've asked Kathy Steiner-Lang, the director of the Office
for International Students and Scholars at Washington University of St. Louis,
for some advice on what graduating international students should be doing as
they prepare to go to a college or university in the United States this fall.
-Tanya Caldwell

Incoming international students, here is your college admissions checklist:

Obtain Your Travel Documents and Applicable Immigration Status

Obtain a passport, if you don't already have one. You should also obtain a
student visa. If you are already in the United States, carry out the necessary
procedures to obtain an immigration status that allows for study at an American
university. If you are transferring from a high school in the United States, you
may need to change your immigration status to one that will allow you to study
at a university in the United States.

Complete Health Forms From Your University

You may need to have more immunizations. High schools in the United States
usually have requirements for students to show that their immunizations are
current, but international students from abroad may not have this. You should
also find out how to obtain the necessary health insurance to cover you while
you are studying in the United States.

Provide the School With an Accurate E-Mail Address

Make sure that you check your e-mail throughout the summer. Colleges and
universities tend to rely on e-mail for all international interactions. Material
to domestic students may be mailed out instead.

Make Travel Arrangements for Your Move to the U.S.

Book your flight and find out how you will arrive at the university. Determine
whether the university will provide ground transportation will provided from the
airport, or if will you need to make your own arrangements.

Be Sure to Bring Essential Items With You on Your Trip

Find out what the university provides in its residence halls and determine what
you should pack so that you will have it available immediately. For example, if
the university does not provide sheets for your bed, it is likely that you will
need to bring them with you so that you will have something to sleep on during
your first few days on campus. Purchase clothing suitable for the climate of the
your university's campus. Have sufficient funds in U.S. dollars when you arrive,
and do not leave money in your suitcase. You should also carry an international
calling card or an international cell phone. This will allow you to contact
someone if you are delayed or stranded in your travels, and to call your parents
when you arrive on campus.

Do Not Be Afraid to Ask for Help

Staff members at universities are very knowledgeable and are ready to help out
new students.



     ·    Proposed Law Would Limit International Enrollment at University of
          California Schools
     ·    For International Students, Early 2012 College Admissions Yields and
          Wait-List Data
     ·    For International Students, a Guide to U.S. Community Colleges
     ·    For International Students, a College Admissions Checklist for May
     ·    How to Apply for a Student Visa to Study in the United States


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Good Newt

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1352 words


Immigration is a subject that brings out the best and the worst in Americans.

As taught to my fourth-grade daughter this semester, the story of the peopling
of America encourages us to celebrate our identity as the land of e pluribus
unum. It reminds us of the tolerance required to coexist in a culture of many
cultures. It honors the courage to uproot your life so your children can have a
better one.

As it is practiced in our politics, the subject often dredges up darker
feelings: tribalism, xenophobia, envy, a pull-up-the-ladder stinginess. This is
not new. The English and Dutch colonists resented the immigrant waves of Irish
and Germans, who resented the later waves of Italians and Poles and Jews. Polls
show that Americans only halfheartedly support immigration, and less than
halfheartedly in hard times.

Nowhere is our national ambivalence on this issue more grotesquely displayed
than in the current Republican campaign. Rick Perry, Mitt Romney and Newt
Gingrich each, in turn, tripped over the issue -- Perry by letting illegals in
Texas pay lower, in-state college tuition; Romney for failing to fire a lawn
care service that employed undocumented workers; and Gingrich for saying that
not every family lacking legal status should be put in a boxcar and shipped to
Mexico.

To make rhetorical amends for these errors of compassion, each candidate has
tapped his inner demagogue. Perry went barnstorming with Sheriff Joe Arpaio, the
Arizona bully famous for his primitive and crowd-pleasing immigrant roundups.
Both Gingrich and Romney talk about fortifying the border as if we were under
siege and use the word ''amnesty'' in the same tone of voice most people use for
''Al Qaeda.''

It's a tricky act. The candidates are trying to compete for the votes of the
electrified-fence crowd without completely alienating Latino voters or important
business constituents -- in construction, agriculture, meatpacking, hospitality
-- who hunger for cheap, dependable labor. Thus the campaign has generated more
obfuscation than lucid argument. The classic is Mitt Romney's painfully evasive
interview with Bret Baier of Fox News, in which Romney accused Gingrich of
favoring ''amnesty'' but couldn't explain where their positions really differed.

But wait. Why are we even talking about this? I hate to distract you with actual
facts, but here are a few that have been overlooked in the din of alarm: illegal
immigration is falling, sharply, a result of tougher enforcement in the decade
since the 9/11 attacks and an anemic American job market. Border policing is at
an all-time high. Deportations are way up under Obama. The estimated population
of illegal residents has fallen by about one million from its peak of 12 million
in 2007.

More facts: The most scrupulous study I've seen of the economic impact of
illegal immigration -- by Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of
California, San Diego -- weighed the costs to society (schools, health care,
etc.) against the benefits (tax revenues, labor productivity, etc.) and
concluded that the difference was ''close enough to zero to be essentially a
wash.'' The idea that illegal immigrants are dragging down the economy is just
wrong.

Now, what is true for the nation as a whole is not equally true of every
community or every class. The impact of illegal labor on native employment may
be marginal, but it hits hardest at the bottom, displacing those with a high
school education or less, who are already the victims of recession and
diminishing wages. This is a fearful and energized portion of the electorate. As
Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, points out, ''If it's
your job, a marginal effect is a big one.''

The impact is felt more intensely in states -- Alabama, Georgia, the Carolinas,
Nevada, Iowa and others -- where the arrival of Hispanic immigrants is
relatively new. Rick Perry's comparatively sympathetic view of illegals is the
bipartisan norm in a state like Texas that has long absorbed Mexicans. But it
does not play so well in Iowa, which has only recently seen classrooms filling
with brown-skinned, Spanish-speaking children. These tend to be the states
passing punitive laws to deputize traffic cops, E.R. nurses and utility workers
as immigration enforcers. Wanting to enforce the law, or protect your job, does
not make you a bigot. But these laws tend to be self-defeating. They drive
illegals deeper underground, lock them into an underclass, pit states against
Washington and each other, and sunder communities.

Therein lies the real crisis -- not that the country is being overrun, but that
the country is at war with itself.

Comprehensive immigration reform used to be a bipartisan issue that drew
prominent Republicans like George W. Bush and John McCain and Orrin Hatch, but
in our toxic hyperpartisan political climate Republicans have simply fled. ''The
left and right both politicized it,'' said Tamar Jacoby, president of the
small-business federation ImmigrationWorks USA, and a Republican. ''Now the
sense is that the Democrats own it, so no Republican can touch it.''

That is why it matters so much that Gingrich has staked a serious claim.

Rather than parse his debate sound bites, go to Newt.org and read his proposed
solutions. You have to get past a certain amount of red-meat rhetoric and brush
aside some half-baked notions that are typical Newt, more smart-alecky than
smart. (His plan for local citizen boards to pass judgment on which immigrants
get deported sounds to me like the Neighborhood Watch from hell.) But you will
find that on major points Gingrich is consistent with the best proposals
compiled by serious students of this subject, who aim to build a reform based
not on what makes you feel good but on what's best for the country.

Here's what Newt gets:

First, immigration is a rejuvenation of our economy, a source of invention and
investment at the high end and of tax-paying, productive labor at the low end.
So the foundation of a new policy should be the opening of more, and
more-efficient, legal channels for the newcomers who will refresh our ingenuity
and replenish our aging work force (and, by the way, pay to keep the Social
Security funds filled for boomers like me).

Second, you can't sell reform unless it begins with enforcement. Restrictionists
rightly point out that the last major reform bill in 1986 promised not only
legalization but tougher employer sanctions and beefed-up border controls. In a
booming, labor-hungry economy, those things did not come to pass. Critics of
legalization are justified in saying we won't be fooled again.

Today the big hole in our enforcement is not the border; it's the failure to
hold employers accountable. The best enforcement tool available is not an
alligator-filled moat. (At least a third of illegals bypass the border
altogether and just overstay temporary visitor visas.) The best tool is a
national identity card, including some biometric evidence, such as a
fingerprint. Gingrich braves the wrath of libertarians and privacy campaigners
to endorse it. In today's living-online, GPS-tracked world, I think a national
identity card would find wide acceptance.

Third, there is no easy solution to the 11 million already here. We are not
going to legalize 11 million lawbreakers; that's politically untenable. Neither
are we going to uproot and expel the equivalent of the population of Ohio --
severing families, spending billions and creating a shamefully cruel spectacle.
So we set some rules. The recently arrived, the unattached and, obviously, the
gangbangers and criminals go home. The deeply rooted, productive families pay a
price to stay. The details -- who decides? what price? -- are not easy, but, as
my daughter learned on her field trip to Ellis Island, it's never been simple
inventing a new nation. (And after all, Newt, aren't we, like the Palestinians,
an invented people?)

There are plenty of reasons the thought of President Newt Gingrich makes me
shudder. But on this hard, defining American issue, he's shown a combination of
brains, heart and guts that puts the rest of his party to shame.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Floating Incubator For Start-Ups

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 770 words


Technology gurus have long lamented how hard it is for foreign talent to secure
American visas and create start-ups here. As Congress spins its wheels with
endless debate over immigration, an ambitious venture based in Sunnyvale,
Calif., is trying to chart a more productive course aboard a 600-foot boat, or
possibly a barge.

That's the idea behind Blueseed, which aims to create a visa-free, floating
incubator for international entrepreneurs off the California coast near Silicon
Valley.

Blueseed's co-founders, Max Marty, 27, and Dario Mutabdzija, 31, envision a
seaworthy, 1,000-passenger hothouse for entrepreneurs from around the world,
moored 12 nautical miles offshore - just outside California's territorial waters
- with enough appealing amenities to make it a ''Googleplex of the Sea.''
Passengers could take a day trip by ferry to the mainland on temporary tourist
or business visas, returning to sleep in cabins that would rent for $1,200 to
$3,000 a month.

''Blueseed is a way to connect Silicon Valley with the amazing founders and
entrepreneurs out around the world,'' Mr. Marty said. ''Existing visa policies
were designed for a different era. The nature of business has changed, and
what's lacking now is an avenue for people to be able to come in and create
great companies.''

Peter Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal and prominent venture capitalist, signed on
recently as an investor in Blueseed. The company is currently seeking additional
investors to raise a total of $500,000 in seed capital.

''Tech innovation drives economic growth, and we need more of both,'' Mr. Thiel
elaborated in a written statement for this blog. ''Many innovative people have a
really hard time getting visas, and Blueseed will help bring more innovation to
California with a solution that is itself as innovative as it is clever.''

Mr. Thiel, a staunch libertarian, made a splash in August by contributing $1.25
million to the Seasteading Institute, a Sunnyvale nonprofit founded by Patri
Friedman (grandson of Milton Friedman, the economist) that explores the creation
of autonomous ocean colonies. He declined through a spokesman to say how much he
had invested in Blueseed.

Mr. Marty and Mr. Mutabdzija first met as directors of business and legal
strategy at the Seasteading Institute. They estimate that their current project
could end up costing $15 million, if they charter a vessel, to $40 million, if
they buy one. They hope - perhaps optimistically - to have it afloat in 2013.

Past efforts to ease immigration restrictions for entrepreneurs have seemed less
the stuff of science fiction. In February 2010, Senators John Kerry and Richard
Lugar introduced the first version of the Start-Up Visa Act, which would create
a path to citizenship for immigrant entrepreneurs who meet benchmarks for
raising capital and creating jobs. Though the bill has since been reintroduced,
it hasn't made any progress.

Champions of both Blueseed and the Start-Up Visa Act are quick to point out that
immigrants were founders of more than half of Silicon Valley's start-ups between
1995 and 2005, according to Duke University research. They add that, without
strivers from abroad like Sergey Brin and Vinod Khosla, companies like Google
and Sun Microsystems would not be part of America's tech ecosystem. (Mr. Marty's
parents are both Cuban immigrants and entrepreneurs; Mr. Mutabdzija was born in
Sarajevo.)

For Blueseed's founders, the first hurdle will be convincing potential investors
that their vision is not as far-fetched as it might seem. They believe it is a
matter of cobbling together best practices from well-explored, less exotic
territory - maritime engineering, international law - to create great
work-live-play spaces for tech dreamers. Foreign entrepreneurs, they say, are
hoping for the chance to marinate in Silicon Valley, and more than 60 of them
have expressed interest in the project through an online survey.

''I and many others are suffering over the situation that we cannot go to
America to be around these people,'' said Nico Schweinzer, a serial entrepreneur
reached by Skype in Graz, Austria, where he created JobGuru, an employment site,
and is building Oracly, a service that lets shoppers scan product bar codes with
smartphones to receive short reviews. ''For me, it's not so much about the
investors, but more about being where you can exchange ideas and get skilled
people for your projects.

''Blueseed is a fantastic idea,'' he added. ''You could go there and be very
close to the mecca of the tech scene.''

What do you think?

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rules Stretched As Green Cards Go to Investors

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN and KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words


Affluent foreigners are rushing to take advantage of a federal immigration
program that offers them the chance to obtain a green card in return for
investing in construction projects in the United States. With credit tight, the
program has unexpectedly turned into a mainstay for the financing of these
projects in New York, California, Texas and other states.

The number of foreign applicants, each of whom must invest at least $500,000 in
a project, has nearly quadrupled in the last two years, to more than 3,800 in
the 2011 fiscal year, officials said. Demand has grown so fast that the Obama
administration, which is championing the program, is seeking to streamline the
application process.

Still, some critics of the program have described it as an improper use of the
immigration system to spur economic development -- a cash-for-visas scheme. And
an examination of the program by The New York Times suggests that in New York,
developers and state officials are stretching the rules to qualify projects for
this foreign financing.

These developers are often relying on gerrymandering techniques to create
development zones that are supposedly in areas of high unemployment -- and thus
eligible for special concessions -- but actually are in prosperous ones,
according to federal and state records.

One of the more prominent projects is a 34-story glass tower in Manhattan that
is to cost $750 million, one-fifth of which is to come from foreign investors
seeking green cards. Called the International Gem Tower, it is rising near Fifth
Avenue in the diamond district of Manhattan, one of the wealthiest areas in the
country.

Yet through the selective use of census statistics, state officials have
classified the area as one plagued by high unemployment, the federal and state
records show. As a result, the developer has increased the project's chances of
attracting foreigners who will accept little, if any, return on their investment
in the project if it means they can secure American visas for their families.

A senior federal immigration official, Alejandro Mayorkas, acknowledged in an
interview on Friday that the program might need more scrutiny. Mr. Mayorkas and
other federal officials said they were concerned that some of the maps that New
York and other states were approving might not adhere to the spirit and intent
of the regulations.

The Times's review of the program in New York indicates that several other major
projects are also based on questionable maps.

For example, the Battery Maritime Building, at the foot of Manhattan near Wall
Street, has been classified as being located in an area that needs help
attracting jobs. That designation is the result of a development zone whose
outlines resemble a gerrymandered political district, project documents show.

The zone snakes up through the Lower East Side, skirting the wealthy enclaves of
Battery Park City and TriBeCa, and then jumps across the East River to annex the
Farragut Houses project in Vinegar Hill, Brooklyn.

In fact, the small census tract that contains the Farragut Houses has become a
go-to area for developers seeking to use the visa program: its unemployed
residents have been counted toward three projects already.

The giant Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, which abuts well-heeled brownstone
neighborhoods, has also qualified for the special concessions using a
gerrymandered high-unemployment district: the crescent-shaped zone swings more
than two miles to the northeast to include poor sections of Crown Heights and
Bedford-Stuyvesant. A local blogger and critic of Atlantic Yards, Norman Oder,
has referred to the map as ''the Bed-Stuy Boomerang.''

Since 2008, developers have raised or have planned to raise close to $1 billion
on these projects in New York City, according to federal and state records.
Almost all of that money would come in increments of $500,000 -- much of it from
residents of China -- and pour into wealthy areas.

In interviews, New York State economic-development officials praised the program
but were reluctant to accept responsibility for administering it. Indeed, some
state officials who certified projects for the program acknowledged that they
did not know what was being built. They said they were following guidance from
federal regulators.

''This program serves as a valuable tool to support job-creating projects that
will put areas of high unemployment on a continued path to economic recovery and
growth,'' said Austin Shafran, a spokesman for Empire State Development, the
state agency that oversees the program in New York.

Urged on by federal and state officials, investors in faraway places like
Shanghai and Seoul along with American developers have been flocking to the
program, which was created by Congress during the recession of 1990.

Under the program, known as EB-5, investors receive a visa that provides
residency for two years and can be converted into a permanent green card if the
holders can show the investment produced at least 10 jobs, even if the project
has not been completed.

With the surge in EB-5 projects, many lawyers and consultants, in the United
States and overseas, are getting involved. In China alone, more than 500 agents
are jockeying to connect wealthy Chinese people to American developers, experts
said.

Investors throng EB-5 conferences. Many, successful in their own countries, said
they wanted to secure American residency for their children. But the competition
has given rise to unsavory practices, EB-5 lawyers and consultants said, like
agents who falsely promise guaranteed returns.

The minimum investment in the program was set at $1 million and has not changed
in more than 20 years. But if the project is in a rural area or a place where
the unemployment rate is 50 percent above the national average, the threshold
for investing is $500,000, not $1 million.

By creating development zones that are ruled eligible for $500,000 investments,
urban developers are at an advantage in luring contributions.

The zone drawn up for the Gem Tower consists of two census tracts in Midtown
Manhattan. According to census figures, the tract that contains the project had
an unemployment rate of zero for the last five years.

But the State Labor Department calculated that there were enough unemployed
people in an adjoining census tract -- one that includes Times Square -- to
justify calling the small zone an area of high unemployment.

Lela Goren, director general of Extell New York Regional Center, which is
helping to raise the EB-5 investments for the Gem Tower, said she could not
explain how the tower's zone qualified as needy. ''It qualifies, whatever the
numbers, and it got approved,'' Ms. Goren said.

The consultants arranging the EB-5 financing for the Battery Maritime and
Atlantic Yards projects declined to comment.

Officials in other states expressed dismay over how New York developers were
using the program. They said New York was unfairly siphoning off investments
from less-developed areas.

''A lot of projects are in areas that are head-scratchers,'' said James Candido,
an official with Vermont's Department of Economic Development.

Other states have sometimes not allowed such questionable development zones.
California told a developer to relocate a manufacturing plant for a
surgical-products company from a more prosperous part of San Jose to a poorer
one, said Brook J. Taylor, a spokesman for the Governor's Office of Business and
Economic Development in California.

Federal regulators said states determined whether projects were located in areas
of ''greatest need.''

''The question is, are the state authorities adhering to the spirit of the
law?'' said Mr. Mayorkas, the federal immigration official who is the director
of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. ''Where is the project
being developed, and where are the jobs being created? Are the people from the
areas of high unemployment being employed? Because that's really the purpose. If
they're not being hired from those areas, then the question is justified.''

Mr. Mayorkas, whose staff has been scrambling to keep up with the boom in the
program, said in the interview on Friday that he was concerned about allegations
of gerrymandering.

If some project designations were not achieving ''legislative intent,'' he said,
''then I think that is something that we need to consider as the laws are
reviewed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The International Gem Tower, under construction, in the diamond
district. Below, a separate development zone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) MAP (MAP BY THE NEW YORK TIMES/IMAGE VIA BING) (A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Charged In Shooting of Immigration Agents

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
24

LENGTH: 103 words


A man suspected of being part of a Mexican drug cartel was arraigned Wednesday
on murder charges in the roadside ambush of two United States immigration agents
working in Mexico. A spokesman for the United States District Court said that
the suspect, Julian Zapata Espinoza, pleaded not guilty. He is charged in a Feb.
15 attack that killed one of the immigration agents, Jaime Zapata, and wounded
his colleague, Victor Avila. Mr. Zapata Espinoza and five others suspected of
being members of the Zeta cartel were captured by the Mexican Army a week after
the shooting. He was recently extradited to the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Sheriff's Office Punished In Profiling Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 189 words


A judge overseeing a lawsuit accusing the Maricopa County Sheriff's Department
of racial profiling in its immigration patrols issued punishments against the
agency on Friday for its acknowledged destruction of records in the case. The
punishments, issued by Judge G. Murray Snow of Federal District Court, came in
the form of ''adverse inferences'' against Sheriff Joseph M. Arpaio's office
that he may consider when deciding the case's facts. The judge, for instance,
may assume that among the destroyed documents were citizen complaints -- some
that were racially charged and did not contain accusations of any criminal
activity -- that requested immigration patrols in spots where the sheriff's
office later conducted patrols. Tim Casey, one of Sheriff Arpaio's lawyers, said
he expected the ruling. ''I thought that the judge, given the facts, was very
fair in his evaluation,'' Mr. Casey said. Judge Snow in February 2010 found
grounds to sanction the sheriff's office for throwing away or shredding some
records of traffic stops made during the immigration patrols, but he held off on
actually imposing the punishment until Friday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 25, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Want of a Good Lawyer: Deportation Without Representation

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 440 words


In deciding who may stay and who must leave this country, the deportation
process for immigrants tolerates unfairness at every turn. Current laws have
denied basic due process protections to people held in immigration detention.
And now, a new report in the Cardozo Law Review reveals a severe shortage of
competent legal assistance for tens of thousands facing deportation. The study
examines cases in New York, but New York is hardly unique in this failing.

The report surveyed judges in five immigration courts and found shoddy lawyering
widespread. According to the judges' responses, in nearly half the New York
cases, immigrants who had lawyers received inadequate representation. In 14
percent of cases, they said the attorneys' preparation and knowledge of the law
and the facts were ''grossly inadequate.''

Worse, a huge number of immigrants in New York have no representation at all.
Although poor defendants in criminal courts are entitled to court-appointed
lawyers, people in immigration courts are not. Over all, immigrants appeared in
court without a lawyer in nearly 15,000 cases (27 percent of the total) between
October 2005 and July 2010. About two-thirds of immigrants in detention were
lawyerless. Other jurisdictions provided even less access to counsel: 79 percent
of those arrested and transferred to immigration detention in other states
lacked attorneys.

As in other areas, people with lawyers fared better. About 67 percent of those
with lawyers during the period reviewed were allowed to stay, while only 8
percent of those without counsel avoided deportation.

These problems are but a subset of a much broader legal services crisis that is
also forcing a soaring number of Americans to go to court without a lawyer in
civil matters like home foreclosures, evictions and child support cases.
Perversely, Congress has responded to the growing need for legal help by
slashing the budget of the federal Legal Services Corporation.
Government-financed legal assistance for people fighting deportation is nowhere
on the radar.

Even so, some improvements are possible. The review of all deportation cases
before the immigration courts announced last month by the Obama administration
should be extended to cases in the federal appellate courts. Dismissing the many
cases at that level that fall outside the administration's focus on immigrants
who have committed serious crimes or pose national security risks could free up
competent lawyers for more serious cases. Private foundations and bar
associations could also help improve representation by creating programs that
put young lawyers to work full time on immigrant issues.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Immigrants Get the Lawyers They Need

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 351 words


To the Editor:

''In a Study, Judges Express a Bleak View of Lawyers Representing Immigrants''
(news article, Dec. 19) rightly notes that many immigrants suffer from poor
representation. The research found that more than 20 percent of those in
immigration court in New York are unrepresented, as are more than 60 percent in
immigration detention. One bright spot was the high marks given to pro bono
lawyers, nonprofits and law school clinics. Unfortunately, these understaffed
and overstretched legal providers are not able to meet the overwhelming need.

While the Katzmann Study Group is developing comprehensive recommendations, some
initial steps are already under way. For example, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg
recently announced new lawyer positions, and our organization was selected for a
Leon Levy fellowship to expand pro bono access.

Beyond our region, though, the representation gap is also tremendous. The
federal government should increase support for legal orientation programs and
provide appointed counsel. Lawyers across the country should volunteer and
advocate for government action. This problem deserves a national response.

ELEANOR ACER Director, Refugee Protection Program, Human Rights First New York,
Dec. 19, 2011

To the Editor:

Throughout the country, the government detains immigrants in detention centers
and county jails that are inaccessible to most lawyers and legal aid. Immigrants
have difficulty securing affordable representation, and those who do have
representation may struggle to maintain contact because facilities restrict
telephone calls or have broken phones. These are significant obstacles for
lawyers who strive to provide excellent legal representation.

I provide pro bono representation through Heartland Alliance's National
Immigrant Justice Center. The center recently released a report calling for the
government to cancel its contracts with three of the Midwest's most isolated
jails. If we want to improve access to counsel for immigrants, the government
must stop warehousing them hundreds of miles away from lawyers.

MATTHEW A. ROONEY Evanston, Ill., Dec. 19, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 1, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK IN PREVIEW 2012; Pg.
4

LENGTH: 247 words


Nothing in 2012 is likely to have a bigger impact on the lives of immigrants in
New York than the Obama administration's plan to review every pending case in
the nation's immigration courts. The goal is to speed the deportations of
convicted criminals while sparing many illegal immigrants who have no criminal
records and have deep roots in the community.

In the absence of comprehensive revisions to federal immigration law, meanwhile,
state governments will continue to move unilaterally on immigration issues. New
York remains one of the nation's friendlier states to immigrants, and some
legislators are seeking to expand educational opportunities for illegal
immigrants by making them eligible for state financial aid and scholarships. The
idea has received the backing of the Board of Regents, and a related bill may
come up for a vote in 2012.

New York City, led by an ardently pro-immigrant mayor, is still one of the most
accommodating places in the world for outsiders. Following paths carved by so
many before them, thousands of newcomers will arrive from abroad next year, many
fleeing armed conflicts, famine or poverty. And, by and large, New York will
embrace them. E. B. White spoke for many when he wrote in ''Here Is New York,''
his 1949 love letter to the city, that those residents who were ''born somewhere
else and came to New York in quest of something'' made for ''the greatest''
aspect of the city. ''The settlers,'' he said, ''give it passion.'' KIRK SEMPLE

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 1, 2012 Sunday
                                National Edition

A Tale of Two Elections

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; IMMIGRATION; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 282 words


Relations along the Texas-Mexico border depend on the outcome of two elections,
one at home and one abroad.

Some posit that if President Obama is re-elected, he may finally act on his 2008
campaign promise to fix the country's immigration system. He has called for this
for years, but has simultaneously deported more illegal immigrants than any
other president. Between Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.'s recent visit to
Texas and the United States Justice Department's crackdown on enforcement of
Arizona's controversial immigration law -- which Texas lawmakers continue to toy
with -- his administration appears to be working to counteract this reputation.

If a Republican wins the White House, will that president embrace more extreme
measures on the border, including a more extensive fence, an infusion of
American troops or intervention by the United States in the sovereign nation of
Mexico?

Meanwhile, officials on both sides of the border think Mexico's fight against
organized drug crime could hinge on that country's presidential election.
President Felipe Calderon, of the PAN party, cannot run again in next summer's
election, and his party has yet to determine who will vie for the seat.

The PRI, the opposition party that held power for 70 years, will most likely
field the former governor of the state of Mexico, Enrique Pena Nieto, who has
said he does not believe the military is the best tool to fight organized crime
-- there have been more than 42,000 murders nationwide in drug-related violence
since late 2006.

The leftist PRD could run Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who lost to Mr. Calderon
in 2006 in the country's closest presidential election in history. JULIAN
AGUILAR

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 6, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrants' New Paths Reshaping Latin America

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; IMMIGRATION UPENDED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words


SANTA MARIA ATZOMPA, Mexico -- When the old-timers here look around their town,
all they see are new arrivals: young Mexican men working construction and
driving down wages; the children of laborers flooding crowded schools; even new
businesses -- stores, restaurants and strip clubs -- springing up on roads that
used to be dark and quiet.

The shock might seem familiar enough in countless American towns wrestling with
immigration, but this is a precolonial Mexican village outside Oaxaca City,
filling up with fellow Mexicans. Still, grimaces about the influx are as common
as smiles.

''Before all these people came, everything was tranquil,'' said Marcelino
Juarez, 61, an artisan at the local ceramics market. ''They bring complications.
They don't bring benefits.''

Throughout Mexico and much of Latin America, the old migratory patterns are
changing. The mobile and restless are now casting themselves across a wider
range of cities and countries in the region, pitting old residents against new,
increasing pressure to create jobs and prompting nations to rewrite their
immigration laws, sometimes to encourage the trend.

The United States is simply not the magnet it once was. Arrests at the United
States' southwest border in 2011 fell to their lowest level since 1972,
confirming that illegal immigration, especially from Mexico, has reached what
experts now describe as either a significant pause or the end of an era.

But this is not a shift in volume as much as direction. Nearly two million more
Mexicans lived away from their hometowns in 2010 than was the case a decade
earlier, according to the Mexican census. Experts say departures have also held
steady or increased over the past few years in Guatemala, El Salvador, Peru and
other Latin American countries that have traditionally been hubs of emigration.

The migrants are just not always going where they used to.

Mexicans, for example, are increasingly avoiding the United States and the
border region, as well as their own capital, and are moving toward smaller,
safer cities like Merida, Oaxaca City and Queretaro. Experts say more
Guatemalans are also settling in Mexico after years of passing through on the
journey north.

To the south, the pull of Chile, Argentina and Brazil is also strengthening. The
International Organization for Migration reports that the Bolivian population in
Argentina has increased by 48 percent since 2001 (to 345,000), and that the
country's Paraguayan and Peruvian populations have grown even faster.

All of this movement is reshaping the region, making it less like a compass
pointing north and more like a hub with many spokes. From the papayas grown by
Bolivian farmers in Argentina to the recent discovery of exploited illegal
workers in Chile and conflicts over local government in southern Mexico, this
intraregional migration in Latin America has become both a challenge and a
promising surprise for a part of the world that has generally framed the issue
in terms of how many people leave for the United States.

''It's like a river changing course,'' said Gabino Cue Monteagudo, the governor
of Oaxaca. ''It's the process of development -- it's inevitable.''

For the United States, the collective shift means fewer migrants crossing the
border illegally and possibly more debate over whether the expanded budgets for
immigration enforcement still make sense.

But the greatest impacts are being felt in fast-growing towns like Santa Maria
Atzompa, where thousands of mostly poor, rural families have chosen to seek
their fortunes. In the case of this town and the surrounding area, the growth
has been ''fast, barbaric and anarchic,'' said Jorge Hernandez-Diaz, a
sociologist at the Autonomous University of Benito Juarez de Oaxaca.

A generation ago, he said, the road from Oaxaca City to the main plaza of
Atzompa passed by fields and farmers, little more. The total population for the
municipality in 1990 was 5,781. Now, this small piece of land has filled in with
a labyrinth of dirt roads with dead ends, new businesses and thousands of homes
in varying levels of construction and quality.

Residents say the population boom accelerated around 2006, as opportunities in
the United States fell away and the dangers and cost of crossing the border
became prohibitive amid drug cartel violence and stepped-up border security.
Now, more than 27,000 people live in Atzompa, according to the 2010 census, and
more keep coming.

Other regional poles are experiencing similar growth. Indeed, while the
population of Mexico City has stabilized and immigration to the United States
has declined, Mexico's coastal and exurban areas have expanded.

This is partly because of the Mexican government's efforts to decentralize
development, often with incentives for international businesses. Just last
month, Nissan said that it would build a factory in the central city of
Aguascalientes. Here in Oaxaca State, experts say, the migration out of rural
areas is also a product of land reforms in 1992 that, along with the North
American Free Trade Agreement, made it harder for farmers to eke out a living
and easier for them to sell land.

In South America, too, free trade agreements have contributed to more regional
movement, as have steadily growing economies and new laws encouraging migration
or protecting migrants' rights in Argentina, Uruguay, Mexico and Ecuador, among
others.

Improvements in technology (especially access to cellphones) and infrastructure
(especially better roads) have also made it easier to discover and reach jobs in
new places, fueling the classic urge to improve one's lot without the obstacles
and increasing the perils of the trek north.

''It's the economics, but also the culture and more information,'' said Juan
Artola, South America director for the International Organization for Migration.
''Intraregional migration has grown a lot in the last decade and it's very
important because of the changes it implies.''

Continuing and expanding the move toward urbanization, migrants are now making
Latin America more integrated, and more metropolitan, say demographers and
experts throughout the region. About 77 percent of all Mexicans now live in
urban areas, up from 66 percent in 1980.

That makes it easier and cheaper to provide services, including health care,
water and electricity, say government officials. For migrants, education seems
to be the main draw. Schools that go beyond secondary education are rare in the
mountain towns of this poor state, and many young people say they came here to
study or because a relative came to study.

Gabriel Hernandez, 21, said that four of his brothers moved here to study,
starting a decade ago. Some graduated, others did not, but the family opened a
bodega about a year ago, selling produce from their hometown in the northern
mountains.

Mr. Hernandez and many other new residents in Atzompa, who come not only from
Oaxaca, but also Veracruz, Mexico City and elsewhere, say they are happy with
how things have gone.

Javier Espiritu 36, Buddha-round and covered in paint at the carpentry shop he
opened last month, said he had no plans to move again. Business is decent, but
his reasons go beyond economics. He came here with his wife and two children, a
rarity for migrants who cross into the United States illegally, separated from
their families. And unlike his older brothers who made that journey a decade
ago, he said he traveled home to his village six hours south of here twice a
year.

''When my mom needs anything, she calls me,'' he said. ''Going to other states,
or the U.S. -- it's too complicated. Can you imagine me trying to take my whole
family up there?''

And yet, as many Americans in communities with immigration growth have learned,
new residents mean new challenges. Poverty in Atzompa remains high. A drug
rehabilitation center sits down the block from Mr. Espiritu's workshop; strip
clubs promising ''bellas chicas'' are nearby, and longtime residents now
complain about having too many young men with different values in their midst.

''They're not from here,'' said Mr. Juarez, the artisan, explaining the enduring
divide.

Atzompa seems to have reached its breaking point. Governor Cue said that
urbanization was one of his administration's main priorities, but the government
is clearly struggling to keep up with population growth. Only a handful of
Atzompa's roads are paved, and the main secondary school, built for about 120
students, now has nearly 700. Gym classes and sports practices take place on the
dirt roads outside.

The strains have led to a deep conflict here over government and culture.
Atzompa used to be simply a rural village run according to the communal ''usos y
costumbres'' system of government, in which full civic rights accrue only to
people who participate in government or community service and are born in the
community. But as new residents began to outnumber old ones over the past few
years, the recent arrivals complained that they were paying taxes and getting
few or no services in return.

Last year, the community hit an impasse. When the municipal president's term
ended, a state administrator took over. Now the state legislature must decide
whether to keep ''usos y costumbres'' or establish the kind of party system
found in most of Mexico.

Meanwhile, the economics of Atzompa have been changing, not all for the good.
Construction workers say that increased competition has decreased their daily
rate to $11, from $14 five years ago, while prices for empty lots have doubled
to about $7,200.

Inside Mr. Espiritu's shop, these are the kinds of new developments that fill
conversations and hint at problems to come. ''With all this urbanization, there
is a lot of work, but what happens when it's over?'' said Sergio Morales, who
had come to order a door for his house.

One optimistic possibility, he said, was that the current decline in migration
to the United States would lead Mexicans to study, work and slowly build
businesses here instead of fleeing for higher wages in the United States. ''Look
at this guy,'' Mr. Morales said, pointing to Mr. Espiritu. ''He has been doing
it for years.''

New survey research from the University of California, San Diego, suggests that
more internal migrants are now moving to areas closer to home, rather than going
to states closer to the border or to the capital. One in five people who left
the northern village of San Miguel Tlacotepec between 2001 and 2011 stayed
within Oaxaca State, according to the university survey of every town resident,
up from a little over one in 10 from 1997 to 2007.

But as the new migration patterns show, movements of people -- like capital --
are fluid and can change. Many of Mexico's young people are betting that more
education will land them better jobs at home over the coming years. But right
now, said David Fitzgerald, a demographer at the University of California, San
Diego, ''their aspirations are higher than their opportunities.''

Whether Mexico closes that gap may determine whether the Mexican economy holds
onto its new graduates, or whether once again they decide to head north in
droves.

''That's our great challenge,'' Governor Cue said. ''We have to find jobs for
all these young people who are studying.''

Immigration Upended: Articles in this series are exploring the changing patterns
of immigration between the United States and Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many Mexican migrants now shun the border for Mexican towns
like Santa Maria Atzompa. (A1)
A Mexican sociologist has called the growth of Santa Maria Atzompa and the
surrounding area ''fast, barbaric and anarchic.''
 The town has grown to 27,000 people from 5,781 in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO
CRUZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)  MAP: The dangers and cost of crossing
illegally into the United States make towns like Santa Maria Atzompa attractive
to migrants (A3)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Common-Sense Immigration Move

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 441 words


The Obama administration is taking a major step toward bolstering legal
immigration and protecting families -- while removing some of the arbitrary
cruelty from the workings of the immigration bureaucracy. It announced on Friday
that it would change a notorious process to avoid separating families when
immigrants apply to become legal permanent residents.

Under current law, an illegal immigrant who has an American citizen for a spouse
or parent is generally allowed to apply for a green card to become a legal
permanent resident. But the application has to be made in an immigrant's home
country -- and any illegal immigrant who leaves the country is automatically
barred from returning for at least three years, sometimes 10.

If such a separation would cause ''extreme hardship'' to an American citizen, an
immigrant can apply for a waiver. But he or she has to make that application --
and await the decision -- in his or her home country. Because waivers are
notoriously time consuming and hard to get, an applicant would typically wait
months abroad for a waiver to be approved and risk being stranded from his or
her family for years if it is not approved.

Not surprising, many immigrants who are eligible for visas -- possibly hundreds
of thousands -- choose to stay in the shadows instead.

The new rule proposed by Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services, would allow immigrants to obtain
provisional waivers in the United States before they left to pick up their
visas. This means they won't have to be separated from their families for long,
uncertain periods and will go to their consular appointments knowing that they
will be able to quickly come home. The agency also said it was also planning to
streamline procedures to cut down the wait times for visas to a few weeks at
most.

Mr. Mayorkas's announcement was a rare appearance of common sense and compassion
on immigration in Washington. It was particularly welcomed by Mexicans, many of
whom use the consulate south of El Paso, in Ciudad Juarez, a city with a
horrific murder rate. Waiting months there for visa processing and interviews
involves not just bureaucratic risks, but risks to life and limb.

President Obama, like President George W. Bush before him, has been utterly
stymied by members of Congress, mostly Republicans, who oppose any and all
reforms of outdated, unjust immigration laws. Even actions that promote legality
in the immigration system meet diehard resistance. Advocates have long urged Mr.
Obama to take the lead with administrative actions that balance humane policies
with the rule of law. This is one.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Financial Ruin Of Immigrants Tied to Broker

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK; Vijai Singh contributed reporting.Vijai Singh
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words


For years, a self-made real estate magnate named Edul Ahmad personified the
collective dreams of Richmond Hill, Queens, which is populated by many
immigrants from Guyana, in South America. Mr. Ahmad drove a yellow Lamborghini,
sponsored a cricketteam and held white-glove parties at a lavish banquet hall
that he owned.

At a prominent intersection near the border of Richmond Hill and South Ozone
Park, his smiling face looked down from a large billboard that promoted his real
estate services. Many residents responded, taking out high-risk mortgages that
they were told they could readily afford.

In July, it all came crashing down. Agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation arrested Mr. Ahmad, charging him with masterminding a $50 million
mortgage fraud that seemed to exemplify a nationwide phenomenon of celebrated
immigrant brokers who were accused of preying on their own.

Now, scores, if not hundreds, of Guyanese immigrants are facing financial ruin
because of loans said to have been arranged by Mr. Ahmad, and the repercussions
from the case have extended from Queens to Washington to Guyana.

Mr. Ahmad is currently engaged in intensive plea-bargain negotiations with
federal prosecutors, according to court documents, but it appears that the
impact of the loans will endure for years. Richmond Hill has been hit harder by
the foreclosure crisis than most other neighborhoods in the city, officials and
analysts said.

Mr. Ahmad's case has also ensnared two politicians whom he considered friends:
United States Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a Queens Democrat, and John L.
Sampson of Brooklyn, the Democratic leader of the State Senate.

A House ethics panel is investigating Mr. Meeks for failing to disclose that he
received $40,000 from Mr. Ahmad. Mr. Sampson worked as Mr. Ahmad's lawyer and
was disciplined by the New York secretary of state for notarizing a document for
Mr. Ahmad without a license.

Guyana is a small nation bordering Venezuela where the largest ethnic group is
of Indian descent. After Mr. Ahmad's arrest, the ruling party in Guyana had to
explain why his contact information appeared on a flier promoting a fund-raising
dinner with the president at the time, Bharrat Jagdeo; the party said Mr. Ahmad
was a friend of Mr. Jagdeo's, but not a campaign donor.

Mr. Ahmad, 44, is charged with luring buyers into subprime mortgages, inflating
the values of their properties and concealing his involvement by using straw
buyers, like his wife and the Guyanese-born captain of the United States cricket
team, Steve Massiah.

Mr. Ahmad pleaded not guilty and posted $2.5 million in bail in July. Reached by
telephone recently, he would not comment.

Since 2009, more foreclosures have been filed in Queens than in any other
borough, according to the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project.
Five of the hardest hit ZIP codes in Queens are within a 15-minute drive of the
office of Mr. Ahmad, who community leaders say once held about 75 percent of
local real estate listings.

Paban Saha and Syed Husain, friends and former business partners, said they
contacted him in 2006 after seeing his newspaper advertisements. They said he
earned their confidence at their first meeting, when they watched him write a
check to a charity.

''He set up an atmosphere where you forgot about everything,'' Mr. Husain, 56,
said.

Mr. Ahmad and one of his brokers offered Mr. Husain and Mr. Saha a three-family
house for $880,000 but warned of another bid, Mr. Husain said. Mr. Ahmad
demanded that they close within a week, insisting they use his lawyer, his
appraiser and his mortgage officer, who pushed to finance 95 percent of their
home at a 12.5 percent rate, Mr. Saha and Mr. Husain said.

Within two years, their finances were devastated, they said. The property was on
the brink of foreclosure, the souvenir store that their families owned together
went bankrupt, and they depleted savings they had accumulated since emigrating
from Bangladesh in the 1990s.

''You can only imagine two households trying to keep one property afloat,'' said
Mr. Husain, who has filed a civil lawsuit against Mr. Ahmad. ''It sucked
everything dry.''

Some Guyanese people, describing their foreclosures linked to Mr. Ahmad's
services, said they were so terrified by his powerful ties that they did not
want their names publicized. One man said that at times he felt suicidal.

''I don't even trust myself to make decisions anymore,'' he said. ''I've lost
everything.''

Housing experts say these cases have cropped up in immigrant enclaves across the
United States, often because immigrants can be too trusting of business leaders
from their own communities who hold themselves up as examples of classic
American success stories.

In September, a Bolivian-born woman became the third member of her family in San
Francisco to be charged with defrauding Latino immigrants in a
multimillion-dollar mortgage scheme.

Los Angeles's Thai community was victimized, community leaders said, by a
prominent loan officer who cheated so many immigrants that after he came under
scrutiny, he fled to Thailand.

Mr. Ahmad worked as a police detective in Guyana before joining a Guyanese
immigration wave to New York City in the early 1980s. A private portion of his
Facebook profile, accessible by more than 250 of his friends on the Web site,
states that he earned degrees from Baruch College in Manhattan. However, the
college has no record of him.

Even today, after the arrest of Mr. Ahmad and at least 12 Guyanese real estate
workers, most of whom were accused of running similar but smaller-scale schemes,
there are more than 30 real estate businesses on the main thoroughfare, Liberty
Avenue.

Mr. Ahmad created a public brand, plastering his photo in advertisements in
ethnic newspapers and buying television infomercials. Residents flocked to him.

''It's personal,'' said Paul Sanders, a Guyanese journalist who covers the
community. ''Ed was one of us.''

When Mr. Ahmad opened a new office, the police blocked traffic as about 300
people, including Representative Meeks and Senator Sampson, attended a ceremony
and listened to a calypso singer offer a tribute: ''Ed Ahmad! Ed Ahmad! That
dynamite businessman. Ed Ahmad! Ed Ahmad! A sexy, handsome young man.''

As he accumulated wealth -- one former friend said he was worth at least $20
million in liquid assets -- he poured money into charitable and other causes,
including the mosque where he prays. He also raised money for politicians like
Mr. Meeks and Mr. Sampson.

''Ed used to go around saying he's befriended politicians, and if he's ever
caught, they'll help him get off,'' said Chuck Mohan, who is the president of a
Guyanese civic group in Queens and a friend of Mr. Sampson's.

Mr. Meeks has said the $40,000 that he received from Mr. Ahmad was a loan, which
he paid back, he said, three years after he received it, after the F.B.I. began
questioning Mr. Ahmad. Mr. Meeks's office did not respond to a phone message.

At one point, Mr. Sampson used a staff member to aid in his legal representation
of Mr. Ahmad, potentially violating ethics laws, according to state records.
Asked for comment, Mr. Sampson's office would say only that he and Mr. Ahmad
remained friends.

In Queens, many people who once jockeyed for Mr. Ahmad's attention, like radio
and television talk show hosts, are keeping their distance. But his defenders
questioned why the government was prosecuting immigrant brokers even as it
bailed out banks.

''We are innocent victims of the economic frenzy and implosion that America is
going through,'' said Kawal Totaram, a real estate lawyer and friend of Mr.
Ahmad's.

Some housing advocates disagreed that Mr. Ahmad was in trouble because of forces
outside his control. Mamta Gurung, a manager at Chhaya, a Queens-based housing
organization that caters to South Asians, said half of her foreclosure clients
were Guyanese, including some who had loans from Mr. Ahmad.

She said most of her clients could not identify their mortgage documents. Some
could not spell their names. ''It's quite scary,'' she said.

Mr. Saha and Mr. Husain, who took the 12.5 percent loan arranged by Mr. Ahmad,
said their lives remained in turmoil. They have been unable to start a new
business because of a lack of capital, Mr. Husain said, and Mr. Husain's three
children are supporting him financially.

That, Mr. Husain said, is not how life should turn out.

''When you purchase a property, you think, 'This is it!' '' he said. Instead, he
said, he felt overwhelmed by ''depression and anger issues, and hopelessness.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edul Ahmad, left, with former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, right, and
others in 2006, is accused of masterminding a $50 million mortgage fraud. Many
of his clients were immigrants, including Paban Saha, far right, in front of a
home he and a friend bought from Mr. Ahmad. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NALA SINGHAM
 MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

50 Charged With Selling Identity Papers To Migrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING PUERTO RICO; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 151 words


Fifty people have been accused of conspiring to sell the identities of hundreds
of Puerto Ricans to illegal immigrants on the American mainland in the largest
single fraud case ever for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the authorities
said Wednesday. Hundreds of birth certificates, Social Security numbers and
driver's licenses were sold for up to $2,500 a set as part of a black market
based in Puerto Rico that had operated since at least 2009, according to John
Morton, the agency director. The ring consisted of suppliers, runners and
brokers, who made coded phone calls asking for ''skirts'' for female customers
and ''pants'' for males in specific ''sizes,'' which referred to ages and
identities sought, according to the agency. The 50 suspects were indicted by a
federal grand jury on Dec. 29 on one charge each of conspiracy to commit
identification fraud. They face up to 15 years in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republican Councilman Is Set to Change Parties

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR and DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 653 words


5:13 p.m. Updated And then there were four.

Peter Koo, one of only five Republicans on the 51-member City Council, is set to
announce early next week that he will switch parties to become a Democrat,
according to people briefed on the decision.

Mr. Koo was elected in 2009 from the Queens district previously represented by
John C. Liu, a Democrat who is now the New York City comptroller. His election
came as a bit of a surprise - at least to people who live outside Flushing -
because the district is strongly Democratic. But Mr. Koo, who spent more than
$277,000 of his own money and received the endorsement of Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg, is a well-known community leader and has been called ''mayor of
Flushing'' by some.

An immigrant from Hong Kong who built a successful chain of pharmacies in
Flushing, Mr. Koo has carved out a reputation as a centrist on the Council. He
has staked out moderate or liberal positions on social issues, supporting a
Council bill to make it more difficult for federal authorities to deport
immigrants from Rikers Island and endorsing a state bill that would provide
college tuition assistance to illegal immigrants.

But Mr. Koo has also been a strong supporter of initiatives to bolster small
businesses and has expressed concerns, in the past, with versions of a so-called
living wage proposal that would require business in certain projects that
receive taxpayer money to pay more than the minimum wage to employees.

A spokesman for Mr. Koo would neither confirm nor deny on Thursday that the
councilman had been telling political leaders he would change parties. But Mr.
Koo has reached out to Representative Joseph Crowley, the Queens Democratic
Party chairman; Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker; Assemblywoman Grace
Meng; and other Democratic officials in anticipation of an announcement on
Monday.

Mr. Koo has crossed party lines in his support for candidates. He endorsed a
Democrat, Assemblyman David I. Weprin, in a special Congressional election last
year for the seat previously occupied by Anthony D. Weiner; Mr. Weprin lost to
Bob Turner, a Republican.

Mr. Koo has also been a strong supporter of Mr. Liu, who is considering a run
for mayor, and was listed as a bundler of donations in Mr. Liu's recent campaign
finance filing - though for a relatively small amount: $7,200.

There were differing accounts, from people familiar with his decision, about his
motivation. Some said that he did not feel appreciated by the Queens Republican
party and that infighting in the county organization had made him increasingly
uncomfortable. One person who had been briefed on his decision said Mr. Koo
believed that as a Democrat, he could get more city money for his district,
could increase his odds of becoming a Council committee chairman and could do
more to support aspiring Asian-American politicians in the city.

''It's so hard to be a Republican in this town,'' said the person, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because Mr. Koo was not publicly discussing his
decision until Monday.

The five on the Council make up the largest Republican contingent since the
mid-1990s, when for a time there were seven.

Councilman James S. Oddo of Staten Island, the minority leader, would not
confirm Mr. Koo's change of party, but, in a text message, he described him as
''a gentleman.''

''He is and will continue to be my friend whatever party affiliation he
chooses,'' Mr. Oddo wrote.

Philip Ragusa, the chairman of the Queens Republican Party, was not aware of Mr.
Koo's plan when asked about it by a reporter.

''Well, I'm disappointed, to tell you the truth,'' Mr. Ragusa said.

He said he would like to speak to Mr. Koo and find out his reasons.

''Everybody's a citizen, is an American, and they can follow whichever party
they want,'' he said. ''I think he's making a mistake, but that's my opinion.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Councilman Peter Koo, elected in 2009, serves a strongly
Democratic district in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Strivers in Two Worlds

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 321 words


What is it like to get up at 3 every morning to leave the country to go to
school? To walk for miles and wait in long lines at an international crossing,
to hustle along by trolley and bus, worrying all the while about missing the 8
a.m. bell? This is the bleary-eyed world of young Mexican-Americans who live in
Tijuana and go to school in Chula Vista, Calif., as described by Patricia Leigh
Brown in The Times. These striving students, or ''transfronterizos,'' are not
immigrants but American citizens, lawfully crossing the border to get an
education.

They are toiling toward the honorable goal of a good education, but some stay
below the radar because they are not residents of the school districts they
attend. Their parents have been deported or have willingly left the United
States; some can't or won't pay the out-of-district tuition. It's possible to
say their children are contributing to America's greatness or stealing from it.
Or both.

Here is a mirror of America's battle over immigration -- a battle with itself
and its future. Courtesy of some Republican politicians, we are fighting it in
the worst way possible, with spasms of anti-immigrant loathing and rigid
enforcement schemes.

The problem with working so hard to keep people out, each of whom comes with
different circumstances, is that you fail to tap the restless doggedness of
those who want in. When our laws needlessly divide families and discourage
beneficial migration, they drain the ambition and energy that are America's
constantly renewable resource.

At a time when border crossings are at historic lows, when illegal immigration
is greatly diminished, the story of the transfronterizos is a reminder of the
vast potential of smart young people. While our laws and policies focus heavily
on punishing first-generation illegal immigrants, we forget that it is in our
vital interest to make sure their American children and grandchildren succeed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unfinished Business in Iraq

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 442 words


When the last American troops came home from Iraq in December, thousands of
Iraqis who had worked with the Americans were left behind. Many have already
been targeted by militants, and some had taken refuge on American military
bases. But once the bases were closed -- or handed over to the Iraqi government
-- those Iraqis were forced into hiding. Unless Washington lives up to its moral
obligation, many more will suffer or be killed.

The Special Immigrant Visa program was enacted by Congress in 2007 for Iraqis
who helped the military, other parts of the American government and military
contractors. It authorized 5,000 special visas annually -- but only 3,317 were
granted through 2011. Iraqis who aided American non-governmental organizations
and media outlets can apply under the refugee program and are also having a hard
time. But the special visa program has the worst delays.

Because of security vetting, processing has always been slow. The programs came
to a near halt last year when two Iraqis living in Kentucky were charged with
providing arms and money to Al Qaeda. The Obama administration then imposed
additional security checks on all applicants. Approval in the Special Immigrant
Visa program is now taking at least a year.

The American government never kept track of how many Iraqis it employed, so no
one knows how many thousands of Iraqis are potentially eligible for admission.
It is unclear exactly how many thousands of those Iraqis have visa applications
pending. The administration refused to disclose a number last week.

Last July, the Iraqi Refugee Assistance Project at the Urban Justice Center, a
nonprofit, put the estimate at 62,000 Iraqis, including 29,000 who worked for
the Americans, plus their family members. The group now says it has been told
that 19,000 cases were dropped from the process, perhaps because people went
into hiding, or they were just lost track of. The Philadelphia Inquirer recently
used a figure of 15,000 Special Immigrant Visa applicants.

The United States has a responsibility to rigorously screen visa applicants and
ensure they pose no threat to this country. The process needs to be transparent
and accountable -- and it needs to work expeditiously.

Today, Iraq is more stable than it was at the height of the violence, but with
American troops gone, sectarianism and bloodshed are on the rise. The State
Department is concerned enough about safety trends that this month it again
formally warned Americans against all but essential travel to Iraq. There should
be as much concern for the Iraqis who risked their lives to work with Americans
-- and are still living there and still at risk.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company
