
                               1 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 9, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Bush Criticized For Statements On Immigration

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


Gov. George W. Bush of Texas drew criticism today for recent remarks suggesting
he did not believe that the Federal Government was obligated to reimburse states
for providing services to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Bush's comments seemed to contradict his support, as Governor, of a lawsuit
that sought restitution from the Federal Government for money that Texas had
spent educating, incarcerating and providing medical care to people who had
slipped across borders patrolled by Federal law-enforcement officials.

Mindy Tucker, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bush, said late today that he still believed
that the Federal Government should compensate states for those costs. Ms. Tucker
said Mr. Bush seemed to suggest otherwise to The San Francisco Chronicle last
week because he misunderstood a reporter's question.

But the confusion and criticism triggered by Mr. Bush's response raised other
questions about his oratorical poise and underscored the intense scrutiny that
he is under as the front-runner for the Republican Presidential nomination.

Responding to Ms. Tucker's statement, Steve Forbes, one of Mr. Bush's rivals for
the nomination, said tonight, "Maybe he ought to get his ears checked."

Before Mr. Bush clarified his position, the Speaker of the California Assembly,
Antonio Villaraigosa, a Democrat, released a statement taking issue with Mr.
Bush's seeming opposition to reimbursement.

The Chronicle reported that Mr. Bush had been asked specifically whether, as
President, he would compensate California for the billions of dollars it spends
every year on services for illegal immigrants.

"No," he reportedly said, "because that's not a Federal role."

Ms. Tucker said today that he had thought he was being asked about Federal
involvement in education.

She said that he supported more aggressive Federal policing of borders to stop
illegal immigration, and that he believed that if the Federal Government failed,
states should not bear the financial penalties.





http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 25, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Health Plan Would Not Aid All Uninsured

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 24


The landmark agreement reached by Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature to
provide medical coverage for the poor by raising the state's cigarette tax
contains a little-noticed provision denying those benefits to thousands of legal
immigrants during their first five years in the country.

The measure was included at the insistence of Governor Pataki, a Republican who
has sought to exclude new immigrants from other forms of public assistance as
part of his overall drive to sharply reduce state spending on a host of programs
for the poor.

The Pataki administration estimates that it would cost the state $300 million
over the next three years to extend medical coverage to the roughly 50,000
immigrants who would be excluded from the new insurance program, a number that
is likely to grow.

The provision is drawing strong opposition from advocates for the poor, as well
as the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, who has sharply
disagreed with the governor in the past over extending public benefits to needy
immigrants. The issue is of critical importance in New York City, where the bulk
of the state's new immigrants live.

Mr. Pataki's aides note that federal immigration law makes newcomers the
responsibility of the people who sponsored their entry into the United States,
not New York taxpayers. His aides also contend that with limited resources
available, providing health care coverage to all legal immigrants would force
the state to reduce benefits for other New Yorkers.

"In light of the resources we have available and our desire to cover as many New
Yorkers as possible," said Bob Hinckley, a deputy state health commissioner,
"the plan agreed upon by the governor and the Legislature was the best way to
deal with this issue."

But Tony Coles, a senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani, said the policy could force
New York City to pick up the costs of caring for poor immigrants who need
medical attention, because many will show up at city hospitals with no way of
paying their bills.

Mr. Coles said Mr. Giuliani would urge state lawmakers to change the policy, as
he has urged them in the past to extend to legal immigrants other types of
benefits, like state-financed welfare grants. "The mayor believes that legal
immigrants should be treated the same way as citizens when it comes to important
social services," he said.

The plan to provide health care coverage for low-income New Yorkers was
announced earlier this month after weeks of intense negotiations among the
governor and leaders of the Republican-controlled Senate and Democrat-led
Assembly. The measure was passed by the Assembly earlier this week, but it still
must be adopted by the Senate before being sent to Mr. Pataki for his signature.

The program is intended to provide health coverage for as many as one million
uninsured New Yorkers, about a third of the total number of uninsured in the
state. The program is expected to enroll about 500,000 people over the next
three and a half years at a cost of $750 million.

The program would be financed with a 55-cent increase in the cigarette tax,
doubling it to $1.10 per pack, as well as a share of the $450 million a year
that the state is to receive from the settlement of a lawsuit that states filed
against tobacco companies. The plan would also be paid for with about $300
million in new federal health care funds.

The plan calls for providing insurance free to families earning up to 150
percent of the federal poverty line -- meaning that a family of four with an
annual income of $25,000 or less could receive coverage without paying premiums.
It is modeled after the Medicaid program, which requires the state to provide
coverage directly to the uninsured by using state funds along with matching
federal funds.

The Pataki administration contends that the provision barring recent immigrants
from enrolling mirrors a 1996 federal law that established new eligibility
requirements for the nation's poverty programs. That law bars the use of federal
Medicaid dollars for legal immigrants who arrived after August 1996. The law
does, however, allow these immigrants to collect such benefits once they become
citizens, or after five years, provided that their income, combined with their
sponsors' earnings, does not exceed the federal poverty line. That limit is
$13,000 a year for a family of three.

Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, defended the provision. "It complies
with federal law," he said. "Without that, you lose federal dollars."

But advocates for immigrants contend that nothing in the federal law prohibits
New York from using its own money to provide coverage for immigrants not covered
by federal benefit programs -- an option that the Pataki administration has
deemed too costly.

Mark B. Lewis, a lobbyist for the New York Immigration Coalition, pointed out
that 11 other states, including California and Massachusetts, have used money
from their own coffers to extend medical coverage to new immigrants who are no
longer covered under Medicaid.

"What the governor's decision means," Mr. Lewis said, "is that immigrants with
treatable conditions, such as diabetes or high blood pressure, will end up in
hospitals when their conditions become emergencies. The real and humane answer
is to let immigrants get health care insurance so that treatable conditions do
not become life-threatening and cost taxpayers thousands of more dollars to
treat."

Mr. Lewis added: "Immigrants work hard and pay taxes like all other New Yorkers.
It's only fair that they receive access to the same services and benefits as all
other New Yorkers."

This is not the first time that the governor has refused to provide public
assistance for new immigrants who have lost benefits as a result of the 1996
federal law. In 1997, for example, Mr. Pataki championed a law that would have
denied state-financed welfare benefits to legal immigrants during their first
year in this country, even though they no longer qualified for federally
financed welfare benefits. The state law, which was vehemently opposed by Mr.
Giuliani, was eventually blocked in state court.

In 1998, the governor turned down requests from immigrant groups that he use
state money to provide medical benefits to thousands of elderly and disabled
immigrants who had lost Medicaid coverage. President Clinton and Congressional
leaders later restored those benefits after complaints from groups that lobby on
behalf of immigrants.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 26, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Australia Turns to X-Rays To Penetrate Smugglers' Lies

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 25


After decades of trying to seal its 22,000-mile coastline against Asian boat
people, Australia is planning to add X-rays to its defenses against a new wave
of people-smuggling, this time from the Middle East.

X-rays are to be used to verify the ages of the Indonesian seamen who now
control the smuggling because most claim to be under 18 to escape prison
sentences when in fact, the authorities suspect, they are adults and thus could
face jail terms of up to 20 years.

Radiology can measure bone development and thus age, say officials who plan to
add X-rays to their interrogations of the detained smugglers. Legal experts and
United Nations officials said they were unaware of X-ray age checks being used
in immigration enforcement elsewhere.

Combating a surge of illegal immigration attempts, naval and air patrols off
Australia's northwest coast have so far this month intercepted a record 10
Indonesian boats trying to land 872 passengers -- mostly from Iraq, Iran and
Afghanistan -- in remote places.

Immigration Minister Phillip Ruddock says that as many as 10,000 people from
those countries are preparing to try to enter Australia illegally by paying
agents in Indonesia.

"We are facing the biggest ever assault on our borders by unauthorized
arrivals," he said recently.

Since July, about 1,700 have been arrested at sea off the northern coasts of
this island continent, most in vessels with Indonesian crews.

Australian officials monitoring the growing traffic in Jakarta, Indonesia's
capital, say that about 2,000 Iraqi, Afghan and Iranian citizens are waiting
there to board fishing boats and small freighters for the 2,500-mile
island-hopping voyage.

Australia is almost the size of the United States but has a population of only
19 million, 25 percent of them born overseas in more than 100 countries. It is
is admitting 80,000 migrants this year from about 50 countries on the basis of
skills, family links or refugee status.

Legal immigration processing can take two years or more.

Government policy is to deport illegal entrants who are without refugee claims
and to detain the others, sometimes for years, while their pleas for asylum are
examined or contested in the courts, to which such claimants have free access
here.

Although air detection and naval arrest is catching most illegal migrants before
they land, this seems to deter few smugglers or the clients, who reportedly pay
up to $8,000 for "packages" combining air fares to Jakarta, transit
accommodation and then a one-way boat ticket.

The month, legislation was introduced in the federal Parliament to authorize
patrols to intercept suspect boats in international waters.

A second proposal is to deny permanent residence to those who enter illegally,
even those who have valid claims for refugee status.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 16, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Coalition Urges Easing of Immigration Laws

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 817 words


Jack Kemp, the former Republican candidate for vice president, and Henry G.
Cisneros, the former secretary of Housing and Urban Development, are leading an
unusual coalition of conservatives and liberals that is beginning a major
campaign to persuade Congress to ease the nation's immigration laws.

Mr. Kemp and Mr. Cisneros are scheduled to announce an initiative today in
conjunction with immigrant groups and the nation's Roman Catholic bishops that
calls for admitting more immigrants into the United States and granting amnesty
to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants.

The coalition brings together conservatives who view immigrants as an important
engine for the economy with religious leaders and immigrant organizations who
worry that many hard-working illegal immigrants are consigned to exploitative
jobs and lives with little stability.

"What we're seeing is the beginning of a new pro-immigrant alliance that is
likely to reshape immigration policy," said Frank Sharry, executive director of
the National Immigration Forum, a Washington-based group that supports the
easing of restrictions on immigrants.

The coalition includes Americans for Tax Reform, the United States Catholic
Conference, the Arab-American Institute, the National Asian Pacific American
Legal Consortium and the National Coalition for Haitian Rights. Another
coalition member is the National Retail Federation, one of many business groups
that says that with the unemployment rate so low, businesses sorely need
immigrant workers to fill their jobs.

"I was at a meeting with the Chamber of Commerce, the truckers organization and
other businessmen, and they all said the biggest problem we face is, we're
running out of workers," said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax
Reform.

The coalition's statement comes as the presumptive presidential nominees, Vice
President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush, have sought to outmaneuver each other
in wooing Hispanic-Americans and other immigrant groups.

For Mr. Kemp, the new effort is consistent with his longtime practice of
prodding many Republican leaders to jettison their anti-immigrant proposals.

In a statement to be issued today, the coalition will back a proposal, embraced
by President Clinton and the business community, to increase the annual ceiling
for the number of immigrants with high-tech skills. But the coalition said
Congress should not stop there in changing immigration laws.

The coalition called for granting legal status to more than 300,000 immigrants
who fled wars and political chaos in Haiti, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala
and applied unsuccessfully for refugee status. The coalition said these
immigrants should be treated the same as those from Cuba and Nicaragua who have
been granted refugee status.

The coalition also backed granting legal status to more than 100,000 other
longtime residents who have been in the United States since before 1986.

"It is getting irritating that the only immigration crisis that Congress is
prepared to address is the high-tech community's crisis, while there is crisis
in many other areas in immigration policy," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president
for policy of the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Hispanic
civil rights group and a signer of the statement.

Last Thursday, President Clinton asked Congress to provide 200,000 visas for
high-tech workers in each of the next three years, a major increase from
existing law, which limits the number of such visas to 107,500 in 2001.

Mr. Clinton also called for granting legal status to some groups of longtime
illegal immigrants, although many lawmakers have balked at that proposal in the
past.

K. C. McAlpin, deputy director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which pushes for stricter rules on immigration, opposed the proposals to
grant amnesty and increase immigration quotas.

"Our reaction is basically the same as the American people -- every time they're
polled they say they want less immigration not more," Mr. McAlpin said. "The
American people are adamantly opposed to rewarding people who break our laws to
come here illegally."

That view clashed sharply with the one adopted by the Roman Catholic bishops.
Kevin Applebee, director of migration and refugee policy for the United States
Catholic Conference, said, "The bishops strongly believe that the groups
involved have lived in this country for several years, established ties and
built equities and thus are deserving an opportunity to remain in our country on
a permanent basis."

Officials who helped negotiate the statement said several labor unions with many
immigrant members were debating whether to sign. The officials said those unions
hesitated for fear of clashing with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has opposed
expanding programs that grant visas to high-tech and other skilled workers.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

California Calls Off Effort to Carry Out Immigrant Measure

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 29


The landmark 1994 referendum that barred illegal immigrants and their children
from receiving government services like a public education and became one of the
most contentious political issues in California history, was declared all but
dead today.

Gov. Gray Davis, striking a deal with opponents of the referendum, Proposition
187, after three months of mediation, agreed to drop an appeal of a Federal
court's ruling that found much of it unconstitutional. In turn, the opponents,
who had prevented the measure from taking effect with legal challenges, agreed
to drop their lawsuits against the state.

The agreement, which led the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit here to dismiss all Proposition 187 appeals today, permanently voids the
referendum's core provisions, including those that prevented illegal immigrants
from attending public schools and receiving social services and health care. It
also voids the requirement that local law-enforcement authorities, school
administrators and social and medical workers turn in suspected illegal
immigrants to Federal and state authorities.

All that is left of Proposition 187, which was passed by nearly 60 percent of
the voters, are two minor laws that establish state criminal penalties for
creating, using and selling false documents to conceal a person's illegal
immigration status.

Governor Davis stressed today that while Proposition 187 might have been "struck
down," much of its intent was covered by Federal immigration laws passed in
1996, which like the proposition, denied most social services to illegal
immigrants.

The only major provision of the initiative not covered by the Federal laws, the
banning of public education for undocumented children, was declared
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in a ruling in a Texas case in 1982.

"The agreement that has been reached over the months essentially embraces the
spirit of Proposition 187," Governor Davis said.

But members of civil rights organizations that challenged Proposition 187 under
the umbrella of the League of United Latin American Citizens, were jubilant
today, while proponents of the initiative complained that the Governor was
ignoring the will of the electorate.

"We are so pleased that we can put this ugly chapter behind us in California,"
said Ramona Ripston, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Southern California, which held a news conference with the Mexican-American
Legal Defense and Education Fund today to celebrate what they called the end of
divisive politics in California.

The United States District Court in Los Angeles that issued the ruling declaring
Proposition 187 unconstitutional has until Sept. 30 to reject the agreement, but
because the agreement mirrors the court's ruling, that is not expected to
happen.

But Sharone Brown, a lawyer with the Pacific Legal Foundation in Sacramento,
which helped draft Proposition 187, said that although another appeal is
unlikely, the battle "may not be over."

"We could have new parties, new plaintiffs, new lawsuits," Ms. Brown said.
"Cleary the agreement represents the position of two parties who felt the same
way. Proposition 187 never really had a chance because there was no one
representing it. The losers in this case are the people who voted for it."

Proposition 187, the centerpiece of Republican Gov. Pete Wilson's reelection
campaign in 1994, became a national symbol of anger over illegal immigration. It
was also an awakening for California's Hispanic voters, who had yet to realize
their potential for political power. Passage of the measure galvanized Hispanic
residents, 77 percent of whom had voted against it, as well as many civil rights
groups. In Los Angeles, it led to one of the largest protests in state history,
with 70,000 people. And with Proposition 209, which banned affirmative action by
government bodies, and Proposition 227, which ended bilingual education,
Proposition 187 is considered largely responsible for a voter turnout that ended
the Republican Party's 16-year control of the Governor's office in 1998.

Governor Davis, who won the election against the Republican Attorney General,
Dan Lungren, by a 20-point margin, had campaigned as an opponent of Proposition
187 and pledged not to enforce the provisions that would prohibit 270,000
children from receiving a public education. But once in office, Governor Davis
decided not to drop the state's appeal of a ruling last year in United States
District in Los Angeles that found Proposition 187 unconstitutional because it
conflicted with Federal authority in immigration law.

Instead, in one of the first important political tests of his administration, in
April Governor Davis asked the Federal appeals court to mediate the dispute. The
Governor said then that although he opposed Proposition 187, he was sensitive to
the will of the five million Californians who voted for it.

But proponents of the proposition, who unsuccessfully tried to enter the case as
parties, both in United States District Court and at the outset of the appeal,
said that the mediation meant that two opponents of Proposition 187 would decide
its merits. Opponents said that it gave credibility to an unconscionable
measure.

The political fallout included a rift between the Governor and Lieut. Gov. Cruz
Bustamante, who issued statements rebuking Mr. Davis's efforts to reach a
compromise. Mr. Bustamante, an opponent of Proposition 187, filed a
friend-of-the-court brief aimed at blocking the Governor's efforts to mediate.

Mr. Bustamante said: "This is clearly a great day for mending what was a very
dark period in California politics that was anti-immigrant and highly charged,"
he said, "and this will in fact close the door and start a new chapter."




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 14, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
132 Illegal Chinese Are Found on Ship

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 13


Federal agents using welding torches and crowbars discovered 132 illegal
immigrants from China in a secret compartment in the hold of a ship docked in
Savannah, Ga., immigration officials said today.

A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Sue Brown, said
agents boarded the ship nine miles out of Savannah on Wednesday but found no
sign of the immigrants. The agents returned, and still found no one.

But when the ship docked at Savannah on Thursday, agents found the Chinese in a
compartment that had been covered with a sheet of steel and a door that was
welded in place.

The Chinese were transported to Atlanta today to be interviewed by agents. The
crew was detained.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Travel Agents Charged With Immigration Fraud

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Two travel agents in Paterson and Union City and nine other people were charged
yesterday with helping illegal immigrants obtain residency status by marrying
strangers.

The authorities said the travel agents' services included coaching the married
couples for interviews with officials of the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and arranging wedding photographs, cake and all, for a
fee of $4,500 per couple. The defendants, who were charged in United States
District Court in Newark, did not arrange the immigrants' initial travel to the
United States, said Holly Kulka, the assistant United States attorney who
handled the case.

Jesus Pascual Cigollen, 49, of Worcester, Mass., owner of the Cigollen Travel
Agency in Union City, and six others who assisted in the scheme were charged
with conspiring to evade immigration laws by arranging civil marriages from May
1996 through January 1998, Ms. Kulka said.

In a separate complaint, Odeliza Rodriguez, 48, of Pompton Lakes, owner of
Paterson World Travel, and three others were charged with conspiring to submit
false documents to the immigration agency from January 1997 through December
1998, said Matthew Queler, the assistant U.S. attorney who handled the case.

The lawyers could not say why different charges were brought in the two schemes,
which are similar but said to be unrelated.

The couples were not charged. Lynn Durko, a spokeswoman for the immigration
service, said brides and bridegrooms were recruited by word of mouth. She said
the immigrant spouses would be deported.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Vancouver Is Astir Over Chinese Abuse of Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia, Aug. 27


The image of two tramp steamers disgorging 254 undocumented Chinese immigrants
on beaches here this summer was enough for a local pharmacist to unleash a
tirade about Canada's "lax" immigration law and "silly excuses" for refugee
status, ending with a harsh finale: "We are being treated like suckers!"

Around the Pacific Rim, historically European societies have long had a visceral
fear of unchecked immigration from China, the region's population behemoth. In
the Russian Far East, the police often deport Chinese migrants. In Australia,
jail terms were doubled last month for the crime of smuggling humans into the
country. This summer, the United States and Canada have stepped up patrols in
the Western Pacific, seeking to intercept boats filled with clandestine human
cargo.

But what made the Vancouver pharmacist's outburst notable is that the speaker,
Derick Y. J. Cheng, is the owner of a Chinatown drugstore, chairman of
Vancouver's Chinese Cultural Center and a native of Fujian, the home province of
the undocumented immigrants whose arrival this summer caused such furor.

With ethnic Chinese people accounting for 20 percent of greater Vancouver's
population and Asians accounting for half of this fall's freshman class at the
University of British Columbia, it is hard to accuse this city of anti-Asian
intolerance.

But Mr. Cheng's anger, echoed repeatedly this month in letters to Vancouver's
three Chinese daily newspapers and on talk shows on local Chinese radio and
television stations, reflects how attitudes toward immigration are shifting
sharply across Canada, a nation that probably has the world's most liberal
immigration policies.

On a per capita basis, Canada receives more immigrants than any country in the
world. As a result, about one in six Canadians is foreign born, double the ratio
in the United States. Aiming to meet a target of 225,000 immigrants a year,
Canada admits aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, fiances, common law spouses, and
same-sex partners. On arrival, landed immigrants immediately are entitled to the
same menu of health, welfare and university benefits as lifelong Canadian
citizens.

But this summer's smuggling boats suddenly exposed a latent fear among Canadians
that, because of their famous generosity and courteousness, they are becoming a
nation of doormats.

"Feed our people first," read protest signs held as one boatload of undocumented
Chinese were herded into a navy base near Victoria.

The local newspaper, The Times Colonist, advised the asylum seekers: "Go home.
By plane. By boat. Just Go." The newspaper said that 97 percent of 3,362
respondents to its own poll wanted the clandestine migrants to be deported.

"This has really gone off the charts," said Gary Lunn, a member of Parliament
from the area for the conservative Reform Party. "We have had over 1,000 people
contacting my office to sign petitions. The phones have been jammed for weeks."
This fall, Mr. Lunn said the Reform Party planned to introduce legislation to
tighten Canada's immigration laws. He predicted that what he termed "the public
outcry" would be so great that the governing Liberals would have to vote to
restrict immigration.

It is too pat to dismiss the angry mood as limited to the Anglophile retirees of
Victoria.

Two thousand miles to the east, in Toronto, a city that recently won a United
Nations award for its racial tolerance, The Globe and Mail, the tribune of
Canada's liberal establishment, published an editorial condemning loopholes in
the immigration law with the headline, "The back door's open, come o-o-n in."

The arrival of the two boats, one on July 20 and the other on Aug. 11, drew into
sharp focus a larger, but fuzzier illegal immigration problem. Every year about,
5,000 people flying to Canada tear up their documents on airplanes, and then
apply for refugee status.

An increasingly popular practice is to apply for refugee status, and then
disappear during the one year review period. That abuse has increased 20-fold
during the 1990's, reaching 4,203 documented cases last year. Among
nationalities, Chinese are the worst abusers of the system, with 53 percent of
claimants vanishing after being released on refugee status during the first half
of this year. During that time, 95 percent of Chinese claimants in Montreal and
72 percent of Chinese claimants in Vancouver disappeared. Most are presumed
somehow to have sneaked or been smuggled across the border to the United States.

"There are 600 under review, only 200 show up, what do you think happened to the
400?" Mr. Cheng said, citing the estimates for Chinese refugee claimants in
Vancouver last year. "They join the American underground economy. It's not fair
to the U.S."

In light of that, Vancouver immigration officials claimed victory when only 5
out of 77 Chinese boat people released failed to show up Wednesday, one week
after their initial release. While one arm of the Government is seeking to
deport the undocumented Chinese, Government-paid lawyers try to block them at
every turn.

In an effort to get the 53 minors in the group, mostly teen-age girls, to agree
to go home voluntarily, the province's top child-protection official wrote them
letters, saying, "I have been told that if you go to the United States, children
of both genders will be forced to work as prostitutes or forced to work in a
factory by the smugglers."

Lawyers for the children denounced the letter as an infringement on their right
to seek refugee status.

Several victories of immigration lawyers across Canada have become notorious in
the debate over who should get to stay in the country. Critics' favorites
include an American woman given refugee status in Canada because her husband was
violent and a convicted Guatemalan pedophile allowed to return to Canada after
his deportation was ruled illegal.

But the national press repeatedly returns to undocumented Chinese as the threat.
Today's National Post, for example, reported a Government estimate that two
thirds of student visa applications received at the Canadian Embassy in Beijing
are fraudulent.

Here in Canada's Pacific province, which has the nation's second-highest tax
rate and 8.6 percent unemployment, economic factors fuel local anger. Newspapers
dwell on the fact that the two-year cost of housing, feeding, and eventually
deporting the Chinese could easily reach $3.5 million.

While the general discontent has acquired some racial overtones, even Victor Y.
Wong, a Chinese-Canadian activist here, admits that, in modern Vancouver,
today's debate swirls more around class than on race.

"These are working-class peasant farmers," Mr. Wong, said of the impoverished
immigrants. "We have well-heeled Hong Kong Chinese, Canadian-Chinese and
Taiwanese Chinese looking down their noses at them. They feel these people water
down the community."

Mason Loh, a regular spokesman for Vancouver's 300,000-member ethnic Chinese
community on English- and Chinese-language talk shows here, agreed.

"There is a feeling we are kicking out the business people and taking in the
boat people," the Taiwan-born lawyer said. He said that the number of ethnic
Chinese businessmen moving to Canada had dropped in recent years, partly because
Canada has raised the minimum amount of investment money needed to get a visa.
"The immigration system is not smart enough," he said. "We are pushing out the
good quality people who can help Canada -- and we are taking in the
freeloaders."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two ships left 254 illegal Chinese immigrants on Vancouver
beaches this summer. Two girls were taken to hearings in Victoria. (Diana
Nethercott for The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Vancouver: Attitudes toward immigration are shifting
sharply in Vancouver.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 13, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

More Immigrants Are Deported As Officials' Power Increases

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 623 words


Equipped with new powers to turn away immigrants at the borders, and with more
jail space available for those people they arrest inside the country,
immigration officials in New York City have deported more than 4,000 people in
the last year, an increase of 12 percent over the previous year.

Nationwide, nearly 177,000 people were deported or sent back to their home
countries for criminal or noncriminal offenses during the 1999 fiscal year, an
increase of 3 percent, according to a report released yesterday by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Of those, 62,000 people had committed, at some point during their residence in
the United States, one of the crimes that are grounds for deportation. The
agency said that about half of those deported had been convicted on drug
charges. Most of the others had been convicted of assault, burglary or violating
immigration laws. Almost 115,000 people were deported or turned away because
they were in the country illegally or had tried to enter with false documents.

The higher numbers were likely to please those in Congress who have accused the
agency of doing too little to find and deport aliens with criminal records and
false documents. The immigration service estimates that 500,000 immigrants are
in the country illegally, although it has been using the same estimated number
for more than three years.

But advocates for immigrants said the increase seemed to justify their fears
about a 1996 law that gave the I.N.S. an array of new enforcement tools,
including the right to deport people quickly upon their arrival at an airport or
land border without allowing them a lawyer or a judicial hearing.

That process is called expedited removal. It is used to turn away not only
people with false documents, but also those who request asylum when they arrive.
The agency did not provide figures for the New York region airports alone, but
it said that more than 89,000 people at all the nation's borders had been the
subjects of expedited removal in the last year, an increase of 16 percent.

"That is really frightening," said Elisa Massimino, director of the Washington
office of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "This is an administration who
opposed expedited removal and unfortunately now embraced it to improve the
deportation numbers. We are afraid of what this portends for refugees seeking
asylum here."

Immigration officials said that the increase in deportations was the result in
part of the success of their efforts to identify criminals who are not citizens
while they are serving their prison sentences. Nearly 20,000 people were
deported straight from state and Federal prisons in the last year, an increase
of nearly 45 percent.

In that same time period, the agency also received about $80 million in a
special appropriation -- bringing its deportation budget to $809 million -- to
expand its detention beds to about 17,500 and bring its staff of enforcement
officers up to 15,000.

"The greater our capacity to detain, the greater our capacity to remove," said
Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an agency spokesman. "If you cannot detain, odds are
you will not remove them."

He said the field offices that look for undocumented immigrants generally will
not initiate a raid on a workplace, for example, if there is not enough space to
detain people awaiting deportation.

The jump in deportations in the New York district paralleled increases at other
major gateway cities. San Francisco, for example, deported 23 percent more
people and Houston 29 percent in the last year.

Since 1997, the agency has set annual targets for deporting illegal and criminal
aliens. Each year, it has surpassed its goal, which for the 1999 fiscal year was
120,000.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 17, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Labor Urges Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 16


Adopting a sharp change in policy, the American labor movement today called for
blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants and an end to most sanctions against
employers who hire them.

In decades past, labor unions often saw immigrant workers as the enemy, accusing
them of depressing wages and breaking strikes. But the executive council of the
American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations adopted a
more sympathetic approach today, contending that too often the nation's
immigration rules had enabled employers to exploit illegal immigrants.

The new policy comes as business groups are pushing for similar legislative
changes to help industry cope with a shortage of workers.

Immigrants comprise an ever-larger part of the nation's work force, and labor
leaders are stepping up efforts to unionize hundreds of thousands of immigrants
who work in farms, hotels, construction, meat packing and many other industries.
Labor leaders complain that unscrupulous employers often fight off unionization
drives by threatening to fire employees who are illegal immigrants and support
unions, and by calling immigration officials to deport them.

"The present system doesn't work and is used as a weapon against workers," said
John Wilhelm, chairman of the labor federation's Committee on Immigration Policy
and president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union. "The only
reason a lot of employers want to hire a large number of illegal aliens is so
they can exploit them."

Labor leaders said they hoped their new policy would help persuade Congress to
pass an amnesty law that would enable immigrant workers to stand up for their
rights.

"I think the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s decision is going to be a shot heard round
Washington," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration
Forum, an immigrants' advocacy group. "You have a variety of employer groups
saying, 'We need more immigrant workers and we want our workers to be legal,'
and you have the A.F.L.-C.I.O. saying, 'We want more immigrant workers to be
legal and we're willing to talk to employers about their legitimate needs.' You
have the makings of a business-labor compact that could draw new immigration
policies for the next decade."

The labor federation's resolution calls for blanket amnesty for the estimated
six million illegal immigrants in the United States. At the same time the
federation, which is holding its annual winter meeting here, called on the
federal government to maintain efforts to keep illegal immigrants out of the
country.

Just 15 years ago, the federation's support helped in passing legislation
creating sanctions for employers who hire illegal immigrants. At the time,
unions said such sanctions were needed to keep illegal immigrants from flooding
the labor market and undermining union wages.

But union officials said today that a new policy was needed because employer
sanctions had failed to stem the tide of immigration and because immigrants
represented such a large part of the work force in dozens of industries.

"It's a very dramatic change in policy that follows a very dramatic change in
our world," Mr. Wilhelm said.

Many immigrants have had an ambivalent attitude toward the labor movement
because some unions sought to keep out immigrant workers and because of labor's
past support of employer sanctions. But union officials view the new policy as a
way to make it easier to unionize businesses that employ illegal immigrants by
making it harder for employers to intimidate them.

"We, the labor movement, have to put ourselves in a leadership position in
immigrant rights," said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers.
"This is a way to help low-wage immigrant workers."

The federation's resolution calls for tougher sanctions against any company that
uses advertisements or recruiters in other countries to encourage illegal
immigrants to come to the United States to work for them. In support of this
measure, the United Food and Commercial Workers distributed copies of a want ad,
placed in a newspaper in Juarez, Mexico, on behalf of a chicken-processing plant
in Tennessee.

Randy Johnson, vice president of labor policy for the United States Chamber of
Commerce, welcomed labor's new policy. "It's certainly a departure from
organized labor's traditional position, which was an increased number of
immigrant workers is bad for domestic workers," he said. "I think this is an
area where the business community and organized labor can work together."

But some advocacy groups criticized labor's change on immigration. Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which has
taken a hard line against increased immigration, maintained that the call for
amnesty, coming after the amnesty granted in 1986, would inevitably encourage
more illegal immigration.

"These pronouncements send signals around the world that this country should
continue to be flooded with illegal workers," Mr. Stein said.

The labor federation opposed proposals made by some business groups to expand
guest worker programs in which tens of thousands of foreigners are allowed into
the United States temporarily to work. Union officials said that many guest
workers had been exploited and that the best way to deal with any shortage of
workers would be to expand job-training programs.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 11, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Orders Aliens' Release After Sentences

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 10


Hundreds of illegal immigrants in nine Western states who have completed prison
terms for crimes in this country must be freed until the United States can
persuade their homelands to take them back, a federal appeals court ruled today.

In a 3-to-0 ruling, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit rejected the argument of immigration officials that federal law
authorized an indefinite, potentially lifelong, jailing of illegal immigrants
whose native countries have no repatriation agreement with the United States.

The ruling will probably be appealed, said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The court said the immigrants must be released 90 days after a final deportation
order and allowed to remain free under I.N.S. supervision until their home
country reached an agreement with the United States to accept deportees.

A 1996 federal law required deportation of noncitizens who committed a range of
felonies, including most drug crimes.

The law said immigrants whose home countries refused to accept them "may be
detained beyond the removal period."

The I.N.S. contended that the law allowed indefinite detention of immigrants it
considered dangerous, but the court disagreed.

The ruling applies to immigrants from Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos, none of which
has a repatriation agreement with the United States. It also covers some Cubans
and some immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

The government estimates that 400 to 500 immigrants will be affected in the nine
states covered by the Ninth Circuit. The I.N.S. said a year ago that there were
3,500 such prisoners nationwide.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Princess Must Face Immigration Charges

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 17


A princess who fled Bahrain with fake documents to marry an American marine must
face charges of illegally entering the United States, an immigration judge said
today.

The judge, Ignacio Fernandez, refused to dismiss the charges, a ruling that
prevents the princess, Meriam Al Khalifa, from applying for permanent residency
without seeking political asylum.

Ms. Al Khalifa, who is 19, plans to apply for asylum on the ground that she
faces extreme persecution for marrying a non-Muslim if she returns to Bahrain,
her lawyer said.

She has up to a year to apply for political asylum.

A spokesman for the Bahraini Embassy in Washington said that the princess would
not face persecution if she returned.

Ms. Al Khalifa lives with her husband, Lance Cpl. Jason Johnson, on Camp
Pendleton, a Marine base 40 miles north of San Diego. They met last year in the
Bahraini capital of Manama, where the 25-year-old marine was assigned to a
security unit.

Ms. Al Khalifa's father is a cousin of Bahrain's head of state, Emir Hamad bin
Isa Al Khalifa.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 2, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Inquiry Into Sales Of Visas in Panama Is Denied

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: PANAMA, Sept. 1


Accusations by Justice Department officials that the American Embassy undercut
the department's investigation into visa trafficking and alien smuggling by
high-ranking Panamanian officials are unfounded, according to several United
States officials close to the case. The reason, they say, is simple: there was
no investigation to disrupt.

The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they had no doubt that
Panamanian visas were being sold to Chinese immigrants using Panama as a back
door to sneak into the United States.

But these officials said they had seen no hard evidence that Panamanian
officials did anything more than break the laws of their own country.

They said that a Justice Department investigation could begin only if there were
indications that the Panamanians were helping the Chinese enter the United
States.

"Unless it can be shown that they were involved in trafficking people across the
border, then they have not broken U.S. laws," one official said.

The dispute has drawn the attention of Senator Jesse Helms, the chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He sent a letter on Aug. 26 to both the
State and Justice Departments asking when the Justice Department began an
investigation and what was its status. An aide to Senator Helms was out of town
and did not return a message left at his office, but officials said that the
departments had not yet responded. Officials close to the case said that
consular officials here acted within their rights when they revoked the United
States travel visa of Samantha Smith, who was the head of Panamanian
intelligence from September 1998 to June of this year. The decision to revoke
her visa was made because of strong suspicions that she was part of a ring that
sold Panamanian visas to Chinese immigrants who were looking to sneak into the
United States by land at the Mexican border.

Ms. Smith said she did approve some 140 suspect visas at the request of
President Ernesto Perez Balladares, whose term ended today and whom she accused
this week of selling the visas for as much as $15,000 apiece to supplement his
budget.

State Department regulations and United States immigration law allow consular
officials to revoke visas if they suspect someone is engaged in corruption.

The revocation of Ms. Smith's visa drew the anger of officials at the Justice
Department, who said that the move had tipped off the smuggling ring and
severely damaged any chances of nabbing senior Panamanian officials.

But several officials familiar with the decision to revoke Ms. Smith's visa said
that Simon Ferro, the United States Ambassador to Panama, kept all the necessary
agencies in Washington informed about his actions and at no point was he warned
off. After Ms. Smith's visa was revoked, Ambassador Ferro attended a June 17
interagency meeting in Washington where he defended his actions to Justice
Department officials.

For her part, Ms. Smith has said she has yet to be contacted by Justice
Department investigators, although she said she was willing to share with them
what she knnew about the scheme. She did say that at one meeting with President
Perez she asked him how was he sure the Chinese immigrants were going to stay in
Panama. "He told me to impede their exit," she said. "But that is not one of my
functions. I can only collect information."

She added that she had informed officers of the Central Intelligence Agency last
December about reports she had received about Chinese immigrants arriving at
Tocumen International Airport with false visas or no passports at all.

"How could I be in a smuggling ring?" she said. "If I was involved in something
like that, why would I tell them this?"

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 23, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Man Gets 22 Months In Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: A

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A Korean whose ship shuttled scores of illegal Chinese immigrants to the United
States and the Bahamas was sentenced yesterday to 22 months in prison for
organizing the trips from South America.

The ship owner, Nam Jick Cho, 52, who lived in New York City, is likely to be
freed soon, since he has been in custody since June 1997. The smuggling came to
light in May 1997, when 23 Chinese men were found wandering the streets of Bay
Head, south of Asbury Park, after a powerboat ferrying them to shore from Mr.
Cho's ship ran aground on a foggy night.

Acknowledging Mr. Cho's cooperation with investigators, a federal judge gave him
about half the maximum term and waived a fine. Mr. Cho, who operated a fishing
business before he ran into financial trouble, could still face deportation, his
lawyer said.

Mr. Cho said through an interpreter that he intends to work honestly and do
volunteer service when freed. "I must have been out of my mind to do what I have
done," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Australians Face Influx of Immigrants Smuggled Ashore By Boat

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 22


During the last six months, Australians have been surprised by an influx of
people from Iraq and Afghanistan arriving by boat who, officials say, are first
being delivered to nearby Indonesian islands by smugglers from the Middle East
and then moved to Australia's north coast, where they try to claim asylum.

According to information provided by the Australian mission to the United
Nations, the Australian Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs
reported that 34 boats with passengers originating in the Middle East were
intercepted off the northern and northwestern coasts of Australia between July
and November. The boats carried 1,643 people -- more than the total of people
reaching the country by boat in the last three years.

Australian officials say that many of the refugees and asylum seekers appear to
have been brought to Southeast Asia by smuggling rings operating in Amman,
Jordan. Once in Southeast Asia, those who have been smuggled can easily obtain
fraudulent documents in Bangkok, long known as a center for forgeries and a
frequent stopover point for illegal emigrants from China, many of whom also try
to land in Australia.

Travel from Thailand to Indonesia is relatively easy. Australian officials say
that the people headed for their shores are assembled on a number of Indonesian
islands for boats to Australia.

Australia may be a stopover for those who arrive that way, Philip Ruddock, the
immigration and multicultural affairs minister, said in October, when he
announced measures to discourage the flow of arrivals.

"In a growing trend that has become known as 'forum shopping,' these people are
trying to exploit Australia's generous arrangements for refugees to gain
residence in their country of preference," he said. To plug that loophole,
Australia will grant only three-year "temporary protection" visas to people
deemed to be genuine refugees -- including most of the Iraqis and Afghans -- but
will not allow them to bring in other family members. If they leave Australia
for another destination, they will lose the right to return.

"Australia simply cannot afford to be seen as a potential soft target by forum
shoppers and the increasingly sophisticated people-smuggling rackets," Mr.
Ruddock said. As in other countries that attract asylum seekers -- like the
United States, Canada and Germany -- an influx of illegal immigrants in
Australia can lessen the chances of asylum for refugees languishing in camps,
Australians say.

Illegal immigrants also erode sympathy for other refugees, Australians have
found, and officials say they do not want Australia to become a gateway for
illegal immigration.

Illegal migration also conceals the movement of terrorists, international law
enforcement agencies and experts on immigration say. The sophistication with
which fraudulent identity and travel documents are produced adds to their
concern.

Until the 1960's, when Australian immigration laws began to be changed
substantially, Australia had an all-white immigration policy, seeking primarily
European settlers.  Now, about 40 percent of immigrants are Asians. Australia, a
country only slightly smaller than the United States with a population of 18
million, actively recruits students from Southeast Asia for its universities.

In addition to those arriving by boat, there has been an increase of nearly 35
percent a year in illegal arrivals by air. Last year, more than 2,000 people
were refused entry at airports.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Smuggling Draws New Attention

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 3


Federal officials today were investigating what was seen as a disturbing trend
in smuggling illegal immigrants after the discovery of 30 stowaways on Sunday in
containers on cargo ships in Long Beach, Calif., and Seattle.

The discoveries were made less than a week after two other groups of illegal
Chinese immigrants were found in similar containers on cargo ships in the Los
Angeles area.

In addition, according to court documents in Seattle, two more containers with
Chinese citizens were expected to arrive there on Tuesday.

"This is a relatively new and troubling trend," said Virginia C. Kice, a
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In the recent cases, soft-top containers about the size of a tractor-trailer
were used to carry Chinese stowaways who paid as much as $70,000, more than
twice the amount charged by people operating ships devoted primarily to
smuggling, Ms. Kice said.

A container ship can carry as many as 1,000 of these containers, which can make
it difficult to detect stowaways. The smugglers often lash down the heavy canvas
covers on the containers using every other grommet to make escape easier and
provide ventilation.

Ms. Kice said identifying the organizers of the container-smuggling operations
was more difficult because the stowaways were not necessarily accompanied, as
had been the practice on previous smuggling ships.

In the Seattle case, though, the authorities have charged three men who
apparently went to meet the containers with trying to bring illegal aliens into
the United States.

The exporter of all three of the containers sent to Seattle and two of the
containers that arrived in Los Angeles last week was identified in court papers
as the Lap Kei Trading Company of Hong Kong.

Ms. Kice said that while there was no evidence that the ship owners had been
involved, federal officials were looking into making shipping companies more
responsible for stowaways by holding them liable for some of the costs of
detention.

Over all, Ms. Kice said, the conditions in the containers were better than those
of the old smuggling ships that carried more people and took longer to make the
journey across the Pacific. Typically, a smuggling ship would carry about 200
people, she said, but the containers usually carry fewer than 25.

Officials who have seen both types of smuggling said the containers tended to be
more sanitary, with makeshift latrines and better provisions, like bedding and
pillows. The detainees in the recent cases were also better dressed, wearing
things like Nike tennis shoes. Some had portable phones and compact disc
players.

But, Ms. Kice said, it was unknown whether that meant that the passengers were
more well-to-do or that they had been provided with items like proper clothing
to blend in better on the street.

While conditions might be better, the authorities said people who chose such
transportation still faced a daunting journey. The trailers can be stacked up to
10 high, which amounts to crossing the ocean in a tractor-trailer 10 stories up.

Federal officials have had a working group of agencies examining container
smuggling since early last year. The first such case known to officials occurred
in April 1998, when a vessel registered in Liberia arrived in Tacoma, Wash.,
with 18 to 20 stowaways from China. Since then, there have been eight cases,
including four this past week.

While the federal authorities said they would increase enforcement efforts to
combat container smuggling, Ms. Kice said the smugglers' change in approach
indicated that other enforcement efforts had been effective.

In the early 1990's, the authorities were faced with a spate of smuggling of
illegal immigrants on ships. One of the most notable was the Golden Venture,
which ran aground in June 1993 on a sandbar near Far Rockaway, Queens. Ten
passengers died after jumping into the ocean.

"Chinese smuggling has been on our radar screen for years," Ms. Kice said. "This
is the smuggler adjusting their strategy."

On Dec. 29, the authorities detained 21 people at the Port of Long Beach and 9
at Los Angeles Harbor as they emerged from hiding in cargo containers.

On Sunday, crew members found 18 stowaways inside a cargo container on the Zim
Shekou as it was coming into the Port of Long Beach. The ship had apparently
left Hong Kong about three weeks ago and stopped over in British Columbia.

In Seattle, 12 men were found aboard the ship OOCL Faith, which is owned by the
Orient Overseas Container Line of Hong Kong.

Officials said all those detained in the last week remained in custody and were
being interviewed. The process is complicated because there are so many dialects
that it can be difficult to find interpreters.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Deadly Choice Of Stowaways: Ship Containers

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Jan. 11


Accommodations for the 15-day trip from Hong Kong were a metal cargo container,
covered by canvas and stacked beneath several other such tractor-trailer-size
boxes in the hold of a giant freighter called the Cape May. The only light was
from flashlights.  Human waste was deposited in buckets. Food, primarily boxes
of vegetables, ran out at some point. The seas were particularly rough.

When the Cape May docked in Seattle and the containers were taken off late
Monday afternoon, 15 men from China stumbled out of the metal box, dazed,
dehydrated and gravely hungry. And then the stowaways, illegal immigrants who
had agreed to pay smugglers tens of thousands of dollars in future wages,
pointed to the garbage-strewn container, indicating even grimmer news. Inside
were the bodies of three men who had died during the crossing.

"These containers were designed to carry machinery and cargo, not people," said
Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"The people aboard the Cape May were effectively entombed."

At least eight times in the last two weeks, officials at ports on the west coast
of the United States and Canada have found people in cargo containers, a means
of human smuggling that has turned alarmingly frequent and now deadly. The
apparent trend reflects the extraordinary risks that Chinese laborers are
willing to take to reach North America and the jobs they are promised here by
the smugglers, who typically have arrangements with employers like restaurants
and factory sweatshops.

For every human-laden container that has been detected, there are almost
certainly others that were not: some freighters carry 1,000 containers or more.

Nor is there any question, officials say, but that more boxes carrying smuggled
Chinese workers are on the way. As recently as 5 a.m. today, 19 Chinese men, all
fairly young and in apparent good health, were discovered in a cargo container
here aboard the Hanjin Yokohama, which, like the Cape May, had sailed from Hong
Kong. As in the Cape May episode, the authorities had received a tip -- they
would not say from whom -- and, accompanied by dogs, were waiting for the ship
when it docked.

With American and Canadian officials expressing shock at the recent discoveries,
Hong Kong, which has one of the world's busiest container ports, pledged today
to crack down on the illegal trafficking. So far, the container-related
trafficking has been detected in freighters arriving here and in Los Angeles,
Long Beach, Calif., and Vancouver, British Columbia.

Conditions in the containers vary widely. Some containers, unlike the one on the
Cape May, lie at the top of the stack of boxes, and so the holes punched in the
canvas for ventilation are more effective. Some also have furniture and electric
heaters and lights. But in other cases, as aboard the Cape May, the journey is
simply nightmarish.

It is not yet clear, officials said today, whether the three fatalities on the
Cape May resulted from exposure to the cold in the unheated container, from lack
of water, or perhaps from a combination of the two.

Bob Coleman, acting director of the immigration service's Seattle office, said
of the survivors, "I've simply never seen people so disoriented, so distraught."

Of those 15 men who survived the journey in the 40-foot-long, 8-foot-wide metal
box, 7 remain in Harborview Medical Center in satisfactory condition, all being
treated for dehydration or malnutrition, said Larry Zalin, a spokesman for the
hospital. The 8 others, able to eat solid food, were released today to the
custody of the immigration service.

Under American immigration laws, the stowaways will most likely be deported back
to China within weeks unless they can establish a well-grounded fear of
persecution in their native country. In recent days, the United States has sent
back to China at least 246 stowaways, some of whom had arrived in containers.
American officials hope that word of the deportations will deter others from
making the hazardous journey, but such action has hardly stemmed the tide of
smuggling by ship in the past.

The immigrants found in the last couple of weeks are not the first on record to
make the crossing in dark, cramped metal containers, but there has never before
been such a rash of crossings discovered. Just why it is occurring now is not
certain, although Irene Mortensen, a spokeswoman for the immigration service,
said it might be a response to crackdowns on smuggling.

"I certainly couldn't speak for the smugglers, but it seems it's simply a new
avenue that they've tried to open recently," she said. "When one method doesn't
work so well, they try something new. That goes for drug smuggling or human
smuggling. And if this doesn't work so well, they'll try some other way."

In most cases, she said, officials do not believe that the shipping companies
are knowing accomplices. Indeed, the crew may make the entire crossing without
having any reason to know that people are in the containers stacked in the hold.
In the case of the Cape May, no action has been taken against the officers or
crew.

As awful as the containers' conditions can be, it is not clear that the journey
inside them is any more dangerous than those in which hundreds of people are
crammed aboard older ships that travel at much slower speeds, sometimes taking
two months or more to cross the Pacific.

But it is hard to imagine anything worse than the crossing of those in the Cape
May container. In Washington, Ken Elwood, deputy executive associate
commissioner of field operations with the immigration service, said there was
something particularly appalling about the case: the discovery of irregular rips
in the canvas top and other evidence that at least some of the occupants had
frantically tried to escape the container, but in vain.

"Psychologically this had to be terrible," Mr. Elwood said. "Evidently they had
tried desperately to tear the top off the container and get out. It's horrific
to think what happened to those people."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After arriving in Seattle on Monday, the survivors of a 15-day
journey from Hong Kong huddled next to the ship container that had hidden them.
Inside, the authorities found the bodies of three men who died on the trip.
(Harley Soltes/The Seattle Times, via Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Men Awaiting Asylum Rulings Begin Protest Seeking Release

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 486 words


A group of asylum seekers being held at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center in Queens have refused meals over the last three days
to press demands that they be released on parole until their cases are decided,
immigration lawyers said yesterday.

More than half of the 156 male detainees at the center, near Kennedy
International Airport in Jamaica, appeared to be taking part in the protest.

Officials said it began Tuesday, when some detainees smashed chairs, broke a
ping-pong table and threw a milk container at a guard.  The situation has
settled into a peaceful standoff that has not involved the center's 27 female
detainees, according to lawyers and agency officials.

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the agency's New York district, said the recreation
areas, courts and visiting privileges were operating normally. But, he said,
five men identified as instigators of the protest were transferred Wednesday to
higher-security detention centers in other states.

"It was a precautionary measure," Mr. Thorn added. "We are operating a detention
facility and our primary interest is the safety and security of everyone
involved."

Protests and hunger strikes are not uncommon at the nation's often overcrowded
immigration detention centers, where people who have applied for asylum can
sometimes wait months or even years for final rulings.

In late September, asylum seekers at the center in Elizabeth, N.J., declared a
hunger strike to demand parole and better living conditions, but called off the
protest after three days when officials promised to review some of their parole
requests.  Five days after the start of that protest, detainees at the Queens
center went on a hunger strike that lasted two weeks.

Both the Queens and the Elizabeth centers are operated by a private contractor,
Wackenhut.

Immigration advocates said the detainees' frustration had grown because the New
York district follows a more restrictive parole policy than other districts,
where asylum seekers with family in the area are sometimes released on parole to
await their hearings.

"They have parole discretion, but they choose not to exercise it," said Gwen
Leifer, a lawyer with the New York Association for New Americans. She said
detainees at the Queens center had also complained lately that once-frequent
visits by immigration officials to explain asylum procedures and answer
questions had been cut back.

Mr. Thorn said medical personnel at the center would monitor the detainees'
health if the protesters' call for a long-term hunger strike was heeded.

Only 81 of the men in detention ate breakfast yesterday and only 73 ate lunch,
said Mr. Thorn. On Wednesday, even more detainees refused one or all three daily
meals, with 34 showing up for lunch and 45 for dinner. Information about how
many ate dinner last night will not be available until today, Mr. Thorn added.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

After 2 Years in Deportation Fight, a Hunger Strike

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words


For the last 35 days, Nabil Ahmed Farag Soliman, an inmate at a federal
detention center in Batavia, N.Y., has refused to eat and has rebuffed medical
help in an attempt to end his two and a half years of captivity, one way or
another.

Mr. Soliman, who is awaiting possible deportation to Egypt at the Buffalo
Federal Detention Center, has been in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service since July 1, 1997, charged with violating immigration
laws.

In October, a federal immigration judge prohibited the I.N.S. from deporting him
to Egypt, saying he could face torture if returned to his home country. A month
later, the immigration service appealed.

Mr. Soliman and his advocates say he has joined the ranks of hundreds of
indefinite detainees, people the immigration service will neither deport nor
release. Some say his case, which began as a problem of immigration status, has
turned into an international debate over his identity.

What sets him apart, however, is his determination to win his freedom. "It's not
that unusual for people to decide they don't want to eat for some period of
time, like a few days or maybe even a week," said Amy Otten, a spokeswoman for
the Eastern Region of the immigration service. "But this one is a lot longer
than most."

Federal authorities, acting on information from Egypt, say they believe Mr.
Soliman, 39, may be a terrorist sought in Egypt in connection with the
assassination of President Anwar el-Sadat in 1981.

Mr. Soliman says he is no terrorist, just a truck driver with a wife and five
children in Jersey City. He says he believes the authorities have confused him
with another man, Nabil Ahmed Farag Rezk, with whom his only connection is nine
consonants and six vowels.

There are many gray areas in Mr. Soliman's case, and the I.N.S. and the
Department of Justice say they cannot comment on the details of his detention.
Ambassador Soheir Zaki, the consul general of Egypt in New York, said Mr.
Soliman was wanted in Egypt in connection with President Sadat's assassination,
but she said she did not know whether Egypt had pursued his extradition.

But some observers regard Mr. Soliman's story as a prime example of how the
federal authorities treat many Arabs, acting as though they are terrorists,
whether or not they have evidence. Kamal Nowash, the legal director of the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, has pored over 300 pages of
documents about Mr. Soliman's case and said he had concluded that the government
had no substantial evidence with which to charge him as a terrorist.

"There appears to be a stereotype among the I.N.S. that if you're a conservative
or a devout Muslim, then you are a terrorist," Mr. Nowash said. "I can't help
wonder if this has anything to do with why he's being detained, because I can't
see anything else in his records about charges against him."

The roots of Mr. Soliman's dispute with immigration officials go back 19 years
and thousands of miles, to 1981 in Cairo. In a series of telephone interviews
from the detention center, where he is being monitored in a special medical
cell, Mr. Soliman said he was an importer and exporter in Egypt.

Shortly after the assassination of President Sadat, the Egyptian military went
to Mr. Soliman's home, he said, looking for a suspected conspirator in the
assassination plot. Mr. Soliman said he believes they were looking for Mr. Rezk,
whose criminal record, later provided to immigration officials by the Egyptian
government, indicates that he is a fugitive. (Mr. Soliman provided 1989
documents to a reporter that show he had no criminal record in Egypt.)

At the time of the military's visit, Mr. Soliman said, he was in Yemen. But
learning of the search, he decided not to return to Cairo. He said that in the
context of brutal Egyptian crackdowns on extremists after the assassination, he
feared for his life.

"Under emergency law, they would have tortured me and kept me in jail, and I
could not prove I was innocent," he said. "They keep people in jail for a long
time for no reason."

From Yemen, Mr. Soliman moved to Saudi Arabia, and then in 1988 to the United
States. In 1991, he divorced his Egyptian wife, married an American citizen and
moved to Jersey City, he said. But he separated from his American wife, and in
1997 divorced her and remarried his first wife, who had moved from Egypt to
Teaneck, N.J.

In June 1997, he received a warrant for his arrest and was ordered to appear in
immigration court in Newark. "I went to the hearing," Mr. Soliman said. "I
didn't know they would end up holding me for two and a half years."

Because Mr. Soliman had divorced his American wife, he said, his petition for
continued citizenship was rejected, and, according to court documents, a federal
judge ordered the immigration service to deport him in October 1997.

Mr. Soliman applied for political asylum, but his request was rejected. Last
October, however, a different immigration judge barred the I.N.S. from deporting
Mr. Soliman to Egypt, saying he could face torture.

The immigration service has appealed the decision, Ms. Otten said, but she
declined to comment further. Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for the Executive
Office of Immigration Review for the Department of Justice, which will rule on
the immigration service's appeal, said the agency cannot discuss pending cases.

Richard L. Reinert is director of public relations for Vive, a refugee service
center in Buffalo that has tried to help Mr. Soliman. He said he thought Mr.
Soliman might be innocent. "The way I read it, they have the wrong man," he
said. "He's a devout man, and he's dedicated to getting his freedom."

The immigration service is monitoring Mr. Soliman's health, which he said has
declined rapidly. He said he had fainted several times and was unable to walk.
On Wednesday, the immigration service ordered that he be force-fed, but he
agreed instead to begin drinking water and receiving fluids intravenously, in
exchange for help with his case.

Ms. Otten said his health had stabilized, but did not comment on any agreement
with Mr. Soliman.

Mr. Soliman vows to continue his hunger strike until he is free, or dead. "I
will never stop until I'm released," he said. "I'm not accepting being in prison
for no crime. It's not against law. It's against persecution."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The authorities say that Nabil Ahmed Farag Soliman may be wanted
in Egypt. Mr. Soliman says they are confusing him with another man. (Don Heupel
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 22, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Hasty Call for Amnesty

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words


The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s call for the government to grant amnesty to an estimated six
million illegal immigrants currently living in the United States and to
eliminate most sanctions on employers who hire them in the future was a
surprising turnabout. Until now, organized labor has fought hard to keep illegal
workers from taking jobs from higher-paid union workers.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s proposal is attractive to many groups. Unions welcome the
chance to go after a huge new pool of unorganized workers. Employers welcome the
chance to hire cheap labor without fear of criminal liability. And illegal
immigrants who have worked hard for years and raised families under harrowing
circumstances would welcome access to medical care and other services denied to
illegal aliens.

But the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s proposal should be rejected. Amnesty would undermine the
integrity of the country's immigration laws and would depress the wages of its
lowest-paid native-born workers.

Back in 1986, Congress granted amnesty to an estimated three million illegal
immigrants as part of a law that also promised to crack down on further illegal
immigration by imposing sanctions on employers who knowingly violated the law.
At that time, this page endorsed amnesty because it was tied to measures that
promised to keep further rounds of illegal immigration in check. But 14 years
later there are twice as many illegal workers, and employer sanctions are widely
deemed a joke. Workers pretend to show employers proof of citizenship or work
visas and employers pretend they do not know the proof is fake.

The primary problem with amnesties is that they beget more illegal immigration.
Demographers trace the doubling of the number of Mexican immigrants since 1990
in part to the amnesty of the 1980's. Amnesties signal foreign workers that
American citizenship can be had by sneaking across the border, or staying beyond
the term of one's visa, and hiding out until Congress passes the next amnesty.
The 1980's amnesty also attracted a large flow of illegal relatives of those
workers who became newly legal. All that is unfair to those who play by the
immigration rules and wait years to gain legal admission.

It is also unfair to unskilled workers already in the United States. Between
about 1980 and 1995, the gap between the wages of high school dropouts and all
other workers widened substantially. Prof. George Borjas of Harvard estimates
that almost half of this trend can be traced to immigration of unskilled
workers. Illegal immigration of unskilled workers induced by another amnesty
would make matters worse. The better course of action is to honor America's
proud tradition by continuing to welcome legal immigrants and find ways to
punish employers who refuse to obey the law.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Should We Help Illegal Aliens?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words



To the Editor:

Re "Do You Hire Illegal Immigrants?" (Op-Ed, Aug. 30): Douglas, Ariz., is being
overwhelmed by illegal immigrants because of exceedingly tight border controls
imposed in the El Paso and San Diego sectors a few years ago. Illegal immigrants
are now being channeled into less patrolled border areas, and Douglas has become
a prime entry point.

Mayor Ray Borane's recommendation for a sensible guest worker program could take
years to put in place. There is another approach that would bring more immediate
relief.

The Federal Government does almost nothing to deport illegal immigrants. It does
almost nothing to prosecute employers who hire unlawful migrants. Despite
increased Border Patrol presence in the San Diego and El Paso sectors, most of
our borders are understaffed.

If a sleepy Justice Department would enforce existing immigration laws, things
could improve quickly and dramatically.

MICHAEL SCOTT
Glendora, Calif., Aug. 31, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Should We Help Illegal Aliens?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 140 words



To the Editor:

Re "Do You Hire Illegal Immigrants?" (Op-Ed, Aug. 30): Ray Borane, Mayor of
Douglas, Ariz., wants legalization of the work of illegal immigrants. He cites a
guest worker program as one solution.

I don't think a guest worker program or similar solution would solve the
problem. Such a program would require enforcement -- screening people as they
cross the border and checking the legality of immigrants at a job site. We are
unable to do that now. We would simply add an unenforceable program to the
system that already exists, a system that causes the debris and deaths in Mr.
Borane's border city.

Congress has the ultimate authority in this matter, but it will not act to limit
employment because employers and private citizens like cheap, compliant labor.

MARVIN GREGORY
Renton, Wash., Aug. 30, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 28, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Man Behind Immigration Signs Admits He Hired Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 693 words


A man who caused a furor with billboards calling for an end to immigration
admitted yesterday that he had employed illegal immigrants at an East Village
burrito restaurant that he partly owned until earlier this year.

The creator of the billboards, Craig Nelsen, said he sold his stake in the
restaurant in January, four months before he posted his first sign in Sunnyside,
Queens. Mr. Nelsen has expanded the billboard campaign to Minnesota and North
Carolina, with messages like "Over 80 percent of Americans support very little
or no more immigration."

Mr. Nelsen sent an E-mail message to The New York Times about his involvement
with the restaurant after learning that Fox News was planning a report about it.

Immigration advocates said yesterday that Mr. Nelsen acted hypocritically by
starting his billboard campaign with money he earned from a business that used
the same laborers he would have kept out of the country. But Mr. Nelsen said the
restaurant, San Loco, which he co-owned with his brother, demonstrated how
Government policy hooks business owners on cheap immigrant labor to stay
competitive.

Mr. Nelsen's anti-immigration message has proved divisive not just in the city,
but within his family. He said his decision to found his anti-immigration group,
ProjectUSA, caused a rift in his relationship with his brother. The two had
opened the restaurant at 151 Avenue A in August 1998, but Mr. Nelsen said the
disagreement led him to sell his stake and an off-site kitchen to his sister and
her husband for $39,000. The two brothers had also started the original San
Loco, at 129 Second Avenue, in 1986, but that partnership ended in 1989 after a
disagreement.

Workers at both San Loco locations declined to comment. Zenon B. Masnyj, a
lawyer for Craig Nelsen's brother, Darrell Nelsen, said his client does not
share his brother's views on immigration.

"Darrell isn't that political a person," Mr. Masnyj said. "He wants to keep to
his business. Craig of course has different ideas." He said he did not know
anything about the immigration status of the restaurant's employees.

The two San Loco locations are small fast-food Mexican restaurants that feature
low-priced tacos and burritos. When he was managing the Avenue A location, Craig
Nelsen said, he paid a starting hourly wage of $7.50 and relied heavily on
immigrants who were in the country both legally and illegally to stay
competitive with other fast-food restaurants.

Mr. Nelsen said he never knew how many of his employees were in the country
illegally because he did not ask. Most of the employees, he said, were hired as
contract labor, meaning that he did not withhold taxes from their wages and did
not offer benefits.

"When I was responsible for hiring, I never checked for alien status or
citizenship status," Mr. Nelsen said in an interview in Tompkins Square Park, a
few yards from his brother's restaurant. "No one around here does. No one could
and survive."

Employers are forbidden to use contract labor to circumvent immigration and work
eligibility laws, said Nancy Cohen, an Immigration and Naturalization Service
spokeswoman. She said an employer's admission that he had hired illegal
immigrants could lead to fines of $250 to $10,000 per worker.

But Mr. Nelsen charged that lax enforcement of immigration laws has created a
market in which businesses must hire illegal immigrants to remain competitive.

"This whole country is addicted to illegal labor," Mr. Nelsen said. "It's the
fault of the Government for allowing it."

When told of Mr. Nelsen's disclosures, Patrick Young, the chairman of the board
of the New York Immigration Coalition, said they undermined ProjectUSA's
anti-immigration arguments. "Behind every great anti-immigrant man there is an
undocumented worker," he said.

Mr. Nelson said that if the Government ended immigration and closed the borders,
cheap fast food might become a thing of the past, at least in Manhattan.

"While we enjoy dollar burritos today," he said, "we are sticking our kids with
a polluted, overcrowded, balkanized mess, and that is not right, and it's for
the basest of reasons -- money."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Nelsen has expanded his anti-immigration campaign.
(Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 9, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 653 words



U.S., Strapped for Labor, Lets Illegal Workers Stay
In a booming economy running short of labor, hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants are increasingly tolerated in the nation's workplaces. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service has made crossing the border harder than
ever, but once inside the country, illegal immigrants are now largely left
alone.

The new lenience helps explain why overall wage increases have been less than
many economists and policy makers had expected, given an unemployment rate of
only 4 percent and a strong demand for people to fill jobs that pay $8 an hour
or less.    Page A1.

China Trade Bill Sent to Congress
President Clinton sent Congress his bill to usher China into the World Trade
Organization. He then opened a new front in the debate, arguing that opening up
China's markets will undermine Communist Party control.    A1.


Money Manager Buys 6% of Aetna
Betting that the stock market has drastically misjudged Aetna, Southeastern
Asset Management, a money management company in Memphis, announced in a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had acquired 6 percent of
Aetna for $444 million. Shares of Aetna rose $2.9375, to $54.125. The stock,
which slid to a 12-month low of $38.50 three weeks ago, rose sharply after
Aetna, the nation's biggest health insurer, confirmed last week that it was
considering a buyout feeler from Wellpoint Health Plans of California and the
ING Group, a Dutch financial services and insurance company.    C2.

Stocks Recover as Oil Prices Dip
Stocks staged a modest rebound as oil prices eased and a Federal Reserve survey
found inflation limited. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 points, or
0.62 percent, to 9,856.53. The Nasdaq composite index gained 49.42 points, or
1.02 percent, to 4,897.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 11.08
points, or 0.82 percent, to 1,366.70.    C14.

YankeeNets Reduces Bond Offering
Resistance from investors forced YankeeNets, which owns the New York Yankees
baseball team and the New Jersey Nets basketball team, to cut back on the amount
of money it wanted to borrow and to increase the interest rate it will pay. The
cut in the size of the bond offering appears likely to reduce George
Steinbrenner's take.    C26.

Qwest Seeks to Resurrect Talks
After negotiations by Qwest Communications International for acquisition by
Deutsche Telekom essentially collapsed, Qwest's chairman, Joseph P. Nacchio,
spent much of the day putting together a proposal meant to bring the German
company back to the bargaining table, executives close to the talks said.    C9.


Investing in the 'Post-PC World'
A group of former executives from Microsoft are expected to announce the
creation of a holding company to invest in and nurture start-ups focused on what
has been called the "post-PC world," a time when the personal computer and
Microsoft no longer dominate the technology markets. The chairman and chief
executive of the new venture, Ignition, is Brad Silverberg, 45, who guided
Microsoft's catch-up strategy to embrace the Internet.    C6.

Tax Expert Urges Tougher Penalties
The tough penalties Congress enacted to discourage abusive corporate tax
shelters are so riddled with loopholes that they fail to deter tax cheating by
large companies, Congress's top tax expert told a Senate committee. She called
for tightening the penalties.    C6.

ABC Realigns Its News Division
ABC realigned the management of its news division, giving three executives new
duties under the president, David Westin.    C11.

Report Shows No Pickup in Inflation
The economy's record expansion showed no signs of slowing in the first two
months of the year and, while the pressure on wages increased, inflation did not
accelerate, the Federal Reserve said in its latest report.    C4.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 9,856.53 up 60.50
Nasdaq composite -- 4,897.26 up 49.42
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.16% up 0.02
The euro -- $0.9611 up 0.0035
The dollar -- 107.04 yen up 0.88

Graph shows Aetna share prices.

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Make an Immigration Policy for Today's Needs;
Temporary-Visa Abuse

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 118 words



To the Editor:

Your Feb. 29 news article "Workers Are Trapped in Limbo by I.N.S." illustrates
the travesty of the H-1B visa program.

The visa is for the "temporary" importation of labor, but almost all of these
temporary workers overstay the limits of the visa and try to become residents.
Studies have shown that these temporary workers depress wages and limit the
employment opportunities of American citizens.

The winners are the companies that profit from this cheap labor.

The H-1B visa circumvents the standard immigration process and harms the
citizens of this country.  This "temporary" visa program should be eliminated.

ROBERT F. LA PORTA
Dix Hills, N.Y., Feb. 29, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 25, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Economic Scene;
Work visas are allowing Washington to sidestep immigration reform.

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger;  This column appears here every Thursday. Alan B.
Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton
University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. Four economic
analysts -- Professor Krueger, J. Bradford DeLong, Jeff Madrick and Virginia
Postrel -- rotate as contributors.

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words


THE inscription on the Statue of Liberty is quietly being rewritten: "Give me
your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free; I'll also
take your skilled employees under the temporary visa program, H-1B."

The H-1B visa was established in 1990 to permit foreigners with a college degree
or higher to work in the United States for a renewable three-year term for
employers who petition on their behalf. In 1998, the program was expanded to
allow 115,000 workers, up from 65,000, to enter the United States in fiscal
years 1999 and 2000. Demand for H-1B visas by employers is high, particularly
among high-technology companies. This year the limit was reached just six months
into the year. President Clinton and many members of Congress would like to
increase the limit to 200,000 a year the next three years.

The expansion of temporary work visas should be evaluated in the context of
overall immigration policy. But immigration reform, replacing Social Security,
has become the new third rail of American politics. So instead of tackling the
issue head on, Washington has come to rely on temporary work visas as a
substitute for addressing the economic and social shortcomings of current
policy.

The United States is in the midst of the "Second Great Migration." The first
occurred between 1880 and 1924, when 26 million immigrants arrived on our
shores. The second began in the late 1970's: more immigrants have come to the
United States since 1980 than in the previous 60 years.

Workers admitted under the H-1B program are not immigrants, but experts in the
field expect that most of them will end up staying permanently in the United
States.

In addition to workers with H-1B visas, hundreds of thousands of other
foreigners are admitted to work temporarily in the United States under visa
categories covering intracompany transfers, individuals with extraordinary
ability, registered nurses and nonprofit religious organizations. A fast-growing
category is the Nafta TN visa, which offers an unlimited number of temporary
visas for professional workers from Canada and soon Mexico.

In a new book, "Heaven's Door," George Borjas, a Harvard economist, proposes
that the United States adopt a Canadian-style point system, in which applicants
for visas are assigned points on the basis of characteristics like their ability
to speak English, work-force skills, family ties, refugee status and ethnic
diversity. Those whose total points exceed a certain threshold would be
admitted. Going even further, Professor Borjas favors setting the threshold so
that the number of immigrants entering the United States falls from about
900,000 to about 500,000 a year. The total number can be debated. If nothing
else, this policy would be transparent.

Who should become an American? The question is profound, involving more than
economics alone. But economic considerations obviously play a role.

Theoretically, the economics of immigration is straightforward. If more workers
are admitted to the country -- as permanent immigrants or temporary workers --
the earnings of native American workers competing with them for jobs should
fall. At the same time, the price of goods and services they produce should
decline, and the profits of businesses should rise.

The winners are employers, consumers and the immigrants themselves. The losers
are workers in the same job market as immigrants.

Economic research has not been able to estimate with any confidence the wage
decline for native workers that results from immigration. Much solid research
finds no effect. This suggests to me that any effect is likely to be small.

Professor Borjas's evidence indicates that the skills of legal and illegal
immigrants have slipped relative to those of natives since the 1970's. A third
of employed male immigrants are high school dropouts.  At the same time, the
labor market increasingly demands more high-skilled workers, as suggested by the
long-term rise in the number of workers with college degrees and their sharply
increased pay compared with that of those with high school degrees.  Therefore,
it would be economically beneficial to admit relatively more highly skilled
permanent immigrants -- not to mention that skilled immigrants are less likely
to take advantage of the safety net.

If immigration reform is off the table, it makes economic sense to increase the
number of skilled immigrants by issuing H-1B visas -- through what might be
called heaven's backdoor. Yet economic principles also suggest that the playing
field between H-1B workers and the rest of the work force should be leveled.

American workers are protected from exploitation on the job by three defenses:
exit, voice and regulation. Exit entails the ability to move to a better job if
one is available; voice results from representation by labor unions and other
organizations; and regulation is a labyrinth of standards enforced by government
agencies.

These protections are deficient for H-1B workers.

They cannot easily switch jobs because they must find another employer willing
to petition the Immigration and Naturalization Service on their behalf. Even if
they manage to do that, they must wait months for a reply. H-1B workers are also
unusually beholden to their employers, the ones who can sponsor them for
permanent immigrant status.

They lack voice because no organization effectively represents them.

And they have less regulatory protection than other workers because the Labor
Department is precluded from investigating their conditions of employment unless
a complaint is filed.

Evidence suggests H-1B visa holders suffer as a consequence. Even though 70
percent of them are in well-paid computer-related and engineering fields, a 1996
report by the Labor Department's inspector general found that 19 percent of H-1B
workers are paid less than the salary they were promised.

Legislation to increase the number of H-1B visas should provide protection from
exploitation. This also would help native workers and improve economic
efficiency.

What could be done? Permit H-1B workers to change jobs freely after they are
admitted to the country. Authorize the Labor Department to conduct random
investigations of their employment conditions. Finally, require the immigration
service to process applications for permanent, employment-based immigration more
quickly, which would reduce the need for H-1B visas in the first place.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Give Me Your College Educated"
The number of skilled temporary foreign workers who enter the United States each
year under the H-1B visa program is growing compared with the annual influx of
permanent legal immigrant workers.

Graph tracks number of new h-1b visas and estimated number of new permanent
legal immigrants that are working, age 20 to 64.

Note: Immigrant figures for 1989-92 are adjusted for the influx of resident
immigrants granted amnesty and for 1997-98 to account for a backlog at the
I.N.S. H-1B visas in 1999 exceeded the federal cap because I.N.S. inadvertently
issued at least 21,888 extra.

(Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service; Census Bureau)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Day-Labor Solution Rejected

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KIGGEN MILLER

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 696 words


IN hopes of solving a running dispute over day workers congregating on the
streets of Farmingville, a special committee formed by Suffolk County Executive
Robert Gaffney has suggested a designated hiring hall for immigrant workers
seeking landscaping or contracting jobs. But some community members are opposed
to the idea despite the fact that it would solve the traffic hazard that is
their avowed main concern.

The Sachem Quality of Life Organization, a community group with more than 400
members, says that a designated hiring spot, or shape-up site, would condone
illegal activity

Margaret Bianculli-Dyber, president of the Sachem Quality of Life Organization,
said: "The only reason shape-up sites are proposed is to circumvent the law. My
question is how could the I.N.S. justify this?"

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that constitutional privacy issues were involved, whether workers were standing
by the street or in a designated location.

"Loitering is not a violation of immigration law," said Mr. Thorn. "The focus of
immigration law is on the employers."

"We understand the community's concern and we know the situation, but just
because a person is standing on the street corner doesn't mean he's illegal," he
added. "We can't tell a person's status by looking at him or by the clothes he's
wearing."

The recommendation from the special committee, which did not propose a specific
spot for a shape-up site, will now be considered by the county executive's
office, officials of the Town of Brookhaven and members of the community.

Civic groups have been complaining since August 1998 that the workers, most of
them Central Americans, create a traffic hazard by rushing into the street when
contractors drive up in their trucks and vans. At 6 A.M., as many as 300 workers
can be found along a three-mile stretch on Horseblock Road.

A proposal to ban such off-the-street hiring failed in the County Legislature in
April and now the county is seeking other ways to deal with the situation.

The Farmingville Committee was formed in January to deal with what some consider
an issue of racism. Its members include representatives from the Town of
Brookhaven, Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rockville Center, the Sachem
Quality of Life Organization, Congressman Michael Forbes's office and the
Brookhaven Police Department.

"Over the past year, there have been incidents that I felt were racially
motivated," said Yvonne Pena, executive director of the Suffolk County Human
Rights Commission. "If they won't accept a solution, you have to look at other
motivation."

But people who remain opposed to the gathering site say the town is afraid to
take a stand against the workers for political reasons. "Someone got to
Supervisor Grucci," said Teri Sherwood, a member of the Quality of Life
Organization, referring to Brookhaven's Supervisor, Felix Grucci. "We live in
Illegalsville in the town of Crookhaven."

Jesse Garcia, spokesman for the Town of Brookhaven, said: "The town has stated
that it will support a consensus of reasonable people. It looks like the Sachem
Quality of Life Organization wants to do the impossible."

Brother Joseph Madsen, coordinator for the Spanish Apostolate for the Roman
Catholic Diocese of Rockville Center, said a designated shape-up site in Glen
Cove has been successful, and could help in Farmingville.

"I think what we're dealing with here is fear," said Brother Madsen. "Since they
claim traffic safety is an issue, this will eliminate that."

The Glen Cove gathering spot, established in 1994, is behind the Glen Street
railroad station; up to 50 workers gather there on weekdays to await offers from
contactors.

A contractor, who asked not be identified, said the shape-up site is the only
place where he can find workers for just one day. "I don't use labor every day,"
he said. "When I need it for one day, I come here. The ones who come work hard."

Pascual Blanco of La Fuerza Unida, a local advocacy group for the Hispanic
community, said: "What's happening in Farmingville now is exactly the same
behavior we saw in Glen Cove before this site."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Civic groups in Farmingdale rejected a proposal that would have
designed a central spot for hiring day laborers. (Maxine Hicks for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Make an Immigration Policy for Today's Needs

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words



To the Editor:

Your report about the plight of foreign professionals who are awaiting green
cards (news article, Feb. 29) is a good reminder of the outdated norms that
govern the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

While the United States is in dire need of skilled professionals to perform
vital tasks within the booming economy, it is also flooded by illegal workers
who are mostly unskilled.

There seems to be a penalty for foreign workers who do things by the book and no
real punishment for those who slip through the immigration agency's net.

The United States, more than any other country, has welcomed immigrants and has
grown because of it. It is ironic that a policy that hinders the new high-tech
workers has not been adapted to suit today's needs.

HERMAN BEUK
Princeton, N.J., Feb. 29, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Day-Labor Situation Still Needs Resolving

SECTION: Section 14LI;  Page 21;  Column 1;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 124 words


Re "Day-Labor Solution Rejected" Sept. 12 on the opposition to the creation of a
hiring hall for day laborers in Farmingville: Such a site should not be
necessary. Any United States citizen or legal resident can look for jobs at
Department of Labor work centers. A shape-up site could be conducive to hiring
of illegal aliens. This would be illegal and could result in the nonpayment of
taxes and the payment of below-minimum wages.

The duty of the United States should first be to its citizens. Hiring of illegal
aliens deprives citizens of jobs. The citizens deprived of these jobs are often
minority members. The hiring of illegal aliens and the use of shape-up sites
should be condemned.

ROBERT F. LA PORTA
Dix Hills



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 30, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Workers' Rights

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 147 words



To the Editor:

The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's extension of anti-discrimination
rules to illegal immigrants (news article, Oct. 28) is an important gesture in
bringing an often exploited class of workers within the rule of law.

Illegal immigrants are an essential source of labor in industries like food
service, tourism and light manufacturing, but many employers have regarded them
as being without legal rights.

In contrast, the country's courts have long recognized the right of such workers
to back wages, disability payments and damages for workplace injuries.

The commission's new policy brings Government practice in line with the judicial
presumption that illegal immigrants share in the country's basic range of
constitutional and civil rights.

BRUCE I. AFRAN
Princeton, N.J., Oct. 28, 1999

The writer is a civil rights lawyer.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 1, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Expanded Border Policing Clogs the Courts and Jails

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

DATELINE: EDINBURG, Tex., June 30


Five years after the Clinton administration and the Republican-led Congress
began an enormous law enforcement buildup along the Mexican border to fight the
war on drugs and illegal immigration, federal and state courts are buckling
under the strain of the resulting criminal caseload.

The unprecedented numbers of new drug and immigration indictments are inundating
the five federal judicial districts along the nearly 2,000-mile border that
stretches from the mouth of the Rio Grande in Texas to San Diego. Those now
handle 26 percent of all federal criminal filings in the United States. The
remaining 74 percent is spread among the country's 89 other district courts.

Federal judges along the border are struggling with caseloads double to
quadruple the national average. Judges on senior status who would otherwise have
retired are hearing clogged dockets, while visiting judges are being brought in
from as far away as Vermont.

In border cities like Del Rio, Tex., and Las Cruces, N.M., the caseload is
nearly twice the national average, yet neither city has a sitting federal
district judge.

In Washington today, a bipartisan group of lawmakers announced an emergency
appropriation of $12 million to compensate state district attorneys along the
border who have seen their dockets and their jails clogged by smaller drug cases
handed off by federal prosecutors. District attorneys in Texas, who represent
some of the poorest counties in the nation, had threatened to refuse all federal
drug cases as of July 1, unless the government began reimbursing them for the
costs.

The clogged courts further illustrate the difficulty and complexity of policing
the Mexican border, which remains the primary entry point for drugs and illegal
immigrants into the United States. The strategy of building up federal law
enforcement along the border has brought increases in drug seizures and in the
arrests of illegal immigrants, but the flow of both is continuing.

Since 1994, the number of United States Border Patrol and Immigration and
Naturalization Service personnel has nearly doubled. This heightened presence
has created a spike in criminal cases along the border, to 14,517 in 1998 from
6,460 in 1994. But the size of the court system has remained essentially the
same; judicial resources in the five border districts have increased by only 4
percent.

"Everybody talks about the war on drugs," said Representative Silvestre Reyes, a
Democrat representing El Paso who has pushed for more resources. "They want to
put in additional border patrol agents, I.N.S. agents and customs agents without
giving any thought to what happens to a case when it's generated."

To some degree, the disparity in financing reflects a historical reluctance by
Congress to expand the judiciary, said Eric E. Sterling, president of the
Criminal Justice Policy Foundation, a Washington group that studies issues like
drug policy. Mr. Sterling said Congress had traditionally been eager to finance
drug enforcement efforts but less enthusiastic about creating new judgeships
because they are powerful, politically appointed positions.

Still, Congress seems to be taking notice of the problems on the border. Last
fall, Congress authorized three new judgeships in Arizona, though the positions
remain unfilled.

In June, a bipartisan group of border-state senators, including the Republicans
Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico and Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and the
Democrat Dianne Feinstein of California, introduced legislation to authorize 13
more judgeships along the border. The bill provides for eight permanent and five
temporary positions, and sponsors are trying to insert the measure in the
regular appropriations bill for the coming fiscal year.

"Everyone on both sides of the aisle acknowledges that this is a crisis,"
Senator Hutchison said. "We've just got to have help."

She said courts were just one part of a growing crisis on the border, where in
recent weeks frustrated ranchers in Arizona have begun rounding up illegal
immigrants trespassing on their land.

"Everything has been too little, too late," Senator Hutchison said. "We've had a
very difficult time getting control of what's happened on the border."

Here in Hidalgo County in South Texas, where the Border Patrol presence along
the Rio Grande has sharply increased, state and federal courts are inundated.
George P. Kazen, chief judge of the Southern Judicial District of Texas, said
Del Rio had more than 1,000 criminal cases every year, but no sitting district
judge. Visiting judges from Louisiana have been called on to reduce the
caseload.

"The point is that there is no sense to having a huge influx of law enforcement
officers if you're not going to pay corresponding attention to what you're going
to do with offenders after you pick them up," Judge Kazen said.

The volume of new cases has created friction between federal and state
prosecutors in Texas. Immigration cases fall solely under federal law, but state
prosecutors are handling more and more drug arrests made by federal agents.
Federal prosecutors usually prosecute the larger seizures and refer smaller
cases to state courts. In South Texas, the United States attorney Mervyn
Mosbacker said his office referred about 500 cases a year to state prosecutors,
most of them involving marijuana seizures of less than 60 pounds.

But the cost of prosecuting those cases provoked a rebellion by district
attorneys on the Texas border, who had threatened to stop taking federal cases
on July 1. Hidalgo County's district attorney, Rene A. Guerra, estimated that
such cases cost taxpayers in his county about $1 million annually. His criminal
caseload has risen to 3,246 indictments last year from 2,233 in 1995. Jaime
Esparza, the district attorney in El Paso, said his office spent more than $2
million. And increasingly, Mr. Esparza said, his office is handling offenders
arrested with more than 100 pounds of marijuana.

The announcement today of the emergency $12 million, which is expected to become
law soon as part of a larger military appropriations bill, put an end, for now,
to the plans for the boycott. But Mr. Esparza emphasized in an interview earlier
this week the burden placed on El Paso and other border areas.

"You can't expect these border counties, which are some of the poorest counties
in the country, to continue to pay these costs," Mr. Esparza said. "It's like
double taxation. No other place in the country has to shoulder these costs, and
it's only because of our proximity to the border."

Another problem is the lack of jail and prison space. There are no federal
detention centers along the Southwest border, so federal detainees are held in
local jails. In vast West Texas, defendants are often bused hundreds of miles to
jails with space. In New Mexico, Chief Judge John Edwards Conway said, the
federal courts pay local jails $18,000 a day for 300 beds. Over all, Judge
Conway said, the number of federal criminal defendants in New Mexico rose to
1,700 in 1999 from 800 in 1998.

Most judges disputed any suggestion that the caseload diminished the quality of
justice meted out. But Carolyn Dineen King, chief judge of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which includes Texas, did express a
concern.

"What you worry about," Judge King said, is defendants who get shorter sentences
than they deserve "because the court simply has to move the case."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of United States highlighting Edinburg

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends;
Due Process, But How Much Is Due?

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 964 words


FOR well over 100 years, the Constitution has guaranteed that no "person" should
be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process. For just as long,
the nation has wavered on whether such rights apply only to American citizens or
extend to the millions of immigrants who, legally and illegally, live in this
country or arrive at its borders.

Like just about every public policy concerning immigrants, the debate over their
legal standing is shaped by the political mood of the day. In the late 1800's,
laws barred Chinese contract laborers from marrying, owning property or becoming
citizens. In 1996, xenophobic sentiment in Congress produced laws giving the
government a free hand in detaining and deporting non-citizens without judicial
review.

That political agitation appears to have spent itself; the latest session of
Congress ended with no action on any immigration issue. But gaining ground
elsewhere -- in courts and agencies -- is the view that immigrants are entitled
to constitutional protection and due process.

Some of the most stark examples of this trend involve anti-terrorism cases in
which the federal government has sought to deport illegal immigrants based on
classified evidence that neither the defendants, their lawyers nor even judges
could review in full.

In two such cases, immigration judges, a group not known for particularly
sympathetic attitudes toward illegal aliens, rejected the government's bid to
deport two Palestinians accused of having terrorist links.

Nasser Ahmed, one of the Palestinians, was freed on bond last week in New York
City. Attorney General Janet Reno could have intervened to block his release but
did not, a decision some civil-liberties lawyers took as a sign that the
administration has grown uncomfortable with its tactic. The second man, Hany
Kiareldeen, was freed from a New Jersey jail in October after a federal district
judge backed the Board of Immigration Appeals and ruled that non-citizens are
entitled to due process protection from blind accusations.

The release of the two men, who still face legal battles to remain in the
country, invigorated a movement by Arab-American groups to eliminate secret
evidence in deportation proceedings. They and civil rights advocates say the
1996 counterterrorism law enabling prosecutors to withhold evidence goes against
basic American values.

Yet when terrorism is the issue, many people argue that America's security
outweighs strict due process for aliens.

"The question is how much process is due," said Richard T. Foltin, legislative
director and counsel for the American Jewish Committee.

A consensus, though, has emerged as courts and administrative agencies around
the country have begun chipping away at provisions for summary deportations and
mandatory detention in the 1996 laws.  Courts in Seattle and Rhode Island, for
example, have ruled that the indefinite detention of deportable immigrants is
illegal. And the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in a ruling that the
Supreme Court let stand, said the government could not deny some immigrants the
right to appeal their deportation orders.

Advocates for immigrants say the various court decisions do not expand the
rights of non-citizens so much as restore traditional limits on the government's
ability to treat them arbitrarily.

"The federal judiciary is exercising its historic role of protecting individual
liberty and enforcing due process by curbing the worst excesses of the executive
and legislative branches," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the immigrants
rights project of the American Civil Liberties Union, which has challenged many
of the detention and deportation rules.

IN fact, the record is quite mixed. Immigrants have won a number of victories in
recent years. The benchmark came in 1982 when the Supreme Court, rejecting a
Texas law, established the right of illegal immigrant children to attend public
school. More recently, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission declared that
illegal immigrants are entitled to the same federal protection from
discrimination in the workplace as Americans and legal residents.

Still, there is a tradition in American law to deal differently with different
categories of immigrants. At the bottom in terms of rights have always been
those intercepted at the country's borders. In cases dating from the 1950's, the
Supreme Court has said that those would-be immigrants are not actually in the
country and so have no constitutional rights except those specifically granted
by Congress. Next in order of entitlement: illegal immigrants, those with valid
visas to be in the country and, finally, at the top of the pyramid, legal
permanent residents.

What Congress did in 1996, according to many lawyers, was to not only crack down
on aliens who commit crimes and enter the country illegally, but also to
relegate all classes of immigrants to the lowest rung of rights and privileges.

"Before, if you were a lawful permanent resident and you were here at least
seven years, you could ask the immigration judge to look at the facts and see if
your family ties or record as a productive citizen could qualify you for
administrative grace," said David A. Martin, a law professor at the University
of Virginia who was the general counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from 1995 through 1997.

While helping to write the regulations for implementing the tough new laws at
the immigration service, Professor Martin said he tried to keep one parameter in
mind: that the constitutional guarantee is to not "deprive" anyone of due
process. "The question is how do you figure out the balance between protecting
the interests of the United States and the interests of the individual," he
said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese refugees at the Tri-County Detention Center in Ullin,
Ill. A man who donated Bibles helped the immigrants study. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 30, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Do You Hire Illegal Immigrants?

BYLINE: By Ray Borane;  Ray Borane is the Mayor of Douglas, Ariz.

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz.


I am the mayor of a small desert city in southeastern Arizona on the Mexican
border. It is 95 percent Hispanic, the home of working people, ranchers and
fixed-income retirees. I am writing to tell you -- meaning those who live in the
nation's more wealthy, enterprising and opulent places -- about something we
have in common.

What could bind such strikingly contrasting places and life styles? I'll answer
it with another question: Do you have any idea what havoc you cause in our area
and in other border towns, all because some of you hire illegal immigrants to
make your beds, mow your lawns and cook your meals?

The United States Border Patrol has apprehended and expelled more than 200,000
Mexicans and other Latin Americans from our area since the beginning of the
year, 60,500 in March alone. Many more -- hungry, thirsty and desperate -- make
it through. When you hire illegal aliens, our ranchers, our elderly, our
children are forced to live in fear as waves of people pass through their
property at night, cutting water lines and littering fields with plastic water
jugs, diapers and other trash.

When you have large numbers of undocumented aliens work in your homes, hotels,
restaurants, landscaping businesses, fields, orchards, factories, construction
crews and any other sector that exploits them, our lives and property values and
business opportunities are trampled because of the job pull you have created.

Those of you who congratulate yourselves on your supposed great humanitarian
compassion as you wink at the law and pay the meager wages -- please know that
in the last week alone, 28 illegal immigrants suffering from heat exhaustion
were picked up in the desert by helicopter and flown to nearby hospitals. A
19-year-old woman died. Later, 30 migrants were caught in a shootout in
Phoenixbetween coyotes, who were fighting over the payment for their human
cargo. Also last week, a broken-down van overturned on an Arizona Interstate,
seriously injuring the 33 people crammed inside.

Communities like ours have barely coped with such situations. But we realize
that the migrants themselves are not to blame. Those who hire them are. Can you
even begin to fathom the arduous, debasing journey people endure to serve you
comfortably in the luxury you are so accustomed to?

They will hand over their entire life savings to unscrupulous human traffickers
who may rob and assault them. If they get to our sister city, Agua Prieta, right
across the border, coyotes will stuff trusting individuals into vans in
conditions intolerable for animals, taking advantage of every virtue inherent in
their poverty.

Ranchers and immigration officials, in despair, will find men, women and
children dead of heat exhaustion. Children are often separated from their
parents in Border Patrol roundups and end up in shelters.

Compassion is reaching its limits in border areas like ours. Drained by the
costs, both public and private, and the risks posed by the migrants'
desperation, some ranchers and other citizens have taken up arms to protect
their property. What they are doing is wrong. But it is what your demand for
cheap and unregulated services has driven them to.

What is the answer, you ask? The migrants are, after all, coming here of their
own free will, in search of a better life. This is true, but that does not let
you off the hook.

We have to examine how to legalize this labor that you have decided you cannot
live without. This legalization begins with an orderly, humane migration over
the border. A proposed guest worker program is one option in addressing the
problem. Too expensive, you say? Higher pay and social services will dry up
demand and rob many of the world's ambitious downtrodden of the "opportunity"
you give them? Believe that if you want, but the next time you read about a
child who died crossing the Arizona desert, ask yourself those questions again.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Should We Help Illegal Aliens?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 78 words



To the Editor:

Re "Do You Hire Illegal Immigrants?" (Op-Ed, Aug. 30): Ray Borane, the Mayor of
Douglas, Ariz., describes illegal hiring as a siren's call, luring undocumented
aliens to danger and death crossing our southern border. The Mayor might recall,
however, that the United States is a nation of immigrants, many of whom endured
much greater risks and indignities than the current generation of immigrants.

NICHOLAS R. KARP
Brooklyn, Aug. 30, 1999


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 30, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Is Taking a Tougher Line With Illegal Chinese Migrants

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: PORT HARDY, British Columbia


When the Canadian Navy made a group of undocumented Chinese migrants get off a
ship here recently, one local man brought his dogs to the dock and encouraged
them to bark at the men and women wrapped in blankets against the cold.

For Canadian officials, the confrontation represented one victory in what they
say is a rapidly growing effort to smuggle in illegal immigrants. This summer
alone, they confiscated four trawlers and detained 560 undocumented Chinese
citizens who wanted to make Canada their home.

Western Canada is only one destination in a pan-Pacific surge this year in
illegal Chinese migrants. In the last 16 months, United States Coast Guard ships
have intercepted 20 ships carrying undocumented Chinese in American territorial
waters around Guam. In the last six months, Australia has intercepted 21
boatloads of illegal migrants, primarily Chinese.

"We're now experiencing the largest smuggling operation ever experienced in
Canada," Rob Johnston, manager of immigration enforcement here, told reporters
recently.

Steven Weeks, an Australian diplomat in Ottawa, said of Canada's sudden concern:
"It's deja vu. The element of the public debate and concern is very similar to
Australia."

As Australia, Canada and the United States increasingly share intelligence about
vessels believed to be carrying migrants from southeastern China, Canada has
started to take the harder line traditional in the other two countries.

After the first Chinese ship was intercepted, on July 20, the authorities in
Vancouver released 74 immigrants, pending resolution of their petitions for
refugee status. Within a month, 51 had disappeared, presumably for the United
States.

Since then Canada has adopted a policy of detaining all undocumented passengers
on vessels from China. Sentiment for immediately deporting them is markedly
higher in western Canada than on the Atlantic seaboard, opinion polls indicate.

Vancouver's population is 20 percent ethnic Chinese, and many of these
Chinese-Canadians fear that each new boatload batters a carefully constructed
racial tolerance.

Bill Vander Zalm, a former provincial premier, has jumped back into politics,
starting his campaign for Parliament by saying that the federal Government would
pay attention to the immigration issue only if all the illegal Chinese
immigrants detained in the region were shipped to Ottawa. "I am sure you would
get some action then," he said.

Canadian newspapers portray the boatloads of migrants, largely from Fujian
Province, as job-seekers rather than freedom-seekers. Not long ago, Elinor
Caplan, Canada's new Immigration Minister, toured a Vancouver Island navy base
where 225 immigrants are detained and said at a packed news conference: "We are
intercepting, boarding and apprehending those ships. We are then using greater
powers of detention to insure people on the boat do not flee. The system is
working."

Canadian officials are also asking Chinese authorities to help.

At the recent Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in New Zealand,
Canada's Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, discussed the migration problem with
President Jiang Zemin of China. "I told him we needed collaboration because they
could hopefully stop the departure of the ships from the coast of China that are
coming to our coast," Mr. Chretien said later. "He recognized that, and said he
was willing to collaborate with us."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 8, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Dole Vows More Border Agents for Drug Fight

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: BORDERFIELD STATE PARK, Calif., Oct. 7


With the United States-Mexico border as her backdrop, Elizabeth Dole vowed today
to more than double the number of Border Patrol agents if elected President, not
as a way to fight illegal immigration but to block the flow of drugs from Latin
America to the United States.

Mrs. Dole, who is seeking the Republican nomination for President, promised a
renewed commitment to the war on drugs, bringing into the fight two agencies,
the United States Border Patrol and the National Guard, whose primary mission
has not traditionally focused on fighting drug trafficking.

She called for bringing the number of agents patrolling the United States border
to 20,000 from about 9,000, and said, "Clinton/Gore continues to nickel-and-dime
this agency and has not asked for a single new agent." She also pledged an
infusion of high-tech equipment for the border service.

But a spokesman for the Border Patrol in San Diego, Roy Villareal, said it had
hired more agents and updated equipment since 1994 under Operation Gateway, an
effort to stem illegal immigration. Similar operations had been started at other
major border crossings. The patrol's problem was not lack of money, he said, but
recruitment and attrition. "For every 54 people we interview," he said, "we have
one recruit."

In other respects, Mrs. Dole's proposal resembled the tenets and language of a
group of conservative Republicans in Congress, led by Representative Benjamin A.
Gilman of upstate New York, who have pummeled the Clinton Administration over
drug policy, particularly in Colombia. Mrs. Dole called rebels who control a
swatch of Colombia the size of Switzerland "narco-terrorists" and
"narco-guerrillas," as Mr. Gilman does, and said she would cut off all military
aid to Colombia until the Government there forced the rebels to evacuate the
area.

"We will fight along the border," Mrs. Dole said. "We will fight on the streets;
we will fight in our neighborhoods; and we will fight in our schools."

Though Congressional Republicans have called on the Colombian Government to
reclaim the rebel-held area, it is hardly clear the Colombian army could do so.

Mrs. Dole's speech came a day after the Clinton Administration announced that it
would ask Congress to approve $1 billion to $2 billion in aid to Colombia, where
all sides, from leftist rebels to right-wing paramilitary groups, feed off a
drug trade that supplies more than 75 percent of the cocaine sold in the United
States.

Today's policy statement was Mrs. Dole's third in the last two weeks. She
delivered it earlier than expected, perhaps to counter speculation about whether
she will remain in the race. Earlier, she had spoken on education and defense
policy.

Mrs. Dole, a former president of the American Red Cross and a two-time Cabinet
secretary, said that she realized that drugs were not at the top of voters'
agendas but that she cared deeply about the issue. "Just outside the nation's
capital, a 16-year-old girl turned in her parents for growing and smoking
marijuana," Mrs. Dole said. "Think about the message that young woman was
getting at home."

As she headed to a fund-raiser in San Francisco, somebody asked Mrs. Dole
whether she thought "this war was winnable." It was not clear whether he meant
the war on drugs or the war for the White House.

Mrs. Dole turned and gave the thumbs up sign. "Oh, it's winnable," she said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 28, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Expand Anti-Discrimination Rights for Illegal Immigrants Working in This
Country

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 973 words


The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has announced that it will extend
broad anti-discrimination rights to illegal immigrants for the first time, a
policy some critics said could be hard to enforce and others contended would
encourage illegal immigration.

The commission said illegal immigrants who were fire or discriminated against
because of their race, sex, age or religion should enjoy the same remedies as
legal workers: back pay, punitive damages and even reinstatement, but
reinstatement coming only if they have first obtained legal work papers.

The new policy faces several enforcement problems, among them that illegal
immigrants might be too scared to file discrimination complaints with the
E.E.O.C. and are likely to have a hard time obtaining official work documents.

The commission said it would not ask illegal immigrants who brought
discrimination charges if they had work documents.

The commission said it issued the new policy because it wanted to insure that
employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants were not free to discriminate
against them without facing any penalties.

But critics of the Administration's immigration policies attacked the decision,
insisting that extending remedies like reinstatement and back pay to illegal
immigrants would only encourage more such people to enter the United States.

"This whole policy is creating an atmosphere hostile to removing illegal
immigrants from the labor force," said Daniel Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington group pushing for
stricter limits on immigration.

Ida Castro, the commission's chairwoman, asserted that without the policy, which
was announced on Tuesday, unscrupulous employers would feel encouraged to hire
illegal aliens with an eye to exploiting them. The policy would discourage such
exploitation, Ms. Castro said.

"If you let employers just breach civil rights requirements for a group of
workers such as undocumented workers," she said, "then you're indirectly
supporting the hiring of this group and the violation of our laws."

Several critics suggested that the Clinton Administration pushed the E.E.O.C. to
embrace this new policy as a way to win support for Vice President Al Gore's
campaign among three important Democratic constituencies: labor unions,
minorities and immigrant groups.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O., which endorsed Mr. Gore two weeks ago, has pushed hard for
this policy.

Administration and commission officials said politics had nothing to do with the
new policy.

John Hiatt, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s general counsel, said the labor federation had
long pushed for this policy partly because of concerns that failing to crack
down on discrimination against illegal workers could create an atmosphere that
allowed discrimination of documented workers.

The new policy continues a trend in which the Federal Government has extended
more and more protections to illegal immigrants. They are covered by minimum
wage laws and occupational safety laws. In the past five years, the National
Labor Relations Board has ruled that employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants are prohibited from firing them if they support unionization.

Attracted in part by contingency and other fees, some lawyers have aggressively
moved to file suits charging that employers have violated minimum wage laws for
illegal immigrant workers. Some business organizations voiced fears that lawyers
might seek to do the same in filing discrimination claims.

E.E.O.C. officials said they adopted the new policy after encountering what they
said were horrific examples of discrimination against illegal immigrants. These
officials described one immigrant who was dismissed after refusing to provide
sexual favors to her boss. Officials also described instances in which managers
retaliated against illegal immigrants by firing them after they sought to report
racial discrimination or sexual harassment.

Seeking to avoid a clash with the nation's immigration laws, the E.E.O.C. said
it would push for reinstatement for illegal immigrants who had been
discriminated against only when those people had first obtained papers
authorizing them to work in the United States. But the commission said it would
recommend back pay whether or not the immigrants had working papers.

Commission officials said the new policy would help not only illegal immigrants,
but also their co-workers. "If employers were not held responsible for
discriminating against unauthorized workers, it would create an incentive for
unscrupulous employers to employ and exploit these workers," the commission
said.

Illegal immigration has been controversial in recent decades; many Americans say
illegal immigrants are an unwanted public charge while others say they are hard
workers who contribute to the economy.

Frank Sharry, the executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a
Washington group that promotes immigrants' rights, praised the E.E.O.C., saying,
"This new policy says that if you're working, we're not going to be complicit in
giving employers an open door to using your illegal status to hit workers over
the head with discriminations."

Mr. Sharry said the new policy was bound to create controversy because it pitted
two fundamental concerns: the desire to limit illegal immigration and the desire
to combat discrimination on the basis of race, sex, age or religion.

Businesses can fire illegal immigrants because they do not have work papers, but
one fear some business executives expressed is that if they hire illegal
immigrants without knowing of their undocumented status and later dismiss those
workers upon learning of that status, the angered workers might file
discrimination suits, charging that they were fired because of their race or
sex.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Jordanians Held at Border; No Threat Is Seen

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Dec. 27


Seven Jordanians were arrested on Sunday at the Canadian-American border, but
officials said today that the foreigners faced routine charges of illegal
immigration and were not terrorism suspects as originally announced.

The seven -- three men, two women and two children -- were taken into custody by
United States officials on Sunday afternoon near the checkpoint at Blaine,
Wash., north of Seattle.

One of the women, who was accompanied by a child and was in Canada legally, had
left her car at a duty-free shop on the Canadian side and had walked across the
border without stopping at a checkpoint, the authorities said.

United States border officials stopped the woman and the child and then found
the five others, said Sharon Gavin, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. They were arrested for overstaying their visas, the
authorities said.

"She was apparently coming over to meet up with her husband," Ms. Gavin said.
"It now looks like a routine smuggling case and trying to reunite a family."

Constable Archie Alafriz of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police reported hours
after the arrests that at least one of the men "had an affiliation with a known
terrorist group."

But the F.B.I. said today that the authorities had misinterpreted a criminal
record in Philadelphia that said the man had once made "terroristic threats," a
phrase that can be applied to several kinds of violence.

"It looks like, in reviewing that record, it is in connection with assault or
domestic violence," an F.B.I. agent, Roberta Burroughs, said. "We have no reason
to believe at this time that these people have any ties to terrorist
organizations."

All seven will be deported, Ms. Gavin said.

United States border crossings were on heightened security as officials girded
for possible terrorist attacks this week.

An Algerian man, Ahmed Ressam, has been charged with trying to smuggle
nitroglycerin, other explosives and timing devices into the United States from
Canada on Dec. 14. American and Canadian authorities are looking for an
accomplice.

Five days after Mr. Ressam's arrest, a Canadian woman and an Algerian man were
arrested at a border crossing in Vermont. The woman, Lucia Garofalo, has been
linked to what federal prosecutors have described as a terrorist group operating
in Europe and Algeria.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

More Screening Of Immigrants For TB Sought

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 5;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1746 words


With tuberculosis rampant in much of the developing world and immigration from
those countries at a record high, public health officials are calling for
large-scale TB screening programs in cities with large immigrant communities and
at the nation's borders.

In southeast Texas, where thousands of illegal immigrants are placed in crowded
detention centers after trying to cross the border, doctors have installed X-ray
machines to help isolate quickly anyone who might be infected with tuberculosis.

In New York City and other metropolitan areas, doctors have set up outreach
programs and TB testing at places where immigrants congregate, like
English-language schools and churches. The goal, officials said, is to reach and
treat those most at risk because they come from countries with high rates of TB.

Both the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Medical
Association said recently that the key to eliminating TB in the United States is
eliminating it in the foreign-born population.

In 1998, immigrants accounted for nearly 42 percent of the 18,361 tuberculosis
cases reported nationwide, although they represented just over 10 percent of the
total population.

Health officials said the TB rates in specific groups of immigrants reflect the
occurrence of tuberculosis in their home countries. The disease is particularly
endemic in Latin America, Asia and Africa.

As legal and illegal immigration from those parts of the world has grown -- and
as immigrants increasingly travel back and forth on visits to their homelands --
the prevalence of the disease among the foreign-born has become more pronounced.

"Tuberculosis is a problem for the rest of the world," said Dr. Abraham G.
Miranda, an infectious disease expert with the Public Health Service, which
screens immigrants in the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"And if it's a problem for the rest of the world, it's a problem for us."

The trend was largely hidden behind generally positive news on the TB battle
front, where the overall number of tuberculosis cases nationwide has declined
steadily since 1992. That was the peak year in a flare-up of the disease that
was associated with human immunodeficiency virus infections.

But in 1998, 1,067 of the 2,000 cases reported in New York State, or 53 percent,
were in people born outside the country. In California, the foreign-born
accounted for 70 percent, and in Hawaii for 71 percent, of TB cases. The
foreign-born also showed a disproportionately high number of cases of a strain
of TB that is resistant to many drugs.

Studies of TB in immigrants have indicated that most patients are infected in
their home countries, but develop the active form of the disease once they are
in the United States.

The airborne bacteria that spread tuberculosis can lie dormant in the lungs for
years. Most people who have been exposed never develop the active form of the
disease. But about 5 percent do: for various reasons, including an underlying
medical problem, stress or malnutrition, the bacteria may become active and
highly contagious years later.

The emergence of a TB threat that originates outside the country's borders has
raised complicated policy and financial issues. If the public health system
tests people for TB, health officials said, it is also obligated to treat them
if the disease is present.

But in a footloose age when foreigners flow in and out of the country for
short-term study and business, immigrants regularly return home and Americans
travel to countries where the disease is prevalent, who among them should be
tested?

"These are questions that we will need to grapple with," said Dr. Kenneth G.
Castro, director of the centers' division of TB elimination. "At the moment, we
don't know how much TB is contributed by people like temporary tourists and
students, for example. If we test, we want to make sure it is scientifically
based and not capricious."

Most public health officials said the TB risk among immigrants was a cause for
worry, but not yet for alarm. But, as demonstrated by measures taken recently
against Tibetan refugees trying to enter Canada, fear of the disease can produce
a draconian response.

For nearly five months, anyone of Tibetan origin who has come to the Peace
Bridge just north of Buffalo, N.Y., has been immediately segregated from others
trying to cross into Canada, forced to don a bright yellow surgical mask and
wait outside the Canadian immigration office, no matter the weather.

The Tibetans are eventually taken, usually by taxi with a driver who also wears
a mask, to a doctor in Niagara Falls, who gives them a chest X-ray. Only when
the doctor pronounces them TB-free can the Tibetans proceed. Even then, Canadian
agents at the border have sometimes greeted the bewildered immigrants in
biohazard jumpsuits.

The border agents instituted the procedure, which is viewed as humiliating by
refugee advocates and extreme by public health officials, after eight Tibetan
asylum seekers, out of 400 processed at the bridge last year, were found to have
TB.

"It does seem unfair to single out Tibetans," said Dawa Tsering, a 54-year-old
Tibetan who recently went to the bridge to apply for entry to Canada and was
forced to stand outside, in his mask, in blustery, 40-degree weather. "But of
course, we are willing to do anything."

People like Mr. Tsering, who was desperate to start a new life in Canada, may
accept such treatment as the cost of crossing a border. But it will not work,
health experts said, for foreigners who are already living in a country and
resist TB screening because of the stigma attached to the disease.

"It may make absolute sense to screen certain subpopulations because you have
evidence of rates of TB way out of proportion to what we see elsewhere," Dr.
Castro said. "But how you do that without contributing to additional stigma is a
challenge we're all confronted with."

Many immigrants already are tested. People already living in the United States
who apply to become legal permanent residents must show they do not have active
TB. So must people who apply for immigrant visas while in another country.

At the nation's borders and in its detention centers, where up to 20,000
immigrants are incarcerated at any one time, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has taken a more aggressive approach to tuberculosis screening.

Since the installation seven months ago of a radiology machine at its remote
Port Isabel processing center in southeast Texas, for example, everyone caught
trying to enter illegally from Mexico has been given a chest X-ray.

Until the results are known -- usually within four hours -- they wait outside.
Those with symptoms of TB infection can then be isolated and tested further in
nearby hospitals -- at a cost of $1,000 a day -- before they are housed with
other detainees in indoor dormitories. The I.N.S. pays for all testing.

The agency plans to install similar units over the coming year at four
additional detention centers, one in Texas, one in Florida and two in
California, at a cost of $750,000 per machine. If all centers had the X-ray
machines, officials said, they could help avoid incidents like one last summer
at a New York City detention center, where an African immigrant was found to
have contagious tuberculosis only after he had been placed in a dormitory with
dozens of other men. Doctors at the center said he may have infected several
people who came in contact with him.

The Port Isabel center is a hot spot of tuberculosis because it receives
thousands of people from Mexico and Central America, where the disease is
endemic.

The TB rate at the I.N.S. center in 1997, the latest year for which statistics
are available, was equivalent to 190 per 100,000 people. To put that into
perspective, the country as a whole that year had 7.2 cases per 100,000.

"Most of the foreign-born TB is reactivation, and one factor that reactivates TB
is a drop in body weight," said Dr. Miranda, the Texas center's clinical
director. "And a lot of people coming from Central America are literally walking
through Mexico."

The journey takes its toll, he said. Recently, immigration officials stopped a
truck at the border and found 30 illegal immigrants who had spent three days in
a closed space eight feet square with a coughing man with contagious
tuberculosis.

Although most of the people in detention centers like Port Isabel are eventually
deported, those with active TB are held and treated. A more difficult issue
arises when doctors find people with dormant tuberculosis, which is routinely
treated in the United States with drugs that must be taken for a full six
months. Patients who stop too soon risk developing the drug-resistant form of
tuberculosis.

For immigrants already living in the United States, most public health experts
favor an approach focusing on people who are most at risk for tuberculosis
infection from their home countries and least likely to seek medical care.

In New York City, which has one of the most aggressive TB-control programs in
the country, nearly 55 percent of the tuberculosis cases in 1998 were found in
the foreign-born.

The largest number of cases, officials said, were seen in people who had
immigrated from China, the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Ecuador, but the
disease was also found in immigrants from 87 other countries and Puerto Rico.

Nationally, the immigrant groups with the highest number of TB cases are
Mexicans, Filipinos, Vietnamese, Indians, Chinese, Haitians and Koreans.

Starting about three years ago, the city has been running radio advertisements
in different languages encouraging immigrants to be tested, and it has hired
health care workers to offer TB skin tests at churches, English-language schools
and other places where immigrants congregate.

About 15,000 people have been tested as part of this outreach program, with 30
percent over all showing a positive result, indicating possible TB infection.
The test, a follow-up chest X-ray and the course of treatment are provided free.

"In some ways, TB control is easier with this population because we know where
the cases are now, in this group versus that group," said Dr. Paula Fujiwara,
the assistant commissioner for tuberculosis control at the State Department of
Health. "But it's also gotten harder because you have to run several TB control
programs that are linguistically and culturally sensitive."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2000, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about calls by
public health officials for tuberculosis screening programs in cities with large
immigrant populations misidentified the agency that employs Dr. Paula Fujiwara
as assistant commissioner for tuberculosis control. It is the New York City
Department of Health, not the New York State department.


GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tuberculosis Among the Foreign-Born"
The rise in tuberculosis cases in the United States is increasingly attributed
to infections that occur outside the country's borders, as immigrants and
visitors transport the virus from abroad.

Graph shows the number of U.S. cases that are diagnosed in foreign-born people
since 1986 and the percentage of U.S. cases that are diagnosed in foreign-born
people since 1986. (Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Crackdown Is Promised By Hong Kong

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 11


Alarmed by a surge of smuggling in which Chinese migrants are carried to the
United States and Canada in the containers of cargo ships, Hong Kong pledged
today to crack down.

The government's pledge came a day after three Chinese stowaways were found dead
in a cargo container shipped to Seattle from Hong Kong. Fifteen others survived
the trip in the container, and nearly 100 illegal immigrants from China have
been arrested since December in containers seized in ports on the west coast of
the United States and Canada. The ships were all loaded in Hong Kong, raising
questions about security in this normally well-policed territory.

"Our law-enforcement efforts are effective, taking into account the fact that
the crackdown on the recent cases in Long Beach, Seattle, Los Angeles and
Vancouver was the outcome of tip-offs from Hong Kong," said So Kam-shing, a
security official in Hong Kong.

But Mr. So conceded that Hong Kong needed to tighten its inspection of cargo
containers -- particularly canvas-topped containers, which have become the
vehicle of choice for smugglers because they allow in just enough air to be
livable for a two-week journey across the Pacific.

Hong Kong's Customs Department said it would inspect every canvas-topped
container that passed through its port. Canvas-topped containers account for
only 1,000 of the 15 million containers processed here each year, but even that
small number may be hard to monitor in Hong Kong's teeming harbor, which vies
with Singapore's as the world's busiest container port.

"The containers sometimes arrive just before the ship is due to sail," said
Arthur Bowring, the director of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association.

The trafficking in Chinese immigrants is controlled by shadowy criminals known
as snakeheads. The smugglers charge up to $50,000 a person, and immigrants often
pay off the fare by working in sweatshops in the United States after they land.

In one incident of human smuggling from China, a Chinese ship, the Golden
Venture, ran aground on a sandbar in Far Rockaway, Queens, in 1993. Ten people
died after jumping overboard. American immigration officials here said they
believed that smugglers had since resorted to containers because the United
States had been more successful in intercepting such ships.

The drive to stamp out smuggling has taken on an unmistakable political overtone
here. Two recent incidents of stowaways involved ships owned by the Orient
Overseas Container Line, a shipping company controlled by the family of Hong
Kong's chief executive, Tung Chee-hwa.

Determined to show their vigilance, customs officials today took journalists
along on an inspection of a freighter owned by the Chinese government. Although
the officers rummaged through the rusting engine room and hold, they did not
open any of the containers being loaded or unloaded. Once the containers are off
the dock, an officer explained, they can no longer be inspected.

"You have to trust the shipping line," said the officer, Ronald Au.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Help Unionize a Hotel but Face Deportation

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 12


Nine Holiday Inn Express maids from Mexico who were awarded a settlement in a
lawsuit against the hotel have won a battle but lost the war.

Soon after the maids helped unionize their fellow workers at the downtown
Holiday Inn Express here, the hotel fired them and reported them to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service as illegal aliens.

Last week the workers won a $72,000 settlement from the hotel in the first case
in which the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission intervened on behalf of
illegal immigrants. But they are almost certain to be deported to Mexico.

All nine, who have admitted entering the United States illegally, say they would
gladly trade their $8,000 checks for the right to stay here.

"I have nothing in Mexico," said Norma Lerma del Torro, a 28-year-old mother of
three.

Ms. Lerma said she might try to start a small business with her settlement money
if she was sent back to Mexico.

Another one of the fired maids, Estela Albino, 28, said she did not think her
check would go far back home.

The maids' lawyer, Jorge Saavedra F., has asked Attorney General Janet Reno and
the immigration service to grant them amnesty. He said they deserved to stay
because they helped investigators from the National Labor Relations Board and
the employment commission build a case against the hotel.

"Now that the federal government is done using these folks as their key
witnesses, then they're calling in a third federal agency in the form of the
I.N.S. to show them the door," the lawyer said.

Barring amnesty or a favorable ruling from an immigration judge, the immigrants
will probably be deported in four to five months, said the director of the
regional I.N.S. office, Curtis Aljets.

Like many other illegal immigrants, Ms. Albino and Ms. Lerma did not have big
ambitions when they came to the United States about two years ago. Through an
interpreter, both women said they just wanted to find jobs that would enable
them to send money home to their families.

At the Holiday Inn Express, which is part of a subsidiary owned by Bass PLC of
London, the nine maids said they had been subjected to low wages, discriminatory
working conditions and exploitation because of their nationality, so they began
organizing. Several of the nine took leadership roles, and they won a
unionization vote in August.

In October, managers of the hotel fired them and reported them to the
immigration service, which had them arrested.

The hotel's general manager, Kevin Koenig, denied reporting the workers to the
I.N.S. in retaliation for their union activity. Mr. Koenig said he feared
possible fines if he did not report them after learning that they were in the
country illegally.

After the arrests, Local 17 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees
Union filed a complaint with the labor relations board and the employment
commission.

That led to the first major test of the commission's new policies, intended to
protect all employees against discrimination regardless of their immigration
status. The employment commission's lawsuit against the hotel was the first
under the new guidelines, which were issued in October.

While denying any wrongdoing, the hotel agreed on Jan. 6 to settle the case and
train its managers on the relevant discrimination and labor laws. It agreed on a
contract with the union last month.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

How to End Tuberculosis

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 202 words



To the Editor:

Although tuberculosis rates are fueled by foreign-born people, proposed
solutions ("Ailing Immigrants: New Era, New Rules," Jan. 11) are impractical.

Perhaps five million illegal immigrants live in the United States.  The 150,000
illegal immigrants detained and screened are a tiny minority. Millions of
temporary visitors -- tourists, business people, students and obviously most
illegals -- get no tuberculosis screening.

The United States has been astonishingly successful in controlling its own
recent tuberculosis emergency with great political will.  The cost was high
because effective tuberculosis control programs had already been dismantled.

Rather than stigmatizing immigrants, we should provide and train local
professionals to provide proper tuberculosis control in the 22 countries that
contribute 80 percent of global tuberculosis and whose citizens visit us daily.

We can control tuberculosis globally, as we eradicated smallpox and may soon
eradicate polio, if we enhance the worldwide political will to do so.

Increased screening may be sexy and venerable, but will do little to control
this increasingly grave crisis.

DR. LEE REICHMAN
Newark, N.J.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (United Press International)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Agua Prieta Journal;
Boom Turns Border to Speed Bump

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

DATELINE: AGUA PRIETA, Mexico, Jan. 14


United States Border Patrol agents have been detaining so many Mexicans crossing
the border illegally that when they flushed the Guzman family and 20 other
shivering migrants out of the Arizona mesquite near here last week, they had to
fill out the forms sending them home by flashlight.

They did the paperwork under the desert sky because the 1,410 undocumented
immigrants rounded up that same night would not have come close to fitting
inside the nearest Border Patrol station at Douglas, Ariz.

Since 1998, Agua Prieta, a gritty desert town that shares the border with
Douglas, has been the busiest border crossing area along the 2,000-mile dividing
line between Mexico and the United States. And January is busy season here as
thousands of undocumented Mexicans have attempted to cross into Arizona since
the New Year's holidays, provoking detentions on an industrial scale.

Along the 26 miles of frontier stretching east and west from here, the Border
Patrol has already detained 14,664 undocumented migrants this month, nearly
twice as many as were detained during the same period last year.

The January rush for the border is part of a yearly cycle; thousands of Mexicans
who work illegally in the United States travel south to spend the Christmas
holidays in hometowns across Mexico, and employers all across America are now
waiting for them to return. But this year is busier than usual because of the
booming economy up north.

Enrique Guzman, 22, earned $50 a week running errands for a congressman in
Mexico City. But since a relative in Los Angeles persuaded him that he could
earn eight times that as a construction laborer in the American economy, Mr.
Guzman has been determined to reach California. Not even his family's
humiliating detention on Jan. 12 changed his mind.

"We'll try again," Mr. Guzman said after agents released him, his teenage wife
and their baby boy back into Agua Prieta.

Thousands of migrants with the same idea loiter in Agua Prieta's streets by day,
awaiting their chance to make an illegal crossing. Across a new steel-barred
fence in Douglas, a once sleepy town of 15,000 residents, reinforcements have
swelled Border Patrol ranks to nearly 500 agents from 2 in the early 1980's; it
now rivals the school district as the largest employer. Hundreds of Border
Patrol vehicles prowl the streets, helicopters clatter overhead and stadium
floodlights illuminate the border fence like the walls of a prison.

"Douglas has become a garrison for a federal force fighting an immigration war,"
said Ray Borane, the town's mayor, who wrote letters to President Clinton and
Vice President Al Gore recently asking them to rethink border policy.

Douglas-Agua Prieta became Ground Zero in the conflict over worker migration
because the Clinton administration has reinforced the Border Patrol to more than
9,000 agents from fewer than 4,000 in the mid-1990's and deployed many of them
to detain illegal crossers in the border area's largest cities.

Demographers say the crackdown has not slowed the river of humanity crossing the
southwest border but has rechanneled it. In 1993, 9 of 10 undocumented migrants
crossed at border cities. Today, 2 of 3 cross in remote areas like Agua Prieta.

Robert L. Bach, associate commissioner at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said the toughened policies have reduced the chaos in border cities
like San Diego, where crowds of migrants used to run through residents' yards
and across freeways.

"We want a labor market that plays by the rules," he said. "Nobody says we've
controlled the whole border. But we're accomplishing that piece by piece."

Rechanneling the flow into remote areas has made it more dangerous, however.

Migrants now die in greater numbers than previously, of thirst, hunger,
sunstroke or cold. Others drown in irrigation canals. According to Mexican
government figures, 717 undocumented Mexicans have died trying to cross the
border since 1995.

"I feel for these aliens," said Larry Vance, an employee of a Douglas utility
company, recounting how several Mexicans have been run down by cars near his
20-acre property a mile north of the international line. Anger overwhelms his
sympathies, however, because mobs of migrants cross his land each day, bending
his fences and dumping diapers and empty water jugs.

"The Border Patrol is nothing more than a speed bump for these people," he said.

Pat Buchanan, who is advocating tougher border controls in his pursuit of the
Reform Party's presidential nomination, is scheduled to meet with Mr. Vance when
he visits Douglas on Wednesday. But illegal immigration is not the explosive
issue it has been in past presidential campaigns, apparently because America's
economic boom has created labor shortages.

Never has the United States spent so much to keep undocumented workers out, nor
the economy needed them more.

"Mexican immigrants are filling niches that employers can't even try to fill
with American workers," said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for
Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California at San Diego.
"So even though migrants must expose themselves to life-threatening hazards,
they'll keep trying until they get across. Economically, that's still their most
rational option."

In a Jan. 3 editorial, The Denver Post criticized a crackdown on migrants by the
I.N.S. in Colorado, arguing that "undocumented foreigners are keeping our strong
economy afloat." The paper urged policy makers to allow some Mexicans to work in
the United States legally.

Similar proposals are gaining strength south of the border. Francisco Labastida,
the presidential candidate of Mexico's governing party, says he will press for a
new, expanded bracero program, which gave Mexicans legal, temporary jobs in the
United States a half-century ago.

But for now, people here are learning to live with the arriving masses of
undocumented workers. Businessmen have converted dozens of Agua Prieta clinics,
auto shops and stores into makeshift hotels, charging $25 to $40 for a bed and
hot shower.

"I can tell you the most lucrative illegal contraband here now is not drugs, but
people," said Efrain Martinez, the Agua Prieta city manager.

Some migrants grow despondent. In October, a man who had been turned back five
times at the border began hurling himself in front of traffic in Agua Prieta.
After the police arrested him, he hung himself in his jail cell.

Yet every evening after sundown, thousands of Mexicans march east and west out
of Agua Prieta in columns, some 100 or more people long, led by professional
guides. Miles out in the Mexican desert, they head north over the international
line, seeking to rendezvous with vans hired to ferry them to Phoenix or Tucson.

Waiting to intercept them one recent night was Fred Esquivel, a supervisory
Border Patrol agent. Parking his truck along a railroad trestle, he scanned the
horizon with an infrared camera that allowed him to peer through the Arizona
darkness as though it were high noon. Within minutes, he identified six columns
of migrants moving across his screen, their heads bobbing above shoulder-high
sagebrush. His radio crackled with a dispatcher's chatter as dozens of agents
swarmed along the borderline, detaining hundreds of Mexicans.

"You have to sympathize with these people," Mr. Esquivel said, small-talking
through the night. "They're coming from nothing, and they've got nothing to
lose. They'll try again and again to get across. I'd do the same thing if I were
in their shoes."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A surge of undocumented immigration has overwhelmed a 26-mile
section of the border with Mexico. A Border Patrol agent watched over a group of
men caught crossing in the desert near Douglas, Ariz., last week. (Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)

Chart: "STATUS REPORT: On the Verge"
So many Mexicans have illegally crossed the border this year that the Border
Patrol station near Douglas, Ariz., has run out of room. The chart compares the
number of illegal aliens held at the border in January 1999 to January 2000.
(Source: U.S. Border Patrol)

Map showing the location of Agua Prieta: Border-crossing is big business in the
Mexican city of Agua Prieta.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Fears

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

By overturning the executive order that bars New York City employees from
reporting undocumented immigrants, the Supreme Court has favored harsh federal
welfare regulations over the mental and physical well-being of those who aspire
to be Americans (news article, Jan. 19).

Undocumented immigrants' fear of being reported to federal authorities can lead
to numerous public policy concerns. For example, immigrants may be afraid to
seek medical treatment at city hospitals, possibly leading to an increase in
communicable diseases. They may hesitate to seek help from the police if they
are victims of or witnesses to crimes.

The Supreme Court has now added fear of deportation from the United States to
the long list of fears that governed many of the immigrants' lives in their home
countries.

MARK HANDELMAN
Exec. V.P., New York Association for New Americans
New York, Jan. 20, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Some Texans Say Border Patrol Singles Out Too Many Blameless Hispanics

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1544 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex.


Filemon B. Vela is a federal judge, but a Border Patrol agent recently mistook
him for an illegal immigrant or a drug smuggler. Mr. Vela and three aides were
driving on an isolated road when the agent pulled them over. Why? Because, the
agent explained, there were too many people in the car.

The agent apologized and moved on, but the mistake did not surprise the area's
highest elected official, the Cameron County judge, Gilberto Hinojosa. An agent
once followed him closely for 10 miles as his wife and baby sat in back, Judge
Hinojosa said. Another agent refused to let him board a plane to Houston until
he stated his citizenship, he said. "It feels like occupied territory," Judge
Hinojosa said. "It does not feel like we're in the United States of America."

For most of the country, there is no Border Patrol because there is no border.
Yet in this city near the mouth of the Rio Grande, where store signs are often
in Spanish and old men strum Mexican ballads on the sidewalks, many legal
residents believe that the Border Patrol operates as a sort of super police
force that can stop anyone it chooses.

The Border Patrol has poured agents into South Texas for more than two years,
nearly doubling its force as part of a broader national strategy to choke off
illegal immigration. Without question, "Operation Rio Grande" has sharply cut
the number of undocumented migrants crossing through Brownsville. And many local
merchants and Brownsville's mayor credit the increased numbers of agents for the
city's recent drop in crime.

But in a place where nearly everyone is Hispanic, including the local power
structure, people like Judge Hinojosa believe that everyone is now a target,
regardless of legal status. As agents flag vehicles on highways, or question
passengers at the local airport or bus station, they often catch the right
people. But they also stop the wrong people, maybe because of their car, or
their clothes, or invariably, the color of their skin.

"Why were you stopped?" asks the local joke. The answer: "Driving while
Mexican."

The problem is hard to quantify, since statistics are not kept on stops of legal
citizens. Border Patrol officials say mistakes are rare because agents are
trained to distinguish undocumented immigrants from legal residents. Rather than
casting a wide net, officials say, agents follow specific profiles to identify
suspects.

But Judge Hinojosa, a second-generation Mexican-American, said stops were a
daily part of life that were not only insulting to legal residents but also left
them feeling intimidated. He said many poorer, newer residents were stopped
regularly but were too fearful to complain. But in interviews here along the
border, stories abound:

Ralph A. Morales, who runs homeless shelters and soup kitchens in nearby
Harlingen, was stopped on his way to a religious conference in San Antonio.
Ninfa Ochoa-Krueger, who leads a group that works with immigrant families, was
pulled over four times as she and her husband drove about 60 miles, from McAllen
to Brownsville, to celebrate their wedding anniversary. Linda Yanez, a state
appellate judge in McAllen, filed a complaint about two years ago after an agent
in the airport tried to stop her daughter from returning to college in Houston,
she said.

"The question becomes whether the benefits of the Border Patrol doing this
outweigh what I consider to be the Border Patrol violating our constitutional
rights," said Judge Yanez, a former immigration lawyer.

For residents, there has always been a complicated coexistence with the patrol.
In the four border counties of the lower Rio Grande Valley, Hispanics make up 88
percent of the nearly one million legal residents. Many families are only a
generation away from Mexico and have relatives waiting for citizenship. Other
residents chafe at the undocumented children overcrowding local schools or
drawing public benefits, and applaud the Border Patrol.

The buildup of the patrol began in the mid-1990's, and since then the Clinton
administration has more than doubled its size, to about 9,000 agents. They have
carried out targeted interdiction efforts, like Operation Gate Keeper in
California and Operation Hold the Line in El Paso. In 1997, the patrol began
Operation Rio Grande in South Texas, expanding local manpower to about 1,200
agents from around 700 and equipping them with infrared cameras, helicopters and
airplanes.

Juan A. Lopez, assistant patrol agent in charge at the Brownsville office,
described the agents as a "human fence" controlling their section of the Rio
Grande. In the past, huge numbers of people crossed the river in Cameron County
and nearby Hidalgo County. Now, Agent Lopez said, the number of illegal
immigrants caught by agents has fallen to 25,053 in the last fiscal year, from
66,135 in 1997 -- proof, he says, that fewer people are trying to cross here.
There have also been high-profile drug seizures. A recent one turned up 3,450
pounds of marijuana.

Agent Lopez said that the problem of stopping legal residents was taken
seriously and that newer agents from other regions of the country often
struggled to make distinctions.

Agents are posted in the airport and bus station and along highways, he said,
for the obvious reason that those are the routes that illegal immigrants use.
Agent Lopez also noted that border agents had saved the lives of several people
who nearly drowned in the Rio Grande as they tried to enter the country
illegally.

By law, border agents must have a "reasonable suspicion" to stop someone. A
person's appearance, for example, is considered pertinent. The profile can vary,
Agent Lopez said, but there are obvious indicators, like cars overloaded with
passengers and proximity to the river.

Agents answer to the Immigration and Naturalization Service and do not have the
same powers as police officers. They must limit their questioning to immigration
issues.

Not every local official is a critic. Brownsville's mayor, Blanca Vela, said
"border bandits" once slipped across the river to steal from downtown merchants.
Now, she said, crime is down as border agents bicycle through downtown. Agents
also have provided backup for the local police on certain calls.

For Ms. Vela, who has lived in Brownsville for 38 years, encounters with border
agents are part of valley life. "I feel like, hey, if I'm not doing anything
wrong, and I'm asked, 'Are you an American citizen?', I say, 'Yes, sir,' " said
the mayor, who is married to Judge Vela.

The huge presence is most noticeable along Military Highway, the two-lane road
winding west out of the city beside the Rio Grande. Every night, after the
farmers have left their soybean and onion fields along the river, shifts of
border agents in green and white trucks arrive to patrol the dirt levees. Others
sit in camouflaged towers searching with infrared cameras for interlopers.

Frances Domanski, a receptionist at the county courthouse who lives on Military
Highway, said she sometimes counts Border Patrol trucks on her ride home the way
some bored motorists count cows. Her record: 22. She said a border agent once
stopped her as she drove from her house to unlock her nearby church for
services. On another night, a border agent parked his truck in front of her
house with his headlights shining into her bedroom. Finally, at midnight, she
knocked on his window.

"He was asleep!" said Ms. Domanski, who is of Polish and Mexican descent.

In Cameron Park, a low-income community with a large population of undocumented
residents, agents are a daily presence. Local leaders say Cameron Park is often
the first stopover for illegal immigrants moving on to points north, as well as
home to several drug traffickers. Last spring border agents swept in, promising
to help law-abiding members of the community. However, the Rev. Mike Seifert, a
local Roman Catholic priest, said the agents instead stopped practically
everyone.

"Basically, everybody was suspected," he said. "And everybody is not the
problem."

Judge Vela has heard scores of immigration and drug cases. Yet when he and his
staff were stopped about four months ago, his stature did not matter. They were
halfway to Laredo and were passing through an area known as a narcotics
smuggling route. Three of the four occupants in the vehicle were Hispanic, but
Judge Vela said the agent justified the stop because of the number of passengers
in the car. Judge Vela said he had filed a complaint with the United States
attorney, calling for improved training of agents.

Judge Vela said he thought his case was an exception and considered the job
facing the border agents a particularly difficult one. But he conceded that it
made him wonder how other people were treated. Once, while waiting at the
airport, he said he noticed that border agents were stopping only Hispanics. "I
said, 'Do you ever stop anybody who isn't brown?' " he recalled. "They said,
'Yes, we do.' 'Well, you haven't since I've been here,' I said."

Agent Lopez, the Border Patrol supervisor, said he, too, had been stopped, many
years ago. He said he was driving an old Crown Victoria and "looked like a
mafioso."

"Do I get offended?" he asked. "No, I don't. Those guys are doing their job."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Border Patrol agent working in South Texas. Some
Mexican-Americans say they are tired of being stopped. (Bryce Harper for The New
York Times); Gilberto Hinojosa, the Cameron County judge, is stung by stops.
(Brad Doherty for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 16, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Woman Freed After Pleading In Border Case

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 536 words


A Canadian woman whom Federal investigators initially linked to a murky,
cross-border terrorism plot involving smuggled explosives and illegal aliens,
was freed from a Vermont jail yesterday after prosecutors announced that she had
not knowingly aided any planned violence.

The woman, Lucia Garofalo, 35, pleaded guilty to two immigration charges
stemming from her role in running an Algerian national illegally across the
border from Canada last December.

Federal prosecutors said Ms. Garofalo, a mother of three from Montreal, had
cooperated with F.B.I. investigators and should be allowed to return to Canada
until her sentencing on May 8. She faces up to 10 years in prison and $250,000
in fines, but prosecutors said they expected to push for a more lenient sentence
of some six months to a year in jail.

"The government had thought it was more than an ordinary alien smuggling case,"
Tristan Coffin, an assistant United States attorney, told Judge William Sessions
in Federal District Court in Burlington before conceding that there was nothing
to warrant holding Ms. Garofalo further. She agreed to surrender her passport,
stay in the Montreal area and check in daily by telephone with American
officials.

Ms. Garofalo was arrested on Dec. 19 when she was caught trying to enter the
United States from Canada with an Algerian man, Bouabide Chamchi, at a remote
border crossing in Beecher Falls, Vt. The man had a stolen French passport in
his coat, and Ms. Garofalo later conceded she had given it to him. He is
scheduled to be tried in April.

Her December arrest caused a flurry of anxiety among law-enforcement agencies
because it came just five days after another Algerian, Ahmed Ressam, was
detained near Seattle. Customs officials had discovered that the trunk of his
car was bristling with hidden explosives and other bomb-making equipment.

Federal prosecutors thought the two might be linked through several roundabout
connections, including a chain of telephone calls and the fact that Ms. Garofalo
was acquainted with one of Mr. Ressam's former roommates in Montreal. But the
government now says that the telephone call had to do with alien smuggling.

Ms. Garofalo's lawyer in Vermont, Maryann E. Kampmann, criticized the government
for holding her client for so long based simply on the fact that she had vague
associations with suspects in the terrorism case, calling it a case of "ethnic
profiling." Ms. Garofalo often wore the head scarf of a devout Muslim during her
trips through border crossings.

Ms. Garofalo still faces a detention hearing by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which took her into custody yesterday after federal
prosecutors released her.

In a separate development in Seattle, prosecutors said they believed that Mr.
Ressam had burned himself with the kind of explosive chemicals he later tried to
sneak across the border.

A report yesterday in The Seattle Times, quoting court documents filed there,
said tests on a pair of pants and tennis shoes seized from Mr. Ressam's
apartment show that holes and other burn marks in them were caused by a chemical
reaction that is one step of the process to concoct explosive material.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 24, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants?

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words



To the Editor:

Contrary to your Feb. 22 editorial "Hasty Call for Amnesty," the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
is correct to call for a general amnesty for illegal immigrants. United States
immigration laws are far too strict, and thousands of good people are prevented
from contributing to American economic growth.

With the increasing isolationism displayed by the protesters at the World Trade
Organization meeting in Seattle and by anti-immigration groups, it is refreshing
to see that organized labor has finally come to understand that globalization is
good for this country.

Even the least skilled immigrants contribute to our economy. They do the jobs
that many Americans are unwilling to do. The United States should open its doors
to all immigrants.

GARRY PERKINS
Ithaca, N.Y., Feb. 22, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 27, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

'Hidden' Workers Nurse Hope of Amnesty

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1681 words


AS members of an underground in plain sight, Hispanic workers in the United
States illegally lead furtive lives on Long Island, dodging authorities even as
they are welcomed with open arms by some employers.

Fearing an official knock at the door of their often illegal and crowded rental
houses or a raid by immigration officers at work, the laborers trade social
invisibility and official nonexistence for jobs as landscapers, bus boys, field
workers and maids. Their wages are low, but still far more than they could earn
at home.

For the thousands of undocumented Latinos in Nassau and Suffolk caught between
these economic imperatives and Americans' ambivalence, news that the United
States labor movement now favors amnesty for illegal immigrants has raised hope
for better days.

"They feel so happy," said Carlos Canales, an organizer at the Workplace Project
in Hempstead, which aids Latinos. "They think that finally the sun is rising for
them."

On Horse Block Road in Farmingville, where several hundred Latinos arrive with
the rising sun to stand near two 7-Eleven stores and in sidewalk groups in hopes
of job offers from passing tradesmen, word of "amnistia" spread rapidly. But to
many it had a far-off ring, and will not put money in their empty pockets.

"I have nothing," said a man in his 30's in a knit cap and a U.C.L.A.
sweatshirt, patting his pants pockets, as he waited for work on Tuesday. "I will
do anything. I am here for the money."

From Mexico City -- a place, he said, with no jobs and too much crime -- he had
come to Long Island because he heard there was money to be made, as much as $8
or $9 an hour for the lucky ones. Amnesty and a green card, he said in halting
English, would make job-hunting much easier.

Backing for an amnesty, which reverses years of opposition to immigrant workers
because it was felt that their presence depressed wages, emerged at a meeting of
the A.F.L.-C.I.O. this month in New Orleans.

A resolution by the executive council said blanket amnesty would recognize a
growing segment of the labor force vulnerable to exploitation. It also called
for an end to most sanctions against employers who hire illegal immigrants.

With some business organizations backing similar action to help industries with
labor shortages, officials and organizers at immigrant groups on Long Island
said an amnesty that went beyond a limited decree in 1986 was now possible.

"What's interesting is that even before the official announcement from New
Orleans, there had been a buzz in the immigrant community about this," said
Patrick Young, the program director of the Central American Refugee Center in
Hempstead, which is known as Carecen. "Most of the immigrants on Long Island are
here legally, but they may have relatives and friends here who are undocumented.
And they realize that the current system lowers the working conditions for both
the documented and the undocumented."

Mr. Young estimated that there were 30,000 to 40,000 undocumented Latinos living
on the Island, but he said the undocumented population did not appear to be
growing.

A Census Bureau estimate on July 1, 1998, put the Hispanic population at 98,000
in Nassau and 116,000 in Suffolk. The figures are largely those for American
citizens and legal immigrants, but may also include an unknown number of illegal
aliens. There are also groups of illegal immigrants from Ireland and Poland, but
their numbers are far smaller.

According to the Census Bureau, Puerto Ricans, who are American citizens,
account for half the Latinos. The largest immigrant groups come from El
Salvador, Colombia, the Dominican Republic and Mexico.

Cecilia Moran, the director of the Centro Salvadorno in Hempstead, said an
amnesty would recognize the importance of the undocumented work force and allow
immigrants who had been virtually in hiding for years to live openly.

"It is wonderful because they will pass from anonymous persons to people who can
count in this society," she said. "These are people who are not only living here
and getting salaries here, they are giving something."

Matthew T. Crosson, the president of the Long Island Association, the major
business group, was more restrained in his reaction to the news from New
Orleans.

"It is a proposal that should be studied with an open mind, but not necessarily
one that should be adopted," he said. "The cost implications to the federal,
state and local governments need to be assessed," including items like Medicaid.

Mr. Crosson said that while labor shortages were "a severe problem" on the
Island, it was not clear "to what extent undocumented aliens help resolve that
problem."

"They are clearly a part of the labor force," he said. "How significant is
difficult to assess."

A major cconcern is that the prospect of amnesty will cause a surge in illegal
immigrants eager to gain footholds in the United States before the amnesty takes
effect.

But support groups said many of the beneficiaries would be undocumented workers
who had lived here for a long time. "It's a fiction to say they are not here,"
Mr. Young said. "Why not recognize that they are here and create a way for
people with clean records to be here legally?"

The immigrants' stories are often heart-rending. A woman who gave her name as
Rosa said she had come from Ecuador in 1988 on a tourist visa, and remained when
it expired. Divorced and now 47 years old, she earns $140 a week off the books
as a housekeeper and lives with a friend in a Hempstead apartment.

A son, 20, also lives on the Island and works when he can find employment, but
another son and the rest of her family remain in Ecuador. Her father and two
brothers have died while she has been away, and this month her mother had a
stroke. She paid for the funerals, and is paying now for medicine and treatment
for her mother.

Going home is not an option.

"No, it is impossible," she said through an interpreter. "How could I? I am the
only one who can make money, and I am sending money for medicine and treatment."

Amnesty, she said, would be "fabulous."

"It would give me an opportunity to get a better job and pay taxes," she said.
"It gives me hope that one day it will be better and I will see my mother while
she is still alive." She would also like to become a citizen.

Some employers facing labor shortages favor amnesty. A commercial landscaper who
spoke on condition his name not be used said amnesty would end unfair
competition from small businesses that hire undocumented workers for low pay.

"It's hard to tell who is legal and who isn't, and some of the people who are
hiring don't ask any questions," he said. "That's why these small guys are
squeezing us out of business." With amnesty, undocumented workers "would be
getting benefits and they would also be paying taxes," he said.

Angelo Auricchio, the president of the 400-member Long Island chapter of the New
York State Restaurant Association, said amnesty could be a boost for restaurant
owners, who faced mounting difficulty finding workers.

"We have to rejuvenate, and since there has been such an influx" of undocumented
workers, he said, "I would think the way to do that would be to legalize them."

Mr. Auricchio said he could not say whether many restaurants employed illegal
aliens. But he said the 1986 amnesty brought greater numbers of legal immigrants
into the business and reduced labor shortages then.

Without legal status, undocumented workers have little choice but to accept
rock-bottom wages without complaint, said the Rev. William Brisotti,
administrator of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal Roman Catholic Church in
Wyandanch.

"A lot of communities are very slow to admit they have this population in their
area," he said. "But they are there, they are excellent workers, many businesses
depend on them, and generally speaking they are being abused."

Father Brisotti said it was not unusual for laborers to be cheated. "They do the
work and the guy only pays them half of what he said he would, and they are
afraid to do anything about it because he might call immigration and report
them," he said. "These are the kind of things that would end if there were
amnesty."

Mr. Young said current rules hurt both legal and illegal immigrants.

"Some employers only want to hire the undocumented," he said. "That
disadvantages workers who have documents. And the employer can hold over the
heads of the undocumented workers the threat of being handed over" to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"With the documented workers," he added, "the threat is that if they don't want
to work for low wages, the undocumented will."

Among the men outside the 7-Eleven on North Ocean Avenue and Horse Block Road on
Tuesday morning, the quest for work of any kind seemed desperate. Dozens
advanced rapidly on a person they took for a potential employer, quickly
surrounding him. "You need someone? You have work?" they asked.

The store manager came out to usher the men out of the parking lot and behind a
fence at the edge of his property. Speaking in English, he also warned them not
to come off the curb and stand in the busy street.

"There are 50 of you now, and this summer there will be 200," he said. "Somebody
will get hurt."

He was trying to be helpful, the store manager said (though he would not give
his name), but if the men would not stay out of the way, he added, he would have
to call the police.

The men stared at him blankly. One, an intense man in his 20's in an Army
fatigue jacket, related to the others in Spanish the warning about "la policia."

The manager told the men, "I have to feed my family, just like you have to feed
your family." A young man behind the fence stared down at the manager's new
brown leather shoes.

An old pickup truck paused at the parking lot entrance.

"Don't stop there! Don't stop there!" the manager yelled. The driver pretended
not to understand. Two men came from behind the fence and climbed in beside him.
After brief discussion they drove off.

Over the next hour, no other trucks stopped.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Horseblock Road in Farmingville, workers gather in the hope
contractors will offer work. Their illegal status keeps them on society's
margins. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 6); A NEW HORIZON -- An
amnesty for immigrants would help them "pass from anonymous persons to people
who can count in this society," a social worker says. (Maxine Hicks for The New
York Times)(pg. 1)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 27, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Find Danger and Appeal in Northern Route

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

DATELINE: HARSENS ISLAND, Mich., Feb. 23


In the winter, the frozen river here creaks and moans as if lost souls were
being swept along by the relentless current underneath the ice. It is this
unlikely spot, where the St. Clair River separates this rural Michigan region
from Canada, that has lately become a passageway for illegal immigrants.

Those who walk across at night, with Indian guides tapping a steel pole on the
sparkling, groaning ice, are usually relieved to hit solid land.

The most recent immigrant caught here was a Tunisian man who walked across one
night this month. "He was telling me he was scared to death and the ice was
cracking around him and he didn't know if he was going to make it to the other
side," said Richard H. Nemitz, the agent in charge of the United States Border
Patrol station in nearby Marysville, Mich., who questioned the Tunisian. The two
Indian guides tried to reassure him. "They said it is no problem if you drink,"
Mr. Nemitz said. "But he was a Muslim, so he didn't want to drink."

In the past year, illegal immigration in this region "has gone from nothing or
close to nothing detected to 100 people," said Mark W. Osler, Assistant United
States Attorney in the Eastern District of Michigan. "You'd have to assume the
majority of them we don't catch," he said, but just since December, a Detroit
grand jury has indicted 15 people on charges related to smuggling.

Illegal immigration is picking up here because of an unusual cross-cultural
criminal alliance. According to federal court papers filed in Detroit, a ring of
Canadian Indians from Walpole Island, just across the river from here, have
linked up with Chinese smugglers to bring Asian immigrants into this rural
region 35 miles northeast of Detroit. Others cross here, too. -- a man from the
Bahamas walked across the ice on Jan. 25, for instance -- but most of the
illegal immigrants caught here are Chinese or Korean.

They come by boat in warmer weather or on foot on the coldest nights. Others run
through a train tunnel that goes under the river and surfaces in Port Huron,
Mich., 20 miles up the coast from here. The Border Patrol has caught 22 people
since the beginning of December, and Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials in the Detroit office have caught an additional 20, said Brian G.
Slonac, supervisory special agent in charge of the Detroit antismuggling unit.
Since early January, Canadian authorities have caught 19 Chinese on their way to
the United States, including 10 teenage girls in a van headed for Walpole
Island.

By the time the immigrants arrive here, they have neared the end of what can be
a grueling journey. Most are on their way to New York, by way of Toronto,
Montreal or Vancouver and then Michigan. About 80 percent of those caught were
Chinese from the Fujian province in southeastern China, across from Taiwan.

Most have bought fake passports and fly into Canada. But some of those caught
told of their wretched journeys by freighter from China to the coast of British
Columbia, according to documents filed in the December indictment. They were
locked in dark ship compartments so small there was no room to lie down during
the monthlong journey.

None of the immigrants are now in custody, and the Border Patrol would not
release their names.

Most immigrants agreed to pay smugglers $20,000 to $50,000 to get from their
home countries to New York City. The going price for river crossings here was
$1,000 to $1,500. Most pay for the passage by pledging to work in low-paying
jobs in the United States, Mr. Slonac said.

Many get through. The local border patrol office, with four officers patrolling
roughly 140 miles of the United States-Canada coastline, has been struggling to
keep up with the flow. Even if they catch illegal immigrants, the border patrol
office here has no budget to put them in jail. So they are let go, with orders
to appear at a hearing. Most do not show up. The immigration office in Detroit
typically releases illegal immigrants on a $5,000 bond and orders them to attend
a hearing. Those who believe they have a good case for political asylum usually
attend the hearings, Mr. Slonac said.

Immigration experts said that policy is a peculiarity of the border area here.
In other parts of the country, "What usually happens is, they are going to put
you in jail if you don't have a visa until the immigration people start the
process of deporting you,"said Liga E. Mutia, a lawyer with the Immigration
National Center, a nonprofit organization that provides legal services to
immigrants.

Even many of the smugglers that have been caught may end up getting away. Most
of those indicted are Indians from Walpole Island, a Canadian Indian
reservation, and they are not in custody. The United States could decide to seek
their extradition, but that raises sovereignty issues in Canada, Mr. Osler said.
The Canadian government may be reluctant to get involved for fear of sparking
further domestic turmoil.

Despite the recent increase in human smuggling through this area, many more
immigrants enter at other border hot spots. Nearly 1.6 million people were
caught last fiscal year, with all but 42,000 caught on the Mexican border.

Here on this quiet island, where visitors easily draw gossip, longtime residents
said the smuggling is not new. Lou M. Harvey, 47, a lifelong resident who owns
the Sans Souci market here, said: "I don't think that there are any more now
today than there were five years ago." Immigrants who have been dropped off on
the shore often make their way to the pay phone outside her convenience store,
calling in vain for a taxi, since there are none on the island.

But then the river separating the United States from Canada has been a highway
for contraband for more than a century. Rumrunners used it during prohibition to
move liquor from Canada through canals in Detroit neighborhoods into houses with
secret tunnels. And people desperate for freedom have risked their lives walking
across the frozen river in the past -- though in the reverse direction. Detroit
was a terminus on the Underground Railroad, and slaves escaping to Canada were
taken across in boats until the river froze each winter, then braved the walk
across the ice.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard H. Nemitz of the Border Patrol at the Michigan tunnel
illegal immigrants from Canada use. (Allan Barnes for The New York Times)

Map of Michigan shows the location of Harsens Island: Illegal immigration has
increased in this rural region near Detroit.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IDEAS & TRENDS: About Face;
Guess Who's Embracing Immigrants Now

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 978 words


IN 1994, Gov. Pete Wilson rode to re-election on his successful support of
Proposition 187, which barred the children of illegal immigrants from attending
public school in California.

Two years later, the Republican-led Congress pointed to the huge budget deficit
when it enacted legislation that barred hundreds of thousands of legal
immigrants from receiving food stamps and Federal disability assistance.

Immigrant bashing then swept into the presidential campaign as a wedge issue.
Bob Dole, the Republican presidential nominee, called for barring the children
of illegal immigrants from attending schools. Pete Wilson seized on
anti-immigrant proposals to spur his faltering presidential bid. And Pat
Buchanan's motto may well have been "Don't give me your tired, your poor."

What a difference four years make. George W. Bush has denounced the Republicans'
past anti-immigrant initiatives and boasts that he can speak Spanish, while Al
Gore has even assayed a few stumbling words of Espanol. Not only that,
Republican Party strategists have declared that Hispanics will be the soccer
moms of this year's campaign. It's as if immigrants have been transformed
Cinderella-like into the belles of the political ball. "There's been a
remarkable turnaround," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum, an advocacy group for immigrants.

It is easy to see why. Democratic and Republican strategists agree that
Hispanics may provide the swing votes in the four states -- California, New
York, Texas and Florida -- which have large Hispanic populations and which,
taken together, account for half the electoral votes needed to win the
presidency.

While immigrants tend to vote in smaller percentages than other demographic
groups, the number of Hispanic-American and Asian-American voters is growing
fast, and so are their campaign contributions.

Immigrants are also increasingly valued by corporate America; were the nation's
six million illegal immigrants expelled tomorrow, thousands of restaurants,
hotels, farms, poultry plants and garment factories and gardening companies
would be forced to close for want of workers. Some economists also believe that
the nation's record economic boom may have already sputtered without immigrants
to fill millions of jobs.

"There's no question that without the flow of immigrants, we would have hit much
earlier the level at which we started to have wage inflation and that would have
meant higher interest rates and that would have reduced the spectacular growth
that we see," said Daniel Bachman, chief economist at Transatlantic Futures, a
Washington-based research institute. His opinion is shared by Alan Greenspan,
the Federal Reserve chairman.

This is not a low-wage, service economy phenomenon. The high-tech sector has
asked that the annual quota for high-skilled immigrants be nearly doubled.

Unions, like many Republicans, viewed immigrants with suspicion. The
A.F.L-C.I.O., for example, saw them as an economic fifth column that took away
union jobs and depressed wages. Recently, however, it has called for a general
amnesty for illegal workers. In economic boom times, with unemployment at 4
percent, these are potential union members.

"We no longer have a knee-jerk reaction that immigrants drag down the standard
of living," said John Wilhelm, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant
Employees Union. "We, the labor movement, want to show we're on their side."

Surveys by the Public Policy Institute of California found that in 1994, 20
percent of Californians said immigration was the topic they most wanted
politicians to talk about, while this year only 2 percent of Californians feel
that way. "Whenever we're in boom periods, as we are today, people are more
generous in their attitudes toward immigrants," sSaid Mark Baldassare, survey
director at the California institute. "Immigration is not a very good wedge
issue in the current economic climate," said Mark Baldassare, survey director at
the California institute.

Republicans switched tacks after sifting through recent election returns. In
1996, 72 percent of Hispanic voters backed Bill Clinton, while 21 percent
supported Bob Dole. And exit polls showed that in California's 1998 race for
governor, 78 percent of Hispanic voters backed Gray Davis, the Democratic
victor. Republican strategists were also startled that in California alone,
250,000 Mexican and Salvadoran immigrants became naturalized Americans and
registered to vote in 1996 and 1997.

The record number of immigrants who have sought citizenship, registered to vote
and then voted Democratic around the country in recent years is widely viewed as
a backlash against Republican-backed, anti-immigrant policies. "The politics of
immigrant bashing has backfired," said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas
Rivera Policy Institute, a research group in Claremont, Calif. This has made a
small group of Republicans, led by Jack Kemp and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of
New York, who spoke out against their party's nativist policies, look prophetic.

Democratic politicians risk being torn between Hispanic voters and the
traditionally Democratic African-Americans, who often see them as competitors
for jobs and political power. Nonetheless, with demographers projecting that
Hispanics will replace African-Americans as the largest minority group in five
years, the role of Hispanics in politics will undoubtedly grow.

"The Ellis Island immigrants of the early 1900's became a key part of the New
Deal coalition that led to decades of dominance by the Democratic Party," said
Mr. Sharry of the National Immigration Forum. "The new wave of immigrants is
clearly up for grabs, and with the tight races for Congress and the White House,
this fast-growing population can determine who dominates over the next few
decades."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An immigrant from Mexico with her son. Congress barred benefits
for many legal immigrants. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Three Immigrants Die Crossing From Mexico

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: PINE VALLEY, Calif., March 6


Three illegal immigrants died after being caught in a winter storm in the
mountains east of San Diego, and dozens of others were rescued today from the
cold.

The bodies of the three men were pulled from the snow-frosted mountains of the
Cleveland National Forest, a busy corridor for illegal immigration from Mexico.

Sick and cold immigrants stumbled out of the Laguna Mountains all day after six
to eight inches of snow fell over the weekend. Temperatures Sunday night fell to
20 degrees.

The authorities began searching after five men and four women found this morning
reported that at least three others had remained in the mountains, a Border
Patrol spokesman, Gloria Chavez, said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Embracing Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 176 words



To the Editor:

A March 5 Week in Review article about the turnaround in favor of a liberal
policy toward immigrants highlights the role of a booming economy and the
growing political presence of immigrants. Another factor should be added: the
abandonment of anti-immigration attitudes by intellectuals and the laboring
classes.

New research has challenged the fear propelled by some experts that legal and
illegal immigration since the 1965 reforms has diluted our skill levels and
driven down the wages of our unskilled workers.

Before the 1986 immigration law was enacted, I argued unsuccessfully that
employer sanctions would not cut significantly the number of new illegal
immigrants but would reduce the illegals in our midst to a subterranean class
without rights. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has just embraced this viewpoint. It has
abandoned its earlier advocacy of sanctions and now seeks another amnesty for
illegal workers.

JAGDISH BHAGWATI
New York, March 5, 2000

The writer is a professor of economics at Columbia University.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 9, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Is Looking the Other Way As Illegal Immigrants Fill Jobs

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1917 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Salvador Silva often used to worry that immigration agents would raid the
commercial laundry where he works. If they did, he had a plan. He would jump
onto a table, hoist himself into an air-conditioning duct, and hide there until
the agents left. He practiced this more than once.

"We lived with the uncertainty of raids," said Mr. Silva, who is 26 and has
worked illegally in this country for 10 years, ever since he walked across a
bridge from Juarez in Mexico to El Paso and flew to Chicago to join a brother.
Only now is he beginning to relax. "For the first time," he said, "I don't fear
the raids."

Such raids have all but stopped around the country over the last year. In a
booming economy running short of labor, hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants are increasingly tolerated in the nation's workplaces. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service has made crossing the border harder than
ever, stepping up patrols and prosecuting companies that smuggle in aliens or
blatantly recruit them. But once inside the country, illegal immigrants are now
largely left alone. Even when these people are discovered, arrests for the
purpose of deportation are much less frequent; such arrests dropped to about
8,600 last year from 22,000 just two years earlier, the I.N.S. reports.

The agency now concentrates on picking up aliens who have committed a crime. The
rest are in effect allowed to help American employers fill jobs. "It is just the
market at work, drawing people to jobs, and the I.N.S. has chosen to concentrate
its actions on aliens who are a danger to the community," said Robert L. Bach,
the agency's associate commissioner for policy and planning.

The new lenience helps explain why overall wage increases have been less than
many economists and policy makers had expected, given an unemployment rate of
only 4 percent and a strong demand for people to fill jobs that pay $8 an hour
or less, which is 25 percent of all jobs. Immigrants -- legal and illegal --
have fed the pool of people available to take these lower-paying jobs. But Alan
Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress last month that as job
growth expands, the pool keeps shrinking. That is one reason the Fed is raising
interest rates to slow the economy before wage pressures become inflationary.

Mr. Greenspan and many other economists, though, are looking only at people
living in this country, including an estimated six million illegal immigrants,
as potential candidates to feed that pool. But the more tolerant I.N.S. policy
may be inducing more workers to immigrate, particularly from Mexico, because --
once they manage to get here -- they face less risk in taking a job. That would
dilute the labor shortage -- and the wage pressure that worries Mr. Greenspan.
In fact, it may already be doing so.

"None of us really knows how big the pool of available workers is," said Jared
Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute, "but the more
lenient stance can only increase the number of people available abroad for jobs
in the United States."

The commercial laundry industry in Chicago, where Mr. Silva works, clearly
benefits from the Immigration Service's live-and-let-work approach. Thirty
companies wash and iron the city's hospital and restaurant linens, hotel sheets
and towels, and factory uniforms. Half of their 2,800 employees are illegal
immigrants, mainly Hispanics, according to Unite, the union that has organized
most of them in recent months.

Last fall, Unite negotiated contracts that recognized the illegal status of some
workers, and shielded them. One clause requires an employer to bar an I.N.S.
raid unless the agents have a search warrant. And a company must notify the
union if it gets wind of a coming raid.

"Sometimes I did not want to go to work," Mr. Silva said. "I saw reports on TV
of immigration raids and people being led away and I worried that would happen
to me. Now the union contract is reassuring, and I no longer see raids on
television."

A third clause states that when former employees are rehired with new papers --
even new names -- after their original documents are found to be false, they
retain their seniority and resume their old pay level. Union scale goes as high
as $8.75 an hour.

"The Immigration Service has never had the resources to arrest every illegal
alien, and now there is a large number and a demand from many companies to
employ them," said Brian R. Perryman, the agency's director in Chicago. "Once
they come into the Chicago metropolitan area, with its 6.5 million people, it is
hard to stop the process."

A downturn in the booming economy and any resulting uptick in unemployment could
lead the I.N.S. to revive its pursuit of illegal immigrants at work. Even now,
some Republican members of Congress are pushing for legislation that would step
up efforts to prevent illegal immigrants from working in the United States.
Certainly, the more open policy today stands in sharp contrast to the 1980's and
even the mid-1990's, when unemployment was higher.

The new attitude here is the opposite of the approach in most European
countries, where unemployment rates are higher than in the United States and
governments have tightened immigration laws.

But right now the route to work in the United States is fairly smooth. One
reason is that employment laws are easy for illegal immigrants to evade. Workers
are required to offer proof of eligibility -- a Social Security card and a
picture ID. But counterfeits are easily purchased for $60 to $80 in this city's
immigrant neighborhoods, a favorite being a rose-colored resident-alien card,
which two immigrants showed to this reporter.

The laminated cards displayed photographs that were accurate but fingerprints
the workers said were not theirs. "The birth date isn't mine either, or the
signature, although the name is right," said Angel Hernandez Lopez, a
25-year-old Mexican. "For $80, they do everything," he said of the
counterfeiters.

Employers can be fined for knowingly hiring illegal workers, but they also risk
being sued for discrimination if they challenge documents that on the surface
seem authentic. What's more, the Social Security Administration checks only once
a year for numbers that fail to match legitimate pension accounts, and when it
finds a discrepancy, it never assumes it is immigrant fraud as opposed to a
mismatch resulting from a divorce, a job switch or a name changed through
marriage.

"We know that illegal immigrants are a factor," said Norman Goldstein, a senior
financial executive at Social Security, "but I cannot quantify for you how that
factor compares with other factors."

When a letter calling attention to a discrepancy does finally go out, it goes to
the employer or the employee, or both, but not the Immigration Service, which
cannot by law be privy to tax matters. Even when the I.N.S. does get involved,
the employee is now usually given time to correct the problem. For illegal
workers that means time to change names, get new papers or change jobs.

An illegal immigrant is at little risk these days, Mr. Bach said, "unless the
employer turns a worker in, and employers usually do that only to break a union
or prevent a strike or that kind of stuff."

Curtailing undocumented workers, then, rests as much with employers as with the
I.N.S., and in an economy short of workers, employers are not rushing into
action. On the contrary, they want the I.N.S. to go easier as well on highly
skilled, college-educated immigrants -- the engineers, chemists, computer
experts and college professors who now enter the country on special H-1B visas.
A coalition of business groups is lobbying Congress to raise the ceiling on
these visas to 195,000 a year from 115,000.

"In a perfect world, immigration at all levels would be entirely market-driven,
with appropriate protections of course for native workers," said Sandra J. Boyd,
of the National Association of Manufacturers, who leads the coalition.

Short of this goal, the temporary- help agencies that have sprung up in
storefronts in Chicago's Hispanic neighborhoods are benefiting from the new
leniency. The $5.15-an-hour minimum-wage jobs these agencies offer are usually
the first that arriving immigrants manage to land. They have settled by the
thousands in old blue-collar neighborhoods like Pilsen, southwest of the Loop.
Their growing presence in this city has given Illinois the nation's
fifth-largest immigrant population, behind California, New York, Florida and
Texas.

Six temp agencies near West 18th Street and Blue Island Avenue, in the heart of
Pilsen, become predawn gathering places for immigrants seeking work. More than
30 waited expectantly one day in late February at Ron's Temporary Help Services,
some perched in what was once the window display of this former store. An old
iron radiator heated the room.

The immigrants, mostly from Mexico, hoped that Gloria de la Torre, the
36-year-old manager -- herself an illegal immigrant until three years ago, she
says -- will favor them with one of the jobs that go out by the thousands each
day from 100 agencies like Ron's in Hispanic neighborhoods. That is up from 50
in 1985, according to Nik Theodore, research director at the Center for Urban
Economic Development at the University of Illinois in Chicago.

During the peak demand for these workers, from April through September, more
than 30,000 a day are placed by the temp agencies, Mr. Theodore says, basing his
estimate on his field research. The Ron's office that Ms. de la Torre manages
sends out 1,000 workers over three shifts in those months, she says. But in late
February, the flow is down to 100 a day, and two vans are double- parked outside
waiting to take some immigrants to jobs in the suburbs.

The temp agencies deal in a variety of work -- assembling coolers, eyeglass
cases and other products; making sandwiches for airline meals; stuffing
envelopes; construction; packaging perfumes; painting machinery; staffing
warehouses that ship merchandise ordered over the Internet.

Motorola is a regular customer, using workers from the temp agencies to pack
computer monitors in shipping cartons, among other tasks. The agencies, not
Motorola, have the responsibility for making certain that the people sent to
Motorola are legally authorized to work, a Motorola press officer said.

The people Ms. de la Torre sends out all present her with the necessary
documents, which she accepts at face value. Paychecks come with stubs that
detail deductions for taxes, Social Security and, for those who travel in vans
to their jobs, $3.50 a day for transportation.

"I have never been visited by Immigration," Ms. de la Torre said.

But the precarious status of an illegal immigrant makes them easy victims for
exploitation, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. says. They are filling the low-wage jobs readily
enough, but they lack the bargaining power to get higher on the pay scale, or
upgrade their working conditions, the labor organization says. That is a big
reason they are in demand, it adds.

Unite's contracts covering laundry workers are an attempt to counter this
situation. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. also called for the legalization of those already
in the country so they can be more easily represented.

Mr. Bach, the immigration official, said, "Workers are supposed to make gains in
tight labor markets, but what you are seeing is employers using illegal
immigrants to undercut the expectations of labor."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Doing Less"
Arrests for deportations of noncriminal illegal aliens already in the United
States have dropped sharply in the last two years.

Graphs shows these trends from 1993-99 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization
Service)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 19, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Amnesty May Lure More Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 27; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 162 words


Re: " 'Hidden' Workers Nurse Hope of Amnesty" Feb. 27 . Such an amnesty would be
a major mistake.

In 1986 Congress granted amnesty to three million illegal aliens. This was to be
a one-time amnesty. Since then an estimated six million immigrants have entered
this country illegally. Granting amnesty again would send a signal that you can
become an American by breaking the law, then waiting for the next amnesty. This
is unfair to those who have waited so long to enter this country legally.

It has been estimated that half the gap in wages between high school dropouts
and other workers is due to the immigration of unskilled laborers. While
economic conditions may be harsh in other countries, those countries are
responsible for their citizens' lot. The United States does not exist to improve
the lives of citizens of other countries by hurting the lives of Americans.
Permitting illegal immigration is not the answer.

ROBERT F. LAPORTA
Dix Hills

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ranch Says Border Patrol Stepped Over Line

BYLINE: By ROSS E. MILLOY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

DATELINE: SARITA, Tex., April 1


After government vehicles ran over and injured illegal immigrants on a vast
cattle ranch here twice in the past month, the ranch's owners notified the
United States Border Patrol that its agents could no longer pursue their quarry
on ranch property.

"We're in a hard situation," said Richard Leshin, a lawyer for the John G. and
Marie Stella Kenedy Memorial Foundation, a charitable organization that owns the
Kenedy Ranch.

The foundation, which has strong ties to the Catholic Church, made its decision
because it believes that the Border Patrol has been violating immigrants' human
rights.

As a result, Mr. Leshin said, "The government has told us that they have the
authority to seize the ranch because we are in violation of federal law, and
that's a major concern for the foundation's directors."

For their part, Border Patrol officials say that while they have the right to
seize the ranch, they do not plan to. But they say they expect the foundation to
allow agents to patrol the area freely, which, they say, is necessary to control
illegal immigration.

Each month, several thousand undocumented immigrants try to slip past the Border
Patrol's K-24 checkpoint in the middle of ranch property on Highway 77, just
south of Sarita, the Border Patrol said. Many of the immigrants enter the
largely uninhabited 235,000-acre ranch, one of the largest in Texas, in hopes of
escaping north.

Surrounded by rolling plains of scrub chaparral and mesquite trees, the
checkpoint and the 90 agents who operate it are like a dike against the human
river of illegal aliens, said Fred Borrego, a Border Patrol supervisor.

"These people are poor, they're hungry, they're desperate, and they'll do
anything to keep from being caught," Mr. Borrego said. "But it's our job to stop
them."

He said agents capture 1,800 to 2,200 undocumented immigrants near the
checkpoint every month, about half the total he estimated moves through the
area.

"Sometimes we can see dozens of suspected illegals from the checkpoint and can't
do anything about it if we can't get on to Kenedy Ranch property," he said.

The checkpoint has been controversial for years. A University of Houston study
found that in 1996, 19 immigrants died of heat stroke and other exposure-related
causes while trying to evade the checkpoint.

Because of ongoing internal investigations by the Border Patrol, Mr. Borrego
would not discuss details of what he called the "unfortunate accidents" in which
the immigrants were recently injured.

On March 2, agents working west of K-24 ran over the right arm of Victor Manuel,
25, while pursuing about 25 people suspected of being undocumented immigrants;
on March 7, another vehicle struck Armando Leal, who was hiding in high grass,
Border Patrol incident reports said.

Mr. Leal suffered major injuries to his back and pelvis that required surgery
and was released on March 17 from Christus Spohn Memorial Hospital in Corpus
Christi, hospital officials said.

The Kenedy Foundation banned agents once before, in 1995, when vehicles
operating off the ranch's paved roads ignited grass fires and agents damaged
gates and fences, Mr. Leshin said. Border Patrol agents also fished and hunted
on ranch property without permission, he said.

In September 1998, Mr. Leshin said, the Federal Bureau of Investigation warned
the Kenedy Foundation that the government was considering seizing the ranch
because of the ban, and a settlement was signed in September 1999 that required
federal officials to notify the foundation before they pursued immigrants beyond
paved roads on ranch property.

"The incidents in which the two immigrants were injured broke that agreement,
and the foundation's board voted March 17 to ban federal agents from its
property," Mr. Leshin said.

The ranch is used primarily for cattle and oil operations but also allows nature
tourists to prowl its coastal prairies and sand dunes in search of the 200
species of migratory birds present in the spring.

Under federal law, agents have the right to enter any property within 25 miles
of United States boundaries. Although the Kenedy Ranch is nearly 100 miles from
the Mexican border, its land extends almost to the Gulf of Mexico, which
officials say is an international boundary.

"The government has the authority to seize the ranch, but I don't know that
there is any current talk of doing that," said Perry Cronin, a spokesman for the
Border Patrol's regional district office in McAllen, Tex. "We're still in the
talking stages, and no agreements have been reached."

Both Mr. Cronin and Nancy Cohen, with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Washington, said they were unaware of any case in which the government had
seized private property in such disputes.

Advocates for immigrants in El Paso, Houston and the Lower Rio Grande Valley say
disputes with the Border Patrol over access to private property and injuries
caused by agents pursuing immigrants have increased along the border in recent
years as enforcement efforts have intensified.

"People should have the right to seek jobs across borders without being herded
and hunted like animals," said Nathan Selzer of Proyecto Libertad, an immigrant
legal aid organization based in Harlingen, Tex. "It's an affront to human
dignity."

Maria Jimenez of the American Friends Service Committee in Houston said that,
increasingly, residents along the border "are beginning to object to the numbers
of Border Patrol agents coming onto their property."

She added, "We're hearing many more complaints in recent years about their
tactics."

Ms. Jimenez said those problems include at least two or three incidents a year
of what she called "rundowns" by agents chasing immigrants with vehicles.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Border Patrol agent, T. C. Clark, uses a dog to check for
drugs at a checkpoint near Sarita, Tex. Officials say Border Patrol agents catch
1,800 to 2,200 illegal immigrants near the checkpoint every month. (Photographs
by David Pellerin for The New York Times)

Map of Texas shows the location of Sarita: The Kenedy Ranch near Sarita, Tex.,
has prohibited the Border Patrol from pursuing immigrants.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

False Birth Certificates Let Immigrants Outwit System

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


After making it safely to the United States, Hans Peter Bieri faced the same
problem that millions of illegal immigrants had faced over the years.  He had to
persuade employers, government agencies and others that he was here legally.

It was not long before Mr. Bieri discovered the little secret that for years has
helped some illegal immigrants stay in the United States: in some states, like
California, it is possible to adopt the identity of an American citizen by
simply walking into the right government office and paying a few dollars for
someone's birth certificate.

So Mr. Bieri, a Swiss citizen, found a California native close to him in age
and, knowing little more than his name and birth date, got a copy of his birth
certificate from the local county clerk's office. Then, using the birth
certificate as identification, Mr. Bieri got a California driver's license and
later, during a visit to Hawaii, an American passport.

Now he had three documents backing up his claim to American citizenship, and he
began building a new life. He married, became a father and settled near Houston.

It all fell apart last October -- 11 years after Mr. Bieri arrived in the
country -- when the State Department's Diplomatic Security Service acted on a
call from the man whose identity Mr. Bieri had assumed.

Although Mr. Bieri was caught, his case showed why experts considered the birth
certificate to be the soft underbelly of America's interior defenses against
illegal immigration.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it seizes dozens of fraudulent
birth certificates every day, either counterfeit copies or valid ones acquired
by impostors.

"The birth certificate is really the document of choice" for illegal immigrants,
said James R. Hesse, chief intelligence officer at the agency's Forensic
Document Laboratory.

"It shows both identity and nationality, and that's a big deal."

Because of that, Mr. Hesse said, the birth certificate can open the door to
other documents coveted by illegal immigrants, like Social Security cards,
driver's licenses and passports. The birth certificate is the document most
frequently presented as evidence of American citizenship by first-time
applicants for a passport, the State Department says.

California, home to 40 percent of the 5 million to 6 million illegal immigrants
that the immigration service estimates live in the United States, is
particularly vulnerable to birth certificate fraud. An official at the Ventura
County recorder's office said that to get a certified copy of someone's birth
certificate, "you just need to know the name on the birth certificate and the
date of birth." The cost is $12, and the wait about 15 minutes, she said.

The process is even easier in other counties. The Web site for Butte County in
Northern California simply says to "give as much information as possible" along
with the $12 fee when requesting a birth certificate, which can be done by mail.

While studying the issue as a member of the Commission on Immigration Reform, a
bipartisan group formed by Congress in 1990 to study United States immigration
policy, Michael S. Teitelbaum was so shocked to hear how easy it was to get
someone's birth certificate in California that he decided to try it.

He went to the county clerk-recorder's office in Orange County and requested the
birth certificate of someone he knew was born in the area. Within 15 minutes, he
had a certified copy of the person's birth certificate. "I basically walked out
of there shaking my head in disbelief," said Mr. Teitelbaum, now a program
director at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, a nonprofit philanthropic
institution in New York.

Now that office says that people asking for birth certificates in person may be
asked to show picture identification. But all that is needed by mail is "the
person's full name, date of birth, and a credit card number," an official said.

California is not the only state with such loose restrictions on access to birth
records. An official at the Office of Vital Statistics in Frankfort, Ky., said
that a name and birth date were enough to get a copy of a Kentucky native's
birth certificate.

In most states, however, the full names of both parents, including the mother's
maiden name, must be provided to get a birth certificate. But critics say that
the system is only as strong as its weakest link, because a birth certificate
from a state with loose restrictions can be used to establish residency and
employment eligibility in any other state.

And even in the strictest states, the information required for obtaining a birth
certificate can often be found easily, critics say. One way is to scan the
obituary pages of a local newspaper and write down the background information on
a person of the appropriate age. Since most states do not match death and birth
records, or do so very slowly, experts say, illegal immigrants assuming the
identity of the recently deceased face little risk of detection.

The fraudulent acquisition of valid birth certificates is only part of the
problem. The I.N.S. says that birth certificates are vulnerable to
counterfeiting, largely because there is no single national standard for them.
Instead of one version, thousands of different but valid birth certificates flow
from the more than 7,000 local and state agencies authorized to issue them.

That makes detection of counterfeits difficult, Mr. Hesse said. In 1994, the
Commission on Immigration Reform recommended that the federal government adopt
one standard design for all certified copies of birth certificates. Almost six
years later, no such design exists.

The commission also recommended a nationwide system for matching birth and death
records, limiting the types of birth certificates accepted by federal agencies,
standardized application forms for birth certificates and computerized storage
of birth records by each state. None of those recommendations have been carried
out.

Robert C. Hill, the head of the commission, said the "foot-dragging" by Congress
and the Clinton administration on birth certificate reform was "indicative of a
sort of attitude of neglect for overall reform" that would prevent unauthorized
employment of immigrants.

Nevertheless, the I.N.S., under prodding from Congress, has been meeting with
state and local officials during the last year to determine how to regulate the
issuance of birth certificates. Susan Martin, the director of the Institute for
the Study of International Migration at Georgetown University, said that if
Congress expected to achieve real reform, it needed to provide more financial
support for the agency. The movement toward reform has begun, she said, and "now
it's an issue of putting serious resources into it."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 1, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Crime Data Show High Conviction Rate

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31


Eighty-seven percent of defendants charged with federal crimes were convicted in
the fiscal year 1998, and 71 percent of those who were convicted were sentenced
to prison, the Justice Department reported today.

Nearly half of the 106,139 federal arrests during the 12 months that ended Sept.
30, 1998, involved drug or immigration violations, according to the first
comprehensive study of federal arrest data by the Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Drug violations accounted for 29 percent of the arrests, and immigration
offenses for 20 percent.

Seventy-one percent of those convicted were sentenced to prison, up from 60
percent of those convicted in 1990. Offenders convicted of violent felonies were
sentenced to an average of 84.2 months in prison in 1998; felony drug offenders
to 78.8 months; immigration offenders to 26.4, months and property offenders to
25.4 months.

In 1998, the time actually served reached 87 percent of the sentence, up from 65
percent in 1990.

The number of defendants prosecuted rose to 78,172 in 1998, up 12.7 percent from
the 1997 total. Drug cases accounted for 38 percent of the increase; immigration
cases for 29 percent of it. Eighty-three percent of federal defendants were
charged with felonies.

Pretrial release declined to 43 percent of those charged in 1998 from 62 percent
in 1990. Those least likely to be released were charged with immigration
offenses, violent crimes, drug or weapons violations.

Of those released while awaiting trial, 84 percent completed their release
without incident, but 3 percent committed new crimes, 2 percent did not make
scheduled court appearances and 14.5 percent committed technical violations of
release conditions, like not participating in substance abuse treatment. The
total exceeds 100 percent because some defendants fit more than one category.

Appeals to federal courts of appeal remained constant at 10,000 to 11,000 a year
from 1990 to 1998. Of the 10,105 appeals completed in 1998, 82 percent upheld
the district court ruling, at least in part.

The federal prison population surpassed 100,000 in 1998 for the first time, up
9,670 from 1997 to 108,925.

Of the 106,139 federal arrests in 1998, 73 percent were made by Justice
Department agencies -- the F.B.I., Immigration and Naturalization Service, Drug
Enforcement Administration and Marshals Service. Treasury Department agencies,
including the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Customs Service and
the Secret Service, made 11 percent of the arrests. The remainder were by other
agencies.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Flood Border in Arizona, Angering Ranchers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 15


As his anger rose against the waves of illegal immigrants crossing the border
onto his cattle ranch, Joe Harris decided not to carry his gun anymore. He
feared losing control and shooting someone, causing an international incident.
Even so, he wonders now how much more he can stand.

"Things are getting very tense down here," Mr. Harris said, pointing to hideouts
on his ranch that illegal immigrants had used to elude the United States Border
Patrol. "The ranchers here are tired of nothing being done about it. We're tired
of the garbage they leave. We're tired of them tearing down our fences. We're
tired of losing cattle. We're tired of losing our way of life."

With new law enforcement resources making other crossing points along the
2,000-mile border with Mexico harder to penetrate, the rugged area around
Douglas, a town of 15,000 people just north of Agua Prieta, Mexico, has come
under siege by desperate migrants seeking illegal entry into the United States
in hopes of finding jobs in cities as far away as Chicago and New York.

After federal agencies bolstered security at once popular crossing points like
those at San Diego and El Paso, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants,
many of them with children, began flooding the Douglas area two years ago,
risking inhospitable desert conditions, including poisonous snakes and daytime
temperatures of well above 100 degrees.

But lately, they have encountered another threat: angry ranchers on the
outskirts of Douglas who have grown so weary of border crossers tramping across
their land in groups of 50 and more that some, taking matters into their own
hands, have detained the migrants at gunpoint until Border Patrol agents
arrived.

While the number of these ranchers is small, perhaps fewer than a half-dozen,
and only one migrant has been injured by gunfire since Douglas has grown so
popular, the ranchers' actions have drawn complaints from the Mexican government
and organizations in Arizona that say the ranchers are violating the border
crossers' human rights.

Even the rancher who the authorities say has been the most aggressive in
confronting the migrants, Roger Barnett, says a serious incident is inevitable
if the government does not do more to stem the northward flow of illegal
immigrants.

"It's going to happen, with me or somebody else," said Mr. Barnett, who has used
weapons to detain several thousand illegal immigrants on his 22,000-acre ranch
in the last two years. 'I'm just sick and tired of all this. I don't want them
crossing my place. If the government was serious, they'd bring in the U.S. Army.
We're getting invaded."

Government officials, however, say the Border Patrol is making giant strides in
the border battle. With more money each year from Congress, the agency has been
able to use its expanding force and new technology, like night-vision cameras,
to help catch some border crossers and discourage others. Those caught -- an
estimated one of every three who cross -- are interviewed and fingerprinted,
then sent back to Mexico, a process that takes only a few hours.

But historical patterns show that the successful cutoff of illegal immigration
in one region pushes border crossers into areas of less resistance. As the
number of illegal immigrants caught by the Border Patrol in the San Diego area
fell to 182,267 from 524,231 over five years through last year, for example,
border crossers discovered that the Douglas area was an easier entry point. The
12-foot walls adjacent to the customs checkpoint at Agua Pietra extend only a
short distance, and the Border Patrol had only a handful of agents and little
equipment.

In addition, Agua Pietra, a city of more than 100,000, is large enough to
accommodate migrants arriving from all over Mexico and beyond, including some
from Europe and Asia, as they wait for the elusive "guides" the American
authorities regard as criminal smugglers to lead them into the United States.
Guides are known to charge $1,000 and more per person to lead border crossings,
and they risk arrest and prosecution if caught.

In the 1998 fiscal year, the 280-mile stretch of Arizona border known as the
Tucson Sector, which includes Douglas, overtook San Diego as the busiest sector
of illegal entry on the southern border, with 387,406 apprehensions. The total
grew to 470,449 in the 1999 fiscal year -- more than twice the number of five
years before.

In each year, more than 40 percent of the apprehensions occurred along the 28
miles of border flanking Douglas.

"It was terrible down here," said Carlos X. Carrillo, assistant chief patrol
agent for the Douglas station. "Every night, local residents would be awakened
at 1, 2, 3 o'clock in the morning by people jumping their fences, using their
lawn hoses to wash, hiding on their roofs, knocking on their doors to ask for
food and water. They were all over the place."

The shift from San Diego and El Paso and other entry points caused not only
Douglas to change. Agua Pietra itself took on a new vibrancy as the border city
adjusted to the arrival of an increasing number of travelers intent on breaching
the United States border.

Busy streets near the customs checkpoint suddenly filled with pay telephones
that Miguel Escobar Valdez, the Mexican consul in Douglas, said crossers used to
ask relatives for money while they waited to make connections for entry into the
United States. Also, small "guest houses" began opening to accommodate migrants,
charging them the equivalent of a few dollars a night.

A receptionist at the Hotel Villa del Rey, a tiny building several blocks from
the border that opened four months ago, said "the vast majority" of the six
rooms were filled with people waiting to cross into the United States. Mr.
Escobar said as many as 400 such places are now operating in Agua Pietra.

Many crossers cannot even afford the guest houses. Juan Marquez Garcia, a
28-year-old mechanic from Chihuahua, a city 300 miles away by bus, said he had
been living in parks for nearly a month, trying to enter the United States to
find work, only to get caught six times by American border agents. Now broke,
except for a bag of empty soda cans to cash in for a few pesos, he said he
planned to return to Chihuahua when he could raise $11 for bus fare.

Officials in the United States say people like Mr. Marquez prove that their
security strategies in the Douglas area are beginning to work, as statistics for
recent months show. Apprehensions in the Douglas area are beginning to fall. By
adding resources and extending the border walls several miles on each side of
town, Border Patrol officials say they are taking back control of the region,
especially in town.

But just as increased security efforts elsewhere shifted patterns of illegal
migration to Douglas, these patterns have more recently shifted again to desert
regions beyond the extended walls, where flimsy barbed-wire fencing separates
the two countries. As the Border Patrol waits for additional resources that
arrive each month, crossers have plotted courses increasingly distant from
Douglas and the highways they use for traveling north.

In these areas are the private ranches where crossers hide until they make
connections, arranged by their guides, for transportation to northern cities, or
they get caught.

Often, the immigrants hide for days at a time, and ranchers complain that they
destroy water tanks for cattle, pipelines and fences. "Fixing them has become
part of our way of life," Mr. Harris said. "Ranching is hard enough without
doing all that."

Sometimes the immigrants grow so weary, scared or hungry that they initiate
contact with the ranchers. Mr. Harris, who keeps a rifle by his front door,
recalled a Mexican couple reaching his house one morning three months ago,
asking for water and use of a telephone.

"Their guide had stranded them, telling them a ride would be along in a few
minutes to take them to Phoenix," he said. "Since then, they had been living for
two days in a culvert down the road with no food. When they showed up here, all
they had was a Mexican can of Coca-Cola."

Mr. Harris insisted he felt compassion for people who wanted nothing more than a
better life. But he and other ranchers said they believed that the United States
government encouraged illegal immigration by failing to take more decisive
action against companies that hire migrants.

Mayor Raymond A. Borane of Douglas, who favors a new "guest worker program" that
would allow illegal immigrants to work legally in this country, said the current
economic boom in some measure stems from the immigrants taking jobs that
Americans did not want.

"They are helping drive our economy," Mr. Harris said. "And the money they send
home helps the Mexican economy."

Indeed, Mr. Escobar, the consul, said illegal immigrants from Mexico in the
United States had been sending back $6 billion a year, an amount that represents
the third-leading source of foreign revenue in Mexico, behind tourism and oil.

So it is not in the interest of either government to clamp down, Mr. Borane
said, expressing an opinion shared by ranchers in the area.

But that is not so, said Doris M. Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, who cited the North American Free Trade Agreement as an
example of efforts to bring Mexico's economy and living standards closer in line
with those of the United States. She also said government agencies did what they
could to pursue employers who hired illegal workers, using criminal and
administrative remedies where possible.

Describing efforts along the border as "a work in progress," Ms. Meissner said
the trade agreement "should and will help both countries, but in a 10- 20-
30-year time frame, not 1, 2 or 3."

"By regulating the border," she added, "we're buying time."

For now, though, that does little to appease people like Mr. Harris, who said he
feared that ranchers bearing arms and angry attitudes could do nothing more than
drive the problem somewhere else.

Surveying a sea of old clothes, used water jugs and emptied cans of refried
beans, he shrugged. "I don't wish this on anybody," he said. "But I'd rather see
the government solve the problem right here, right now. Otherwise, it only goes
to another Joe Harris down the road."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: More migrants are crossing the border near Douglas, Ariz.,
where some were apprehended recently. Immigrants left trash on the ranch of Joe
Harris, with his son, Joe. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York
Times)(pg. 14)

Chart/Map: "OVERVIEW: Across the Border"
The Douglas, Ariz., border station is part of the Tucson Sector, which has the
most apprehensions of illegal immigrants entering the United States on the
southern border. Here are the apprehensions per year in the border stations that
comprise the Tucson Sector. Phoenix, a part of the Tucson Sector, had no
apprehensions in 1999.

Chart shows the amount of apprehensions per year

(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. 14)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seeks China's Help in Slowing the Flood of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 3


The head of the American Immigration and Naturalization Service held talks here
today with Chinese officials, hoping to get a commitment for more help in
stemming the huge flow of illegal Chinese immigrants into the United States.

The visit came just weeks after 58 Chinese migrants suffocated while being
smuggled into England in the back of a truck.

"We've gotten cooperation, but it's been on a case-by-case basis," said the
immigration service commissioner, Doris Meissner. "But we'd like to see better
cooperation not just from China but also from transit countries as well." Most
illegal Chinese immigrants arrive in the United States via a third country,
where they often get fake documents.

Ms. Meissner said that the United States had slowed the number of illegal
migrants arriving by boat, but also said that as boat traffic had dropped off,
the number of illegal migrants arriving by air with counterfeit documents had
increased.

She estimated that the service would send back 4,000 Chinese arriving illegally
at American airports this year, with many landing in Los Angeles, Seattle and
New York.

Ms. Meissner's delegation will also visit Fuzhou, capital of Fujian Province,
the home region of most Chinese who now live illegally in the United States.

The service estimates that tens of thousands of Chinese are smuggled in each
year.

Many Western governments that are trying to thwart the smuggling say that
international criminal gangs are making huge profits in this illegal human
trade.

"The amounts of money that go into this and the level of organization and the
level of criminality and abuse puts Chinese smuggling in a class by itself," Ms.
Meissner said.

She said the quick return of those who are intercepted is "the strongest signal
that can be sent that taking the risk and paying the money will not pay off."

But quick repatriation is often not possible in the case of the Chinese, since
many apply for political asylum and the claims can take years to work through
the system.

Although Chinese officials have said that the relatively liberal American
political-asylum process encourages poor Chinese to try their luck at
emigration, Ms. Meissner said that complaint had not come up in meetings here.

She said only about 13 percent of political asylum claims by Chinese are
successful, generally made by people who say they will face political or
religious persecution if they are returned to the mainland. But many illegal
immigrants disappear into the vast Chinese networks in cities like New York
before the asylum process is complete.

Ms. Meissner said the talks today touched on cooperative ventures, adding: "We
need to share analytic information. We need to work together on fraudulent
document use, and on public information so that accurate information is getting
into the sending societies and communities."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 17, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Seeking Help With I.N.S. Fall Prey to Con Artists

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1730 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., July 10


When Erik Giovanni Rosales, 28, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, was picked
up by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in late 1997 at a factory on
Long Island, he was promptly put into the pipeline to be deported.

Frantic, he searched the Spanish-language papers for help. He found it in a
large advertisement by Stela Sapio, who advertises herself as an immigration
specialist with offices at 37-44 75th Street in Queens and 71 Franklin Street
here.

According to Mr. Rosales's girlfriend, Marlen Jadira Martinez, 26, and her
mother, Rebecca Lima, 47, who said they were at the meeting, Ms. Sapio told Mr.
Rosales that she was an immigration lawyer and would represent him.

But in the three meetings with I.N.S. officials at 26 Federal Plaza in Lower
Manhattan that eventually led to Mr. Rosales's deportation, Ms. Sapio never
appeared, despite having charged $700 up front, Ms. Martinez said. Then on the
eve of Mr. Rosales's departure late last year, she said, Ms. Sapio assured him
that he could get a green card if he paid her $2,400. Mr. Rosales and Ms.
Martinez had grown desperate, and they got maximum advances on her credit cards
to deliver the money in cash.

From Washington Heights to Jersey City to Hempstead on Long Island, there are
hundreds of con artists who prey on the New York region's illegal immigrants,
whose ignorance of the legal system is matched only by their desperation,
according to law enforcement officials. These profiteers, who often pose as
lawyers, have been around for decades, adjusting their schemes as immigration
laws change.

Law enforcement officials say that once immigrants are fleeced, many operators
close shop to move on to another part of the city or up the eastern seaboard to
cities with large immigrant populations. They frequently make $100,000 to
$200,000 a year. The few who have been caught rarely serve more than a few
months in jail.

"When we tell people that the doors are closed, that there is nothing we can do
for them, they often do not want to believe it," said Angela Divaris, a lawyer
for the Central American Refugee Center here. "The people who carry out this
fraud feed off of this desperation. They extract what are huge sums from these
immigrants, usually thousands of dollars, and by the time the victims realize
they have been cheated, the offices have shut down and the fraudulent lawyers
have vanished."

The bogus claims filed by these con artists often keep immigrants' legitimate
claims from being heard, Ms. Divaris said.

For all the money that Mr. Rosales and Ms. Martinez paid to Ms. Sapio, Ms.
Martinez said, late last year the I.N.S. deported him to Guatemala. Ms. Martinez
filed a consumer complaint and informed the district attorney's office, but Ms.
Sapio's immigration services office remains open.

Ms. Martinez, who makes $1,200 a month as a housekeeper at the Park Avenue
Extended Care Center in Long Beach, said she was still trying to pay the debt.

Although Ms. Martinez has receipts with Ms. Sapio's signature and canceled
checks paid to Ms. Sapio and her office totaling $3,460, Ms. Sapio said she
never received more than a few hundred dollars to accompany Mr. Rosales to the
I.N.S.

"She ran out of money, and we terminated our services because she could not
pay," Ms. Sapio said. "We did nothing illegal." She denied telling Ms. Martinez
she was a lawyer.

Ms. Martinez tells a different story. "When we complained, Sapio told us she
would call immigration and get us deported," said Ms. Martinez. "She first tried
to threaten me, but I have a green card. Then she tried to threaten my mother,
but she is a citizen. It did not work with my family, but I know it works with
many others."

The most common and effective ruse nowadays, according to advocates for
immigrants, is to promise to provide a work permit for $2,000. The bogus lawyer
fills out an application for asylum even though the client does not meet the
criteria. The I.N.S. issues a receipt acknowledging the application. Then the
con artist shows the immigrant the receipt as proof that things are moving
along.

"These people are shocked a few months later to get calls to appear for asylum
hearings," said Joyce Antila Phipps, a lawyer for El Centro Hispanoamericano, an
immigration service center in Plainfield, N.J.  "They did not know that they had
applied for asylum. Worse still, the story in the asylum application is usually
false. These so-called immigration practitioners use stock asylum stories. Only
the names are changed. When the cases come up most of their clients are ordered
deported."

Other immigrants are misled because they are not familiar with immigration law.
Salvador Cruz, 31, a Salvadoran who has been in the United States for 10 years,
went to a man he thought was a lawyer who had distributed fliers about an
opportunity to get residency after changes in immigration law.

"He told me it was 100 percent certain I would get a card and charged me
$1,300," Mr. Cruz said. "I brought my four brothers in to pay the same amount
and apply. We were all cheated out of our money." Immigration law is confusing,
but especially so to those who do not speak English. The I.N.S. often takes
months to publish new regulations and update application forms.

In addition, the 1997 Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, an
amnesty law known among many immigrants as "la ley de siete anos" -- the
seven-year law -- is not as straightforward as it appears.

The law offers amnesty, but the criteria differ depending on which Central
American country the immigrant is from. While all applicants must have
registered with the I.N.S. by 1991 to qualify, Cubans and Nicaraguans who
entered the United States illegally to flee left-wing governments are free from
deportation. But Salvadorans and Guatemalans must prove, for example, that they
have been here at least seven years, are of good moral character and would
suffer extreme hardship if they returned home.

Profiteers and bogus lawyers often assure clients that living in the country for
seven years is enough.

Last year, Blanca Moza, 41, a Salvadoran immigrant, consulted with Manuel
Herrera, who worked out of an office here. Mr. Herrera, whom she said she
thought was a lawyer, told her that she qualified for residency because she had
been here more than seven years. She paid him $1,289, and promised to pay
another $400 when she was permitted residency.

In July 1997, Ms. Moza said, she received a notice that she did not understand
from the I.N.S. She took it to Mr. Herrera, who told her that it meant she would
get her residency in six months, she said. "Last year I began to study English,"
she said. "I bought an electronic dictionary and slowly translated every word in
the I.N.S. document. I realized that the letter from the I.N.S. was a denial."

Ms. Moza later testified against Mr. Herrera when Nassau County prosecutors
charged him with fraud. He was convicted in December. He had made at least
$150,000 a year from cases like Ms. Moza's, according to Monica J. Hickey, the
assistant district attorney who prosecuted him. He was released after serving
three months in prison, and he could not be located.

While many immigrants are unfamiliar with the law, others face a significant
language barrier. Many of the profiteers are notaries public, which in the
United States allows them only to validate documents. But in Latin America, a
"notario" is also a licensed lawyer. Travel agencies in Spanish-speaking
neighborhoods sometimes play on this confusion. Large signs reading "Notario"
adorn storefront windows.

Hempstead is a center for the sale of forged green cards and other forms of
immigration fraud, I.N.S. officials said. In January, a raid here uncovered a
ring that had several hundred fake cards ready for sale. In a fraud and forgery
scheme, Clover Richards was arrested in her office here in January. Ms. Hickey,
who is also handling this case, said that Ms. Richards took thousands of dollars
from Jamaican immigrants by promising to file religious worker petitions for
them. She would take $3,000 to $12,000 a case, Ms. Hickey said, and has made at
least $250,000 since 1997.

Ms. Richards, the district attorney's office said, told immigrants to sign
applications that she later filled in. When the applications were denied, she
told her clients that they were approved and took more money for green card
applications, Ms. Hickey said. Ms. Richards had no comment on the case.

Advocates for immigrants say the profiteers often lurk around places where
immigrants congregate, for example in the fast-food restaurants across the
street from 26 Federal Plaza, where the immigration courts are.

One recent morning, immigrants filling out I.N.S. forms were lined up at
Everything OK Immigration Services Center in the basement of 311 Broadway. Signs
in Chinese, Spanish and English promised to replace "lost green cards" and
provide "I.N.S. lawyers." Employees handed out fliers listing various services
on one side and a $2.99 Chinese lunch special -- served in the same basement --
on the other. Outside, people who said they were lawyers and consultants offered
immigrants their services.

"You often see these fraudulent lawyers come up to immigrants outside Federal
Plaza and ask if they need an attorney or want help," said Ms. Divaris, the
refugee center lawyer.

Maria Cardona, an I.N.S. spokeswoman in Washington, said that the agency was
concerned about the reports of fraud. "The I.N.S. takes very seriously the
unscrupulous behavior of those who seek to benefit by exploiting vulnerable
immigrants who only seek to abide by the law," she said. "Going after these
criminals is one of the agency's priorities in our interior enforcement
strategy."

But immigration lawyers like Ms. Joyce and Ms. Divaris say that the I.N.S. has
done little to crack down on the activity. And district attorney's offices
rarely investigate the cases. Immigration advocates concede that it is due in
part to the reluctance of victims to speak to authorities. But they say it is
also because the bogus lawyers serve a useful function.

"We cannot get the I.N.S. to take these people seriously," Ms. Phipps of El
Centro Hispanoamericano said. "After all, they are locating illegal immigrants
and putting them into removal proceedings for the I.N.S."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 23, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Quieter Immigration Debate

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words


The politics of immigration, though less prominent than in 1996 when
anti-immigrant policies were ascendant in Congress, remain an important element
in this year's presidential campaigns. Over the last decade, for example,
California has registered one million new voters, most of them Hispanic. Next
year it is expected to become the first big state where ethnic and racial
minorities are the majority, a shift driven largely by new immigrants from Latin
America and Asia.

So it is no surprise that Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore are
making overtures to immigrant communities that may provide the swing vote in
California, Texas, Florida and New York. But they are doing so in an atmosphere
far calmer than in the mid-1990's, when immigrant-bashing was in vogue and Gov.
Pete Wilson of California pushed successfully for Proposition 187, which
prohibited illegal immigrants from attending public schools and getting social
services.

A few years of prosperity, a tight labor market and growing activism by
immigrant groups have forced a change in the political rhetoric. Increased
enforcement, including a recent doubling of the size of the border patrol, has
also tempered fears about an unlimited flow of illegal immigration. But there is
still a need to examine whether current policies adequately meet the demand for
skilled workers and humanitarian goals like family reunification.

Much of the debate in the 1990's focused unproductively on the size of legal
immigration. Whether the number of people allowed in is cut by 100,000 or
increased by 100,000 is not the most crucial question in a nation of 270
million. More important is whether and how the roughly 800,000 legal immigrants
who come annually can join the economic mainstream once they arrive. Some
immigration experts would welcome more skilled workers who can enrich the
economy through their talents and tax revenues. Others would reduce the
low-skilled immigrants whose presence helps drive down wages of low-skilled
native workers. Cutting the total number of unskilled immigrants would probably
mean reducing family-based immigration quotas, a change that would trouble
Hispanic and Asian Americans.

A more politically viable approach may be to increase visas for skilled workers
without cutting family quotas. Ultimately, reducing the impact on low-skilled
native workers means improving their education and skills, a priority that
should be met regardless of immigration policy.

Meanwhile, there are several important changes needed in existing laws that deny
basic legal protections to immigrants. In 1996, Congress made it harder for
asylum seekers to enter the United States. Congress also stripped the courts of
their power to review arbitrary decisions by immigration officers and mandated
the deportation of legal immigrants for even minor criminal offenses committed
decades ago. Immigrants whose countries refuse to take them back are now locked
up indefinitely in federal detention.

So far, the candidates have focused mostly on useful proposals to reform the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mr. Gore also supports legislation to
grant permanent residency to some 500,000 immigrants who have been in legal
limbo since the mid-1980's. But if Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore are concerned about
fairness, they should be pushing hard to repeal cruel laws that deny immigrants
due process of law, impose hardships on thousands of immigrant families and make
America less hospitable to asylum seekers fleeing persecution.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 2, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Price of Harshness

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service took Cyrus Atefi into custody one
year ago for deportation to Iran. I wrote about his case in February, thinking
that he would surely be free soon. But he remains locked up: a testament to the
harshness of the 1996 Immigration Act.

Mr. Atefi was eight months old when he came to this country from Iran with his
family in 1978. His father had been an official of Savak, the Shah's
intelligence agency, and they were given political asylum. His uncle stayed
behind and was tortured and executed by the Islamic regime.

As a teenager, after his parents were divorced, Mr. Atefi went wrong. He bought
some methamphetamines for himself and four friends and was convicted in the
California courts of possessing the drugs for sale. He was given a year on work
furlough, the lowest possible sentence, and was released after six months.

He started to put his life back together. But then came a mischance that could
have come out of fiction. His probation order forbade him to have a cellular
telephone -- but he bought one for his mother and kept the box. The box was
found in his apartment, and he was picked up and charged with violating
probation.

In the end the California courts did nothing about that; he was continued on
probation. But because his parole officer was on vacation, he was not released
until Oct. 21, 1998. That was 10 days after the 1996 Immigration Act made it
mandatory to detain aliens whom the I.N.S. decides to try to deport.

The 1996 law calls for deportation of any alien convicted of an "aggravated
felony." It defines that term extremely broadly. Mr. Atefi's drug offense,
though the California courts treated it lightly and he served only six months,
was an aggravated felony.

When the case came before an immigration judge, he ordered deportation to Iran
deferred because of the likelihood that Mr. Atefi would be tortured there. The
I.N.S. accepted that order, not appealing. But the judge refused to impose the
permanent bar sought by Mr. Atefi's lawyer, withholding of deportation, and he
appealed that to the Board of Immigration Appeals. The issue has not yet been
decided there.

Mr. Atefi has been held in an I.N.S. detention center in El Centro, Calif. His
mother, who lives in San Diego, drove two hours to visit him there every Sunday.

But late in the evening of Oct. 22 he was taken from his cell to a room where he
and 24 other detainees slept on the floor. The next day he was taken by bus, in
chains, to Yuma, Ariz., and from there by plane to the Yakima County Jail in
Washington State. I arranged for him to telephone me collect from there.

"I know the I.N.S. is running out of room," Mr. Atefi said. "But the convicted
criminals here at least have a release date. There's a 23-hour lockdown, and we
have nothing to do.

"I telephoned my mother. It was really horrible -- traumatic. At least in El
Centro she could see me."

Talking with Mr. Atefi was strange. He sounds wholly American, which is not
surprising considering that he has lived here all but eight months of his 22
years. He was restrained, well spoken. The thought of his being deported, to
Iran or anywhere, was odd. His mother, sister and brother have all become U.S.
citizens. He has used his time in detention to take courses for his high school
diploma. His behavior has been praised.

When I asked I.N.S. officials in Washington why Mr. Atefi had been moved to the
Yakima County Jail, they responded sympathetically. They ordered him returned to
El Centro today.

But the I.N.S. has been unbending in the face of appeals to release him on bond.
Its lawyers say they have no discretion to do so under the 1996 act. His
detention will not be reviewed, they say, until the Board of Immigration Appeals
acts on the case.

The 1996 immigration law, with its accordion-like definition of "aggravated
felony," requires the deportation of people who have overcome mistakes and are
ready to contribute to this country. In making their detention mandatory it
substitutes iron rigidity for the rule of reason. By such harsh treatment of
immigrants we citizens demean ourselves.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

House Panel Approves Plan to Replace I.N.S. With 2 Bureaus

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be abolished under legislation
approved today by a House subcommittee and would be replaced by separate bureaus
for services and enforcement of the nation's immigration laws.

The Clinton administration, Congressional Democrats and advocacy groups for
immigrants, which agree that the I.N.S. must be restructured, complained that
the proposal would create more confusion and shortchange the services
responsible for distributing citizenship and other immigration benefits.

But the chairman of the immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee said the measure, which is an amended version of a bill introduced in
July by Representatives Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky, and Silvestre
Reyes, Democrat of Texas, "eliminates the mission conflict and overload of the
current I.N.S."

"We are hearing from every part of the country that the I.N.S. has now edged out
the I.R.S. for the agency Americans most want reformed," said the chairman,
Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, citing the backlog of four
million applications for citizenship, green cards or other benefits.

The legislation was approved by voice vote after the subcommittee rejected a
substitute offered by Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, Democrat of Texas, that
is preferred by immigrant-rights groups and the administration. The vote
followed party lines.

Mr. Smith called the Democratic alternative a tepid try at reform.

Advocates for immigrants expressed surprise that Mr. Smith offered the amended
bill even as Attorney General Janet Reno and Mr. Rogers appeared within striking
distance of a compromise.

In a letter on Wednesday, the administration stated its "serious concerns" about
the amended bill.

The administration remains hopeful that consensus can be reached, Maria Cardona,
an I.N.S. spokeswoman, said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 23, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Janet Reno's Test

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Janet Reno has been an admirably independent attorney general. Where her record
is to be faulted is on civil liberties. Whether through inexperience or
insensitivity, she did not raise her voice against harsh provisions of the 1996
Immigration Act and other legislation.

Now Ms. Reno faces a pointed test of her commitment to a basic concept of due
process of law: the right of an accused person to see the evidence against him.
Two immigration courts have ordered the release of an alien imprisoned for three
and a half years on secret evidence charging him with connections to terrorism.
Ms. Reno will decide whether to accept those rulings or order his imprisonment
continued.

The prisoner is Nasser Ahmed, an Egyptian who seeks asylum in this country. The
facts of his case dramatically demonstrate the dangers of secret evidence.

When the Immigration and Naturalization Service first detained and sought to
deport Mr. Ahmed, in 1996, all it would tell him was that it had secret evidence
of his "association with a known terrorist organization." It would not name the
organization.

An immigration judge, Donn Livingston, found in 1997 that on the open record Mr.
Ahmed qualified for asylum. He was a critic of the Mubarak government in Egypt,
the judge said, and if returned there would be imprisoned and probably tortured.
But on the basis of the secret evidence presented to him, Judge Livingston found
that Mr. Ahmed could be considered a danger to U.S. national security and so
ruled against him.

Mr. Ahmed's lawyers went to federal court to challenge the process as
unconstitutional. The I.N.S. then suddenly gave them a fuller summary of the
charges. Later it supplied a declassified version of evidence that had been
given in secret.

Some of the material now produced should never have been classified in the first
place. One item, for example, was an unnamed F.B.I. agent's testimony that Mr.
Ahmed should be kept in prison because his release would make him "more well
known, lending to his credibility." The only reason to keep that outrageous
argument secret was that it would embarrass the government.

Because of the newly supplied material, the Board of Immigration Appeals sent
the case back to Judge Livingston for a further hearing. Mr. Ahmed was now able
to rebut the charges partly disclosed to him. Some related to his work in a
Brooklyn mosque for, and other associations with, Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the
Muslim cleric convicted of plotting to plant bombs in New York City.

One charge was that Mr. Ahmed had visited Mr. Abdel Rahman in prison and brought
out a letter that, when published, led to an attack by Muslim fundamentalists on
tourists in Egypt in 1996. Mr. Ahmed's lawyers showed that many others could
have brought the letter out and that in any event it had no connection with the
1996 attack.

Judge Livingston concluded after the new hearing that Mr. Ahmed was not a danger
to the national security. "Armed with a better understanding of the government's
case," he wrote, Mr. Ahmed "was successful in rebutting most of the factual
allegations." He warned against "the possibilities for abuse" in the use of
secret evidence.

The judge granted Mr. Ahmed's request for asylum, and then ordered him released
from detention while the I.N.S. appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
Last week the board upheld the latter order. It was only passing on the
temporary-detention issue -- but it had to have given some consideration to
national security, because the law bars release of anyone who is a threat to
national security.

A rarely used procedure allows the attorney general to overrule the appeals
board. The Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner, asked Attorney General
Reno to do so, setting aside the decision to release Mr. Ahmed and keeping him
in prison. The intention, it was said, was only to preserve the status quo.

Nasser Ahmed has already spent more than three years in solitary confinement. Is
that now the status quo? I thought freedom was -- and the right of anyone in
this country to confront his accusers.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 21, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

As More Are Deported, a '96 Law Faces Scrutiny

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1872 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Dec. 16


She prefers barbecued ribs to her mother's homemade lasagna. Her sons wear their
Yankees caps backward and spend afternoons shooting hoops at their local
schools. Her aunts, uncles, bothers, sisters and husband, a Rochester native,
all live in this western New York community, which she considers her hometown.

But after being repeatedly convicted of shoplifting a total of less than $500 in
goods -- items such as eyedrops, cigarettes and roll-on deodorant -- Maria
Wigent, 37, is being held in a county jail awaiting deportation next month to
Italy, a country where she has not been since she was 5.

"I am not a drug lord. I'm not a terrorist. I am just a housewife who got mixed
up and made a mistake," Mrs. Wigent said. "How can they just take me away from
my country, from my husband of 16 years, my sons and my friends? This is my
country. Italy is not."

Mrs. Wigent's predicament may seem extreme. But it has become so common in
recent years that even sponsors of a tough deportation law enacted by Congress
in 1996 are saying that the law -- or at least its enforcement -- is now too
tough.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service deported 62,359
immigrants with criminal records in the 1999 fiscal year. That is up 72 percent
since Congress expanded the types of crimes that can result in deportation,
including some nonviolent offenses such as felony shoplifting. The new law also
prohibits those convicted of so-called aggravated felonies from applying for
deportation waivers and it permits people to be deported even if they committed
their crimes decades ago and served their sentences.

"We are a just and fair nation and must strike a just and fair balance in our
immigration laws," said United States Representative Bill McCollum. The Florida
Republican was a co-sponsor of the 1996 legislation, but has sponsored one of
five recently introduced bills that would amend it. Added Representative Brian
P. Bilbray, a California Republican who was another co-sponsor of the 1996
legislation: "We have a responsibility to go in and do a little tweaking."

Urged on by Congress, the I.N.S. is preparing a new policy on how to handle
deportation cases involving less serious offenses, said Russell A. Bergeron Jr.,
a spokesman for the agency, although he said the agency preferred that Congress
revise the law. "We have been able to rid American society of some people I
don't think anyone would dispute should be removed from the country," Mr.
Bergeron said, noting that people convicted of murder and sexual abuse of
children have been among those deported. "But the 1996 act went too far in some
respects."

There are no solid estimates of how many immigrants convicted of less serious
crimes like Mrs. Wigent's are being deported each year, but there is agreement
by both supporters and opponents of the 1996 legislation that the number is at
least in the hundreds annually.

"You would never think you would get rearrested for something that you already
paid for," said Jose M. Valesquez, 52, a native of Panama, who served three
years' probation after being convicted in 1980 of conspiracy with the intent to
distribute narcotics. Mr. Valesquez was detained by the I.N.S. after returning
from a visit to his mother in Panama last December, and is free on bond while
awaiting a deportation hearing. He acknowledges that he used drugs 20 years ago,
but says he never sold drugs and has since lived a law-abiding life as a
suburban Philadelphia deli owner.

Mrs. Wigent's case has captured widespread attention in Rochester, a city with a
large Italian immigrant community. She, her brother and two sisters and parents
came to the United States in 1968. Most of her aunts, uncles and cousins have
also left their native city of Albi behind. Francesco Gaglianese, 68, and Anna
Gaglianese, 58, Mrs. Wigent's parents, still speak Italian in their modest,
two-story home. But the family has integrated into their adopted community, with
her father, who is retired, spending 31 years as a laborer building homes. Her
mother was a school custodian.

Mrs. Wigent, who dropped out of high school, married a short-order cook from
Rochester, Larry Wigent, when she was 21. Two sons soon followed, Larry Wigent
Jr., now 15, and Louis Wigent, 14. Her husband and two sons are United States
citizens. Mrs. Wigent said she mistakenly believed that by marrying a citizen,
she became one too.

Her trouble began in October 1994, when Mrs. Wigent, who had been working in
fast-food restaurants and clothing stores, began a shoplifting spree. On 17
occasions, she was arrested on charges of petty larceny or attempted petty
larceny, generally after being caught with inexpensive items such as cigarettes,
court records say. She pleaded guilty each time, paying small fines. The
convictions made her vulnerable to deportation in 1998, when upon the advice of
a public defender, she said, she pleaded guilty to her two final larceny charges
and a probation violation and was given a two-year jail sentence. That
conviction fell under the 1996 law's definition of an aggravated felony, which
applies to a range a crimes from murder to theft.

A Rochester psychologist diagnosed Mrs. Wigent last month as suffering from
impulse-control disorder, commonly known as kleptomania, court records show.
Mrs. Wigent and her family do not dispute she deserves punishment for the
shoplifting offenses. But deporting her to Italy, they said, is too extreme. Her
family hired a new lawyer, who asked a Rochester judge to vacate Mrs. Wigent's
most recent convictions, arguing that the public defender had an obligation to
inform her that a guilty plea could result in deportation. The request was
denied, and Mrs. Wigent is scheduled to be deported Jan. 13.

The prospect of being sent to Italy -- without the right ever to return --
terrifies Mrs. Wigent, who cannot read or write Italian. In a recent interview
at a county jail in Wyoming, N.Y., she said she knew of only one relative there,
an elderly aunt in Rome. "Sometimes I feel like I am in a dream and someone
needs to wake me up," Mrs. Wigent said. "How can they take my life away from
me?"

A petition drive has started in Rochester, and a local newspaper columnist has
taken up her cause. Her lawyer, Jeffrey M. Jayson, is appealing the Rochester
judge's ruling. To compound Mrs. Wigent's difficulties, her husband, Larry, was
charged on Dec. 10 with criminal possession of a controlled substance.  He is in
Monroe County Jail, a spokeswoman at the jail said, and her sons are living with
her parents. wondering just what will happen if their mother is sent away for
good.  "I thought she would always be here," Louis Wigent said.

While Mrs. Wigent waits for her fate to be decided, others like her are already
back in their native lands. There is Tony El-Dib, 35, of Manhattan, deported to
his native Lebanon last month, after a 1998 bank-fraud conviction. Sergio A.
Sandoval, 38, was dropped off in a border town in Mexico on Dec. 1. He and his
family left their native Mexico in 1964, moving to California. His deportation
came after he served a 30-month sentence in Nevada for driving under the
influence, his third alcohol-related driving offense. None resulted in an
accident or injury. "I am only really about 10 minutes away from the border, but
it feels like a million miles," said Mr. Sandoval, a marine veteran.

The deportation of Mr. Sandoval and hundreds of others like him has heightened
opposition to the 1996 legislation. A woman in Mesquite, Texas, whose husband
served three years in jail after being convicted of possession of amphetamines
in 1989 and who now faces deportation to Canada, has formed a group called
Citizens and Immigrants for Equal Justice. It started with five families; today
there are about 500 families in 26 states, the Mesquite woman, Laurie Kozuba,
said. "There are too many families out there that just cannot survive without
some relief coming soon," she said.

National organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the
National Immigration Forum and the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
have taken up the cause. Last summer, they initiated a "Fix '96" campaign
calling for amendments to the law. Among other changes, the amendments would
allow immigrants convicted of less serious crimes to apply for deportation
waivers.

Five bills are pending in the House of Representatives and two in the Senate
calling for changes in the 1996 immigration law. The first, introduced in April
by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, has 74 co-sponsors,
including six Republicans. It would allow long-term legal immigrants to seek a
waiver to a deportation order.

Like Mr. Frank's bill, Mr. McCollum's proposal, introduced in October, would
allow certain people who were deported but not convicted of serious violent
crimes to apply for reentry to the United States. Mr. McCollum developed his
plan after he asked Congress to grant special relief to Robert A. Broley, the
son of the former Republican Party treasurer in Orange County, Fla., who was
deported to Canada last year after he was convicted of felony theft and fraud
charges. If either bill becomes law, it could provide relief to Mrs. Wigent and
others.

These bills, along with two others in the House, have been referred to a House
Judiciary Committee panel headed by Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas
Republican who was the House sponsor of the 1996 legislation. Mr. Smith agrees
that the law has, at times, been enforced unfairly. He helped draft a letter
sent last month to Attorney General Janet Reno, signed by 28 Republicans and
Democrats, noting that "there has been widespread agreement that some
deportations were unfair and resulted in unjustified hardship."

But Mr. Smith is opposed to amending the law, maintaining that the Department of
Justice and the Immigration and Naturalization Service can address the problem
by choosing not to deport immigrants convicted of less-serious crimes.

"Prosecutors across the U.S. make decisions every day about who they will
prosecute," Mr. Smith said.

Mr. Bergeron, the Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman, said that
his agency would much prefer that Congress modify the law. But the immigration
service is preparing a policy that would establish guidelines for its 33
district offices and other entry points into the United States detailing what
kinds of cases its staff could choose under certain circumstances not to pursue.

"If we are left with no other alternative," the agency would likely put such a
policy into effect, Mr. Bergeron said.

Immigration advocates also object to merely making an administrative change,
noting that legal immigrants with relatively minor criminal convictions could
never be assured that they would not suddenly be subject to a deportation
proceeding.

But immigration advocates and families of those facing deportation are
encouraged that the debate has at least started in Washington. "It is far from a
done deal, but some of the right ingredients are there," said Angela Kelley,
deputy director of the National Immigration Forum. "There is an unmistakable
smell in the air of the need for change."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Wigent, in a county jail in Wyoming, N.Y., is facing
deportation to Italy next month after committing a series of shoplifting crimes.
(Phil Matt for The New York Times)

Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Rising Deportations"
The number of immigrants who were deported after being convicted of a criminal
offense has risen dramatically in recent years. The first graph shows the
amounts of immigrants being deported since 1993. The second graph shows the
causes for deportation
Drug possession or drug dealing -- 47%
Violation of immigration law -- 13
Assault -- 6
Burglary -- 5
Robbery -- 3
Larceny -- 3
Traffic offense -- 3
Weapons offense -- 3
Sexual assault -- 2
Stolen vehicles -- 2
Other crimes -- 13

(Source: United States Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg.B6)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Opens Way for Deportation Appeals

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 27


Legal immigrants can go to court to challenge the government's effort to deport
them for past crimes, a federal appeals court ruled today.

A recent federal law reduced judicial review of deportation, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit said; it did not eliminate it.

The court also held out hope to immigrants who pleaded guilty to certain crimes,
like drug crimes, that became grounds for mandatory deportation under a 1996
federal law.  Those immigrants may still be eligible to remain in the United
States under a procedure called a waiver of deportation, which allows longtime
legal residents to stay if they have close family ties to this country and are
rehabilitated, the court said.

Such immigrants must persuade a federal judge that they would not have pleaded
guilty had they known the effect of the later law.

The new law makes noncitizens automatically deportable for a variety of crimes,
including virtually all drug crimes, and says they cannot appeal deportation in
federal court. It also says they are ineligible for waivers of deportation.

But the appeals court ruled the law did not eliminate the right of habeas
corpus, which allows residents to seek release from unconstitutional detention.
Most appeals courts have reached the same conclusion.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Private Meeting Is Planned For Boy and Grandmothers

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1043 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25


Threatened with an order from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Elian
Gonzalez's Miami relatives agreed today to let 6-year-old Elian meet his Cuban
grandmothers privately on Wednesday at a neutral place outside the family's
house.

The decision came after immigration officials ratcheted up the pressure on the
family, warning them in a letter that if they did not agree to a meeting on
neutral ground the agency could revoke Elian's "parole," or his temporary
permission to remain in this country.

The grandmothers will meet Elian at 4 p.m. at the home of Sister Jeanne
O'Laughlin, the president of Barry University and a nun belonging to the
Dominican order.

"We have reiterated that the grandmothers will not be able to take him with them
at this time," said Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman. She added
that the immigration agency's demand for a meeting was not negotiable.

Another Justice Department official said that the family "needed to understand
the seriousness" of the meeting, which is why the agency's letter was sternly
worded.

The administration's decisions on how to deal with the case have been made
within the Justice Department by Attorney General Janet Reno and Doris Meissner,
the immigration commissioner, officials said.

"It's been mostly those two," said a senior Justice Department official,
asserting that the White House had not been involved directly in decision-making
in the case. "We have kept them informed," said the official, speaking on
condition of anonymity. "But we haven't sought or received any input from them."

On Capitol Hill, Elian's grandmothers delivered pleas today to sympathetic
lawmakers, who vowed to block legislation in the House and Senate to make Elian
an American citizen. Outraged Senate Democrats pledged to filibuster the Senate
bill if it reached the floor, which could happen as early as next week.

President Clinton jumped into the fray, urging Congress to hold off on
legislation until the legal challenge is complete. Mr. Clinton also held out the
possibility that he would veto the citizenship measure if it clears Congress.
"Plainly," Mr. Clinton said, "he would have more economic opportunity in this
country, but all the evidence indicates that his father genuinely loved him."

Elian's great-uncle in Miami, Lazaro Gonzalez, has sued the federal government
to block the boy's return to his father, arguing that sending him back to Cuba
is tantamount to child abuse. Elian's mother and 10 others died when their
makeshift boat capsized. Elian was picked up as he drifted on an inner tube on
Thanksgiving Day.

By making Elian a citizen, lawmakers said they hope to remove the immigration
complications from the case, including the federal lawsuit, and focus it solely
on the custody issue. A second bill that would make him a permanent resident is
also expected to be taken up by the House.

But Mr. Clinton expressed concern today that Congress's action may set a hasty,
complex precedent that has not been thoroughly analyzed. "I mean this sort of
thing could happen again because you have so many people coming to our shores
from all these different countries," he said.

Several sympathetic members of Congress, pledging to derail the legislation,
traveled to Capitol Hill despite today's snowstorm and met with Elian's
grandmothers, who camed bundled up in new winter coats and boots.

The grandmothers, who dabbed at their eyes with balled-up tissue, said they had
been unable to see their grandson on Monday after their request for a neutral
meeting place was declined by their Miami relatives. The women said Mr.
Gonzalez's home in the Little Havana neighborhood of Miami, which has been
ringed by Cuban-American Castro foes day and night, would be too fiery a
location.

"We asked to have a neutral gathering with just the child," said Mariela
Quintana, the boy's paternal grandmother, following a meeting with
Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, a Texas Democrat who sits on the immigration
subcommittee. "But they didn't accept that. They want to have this in their
house, full of people, and with a party. I'm not up to a party. I just want to
see my grandchild alone."

Raquel Rodriguez said she did not want to see Elian's Miami relatives. "They
have offended me on the phone, they have offended me on television," she said.

Mr. Gonzalez has said he invited the grandmothers to visit Elian in his home so
the women could see where Elian lives and see that he is loved.

Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat and a longtime advocate for
lifting the economic embargo against Cuba, decried the citizenship legislation,
calling it "pathetic." And he, along with several other Democrats and one
Republican, Senator Chuck Hagel, an influential Nebraska Republican, said they
hope to convince lawmakers not to offer the bill.

"This boy ought to go home and be with his father," Mr. Dodd said. "It is
shameful we're allowing it to become a national debate."

Mr. Hagel called the conversation with the grandmothers "revealing" and added
that he would speak with Senator Trent Lott, the Republican majority leader from
Mississippi, to convince him to abandon plans to bring the legislation to the
floor.

"It's obvious to me that this was not a woman fleeing from a tyrannical regime
that was oppressing her and her family and her 6-year-old boy," Mr. Hagel said,
noting the grandmothers' earlier assertions that Elian's mother was forced to
take the boat by Elian's stepfather.

Representatives Jose E. Serrano, a New York Democrat, and Jim McGovern, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said they would ask Mr. Clinton to veto the bill.

Gauging support in Congress is difficult at this point, with lawmakers on both
sides of the issue saying they expect a messy fight. "I don't have illusions
that this is a slam dunk," said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida
Republican who has introduced one of the bills.

Republicans in Congress and on the campaign trail have embraced the decision on
Elian's future, turning the diplomatic tug-of-war into an opportunity to vilify
Fidel Castro and communism. But some conservative Republicans said they object
to dividing a father and son and are not expected to support the bill.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee of Texas, who sits on the
immigration subcommittee, with Raquel Rodriguez, left, and Mariela Quintana.
(Shana Raab for The New York Times)




                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Officer In Miami Accused Of Spying for Cuba

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 18


A high-ranking United States immigration official was charged in federal court
today with spying for the Cuban government, after federal officials said he was
caught in an elaborate sting passing on what he thought was classified
information about a Cuban's plan to defect to the United States.

The man, Mariano M. Faget, who was born in Havana and left Cuba in his teens, is
a senior official in the Miami field office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Mr. Faget, who is 54, was arrested here late Thursday.
The immigration service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation say they caught
him last week passing along to an otherwise unidentified "Cuban-born New York
businessman" false information they had fed him about a Cuban intelligence
agent's plan to defect to the United States.

Mr. Faget was charged with violations of the Espionage Act and lying to federal
agents.

The Cuban Interests Section in Washington, in a statement, denied the
allegations.

Private individuals have been convicted of spying for Cuba, but federal
officials said they knew of no prior instance of the arrest of an American
government official.

"I've been here for 24 years," said Terry Nelson, an F.B.I. spokesman, "and I
can't recall ever arresting a government official -- especially an official with
such access to immigrant records."

As section chief for adjudications and the third-ranking officer in the Miami
office, Mr. Faget (pronounced fah-HAY) had access to classified files and the
authority to treat applications for political asylum. Thus, he was in a position
to tell Havana of the plans of Cuban nationals to defect and subject them to
retaliation.

The investigation is continuing and officials said they did not know of
defections Mr. Faget might have blocked. "It's too early to tell if he did any
damage or what kind of damage he did," said Carlos Zaldivar, a lawyer in the
Miami office of the F.B.I.

Mr. Faget, who was scheduled to retire in March, made a telephone call, recorded
by the F.B.I., on Feb. 14 to the New York businessman, then visiting Beijing. In
the call, Mr. Faget said he had nothing new to report about the Cuban spy.

In an affidavit filed with the charges against Mr. Faget, Joe Franklin, an agent
for the F.B.I. in Miami, wrote: "The businessman concluded the call by asking
Faget, 'You're still not leaving until next month, right?' Faget answered,
'Until next month. Yes. We have time.' "

The arrest is likely to stir the pot of Cuban-American relations, already
boiling because of the custody battle over 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez, who
survived his mother's drowning when she fled Cuba with him in November. Elian's
relatives here are fighting in court for custody against the wishes of his
father in Cuba.

"When I found out about this, I laughed," said Jose Basulto, president of
Brothers to the Rescue, a Cuban exile group that supports the relatives. "I'm
sure there are many more spies out there, hundreds, even thousands. This should
really come in handy for Elian's situation."

In the statement today, the Cuban Interests Section called the allegations "a
colossal and false slander," and said, "We are sure that it is no coincidence
that these false accusations are surfacing during a critical moment for the
return of little Elian to his father."

The cases are unrelated and investigation of Mr. Faget began more than a year
ago, officials said. Maria Cardona, a spokeswoman for the immigration service,
said Mr. Faget "has never been involved in the Elian Gonzalez case."

At a news conference here and in a court affidavit, immigration and F.B.I.
officials and the United States attorney, Thomas E. Scott, described a year of
investigating Mr. Faget after suspicions were raised by a routine investigation.

Last year, investigators say, they observed Mr. Faget meeting with a Cuban
intelligence officer for 90 minutes at Pitchers Bar in the Miami Marriott Hotel
and with a second officer for two hours in a secluded area of the lobby of the
Hilton Hotel in Miami. Mr. Faget never disclosed the meetings to his superiors,
the investigators reported. He was also not authorized to meet the agents on
immigration service business, but the government did not report whether the men
discussed immigration matters.

If found guilty on all the charges, he faces at least 10 years in prison and a
$250,000 fine. Mr. Faget, who is being held in the Federal Detention Center
here, could not be reached for comment, and no one answered the phone at his
home. A woman at the office of his lawyer, Joel Kaplan, said Mr. Kaplan was
unavailable.

Mr. Faget spent 34 years with the immigration service, climbing the ranks from
an entry-level clerical job. In 1971, official records show, he married Pitty
Sanchez, who is also called Maria and is 52. To all appearances, they live
modestly in a white, two-story tract house in the Amaretto subdivision in
Kendall, southwest of Miami.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mariano M. Faget (Reuters)(pg. A12)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

ABROAD AT HOME;
No Second Chance

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Amando Baptiste was brought to this country at the age of 9 from Cape Verde, the
island republic off the west coast of Africa. As a teenager in Boston, which has
a community of people from Cape Verde, he joined a gang and mixed in gang
fights. He was convicted of assault.

He was on probation and on the run a year ago when he was reached by a highly
regarded Boston program to deal with youth violence. A priest, the Rev. Filipe
Teixeira, told him he would get support from the program if he went straight.

Mr. Baptiste, by then 24 years old, accepted the offer. He became a key figure
in turning other young people in the Cape Verdean community away from violence,
visiting homes and doing community service. He stuck to strict curfew rules.

Three days ago Mr. Baptiste was picked up and jailed by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Because of his past trouble with the law, he is
deportable under the 1996 Immigration Act.

Father Teixeira deplored the arrest for deportation. "This kid is a star," he
told Charles Radin of The Boston Globe. "Everyone admires what he has been
doing."

There is concern in the Cape Verdean community that other young people who have
been in trouble will see this as a sign that you lose by going straight. The
Boston program, which has cut gang violence in the city sharply, has been
especially successful in that community, among other things reducing shootings
from dozens in 1998 to near zero now.

Larry Mayes of the Ella J. Baker settlement house, who has played a large part
in the program, called the arrest a big mistake. "I'm not saying the whole
immigration law is wrong," he said. "But there's got to be some give and take.
You have to think about the community interest."

The 1996 Immigration Act does not have what Mr. Mayes called give and take. It
does not allow immigration judges to consider whether someone has reformed and
is making a social contribution. It calls flatly for the deportation of lawfully
admitted immigrants who have been convicted of any of a long list of crimes --
ones as trivial as pulling a woman's hair.

Another current example, on the other side of the country, is the case of Emma
Hay of Puyallup, Wash. She came to the U.S. from Mexico 25 years ago, at the age
of 14. She has four children, all U.S. citizens.

In 1990 a cousin was visiting her. He got a telephone call. Saying that his
English was too bad, he asked Ms. Hay to tell the caller that "I can't help him
today, I'll help him tomorrow." She did.

The caller, it turned out, was an undercover federal drug agent. Ms. Hay was
charged with "use of a communication facility to facilitate the distribution of
cocaine." On the advice of her lawyer, Erik Bauer, she pleaded guilty and
cooperated fully. Mr. Bauer says the prosecutor promised to recommend that she
not be imprisoned or deported. The judge sentenced her to probation.

Last summer Ms. Hay went to Italy with her fiance to visit his grandmother. When
they flew back to New York in September, she was arrested by I.N.S. officers.
Her 1992 guilty plea, they told her, made her deportable under the 1996 act --
which is retroactive.

Ms. Hay was sent to an I.N.S. detention center in Louisiana, and there she
remains. Her children and her lawyer are in Washington State. A 20-year-old
daughter, Vanessa, has dropped out of college to get a job and support the
family.

Detention is automatic under the 1996 act. The place of detention is at the
discretion of the I.N.S., and keeping Ms. Hay thousands of miles from her family
seems a particular, and unnecessary, cruelty.

Those two cases illustrate what seems to me a fundamental flaw in the 1996
Immigration Act. It sets out to eliminate all judgment, all weighing of
individual factors, making deportation automatic. But as countless cases show by
now -- more than I or anyone can describe -- that approach leads to inhumanity.

A number of congressmen have proposed amendments to make the 1996 act more
flexible. And the I.N.S. itself believes that change is necessary. A spokesman,
Bill Strassburger, said: "We feel there needs to be more discretion available to
immigration judges when they review cases. Waivers -- based on the crime
committed, how long they've been here, what kind of behavior they've had since,
hardship on families -- can't be considered now."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

U.S. Expels Cuban Diplomat Who Is Linked to Spy Case

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19


The United States today ordered the expulsion of a Cuban diplomat linked to an
American immigration official charged on Friday with spying for the Cuban
government.

James Foley, a State Department spokesman, said that the diplomat, whom he did
not identify, had been given seven days to leave the United States for
activities "incompatible with his diplomatic status."

Mr. Foley said that Felix Wilson, the acting head of the Cuban interests section
-- an embassy in all but name -- was summoned to the State Department by Charles
Shapiro, the coordinator of Cuban affairs, and told of the expulsion order.

When expulsions like this are made, the country whose diplomat has been ejected
usually retaliates with its own expulsion. Asked about the likelihood of such a
reprisal, Mr. Foley said: "We don't see any grounds for that. Our diplomats are
operating in an open and acceptable manner."

But a spokesman for the Cuban interests section, Luis Fernandez, said in an
interview outside the gate of the building in northwest Washington where the
section is housed: "It depends. They need to convince our government that they
have proof."

Mr. Foley declined to identify the expelled diplomat. "He is making arrangements
to depart and it doesn't serve any interests to identify him," he said.

An American official said that Mr. Wilson had maintained that the expulsion was
groundless but that Cuba would comply.

Although the United States and Cuba do not have formal diplomatic relations,
they are represented in each other's country by an interests section under the
flag of another country, in this case Switzerland. It is a sort of intermediate
diplomatic severance. In the cases of Iran or Serbia, for example, the United
States does not even have an interests section.

The American charged with spying, Mariano M. Faget, is a senior official in the
Miami office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He was born in
Havana and left Cuba for the United States as a teenager.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation said it arrested him late Thursday after he
was caught passing to a Cuban-born New York businessman false information that
American officials had fed him about a Cuban intelligence agent's plan to defect
to the United States.

Mr. Faget's arrest further complicated Cuban-American relations already strained
by the custody battle over Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old boy who survived his
mother's drowning when she fled Cuba with him in November. Elian's relatives in
Florida are trying to retain custody of the child over the objections of his
father in Cuba.

At the Cuba mission today, Mr.  Fernandez, the spokesman, said: "This is a very
dirty maneuver to try to create a smoke screen." He was referring, he said, to
the Elian case.

When asked whether he knew Mr. Faget, Mr. Fernandez said he did not but that the
interests section might have. "We are in contact with many persons," he said.

As to whether the expulsion would hurt relations between the two countries, Mr.
Fernandez said, "This is a very traumatic situation."

Relations between Cuba and the United States have generally improved in recent
years after the setbacks brought on by the rise of Fidel Castro.

But in August 1996, Cuba expelled Robin Meyer, a United States diplomat with the
political-economic section of the American interests section in Havana.

Ms. Meyer had worked in Cuba for two years, tracking dissident groups, meeting
openly with their members and delivering them messages of moral support from the
United States. Cuba charged then that Ms. Meyer had carried out activities
incompatible with her diplomatic status.

In response, the United States expelled Jose Luis Ponce, the Cuban interests
section's spokesman in Washington.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2000, Monday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the expulsion of a Cuban
diplomat in Washington referred incorrectly in some copies to the site of an
interview with a spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section -- nominally part of
the Swiss Embassy -- who said, "They need to convince our government that they
have proof." The interview took place outside the gate of the interests section,
not at the embassy, which is in a different location.



                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
I.N.S. Official Indicted In Cuban Spy Scandal

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 4


A United States immigration official has been indicted on charges of handing
over secrets to a Cuban citizen and lying about contact with Cuban government
officials.

The official, Mariano Faget, a supervisor in the Miami office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, has been jailed without bond since his arrest on
Feb. 17 and faces arraignment on Monday.

The case led to the expulsion from the United States of a Cuban diplomat, Jose
Imperatori.

In the federal indictment on Friday, Mr. Faget was charged with communicating
national defense secrets, converting classified information to his own use and
three counts of making false statements.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 18, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'Cases That Cry Out'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, is a principal author of the
1996 Immigration Act. He acknowledges now that it has had some unduly harsh
consequences, as in the case of the woman targeted for deportation because she
was convicted of pulling another woman's hair. But he would like officials to
handle those cases administratively rather than have Congress amend the act.

"I think hardship cases are in the hundreds, not the thousands," Mr. Smith said
when we talked the other day. "But I know they are there, and I don't think
those individuals should be deported."

The 1996 act calls for the deportation of aliens here legally as permanent
residents if they have committed any of a long list of crimes, even before the
act was passed. People who were brought here as infants and have lived here for
20 years or more have suddenly found themselves deported to a country they do
not know.

Representative Smith suggested two ways for the government to stop deportations
that, though required by the statute, would be inhumane.

First, he called for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to exercise
prosecutorial discretion in hardship cases. That is, immigration officials would
simply decline to proceed with a deportation case.

Over the last several months the I.N.S. has been drafting guidelines for the
exercise of prosecutorial discretion. Officials said they should be issued soon.

But the I.N.S. argues that it would be far better to have immigration judges
formally lift deportation orders after a hearing, as was done before 1996. They
warn that merely exercising prosecutorial discretion would leave the alien in a
legal limbo, still technically deportable and perhaps barred from re-entering
the country if she goes abroad.

Asked about that, Mr. Smith said the I.N.S. could deal with the problem by
flagging on its computers the name of anyone for whom discretion had been
exercised. Then officials at the border would know not to touch that person.

Second, Mr. Smith proposed that the attorney general use a provision of
immigration law that allows her to "parole" aliens into the country for "urgent
humanitarian reasons." Parole, he argued, could be used to prevent deportation
as well as to allow entry. He wrote Attorney General Janet Reno about that idea
on March 1.

"The Justice Department or I.N.S. could assign one staff member to look at these
cases for parole," Mr. Smith said. "He could probably handle 10 cases a day."

I was struck by how Representative Smith wanted officials to apply the law in an
expansive way. In some cases I.N.S. officials have used the law relentlessly,
insisting on the deportation of individuals for minor infractions.

"The government can always do what it wants to do in hardship cases," the
Congressman said. "We should not let the letter of the law get in the way of the
spirit."

Public attention to harsh consequences of the 1996 act has been growing.
Newspapers and broadcasters around the country have told the stories of people
caught up in the deportation provisions for minor misdeeds committed long ago.
As a result, members of Congress have introduced a number of bills to amend the
statute.

One bill, H.R. 1485, has 76 co-sponsors. It would provide a hearing for aliens
to seek relief from deportation if they were convicted of crimes but sentenced
to less than five years in prison.

Mr. Smith, who is chairman of the House Immigration Subcommittee, said he would
not move on that bill until he heard from Attorney General Reno on his parole
idea. He is hesitant to amend the 1996 act, he said, because loopholes might be
created that let criminal aliens "stall deportation indefinitely."

"I acknowledge that there are humanitarian cases," he said. "I don't want to see
them treated harshly. But I would handle them on a case-by-case basis."

He also said that a large number of "hardened criminal" aliens were "still
slipping through the cracks" and not being deported. "Why not use your resources
on them?" he asked. "Why are they spending their time on cases that cry out for
compassion? They'll never be able to persuade me that they can't do that."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk Section A; Page 20; Column
4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 132 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis (column, March 18) reports that Representative Lamar Smith told
Attorney General Janet Reno, "We should not let the letter of the law get in the
way of the spirit," referring to the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act, which Mr. Smith wrote.

How can the principal author of a law say, with any intellectual honesty, that
those charged with enforcing his law should follow the "spirit," not the
"letter," when he is himself responsible for the letter? Mr. Smith and his staff
wrote the act to be as anti-immigrant as possible, both in the letter and the
spirit.

This is what he wanted, and this is what he got. If he is now unhappy, he should
allow the act to be amended.

JACOB REMES
New Haven, March 20, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 132 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis (column, March 18) reports that Representative Lamar Smith told
Attorney General Janet Reno, "We should not let the letter of the law get in the
way of the spirit," referring to the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act, which Mr. Smith wrote.

How can the principal author of a law say, with any intellectual honesty, that
those charged with enforcing his law should follow the "spirit," not the
"letter," when he is himself responsible for the letter? Mr. Smith and his staff
wrote the act to be as anti-immigrant as possible, both in the letter and the
spirit.

This is what he wanted, and this is what he got. If he is now unhappy, he should
allow the act to be amended.

JACOB REMES
New Haven, March 20, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

GORE SUPPORTING RESIDENCY STATUS FOR CUBAN CHILD

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30


Breaking from administration policy on a highly volatile issue, Vice President
Al Gore said today that 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez and several family members
should be given permanent residency status in the United States.

Mr. Gore's statement seemed to take some officials in the Clinton administration
by surprise, coming as it did in the midst of negotiations between immigration
officials, who want to return the boy to his father in Cuba, and relatives who
have been caring for him in Miami.

Today, the government agreed to extend until at least next Tuesday the
relatives' temporary custody of the boy.

In his statement, Mr. Gore said he was supporting legislation sponsored by
Senators Bob Graham, Connie Mack and Robert C. Smith that would allow Elian to
stay in the United States while his case is adjudicated in family court.

If the court decided that he should be with his father, Elian would return to
Cuba. But when he reached adulthood he could then decide, Cuba willing, to
return to the United States, where he would resume permanent residency status. A
step short of citizenship, that status denies a person voting rights, the
ability to serve on a jury and access to certain public assistance. It also
makes him subject to deportation if he commits a crime.

Legislation is necessary in this case because the law generally requires a
person to live in the United States for five years before becoming eligible to
apply for permanent residency.

"From the very beginning, I have said that Elian Gonzalez's case is at heart a
custody matter," Mr. Gore said in the statement. "It is a matter that should be
decided by courts that have the experience and expertise to resolve custody
cases, with due process, and based on Elian's best interests.

"It now appears that our immigration laws may not be broad enough to allow for
such an approach in Elian's case. That is why I am urging Congress to
immediately pass legislation that is being sponsored by Senators Bob Graham and
Bob Smith, which would grant permanent resident status to Elian, his father,
stepmother, half-brother, grandmothers and grandfather, so that this case can be
adjudicated properly."

Mr. Gore's statement marks his strongest breach yet with the administration and
comes as Cuban exiles and officials in Miami are threatening massive protests if
the administration sends the boy back to Cuba.

Advisers to Mr. Gore said his statement stemmed logically from his earlier
position that the matter should be treated as a custody case.

But it stunned several members of his own party, including some in the
administration, who said they could not fathom his timing or his reasoning. "Oh,
my God, it's unbelievable!" one administration official blurted out in a private
conversation.

Among the most vocal about her surprise was Representative Maxine Waters, a
liberal California Democrat, who said that Mr. Gore's position was making her
reconsider her support for his presidential bid.

The legislation was introduced on Wednesday by Mr. Graham, a Florida Democrat
and an oft-mentioned vice-presidential possibility for Mr. Gore, and by Mr.
Mack, Republican of Florida. Mr. Smith, Republican of New Hampshire, who met
with the boy earlier, said Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, had
indicated to them that the Senate might be reluctant to support citizenship for
Elian, as Mr. Graham and Mr. Smith had proposed earlier, but that lawmakers
might be amenable to this proposal for permanent residency.

Still, Mr. Lott could not be reached for comment and there was no indication of
the prospects of such a bill or whether the majority leader would allow it to
the floor.

In the House, a similar measure has been introduced by Representative Robert
Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the only other state with a significant Cuban
population. Mr. Menendez's bill would give permanent residency status only to
Elian, not to his relatives. Prospects for passage in the House are uncertain.

Mr. Gore's statement, the most definitive he has made in the case, is certain to
appeal to Florida's 800,000 Cuban-Americans, who could swing the electorate in
November in the nation's fourth-largest state.

And it brings Mr. Gore into line with the position outlined in January by Gov.
George W. Bush of Texas, his Republican rival for the presidency, who said then
that he supported citizenship for Elian.

"I'm glad the vice president now supports legal residency for Elian Gonzalez,"
Mr. Bush said today. "I wish he could convince the rest of the administration of
the wisdom of that approach."

Still, many Democrats said they were surprised. Ms. Waters said in an interview:
"I was totally blindsided. The calculation doesn't make sense. If Gore did it
because he's trying to get the anti-Castro Cubans, first of all, they're not
going to vote for him anyway. These are Republicans. And number two, the last
polls I saw a month ago showed the American public is on the side of sending
Elian back to his father."

Senator Graham said that Mr. Gore had indicated all along that he wanted the
matter treated as a custody case and that what was new was his support for
permanent residency status. Mr. Graham said that if the family court determined
that Elian should be with his father in Cuba -- and the prevailing presumption
in the United States is that a child generally belongs with a biological parent
-- he and the vice president would support returning the boy to Cuba until he
reached adulthood.

"I would support that position and I think the vice president would," Mr. Graham
said.

Mr. Graham, who said the Senate had taken the first steps toward petitioning the
majority to bring his bill to the floor, added, "The purpose of this legislation
is to try to be a channel to move this case from an I.N.S. asylum case to a
family court."

That was the purpose behind Mr. Gore's statement, his aides said. "This was the
only way to vindicate the principle, that this should be decided in a court that
deals with custody cases," a top adviser said. Contrary to some suggestions, he
added, Mr. Gore's action may have the effect of calming the people of Miami
rather than stirring them up.

But he definitely stirred up Washington, including some on his own staff. "This
was not something that was discussed, chewed over and thought out for a long
time or that huge numbers of people were consulted on," this adviser said.

At the White House, Jake Siewert, a spokesman for President Clinton, said that
Mr. Gore had alerted Mr. Clinton in advance and that the president was not
upset. "We knew there would be times when he differed with the president," Mr.
Siewert said.

Maria Cardona, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said: "We've stated in the past we don't believe Congressional action is
appropriate in this situation. There is a father who speaks for his son and has
made it very clear that he wants to be reunited with him."

Doug Hattaway, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said the vice president "clearly
disagrees with the I.N.S. and the Justice Department."

Mr. Gore's break with the administration is the most dramatic of his campaign to
date, though he has differed from administration policy a number of times,
including a requirement that his appointees to the Joint Chiefs of Staff support
allowing gays to serve openly in the military.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2000, Saturday

CORRECTION:

A front-page article yesterday about Vice President Gore's call to grant
permanent residency status to Elian Gonzalez and his Cuban family misstated a
requirement for obtaining that status. Although there are several ways to obtain
permanent residency status, applicants need not have lived in the United States
for five years.



                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Serving Family Values

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


"You can't get through life without making a mistake," Jose Romero Rios wrote me
from his home in Atlanta. "I never thought my mistake would affect me this way."

During an argument in 1993 Mr. Rios hit his wife, Maria Isabel Martinez. A
neighbor called the police. Mr. Rios was convicted of battery and sentenced to a
year, to be served on probation. He has been in no trouble of any kind since.

In 1997 Mr. Rios, a legally admitted alien from Mexico, applied to become a U.S.
citizen. He had his interview the next year, then waited. Last month he got a
letter from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He thought it was, at
last, his appointment to take the oath of citizenship. Instead it was a notice
that he was to be deported.

Why? Because the Immigration Act passed by Congress in 1996 required,
retroactively, the deportation of all aliens who had been convicted of any of a
list of "aggravated felonies," some of them trivial offenses. The list includes
any crime of violence.

The retroactive deportation provisions of the 1996 act have caused extreme
hardship for many aliens, tearing them from their families for offenses
committed years, even decades, before and long since lived down. But the case of
Mr. Rios is especially sympathetic, because he was a victim in 1993 of a
grotesque tragedy.

A few months after the fight with his wife, Mr. Rios was fixing his car outside
his home. "This man I don't know and have never seen till that day," he said,
"came up to me yelling in my face the worst language I have ever heard. I tried
to calm him down, but that didn't work. When I asked him to leave, he took out a
gun and shot me three times."

One of the bullets hit Mr. Rios's spine. He was in the hospital for four and a
half months. He left it a paraplegic.

Deportation would be bitterly hard on Mr. Rios, his wife and their two sons. I
think it would also be a travesty of justice.

First, it is only a quirk of Georgia legal procedure that made him a target. The
1996 immigration law calls for deportation of anyone convicted of an "aggravated
felony" who is sentenced to a year or more in prison. In most states the judge
would sentence someone in Mr. Rios's position to a year's probation. In Georgia,
the judge imposes a prison sentence and then orders it to be served on
probation.

The I.N.S. treats that as a one-year prison sentence. (It did the same with
another case I have described, that of Mary Anne Gehris, who was sentenced to a
year -- to be served on probation -- for pulling another woman's hair.) Surely
I.N.S. lawyers should look at the reality and treat it as a year's probation,
not subject to the draconian deportation rule.

Second, the Immigration Service has been urged by members of Congress to
exercise prosecutorial discretion and not bring cruel, marginal cases. Top
I.N.S. officials intend that that be done, I am convinced. Perhaps at some point
the I.N.S. will decide not, finally, to deport Mr. Rios. But why bring such a
case in the first place, putting him and his family through torment?

But third, the case shows a fundamental flaw in the 1996 statute. It laid out
rigid categories of people to be deported, eliminating all human judgment on the
facts of each individual case. It removed the power of immigration judges to
waive deportation in cases of extreme hardship.

The theory behind the harsh deportation provisions was that criminal aliens are
a menace to this country and should be removed. As an abstract proposition, that
is logical. But Mr. Rios is not a menace. Neither are many others who face
deportation orders despite having lived blameless lives for years after a minor
offense.

House Republicans have charged the I.N.S. with not removing dangerous criminal
aliens quickly or thoroughly enough. That charge would be more compelling, I
think, if Congress amended the law to restrict the definition of "aggravated
felonies" to truly serious crimes and to let immigration judges consider
hardship cases of people who are really not menaces. Then the I.N.S. could
concentrate on dangerous criminal aliens.

The effect of an overbroad law applied rigidly, without humanity, is to punish
people as harmless as Jose Rios. When I telephoned, his wife said: "I forgave
him long ago. I feel so bad for him now."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Laws

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

I applaud Anthony Lewis's April 8 column regarding the inequities inherent in
the 1996 immigration law. The problem is hardly limited to the immigration
sphere, however. The criminal justice system is currently infected by state and
federal sentencing laws that make it difficult, if not impossible, for judges to
impose just sentences based on actual circumstances rather than on an abstract
theory of the offense at issue. Such laws are an outgrowth of a public loss of
faith in their fellow citizens to see events through a prism of common sense and
to respond accordingly.

We may be a nation of laws, but I believe that the founding fathers' concept was
a nation where the people rule through laws rather than having the laws rule the
people.

CHRISTOPHER TULLY
Falls Church, Va., April 8, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 13, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Cruelty Without Mercy

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: KENT, Ohio


Michelle Swensen was a zoology student at Kent State University when in 1994 she
won a scholarship to go to Japan for a year and learn the language. At Shimane
University there she met a student from Yemen, Ashraf al-Jailani. They were
married in 1996.

The al-Jailanis live in Kent now; I met them here recently. They have two small
daughters, and Michelle is expecting another child next month. It is an
appealing family. There is just one trouble. The family is about to be destroyed
by the harsh provisions of the Immigration Act of 1996.

Why? Because Ashraf knocked Michelle's glasses off -- accidentally, they both
say. In a series of events worthy of Kafka, he was advised to plead no contest
to a charge of domestic violence. Under the rigid terms of the 1996 act, that
made him deportable -- without a chance of mercy. But let Michelle tell how it
happened.

"We were arguing in the mall about which treadmill to buy," she told me. "It was
December a year ago.

"We went out to the car and put the kids in the back. We were yelling at each
other. They were crying.

"I turned around to talk to the kids. When I turned back, Ashraf apparently
reached for something on the dashboard and knocked my glasses off. I was
extremely angry. I thought he did it on purpose."

Michelle ran into the mall, saw a policeman and asked him to find her a place to
stay. Her husband had knocked her glasses off, she said, and she did not want to
go with him. The policeman asked if she wanted to press charges. "Definitely
not," she says she replied. But the policeman did. Mr. al-Jailani was charged
with domestic violence.

In court a young man met him 10 minutes before the trial and advised him to
plead no contest. The young man was not a lawyer, the al-Jailanis found out
later, but an intern in the Public Defender's office. Under Ohio law, a judge
has to warn alien defendants of immigration consequences. The intern, Mrs.
al-Jailani said, told them not to worry about that -- "It's just a formality.
The chance of you getting deported is one in a million."

Mr. al-Jailani was found guilty. "Next thing we know," his wife said, "he gets a
paper from the Immigration and Naturalization Service saying he is to be
deported because of his conviction for domestic violence. My husband never
committed an act of domestic violence! We argued -- that's all."

The al-Jailanis now have a lawyer, and he has tried to have the conviction
vacated. But a judge rejected the motion, saying that Mr. al-Jailani should have
understood the consequences of his plea. But he knew nothing about the law, and
he was badly advised. Moreover, because of the plea of no contest, the court
never examined the facts of the incident.

Domestic violence is serious, and Americans have come to realize that victims
may go on suffering it too long. But sometimes -- many times -- marital tension
leads to misunderstanding, and then both parties really want to repair the
difficulty and renew their love. I'm convinced that this is such a case. I do
not believe that anyone could meet Michelle al-Jailani and not understand that
she loves her husband.

But the 1996 Immigration Act makes a conviction for domestic violence an
automatic, unreviewable ground for deportation. An immigration judge can
consider only the fact of a conviction, not the circumstances of it or the
humane argument for keeping a family together. The statute removed judges' right
to withhold deportation if it would cause extreme hardship.

"What upsets me," Mrs. al-Jailani said, "is that you get before an immigration
judge and have no real chance to defend yourself. Who's going to support my kids
when their father is gone?"

The principal authors of the 1996 Act, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas and
Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, have said that the I.N.S. should alleviate
the law's harshness by using prosecutorial discretion. But in this case the
I.N.S. says it has no legal choice: it is doing what the law requires.

If they care about the human consequences of their legislation, Representative
Smith and Senator Abraham should meet Michelle and Ashraf al-Jailani. In just a
few minutes I believe they would understand the urgent need to amend the act.
Before the law destroys a family, there has to be room for judgment.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 14, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Special-Interest Groups Widening Political Attack Ads

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., May 11


It was one of the more astonishing political images of the year: a newspaper
advertisement that linked Osama bin Laden, the suspected international
terrorist, with Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican.

Why is the senator, asked the advertisement that ran in some of Michigan's
largest newspapers, "trying to make it easier for terrorists like Osama bin
Laden to export their way of terror to any street in America?"

The question not only puzzled readers, but the advertising campaign, sponsored
by a Washington-based group that regularly inveighs against any form of
immigration, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, also infuriated
institutions like the Michigan Catholic Conference, the voice of the state's
seven Roman Catholic dioceses on social and political issues.

"It has been real ugly and I think very vicious," said Paul A. Long, vice
president for public policy of the conference, which asked television stations
around the state to stop broadcasting anti-immigration spots sponsored by the
federation. "We felt compelled to speak out."

The federation's advertisements -- which include television and radio spots that
warn viewers and listeners that immigration legislation sponsored by Mr. Abraham
would "import more than 200,000 foreign workers a year to take good American
jobs" -- are among the nastiest running anywhere this political season. They are
also an extreme example of a trend that is changing the face of political
advertising: the increasing insertion of special-interest groups into the
process as masters of the attack.

Just last week, for instance, Handgun Control, the antithesis of the National
Rifle Association, began running a spot in eight cities around the country that
implied that the N.R.A. would work out of the Oval Office if Gov. George W. Bush
should be elected president.

Groups as well known as the Sierra Club and individuals as obscure as the
Republican campaign donors Sam and Charles Wyly -- they of the attack commercial
on Senator John McCain's environmental record -- are on the air with spots
leveling ominous accusations about Republican and Democratic candidates alike.

Two weeks ago, in fact, the Sierra Club began running commercials in 17
Congressional races across the nation, about evenly divided between candidates
it considers good for the environment and those it views as bad, including Mr.
Abraham.

"Interest-group ads have been a growth industry ever since 'Harry and Louise'
appeared in '93 and '94," said Darrell West, a Brown University political
science professor who studies campaign advertising. Harry and Louise were the
ubiquitous television couple in the insurance industry spots that helped kill
the Clinton administration's national health care proposals.

"Since that time, we have seen a virtual explosion of interest-group ads,"
Professor West said, adding that the groups sometimes serve as surrogates for
candidates, who, at a time when voters are prone to punish office-seekers for
seeming too negative, cannot afford to be perceived as attacking an opponent.

"This decade, candidates have been less likely to employ attack ads for fear of
the backlash," he said. "The groups can provide a candidate with a level of
insulation."

The Michigan Senate race is a microcosm of the trend. So far, the only
significant television advertising in the race has been by organizations
ostensibly unaffiliated with either political party, including the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Sierra Club, Michigan Right to Life and a business group
called Americans for Job Security. Mr. Abraham, engaged in what polls show is a
tight race, and his Democratic opponent, Representative Debbie Stabenow, have
yet to begin advertising in any concerted way.

And then there is the Federation for American Immigration Reform, known by its
acronym, FAIR. The Catholic Church was condemning a $700,000 advertising
campaign that the federation describes as an effort to defeat the immigration
legislation sponsored by Mr. Abraham. But many people here view the federation's
effort as a virulent campaign to defeat the senator himself in the fall
election. Mr. Abraham, a first-term senator of Lebanese descent, is chairman of
a Senate subcommittee on immigration.

At least one television station, a Fox Network affiliate in Detroit, pulled a
federation commercial.

The nonprofit federation, founded in the late 1970's by Dr. John Tanton, an
ophthalmologist from northern Michigan, has long viewed a ban on immigration as
the key to population control. It advocates a moratorium on all immigration,
with the exceptions of spouses and children of American citizens, and "a limited
number of refugees."

The group, which claims a dues-paying membership of 70,000, has attracted a
smorgasbord of support from both the left and the right, and had been running
harshly anti-immigration commercials on radio and television in high-visibility
primary states like Iowa and South Carolina.

(Former Gov. Dick Lamm of Colorado, a Democrat, is on the federation's board of
directors. Former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, a Republican, resigned
from the advisory board over the federation's Michigan advertising campaign.)

"They've always been controversial," said Frank Sharry, executive director of
the National Immigration Forum, a Washington advocacy group for immigrants.
"Their work has always been surrounded by accusations of racism and white
supremacy."

What often raises hackles about the federation is its past financial backing
from the Pioneer Fund, an organization formed in the 1930's in part to promote
racial purity.

Dan Stein, the federation's executive director, says the group long ago severed
its connections with the Pioneer Fund, and that the purpose of the Michigan
television and radio spots and print advertisements is to educate Mr. Abraham's
constituents about the issues, not the election. One of the commercials'
objectives is the defeat of a bill sponsored by Mr. Abraham that would increase
the number of visas granted to foreigners seeking to work for high-tech
companies, which complain of a shortage of skilled applicants.

In its television spot, the federation characterized the measure as a threat to
American college graduates, and urged constituents to call the senator on a
toll-free number that the group arranged to have connected to Mr. Abraham's
Washington office.

"We are a charitable entity," Mr. Stein said. "We are not interested in
affecting the campaign."

The Abraham camp thinks otherwise. "Their goal is to defeat Abraham and show his
colleagues what they can do," said Joe McMonigle, the senator's campaign
manager.

As a nonprofit charity whose donors can receive tax deductions, the federation
is permitted to engage in lobbying but is barred by the Internal Revenue Service
from campaigning for or against political candidates, legal experts say. (The
Sierra Club has more leeway in campaigns.  It is also a nonprofit group but the
money it receives from donors is not tax deductible.)

Doug Varley, a lawyer in the Washington offices of Caplin & Drysdale who advises
tax-exempt and nonprofit organizations, including Mr. Sharry's, said, "I think
most charities try very hard to comply with the electioneering ban. Most are
scrupulous, because the stakes are so high."

Mr. Stein maintained that his commercials do not cross the line. "We have the
ability and the right to engage in grass-roots lobbying," he said. "Unless your
ad says 'Vote against Abraham,' you're really on terra firma."

The federation's advertising has become an issue in the Michigan race, but which
of the candidates will benefit remains unclear. Ms. Stabenow has told reporters
that while she disagrees with the shrillness of the federation's commercials on
immigration, she feels the group raises a legitimate issue for debate.

The federation said it was not working with Ms. Stabenow.

Mr. McMonigle, meanwhile, said that he has had to devote a lot of time to
alerting the news media to the group's background and refuting its accusations.

Ed Sarpolus, a pollster with EPIC/ MRA in Lansing, said the federation might be
doing some damage to Mr. Abraham simply by its ability to distract his campaign.
"It has taken Spence off message and strategy," he said, adding that his latest
poll showed the two candidates in a virtual dead heat.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Handgun Control group implies that the National Rifle
Association would have great influence on George W. Bush if he becomes
president.; An organization opposed to immigration is running this commercial in
Michigan against a measure sponsored by Senator Spencer Abraham.; Senator
Spencer Abraham, a first-term Michigan Republican. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 23, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Reviewing Use Of Evidence Kept Secret

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22


Using secret evidence to send someone to jail may be unconstitutional, except in
immigration courts, where foreigners or immigrants have been imprisoned for
years on the basis of classified hearsay, federal judges have found.

Now Congress is considering a bill that could alter or abolish the practice. The
bill would restrict the use of evidence kept secret from a defendant and his
lawyers. Nearly 100 sponsors in the House have backed the measure, the subject
of a hearing scheduled before the House Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.

Secret evidence has been used to jail about 100 foreigners and resident aliens
in the last decade, the Immigration and Naturalization Service says. The
detainees are held on the basis of evidence introduced by the government, which
they cannot see or challenge, at immigration hearings. Court records show that
such evidence has included rumor and innuendo -- the unsubstantiated accusations
of an ex-wife, or hearsay from foreign intelligence services.

One case involved Hany Kiareldeen, a Palestinian married to an American. He was
freed from a New Jersey jail last year, after a federal district judge ruled
that "the government's use of secret evidence violates the due process" that the
Constitution guarantees, even to resident aliens.

The secret evidence accusing Mr. Kiareldeen of links to terrorists, largely
compiled and classified by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was partly
revealed on appeal. It proved untrue. A primary source of the accusations, court
records show, was his ex-wife, who was fighting him in a custody battle.

Congressional testimony suggests that a new secret-evidence case takes place
about once a month. The numbers are hard to confirm, in part because of poor
recordkeeping by the immigration courts, which often make no formal record of
hearings, and in part because of the secrecy surrounding the cases.

The immigration service says 11 people are detained in the United States today
on the basis of secret evidence. Opponents of the process say the number is
higher.

One of those detained is Mazen al-Naijar, a professor at the University of South
Florida. A Palestinian, Mr. al-Naijar has been in jail for three years. Neither
he nor his lawyers have ever seen the evidence against him, which has been used
to accuse him of associating with terrorists.

Another detainee is Dr. Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim, an Iraqi Kurd who worked with
the Central Intelligence Agency against Saddam Hussein. He was evacuated to
California after one of the C.I.A.'s covert operations collapsed in 1996 -- and
then was arrested. He has been jailed for nearly four years because of secret
evidence against him, provided by the C.I.A. and the F.B.I.

That evidence was "hearsay" and "nonsense," said R. James Woolsey Jr., a former
director of central intelligence, who volunteered to defend Dr. Karim and had
the security clearances needed to see the evidence.

Now that the evidence has been declassified, largely through Mr. Woolsey's work,
the judge has indicated that she may release Dr. Karim this week.

David Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who will testify on Tuesday in
favor of the bill, said, "Secret evidence is something we associate with
totalitarian regimes, not with free democratic nations."

"The best test for truth is an adversarial process in which both sides get
tested by cross-examination," Mr. Cole said. "Secret evidence makes that
impossible. We've seen innocent people locked up for years on evidence which,
once revealed, would not justify their being locked up for a day."

For the last two years, the I.N.S. has been considering revising its rules on
the use of secret evidence, at the request of Attorney General Janet Reno. But
an immigration service official said the agency opposed the proposed limits on
secret evidence.

"It will make us choose either between requesting an agency to declassify
national security information, or going ahead and letting a benefit be granted
to an alien who is a danger to national security," the immigration official
said.

David A. Martin, a former general counsel for the immigration service, said that
secret evidence should be used sparingly.

"There is an argument for maintaining the use of secret evidence in some cases,"
Mr. Martin said, citing, for example, a case of a suspected terrorist entering
the country illegally. But, he added, "whenever it's used, it makes for bad
procedure."

"You lose a lot of protections you count on" under the Constitution, he said.
"If you don't know the evidence you're confronting, you're not in a good
position to defend against it."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Official Is Convicted On Charges Of Espionage

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 30


A veteran immigration official here was convicted today on charges of espionage
in a case that caused the expulsion of a Cuban diplomat and heightened political
tensions between the United States and Cuba.

A jury in Federal District Court in Miami found the official, Mariano Faget, 54,
guilty of violating the Espionage Act, including disclosure of government
secrets to a boyhood friend who wanted to do business in Cuba.

Mr. Faget, an acting deputy director with 34 years of service with the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service office here, was convicted of
disclosing official secrets, using those secrets for his personal use and lying
to federal investigators about his foreign business ties and his meetings with a
Cuban diplomat.

"I made a mistake," Mr. Faget, who came to the United States from Cuba when he
was a teenager, said when he took the stand last week in his defense.

But federal prosecutors argued that Mr. Faget, whose job involved reviewing
government decisions on naturalization and asylum, had sold out his country to
help a business partner and himself.

The case came as Cuban exiles in Miami protested the decision by Attorney
General Janet Reno to send 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez home to Cuba and as Cubans
demanded the boy's return in government-sponsored demonstrations on the island.

Mr. Faget's arrest led to the expulsion of a Cuban diplomat, Jose Imperatori,
who had dealings with Mr. Faget and was accused of spying by United States
officials. Cuban officials denied the accusations. Mr. Imperatori refused to
leave the country and did so only after federal agents escorted him to a
Washington airport.

Mr. Faget, who faces up to 10 years in prison, is scheduled for a sentencing
hearing in August.

He was arrested after a government undercover operation in February, when
government agents passed phony information to him about the fictitious defection
of a Cuban diplomat and warned him that the information was secret. Mr. Faget,
as a senior supervisor with the immigration service, had a high security
clearance.

Just 12 minutes after the meeting with the agents, he called a Cuban-American
boyhood friend and business partner, Pedro Font, and told him the name of the
Cuban official.

"Mariano Faget was a government employee willing to betray the trust of the
people he was sworn to serve," Curtis Miner, an assistant United States
attorney, said in his closing arguments.

Mr. Faget, who was nearing retirement, was on the board of directors with Mr.
Font of America Cuba Inc., a corporation formed to pursue business interests in
Cuba if the United States trade embargo against the island is ever lifted.

Mr. Faget told the jury last week that he called his friend because Mr. Font was
supposed to meet later that day with the Cuban official named by the government
agents, and he was afraid that Mr. Font would be harmed if Cuban officials
thought he was somehow involved in the defection.

But the 12-member jury apparently did not accept that Mr. Font, a New York
businessman, would have been in any danger from Cuban officials.

"He disclosed classified information for no better purpose than his own personal
reasons, his own personal gain," Mr. Miner said. "He took it out of the realm of
control of the United States government and gave it to someone else to use
however they wanted."

Mr. Faget's lawyer had argued that his client was not doing anything that
threatened national security and that he was only trying to help a boyhood
friend.

"An honest government servant," said Edward O'Donnell, Mr. Faget's lawyer.

But prosecutors used surveillance tapes to show meetings between Mr. Faget and
Cuban diplomats in a Miami bar, acts that are illegal under federal law because
of Mr. Faget's job at the immigration service.

And prosecutors said Mr. Faget had lied to federal investigators about his
business interests and his contact with Cuban officials here in the United
States.

Mr. Font and Mr. Faget had known each other in Cuba, where Mr. Faget's father
had worked in the police force controlled by Cuba's president at that time,
Fulgencio Batista. Mr. Faget and his family fled Cuba in 1959.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'Measure Of Justice'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Last January I wrote about the case of Mary Anne Gehris, a Georgia woman who
came to this country from Germany as an infant. She was facing deportation
because she had pulled another woman's hair.

Ms. Gehris is not going to be deported after all. For her, that is the end of a
nightmare that had her living, as she put it, "in some kind of whirlwind." But
the way it ended has a larger meaning. Among other things, it should be a
wake-up call to Congress to amend the punitive provisions of immigration law
that cause such outrageous cases.

The hair-pulling incident took place in 1988. Ms. Gehris was charged with a
misdemeanor, and on the advice of a public defender she pleaded guilty. The
judge gave her a one-year sentence, suspended for a year's probation.

Then, in 1996, Congress passed an Immigration Act that required the deportation
of any alien convicted of an "aggravated felony." The act defined "aggravated
felony" to include many misdemeanors, some as trivial as Ms. Gehris's. And it
made the provision retroactive: covering things that took place before the
statute was enacted.

The retroactive feature is what trapped Ms. Gehris. Ironically, she herself
brought her misdemeanor conviction to the attention of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, when she mentioned it in an application to become a
citizen.

She was saved by the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles. Ms. Gehris's lawyer,
Socheat Chea, asked the board to pardon her. Last March it did so. That freed
Ms. Gehris from the threat of deportation.

The Georgia board then did something more. It wrote a letter to Senator Max
Cleland, Democrat of Georgia, asking him to do something about the 1996
Immigration Act. The letter was released to the public last week.

The board does not usually consider pardons for misdemeanor convictions, the
letter said, because in Georgia they do not deprive anyone of political rights.
But it has had to start doing so, it said, because the 1996 Immigration Act "has
adversely affected the lives of numerous Georgia residents."

"We have seen cases of applicants who have resided in the United States for 30+
years," the letter continued, "who many years ago committed a minor crime and
are now being threatened with deportation. These applicants include respected
businessmen who have small children and no family residing in the country of
origin."

The letter closed with a plea to Senator Cleland. It would be appreciated, the
five board members wrote, if he worked "to provide a remedy which more
appropriately uses the nation's resources and brings some measure of justice to
the process."

Others have succeeded in applications to the board since then. Two applicants
were pardoned this week. Mary Gibbs, a grandmother, was going to be deported for
writing five bad checks in 1976, for a total of around $100. Il Choi, a
businessman, was on the verge of being deported because he pleaded guilty to
shoplifting a $39 item in 1994.

Other pardon applications are pending before the Georgia board. One is for Jose
Romero Rios, a paraplegic who hit his wife in 1993 and also got a year's
sentence to be served on probation. The I.N.S. wants to deport him.

Another application is for Olufolake Olaleye, a 38-year-old mother of two
children who are U.S. citizens. She was charged with shoplifting in 1994. She
said she was only trying to exchange a child's dress, for which she had paid,
for another size. But on the advice of the prosecutor that it would do her no
harm, she pleaded guilty and was sentenced to a year to be served on probation.
She is under a deportation order.

The Georgia cases illustrate how cruel the 1996 act can be, and how wasteful.
Why should immigration authorities and pardon officials and lawyers have to go
through hoops to avoid the consequences of an irrationally rigid law?

Members of pardon and parole boards are not bleeding hearts. They have seen
enough wrongdoing and deceit to be skeptical. When the Georgia board asks for
changes so the Immigration Act "more appropriately uses the nation's resources
and brings some measure of justice," Congress should listen.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Man Jailed on Secret Evidence Should Be Freed, Judge Says

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 773 words


A Federal immigration judge ruled yesterday that an Egyptian man kept in
solitary confinement for the last three years on the basis of secret evidence
allegedly linking him to a terrorist organization should be freed from jail.

The man, Nasser K. Ahmed, and his lawyers have never been told exactly what
secret evidence the Government had on Mr. Ahmed, and contended that he was
innocent. Yesterday, Judge Donn Livingston agreed, ruling that Mr. Ahmed was not
a threat to national security and should, in fact, be given political asylum in
the United States instead of being deported.

The ruling was the third case in the last year where immigration judges have
questioned the Immigration and Naturalization Service's procedures in using
secret evidence against suspected terrorists.

In a practice assailed by civil liberties and Arab-American groups, two dozen
suspected terrorists, all Arabs, are being detained around the country by the
immigration service on the basis of secret evidence. None of the defendants and
their lawyers have been allowed to see the evidence against them. Immigration
and intelligence officials argue that the evidence cannot be disclosed because
it endangers the sources of the information and could compromise national
security.

Mr. Ahmed, 38, a father of three, is unlikely to be freed quickly. Immigration
service lawyers filed an immediate appeal of Judge Livingston's decision that
could take months to resolve. Mr. Ahmed also awaits sentencing on a June
conviction for making false statements on an immigration form.

Government lawyers accused Mr. Ahmed of being a follower of Sheik Omar Abdel
Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric convicted of conspiring to blow up the World
Trade Center and other New York landmarks. Mr. Ahmed served as the sheik's legal
assistant during his 1995 trial but he vehemently denied being a terrorist.

His lawyers said that the ruling yesterday further undermined the Government's
use of secret evidence. In such cases, Government lawyers are allowed to present
secret evidence and witnesses to judges in private sessions in the judge's
chambers. The defendants and their lawyers are not allowed to be present and are
unable to rebut any of the evidence.

Lawyers for the detained men said they were eager to have a higher court rule on
the constitutionality of the use of secret evidence. But no appeals of an
immigration judge's decision have been ruled on by a higher Federal court to
date. Judge Livingston, an administrative judge for the immigration service, was
restricted to ruling on the facts of Mr. Ahmed's case only, not on the
constitutionality of the practice.

In his ruling yesterday, Judge Livingston openly questioned the immigration
service's procedures for calling evidence "secret." He said some of the evidence
so declared in Mr. Ahmed's case could have been obtained from unclassified
sources, thereby by giving Mr. Ahmed and his lawyers the right to know and rebut
it.

The judge also revealed in his decision that during the secret sessions
Government lawyers at times declined to answer his questions about why such
information was made secret. "Most of the court's questions regarding the
reasons for classifying certain evidence were answered with simple boilerplate
phrases, denial of knowledge or denial of authority to discuss the matter,"
Judge Livingston said.

He said he did not believe that the Government lawyers were intentionally
concealing information, but he warned that there was little incentive under the
current system for the Government to make the extra effort of obtaining
information from nonclassified sources. The judge wrote that the practice was
"fundamentally unfair" and warned that "the possibilities for abuse, albeit
inadvertent, are manifest."

In Mr. Ahmed's case, Judge Livingston forced the Government to declassify some
of its secret evidence and Mr. Ahmed's lawyers were able to successfully rebut
it.

Immigration officials pointed out that secret evidence was used in only a
handful of the thousands of cases the agency dealt with each year. Russell A.
Bergeron Jr., an I.N.S. spokesman, said two other judges had ruled in other
cases that secret evidence justified detaining or deporting suspects.

"In a situation where an individual may be a threat to national security, we
have an even greater obligation to insure that all of the evidence goes before
the court," he said.

But Abdeen M. Jabara, one of Mr. Ahmed's lawyers, said his client, who went on
several hunger strikes during his three years in jail, was "grossly mistreated."
He said the use of secret evidence must stop.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 18, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Woman Fearful of Mutilation Wins Long Battle for Asylum

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 616 words


Adelaide Abankwah's ordeal is over.

On Friday, the Board of Immigration Appeals granted her petition for political
asylum, on the ground that she feared being subjected to genital cutting if she
returned to Ghana, her homeland. She is only the second woman granted asylum in
the United States because of genital cutting, which millions of African women
undergo each year.

Ms. Abankwah, 29, requested asylum more than two years ago when she arrived at
Kennedy International Airport from Ghana. Instead, she quickly found herself
under arrest for trying to enter the country with false immigration papers.

Her appeal for asylum was denied by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
And she was detained for more than two years at the Wackenhut Detention Center
in Queens, where both her health and her emotional state deteriorated.

Her release came on July 19, 10 days after the United States Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit in Manhattan issued a decision supporting her petition.
It was the first time a Federal court had supported an asylum petition based on
a fear of genital cutting.

But the Board of Immigration Appeals had the last word on asylum, and Ms.
Abankwah's supporters said the fear that she could be returned to her country
still hung over her.

With Friday's decision, that fear is gone. Mandy Sullivan, the campaign director
for Equality Now, a feminist organization that campaigned for Ms. Abankwah's
release, said Ms. Abankwah was speechless about the decision.

"She's relieved that it's all over," Ms. Sullivan said. "It's very hard for her
to comprehend -- that it's all over and no one going to come snatch her back."

Ms. Abankwah has been living in the Bronx with Victoria Otumfuor, a Pentecostal
minister who was born and raised in Ghana and who befriended Ms. Abankwah while
she was in prison.

Since her release, Ms. Sullivan said, she has been visiting doctors and
volunteering at Equality Now. And she has been waiting.

Her detention, and the denial of her asylum petition, sparked widespread
protests this spring among immigrant rights groups and legislators from New
York, including Senator Charles E. Schumer and Representative Carolyn B.
Maloney.

The protesters said the immigration service's position on Ms. Abankwah's case
demonstrated that the agency was not committed to protecting asylum seekers who
flee sex-based persecution.

Female genital cutting was outlawed in the United States in 1996. That year the
I.N.S. also recognized the practice as a valid form of persecution for
immigrants seeking asylum.

The decision in that case, based on the petition of another African native,
Fauziya Kassindja, who is from Togo, became part of a series of guidelines on
sex-based persecution that were issued to immigration judges.

But immigration judges are not required to rule that persecution based on an
applicant's sex constitutes a valid claim for asylum. Advocates say they rarely
do so without public pressure.

"I think it will definitely give the Board of Immigration Appeals something to
think about, to look carefully at the way they're making decisions," said Mary
Diaz, the director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children.

"Hopefully, it will push them again to look at the guidelines on gender-based
persecution."

The immigration service did not return a phone call requesting comment
yesterday, and the board did not explain its reversal other than to refer to the
Federal court's decision and a review of the record.

But for Ms. Abankwah, the most important words were there, telling her that her
asylum application was being granted and that "exclusion proceedings are
terminated."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adelaide Abankwah feared mutilation if she returned to Ghana.


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 20, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Jailed on Secret Evidence, A Terrorism Suspect Sues

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 19


A Palestinian native whom Federal officials have tried to deport on the basis of
secret evidence that they say suggests he is linked to terrorism filed suit
today in Federal court challenging the Government's use of such evidence.

The plaintiff, Hany Kiareldeen, has been detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for 17 months in the Hudson County Jail while the agency
has sought to deport him. Mr. Kiareldeen has petitioned a Federal judge for his
release, saying the use of the evidence -- which he has not been allowed to see
and is from sources whose identity he has not been allowed to know -- violates
his constitutional rights.

"Depriving someone of his liberty on the basis of secret evidence is about as
basic a constitutional violation as one can imagine," said David Cole, a
professor and immigration expert at the Georgetown University Law Center in
Washington and a volunteer lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights,
which is representing Mr. Kiareldeen.

But in a case that has broken legal ground at almost every turn through the
deportation process and immigration courts, Mr. Kiareldeen's case has been seen
as "remarkable" by opponents of the use of such evidence. The case has even led
some immigration court judges to question whether the Government's use of secret
evidence is too vague.

Mr. Cole and Regis Fernandez, Mr. Kiareldeen's other lawyer, are seeking his
immediate release on bond while they press his constitutional challenge. Judge
William H. Walls of United States District Court here has set a hearing for Aug.
29 on the bond request.

Mr. Cole said that the only other Federal court challenge of the use of secret
evidence had come in United States District Court in Manhattan in the case of
Nasser Ahmed, a native of Egypt who has been held for nearly three years. Mr.
Ahmed served as a court-appointed translator for Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the
Muslim cleric who in October 1995 was convicted of masterminding a plot to blow
up buildings in New York.

Although a Justice Department spokeswoman, Carol Florman, would not comment on
Mr. Kiareldeen's case specifically, she said that the use of secret evidence in
cases of national security had been upheld over the years by Federal courts.
Ms. Florman said "about 20" people, all of Arab descent, were being detained and
facing deportation on the basis of secret evidence.

Mr. Kiareldeen, who has been in the United States since 1990 and who lived in
Bloomfield, N.J., was picked up by Immigration and Naturalization Service
officers in March 1998 for overstaying his student visa. Once he was in custody,
I.N.S. officials opposed his release on bail on the basis of secret evidence,
which they did not disclose.

Subsequently, in a series of deportation hearings, the immigration agency has
released sketchy summaries of Federal Bureau of Investigation reports that said
Mr. Kiareldeen had associated with fundamentalist Muslim terrorists involved in
the World Trade Center bombing, that he had uttered "a credible threat" against
Attorney General Janet Reno and that he had met with one of the key bombing
conspirators a week before the World Trade Center was bombed in 1993.

From the beginning, Mr. Kiareldeen has denied the charges and maintained that
they were conveyed to Federal authorities out of vindictiveness by his ex-wife,
Amal Kamal Mohammed. In hearings, he had presented witnesses who testified that,
unlike some terrorism suspects, he had no political involvements and was not
very religious. Other witnesses told an immigration court judge that Mr.
Kiareldeen did not even know who Janet Reno was before he heard he had been
accused of threatening her.

Mr. Fernandez tried to compel Mr. Kiareldeen's ex-wife to testify. When Ms.
Mohammed refused, Judge Daniel Meisner of immigration court, who did not have
the authority to compel her testimony, asked the United States Attorney for New
Jersey to seek an order from Federal District Court to force her to testify.

This marked the first time since their creation in 1996 that any of the 200
judges of the immigration courts had sought such an order from a Federal court.

But Faith Hochberg, the United States Attorney, declined to force Ms. Mohammed
to testify, defying the immigration judge's request.

In April, working only from the summaries of the secret evidence, Judge Meisner
ordered Mr. Kiareldeen released on bond. He said that, based on what had come
out in the hearings, "a person of ordinary prudence and caution could not
conscientiously entertain a reasonable belief that the allegations of the
respondent's involvement in terrorist activities were true."

The I.N.S. appealed that ruling. Last month, in a 2-to-1 ruling, a panel of the
Board of Immigration Appeals ordered Mr. Kiareldeen to remain in detention,
although the majority said they had concerns about the reliability of the
evidence.

The dissenting judge went further, writing that the I.N.S. and the F.B.I. had
provided so little to support the allegations that he could not agree to hold
Mr. Kiareldeen.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 1999, Friday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on Aug. 20 about a suit filed by a
Palestinian man who has been held for 17 months by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on the basis of secret evidence referred incorrectly to
the United States Attorney's response to an immigration judge's request for
testimony by the man's former wife. On the eve of the hearing, the judge
modified his request to conform with the United States Attorney's argument: that
the former wife respond only to written questions and not be forced to testify
in open court. The Government did not defy the judge's request.



                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 27, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 101 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Aug. 20 about a suit filed by a
Palestinian man who has been held for 17 months by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on the basis of secret evidence referred incorrectly to
the United States Attorney's response to an immigration judge's request for
testimony by the man's former wife. On the eve of the hearing, the judge
modified his request to conform with the United States Attorney's argument: that
the former wife respond only to written questions and not be forced to testify
in open court. The Government did not defy the judge's request.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

When Immigrants Aren't Welcome

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 203 words



To the Editor:

The Immigration and Naturalization Service does not shrink from criticism. But
Anthony Lewis's Sept. 21 and Sept. 28 columns require an answer. In one case,
Mr. Lewis takes issue with the agency's decision to oppose the claim of
citizenship by Hawa Said, a Yemeni immigrant who says she derived citizenship
from her father, a naturalized citizen, when she was a minor. However, such a
claim was not automatic but required that Ms. Said be in one parent's legal
custody after her parents legally separated. An immigration judge determined
late last week that there was neither custody nor separation.

Moreover, the reason Ms. Said, who was pregnant, was first detained in San Diego
after she was given a three-year sentence for drug trafficking is because the
facility in San Diego was the nearest I.N.S. facility available where she could
get the appropriate medical care. The I.N.S. agrees that in certain respects the
mandatory custody provisions of the 1996 immigration law went too far, and it
has proposed legislation that would restore more flexibility in immigration
custody decisions.

BO COOPER
General Counsel, Immigration and Naturalization Service
Washington, Oct. 1, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 5, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Cruel And Unneeded

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has taken issue with a recent column
of mine. In doing so, I think the I.N.S. has inadvertently thrown light on its
mistaken and cruel policies.

At issue is the case of Hawa Said. She was brought to this country from Yemen at
the age of 1, in 1979, and has lived here ever since. She says she became an
American citizen when her father was naturalized in 1996. (Her mother had left
them and disappeared many years earlier.) But the I.N.S., asserting that she was
an alien, took her into custody in May for deportation to Yemen, after she had
served a brief term in an Alaska jail for a cocaine offense.

In a letter published by The New York Times, the general counsel of the I.N.S.,
Bo Cooper, said that under the law Ms. Said did not acquire citizenship when her
father did unless she was in his custody and her parents were legally separated.
After my column appeared, he said, an immigration judge "determined" that "there
was neither custody nor separation."

In fact the immigration judge, Kendall Warren, made no final determination. He
wrote what he called "tentative conclusions and observations." In those he
inclined to the view that, as Mr. Cooper said, Ms. Said's parents were not
legally divorced and in 1996 she was not in her father's custody -- because,
among other things, she had more than once run away from their home in
Anchorage.

The immigration judge put the final decision over to another session, probably
next March. After that there may be years of appeals. Through it all Ms. Said
will remain in detention. She is now seven months pregnant.

In a telephone conversation Mr. Cooper pointed out that the 1996 Immigration Act
makes such detention mandatory. "The only discretion we had was whether to put
her into removal proceedings," he said. But that is the real issue. When the
I.N.S. had discretion, as Mr. Cooper concedes it did, why did it target Ms.
Said?

The immigration judge's description of the evidence he heard raises troubling
questions. Ms. Said's father and mother both testified that they were divorced.
Her mother, who was found in California after this case started, turned out to
have married an American in 1981, then in 1992 was divorced and married another
American -- through whom she acquired citizenship, approved by the I.N.S. Does
the I.N.S. now contend that those marriages were bigamous?

Moreover, Federal District Judge H. Russel Holland found in August that Ms. Said
had "made out a prima facie case" that she was a citizen. But then, at the
urging of the I.N.S., he ruled that the question must first go through the
administrative process.

For those reasons -- and much more in the evidence -- the I.N.S. is going to
have a hard time persuading the Federal courts in the end that Ms. Said is not a
citizen.

The Immigration Service has a huge backlog of work. People wait years for green
cards and citizenship. Hundreds of thousands of aliens -- undoubted aliens --
are in the country illegally. Why bring a dubious, marginal case like that
against Ms. Said?

Another issue is why the I.N.S. sent Ms. Said to a detention center in San
Diego, 2,427 miles from Anchorage. Mr. Cooper said it was because San Diego had
"the nearest I.N.S. facility available where she could get the appropriate
medical treatment" for her pregnancy. But the I.N.S. district director, Robert
Eddy, told Federal Judge Holland: "I'm not sure that we were aware she was
pregnant."

Ms. Said is not the only person targeted for deportation by the I.N.S. despite
strong claims to American citizenship. Another is Joe Van Eeten, who came to the
U.S. from Indonesia in 1961. He joined the U.S. Marines, winning medals in
Vietnam, and says he became a citizen while in the service. A courageous
immigration judge, Michael H. Bennett, found that he was indeed a citizen; the
I.N.S. may appeal.

Nor am I the only person who thinks that the humane professions of I.N.S.
leaders do not match the reality of actions on the ground. The immediate past
president of the American Bar Association, Philip S. Anderson, said last month
that I.N.S. leaders promised to assure minimum standards of decency for
detainees and then "stonewalled" for a year.

"There is an I.N.S. mind-set," Mr. Anderson told me this week. "The bureaucracy
will resist any meaningful reform sought by the Attorney General and the
Commissioner of Immigration. It is an agency out of control, and that should not
be tolerated."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 19, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Appeal Ruling Favors Immigrant Held on Secret Evidence

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 18


An immigration appeals panel, ruling in the case of a Palestinian man detained
for 18 months and threatened with deportation based on secret evidence that the
Government says links him to terrorism, has found that the man was not a
terrorist threat and should not be deported.

The decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals, based in Washington, upheld an
April ruling by an immigration judge in Newark who found that the man, Hany
Kiareldeen, 31, should be released from jail and granted resident alien status
based on his nine years in the United States and his marriage to an American
citizen.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had appealed that ruling and
continued to hold Mr. Kiareldeen in jail in Hudson County, N.J., citing
classified information from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Government
has not allowed Mr. Kiareldeen or his lawyers to see the secret evidence in
detail. But the appeals panel, made up of three administrative law judges who
saw the evidence in its entirety, concluded that the record did not "establish a
reasonable ground to believe that the respondent is engaged in, or is likely to
engage in any terrorist activity."

The ruling, revealed today by Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers, was a victory for
immigrant support groups who have long opposed the use of secret evidence, and
the Government's failure to disclose the sources of allegations, as grounds for
detaining and deporting people. About 20 such people are being held nationally,
and most of them, like Mr. Kiareldeen, are of Arab descent.

David Cole, one of Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers, said that it was the third case in
which immigration judges had found the secret evidence unconvincing. "This is a
guy who never should have been detained for a day," he said.

But Mr. Kiareldeen's detention was not likely to end with the ruling. Michael W.
Gilhooly, a spokesman for the I.N.S., said that the agency had formally
requested a stay of the ruling until Oct. 29 while it considers an appeal. The
next round of appeals would take the case directly to Attorney General Janet
Reno.

Mr. Kiareldeen's case has broken legal ground in the handling of such cases in
the nation's immigration courts, which were created in 1996. The case marked the
first time that an immigration judge had requested that the Justice Department
use its subpoena power on his behalf, and it has raised a host of questions
about the interrelationships among the F.B.I., the I.N.S., immigration courts,
the Board of Immigration Appeals and United States Attorney's offices, all of
which are divisions of the Justice Department. And throughout its18-month
history, the case has inspired open questioning from administrative law judges
about the reliability of secret evidence.

Mr. Kiareldeen, a native of Gaza, has been in the United States since 1990 and
was picked up in March 1998 for having an expired student visa. At the time, he
was the manager of an electronics store in Paterson, N.J., and was seeking to
change his immigration status and obtain a green card based on his marriage to a
citizen, Carmen Negron. But I.N.S. officials opposed his release and sought his
deportation, citing secret evidence that Mr. Kiareldeen and his lawyers
described as a vindictive fabrication by his former wife.

According to sketchy summaries of the secret information, Mr. Kiareldeen was
accused of having uttered threats on the life of Ms. Reno and to have met with
Nidal A. Ayyad, one of the World Trade Center bombing conspirators, at Mr.
Kiareldeen's home in Nutley, N.J.

In its decision on Friday, the immigration appeals panel noted that Mr.
Kiareldeen's lawyers had mounted a case thorough enough to "raise doubts
regarding the reliability of the information contained in the F.B.I. reports."
They had shown that Mr. Kiareldeen did not live in Nutley at the time of the
purported meeting with Mr. Ayyad and that he, unlike many convicted terrorists,
was neither politically astute nor devoutly religious.

While Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers introduced pages of documents, canceled rent
checks and more than a dozen witnesses, the appeals panel found it "significant"
that the I.N.S. "relied exclusively on the F.B.I. reports and failed to present
a single witness."

Houieda Saad, a member of Mr. Kiareldeen's defense team, said that documents
obtained recently by the lawyers under the Freedom of Information Act indicated
that an assistant in the U.S. Attorney's office in Newark had advised the I.N.S.
that F.B.I. agents should not be used as witnesses in the deportation hearings.
This was some months after an immigration judge had asked the U.S. Attorney's
office for help in compelling testimony in the case.

Regis Fernandez, another member of the defense team, said that although his
colleagues had won a victory Friday, the I.N.S. was continuing to "play a game
of blind man's bluff," using the secret evidence to continue to hold his client.
He noted that lawyers for Mr. Kiareldeen had filed a lawsuit in August in United
States District Court here, challenging the constitutionality of the use of
secret evidence in the case. He said the legal team would continue to press that
case, if necessary, to win Mr. Kiareldeen's release.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hany Kiareldeen has been held on secret evidence for 18 months.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 21, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Bars Use of Secret Data to Hold Immigrant

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 20


A Federal District judge ruled today that the use of secret evidence of alleged
terrorist connections to detain immigrants violated the due-process protections
of the Constitution.

In a strongly worded decision, the first in the nation to find such use of
secret evidence unconstitutional, Judge William H. Walls ordered the immediate
release of Hany Kiareldeen, a 31-year-old Palestinian who has been held for 18
months in a New Jersey county jail while immigration officials have sought to
deport him.

But lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service quickly obtained a
stay from the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which agreed
to hear an appeal of the release order on Thursday.

That meant that Mr. Kiareldeen would remain in the Hudson County Correctional
Center for at least another day, said Regis Fernandez, one of his lawyers.

"But we will get him out," he said.

Despite the delay, the judge's ruling delighted Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers and
other national advocates for detained immigrants, who said it made it clear that
resident aliens have the same rights to due process that citizens have.

They also said the ruling would help the cases of about 20 other people of Arab
descent whom the immigration service is holding on the basis of classified
information from undisclosed sources. All are considered to have connections to
terrorist groups, and are therefore deemed threats to national security,
according to the sketchy summaries of the secret evidence against them.

In Mr. Kiareldeen's case, the summaries of the classified Federal Bureau of
Investigation reports refer to sources linking him to one of the men convicted
in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. He filed his Federal suit for release on
Aug. 19, saying the use of the evidence, which he has not been allowed to see
and is from sources whose identity he has not been allowed to know, violated his
constitutional rights.

In his 35-page decision, Judge Walls wrote ominously of "government processes
initiated and prosecuted in darkness," and said the case raised "serious issues
about the integrity of the adversarial process." He also took the unusual step
of ordering the immigration agency to pay Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers' fees.

"This is as strong an opinion as we could have ever hoped for," said David Cole,
a volunteer lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights, a Manhattan
nonprofit legal services agency. An expert on secret evidence, he has been one
of Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers.

William Strasberg, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the agency had
sought to prevent Mr. Kiareldeen's release today because it continues to believe
that Mr. Kiareldeen is a "terrorist threat." He declined to give any details of
the legal basis of the agency's appeal of the release order, and added that it
was considering whether to appeal the decision itself.

Judge Walls's ruling came just five days after administrative law judges on the
Board of Immigration Appeals, in another rebuke to the Government's use of
secret evidence in the case, upheld an immigration court judge's April ruling
that Mr. Kiareldeen should not be deported and that he was entitled to a green
card, which grants legal residence in the United States. That ruling had not led
to his release because the immigration agency obtained a stay while it decided
whether to appeal the decision to Attorney General Janet Reno.

In a related ruling late today, a Board of Immigration Appeals panel ordered
that Mr. Kiareldeen be released on $1,500 bond. That ruling, like the earlier
immigration court rulings, does not take precedence over the Federal court
actions, said Mr. Fernandez, but it serves to bolster his argument that his
client is not connected to terrorists.

Mr. Kiareldeen, who came to the United States nine years ago on a student visa,
had maintained throughout his hearings before the immigration judges that the
allegations against him were the work of a vindictive former wife who was born
in Egypt. He had been remarried to an American citizen and was applying for a
green card when he was taken into custody by immigration authorities in March
1998 for having an expired student visa.

It was only then that he learned that the Government had evidence that it would
not disclose. On the basis of that evidence, the Government accuses him of
having links to terrorist groups, threatening the life of Ms. Reno and, a week
before the bombing, meeting in his Nutley, N.J., home with Nidal Ayyad, one of
the men convicted in the World Trade Center attack. Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyer
presented documentation and more than a dozen witnesses countering those charges
while immigration lawyers did little more than repeat the charges in the F.B.I.
report.

In his ruling, Judge Walls noted that prior court precedents dating back to the
1950's had dealt narrowly with the issue of whether Federal immigration laws and
regulations authorized the use of classified information that can be kept secret
in determining detention, exclusion, deportation or change in immigrant status.
None of those rulings, however, had addressed "the overall fairness" and
constitutionality of the practice, he said.

"Review of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's procedures involving
Kiareldeen leads the court to believe that the petitioner's case is an example
of the dangers of secret evidence," Judge Walls wrote. "Here, the Government's
reliance on secret evidence violates the due-process protections that the
Constitution directs must be extended to all persons within the United States,
citizens and resident aliens alike."

He wrote that the unclassified summaries of the secret evidence were
"unreliable" and lacking in detail or attribution, forcing Mr. Kiareldeen to
battle "anonymous slurs of unseen and unsworn informers."

The judge said that he could hardly imagine a situation "more likely to result
in erroneous deprivations." And he wrote that his skepticism about the secret
evidence was deepened by the fact that the Government did not find it serious
enough to bring criminal charges against Mr. Kiareldeen.

Kit Gage, national coordinator of the National Coalition to Protect Political
Freedom, a nonprofit association of civil rights, Arab-American and human rights
groups, said the ruling would helpthe group challenge the use of secret evidence
nationally.




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 26, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Freed After Being Held For 19 Months In Terrorism Case

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 866 words


A Palestinian immigrant who had been held for 19 months on secret evidence
accusing him of terrorism was freed last night from a New Jersey jail after the
Justice Department decided not to appeal a court order to release him.

The man, Hany Kiareldeen, 31, was released from the Hudson County Correctional
Center in Kearny about 10:30 P.M. and returned to his wife and family in
Bloomfield, N.J., said David D. Cole, one of his lawyers.

Mr. Kiareldeen, a native of Gaza who has lived in the United States for nine
years and is married to an American citizen, had been held in jail since March
27, 1998. In attempting to deport him, immigration officials accused Mr.
Kiareldeen of meeting in his home with one of the men who was later convicted in
the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. They also accused him of threatening
the life of Attorney General Janet Reno, though he has not been charged with any
crime.

But the Government would not reveal the basis for the accusations, which Mr.
Kiareldeen's lawyers said came from his embittered ex-wife. While judges at
several levels declared the evidence against him unreliable , the Immigration
and Naturalization Service continued to maintain that he was a threat to
national security.

Last week, a Federal District judge ruled, for the first time in the nation,
that detaining an immigrant on the basis of secret evidence was
unconstitutional, and Mr. Kiareldeen was ordered freed. A three-judge
immigration appeals board delayed Mr. Kiareldeen's release until midnight last
night to give the Justice Department a last chance to decide if it wanted to
continue pressing its case. The department declined to do so.

In a statement, the Justice Department said that both the department and the
Commissioner of the I.N.S. believed "that after submitting the evidence to an
immigration judge and the board, the process has taken its course, and as a
result the department has decided not to take the extraordinary step of
appealing the board's decision."

Mr. Cole said last night that he was exhilarated to learn that his client's long
legal battle appeared to be over. "It's great news," he said. "It comes a year
and a half too late, unfortunately. This is a man who, according to every judge
who has looked at his case, never should have spent a day in prison, but freedom
is always a great thing, even when it comes late."

He said that Mr. Kiareldeen, who worked in an electronics store in Paterson,
N.J., before he was jailed, would consider suing the Government for wrongful
imprisonment. Advocates for immigrants had called Mr. Kiareldeen's case a
powerful argument against the practice of imprisoning people based on secret
evidence. In August, Mr. Kiareldeen filed a Federal lawsuit that argued that
refusing to let an accused person know the source of the evidence against him
was a fundamental violation of the constitutional right to due process. His
lawyers say there are about 20 people across the country, most of Arab descent,
being held on the basis of secret evidence.

"If this proceeding had gone forward on the basis of open evidence from the
outset," Mr. Cole said last night, "I think he would have spent three or four
days in jail instead of 19 months. But because the evidence was kept in secret,
it took this long to demonstrate to everyone's satisfaction that he is an
innocent person who never should have been detained."

Mr. Kiareldeen was initially arrested for having an expired student visa and was
threatened with deportation. When his lawyer argued that he should be allowed to
stay based on his marriage to a United States citizen, the Government opposed
Mr. Kiareldeen's application, saying that there was "secret information" linking
him to the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.

The Government claimed that Mr. Kiareldeen met with Nidal A. Ayyad, who was
later convicted for conspiring in the bombing, just a week before the bombing.
But judges said the Government never made its case.

In the last six months, Mr. Kiareldeen seemed to be on the verge of freedom
several times. In April, an immigration judge ordered that he be released after
calling the evidence against him "meager" and saying that the Government had
failed to prove any links between Mr. Kiareldeen and terrorists who bombed the
World Trade Center. The I.N.S. appealed. On Oct. 18, the Justice Department's
Board of Immigration Appeals upheld the release order, but the immigration
service appealed again.

Two days later, a Federal District Judge, William H. Walls, ruled that Mr.
Kiareldeen's due process rights had been violated and ordered him released. He
wrote that the Government was forcing Mr. Kiareldeen to answer "anonymous slurs
of unseen and unsworn informers," which "raised serious issues about the
integrity of the adversarial process."

The I.N.S. appealed, arguing that the judge did not have jurisdiction. The day
after that, a Federal appeals court judge blocked Mr. Kiareldeen's release but
ordered the three-judge Board of Immigration Appeals to review the case
immediately.

On Friday, the board ruled that only "a brief stay" of Mr. Kiareldeen's release
was warranted. It expired last night.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 26, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Story of K

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Credit to the Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner, for a difficult and
important decision. She has ended the long effort to deport an alien on the
basis of secret evidence, declining to seek further review of court rulings
against her agency, the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The alien is Hany Kiareldeen, a 31-year-old Palestinian who has lived in the
United States since 1990 and is married to a U.S. citizen. His case has become a
symbol of a practice that critics liken to the treatment of Joseph K. in Franz
Kafka's "The Trial": imprisonment without knowing the reasons.

It is bedrock American belief that nothing like that can happen here. No one can
be held in prison for years without knowing exactly what the accusations are,
without having a chance to confront his accusers.

But it does happen here. The Immigration and Naturalization Service over the
last several years has acted to expel about two dozen aliens from this country
on the basis of evidence that they were not allowed to see. Many of them were,
and are, imprisoned while trying to fight the phantom of secret evidence.

Mr. Kiareldeen was detained by the I.N.S. in March 1998 and has been in a county
jail in New Jersey ever since. The I.N.S. accused him of having connections to
terrorists, including one involved in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade
Center. But it would not tell him or his lawyers the basis for that charge.

The I.N.S. presented classified material in secret to an immigration judge,
Daniel Meisner. All that Mr. Kiareldeen was given was "summaries" identifying no
sources. No witnesses were called to testify, so none could be cross-examined.

Judge Meisner, having read the secret material, concluded that an evaluation of
it "by a person of ordinary prudence and caution cannot sustain a finding that
Mr. Kiareldeen has engaged in terrorist activity." When the I.N.S. appealed, two
separate three-judge panels of the Board of Immigration Appeals agreed.

Last week the I.N.S. lost again. Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers had gone to a federal
court to seek his release on a writ of habeas corpus. Judge William H. Walls of
New Jersey, granting the writ, said it was an unconstitutional denial of due
process of law to use secret evidence against him -- to make him battle
"anonymous slurs of unseen and unsworn informers."

The Immigration Service at first indicated that it would not give up. It secured
stays that kept Mr. Kiareldeen in prison at least temporarily. There was talk
that Commissioner Meissner would take the extraordinary step of asking Attorney
General Janet Reno to call in the Board of Immigration Appeals decision for
further review.

But last night Commissioner Meissner decided not to refer the case to the
Attorney General. Aides said she felt that the case had gone through a rigorous
administrative process and that the I.N.S. had thus met its obligation to
national security.

In the end, it was said, the rebuttal evidence presented by Mr. Kiareldeen's
lawyers had overcome the I.N.S.'s secret material. In a way, that emphasizes the
danger of secrecy in the legal process. It was only because Mr. Kiareldeen's
lawyers were able to get a partial sense of what was involved that they were
able to reply effectively.

The immediate result is that Mr. Kiareldeen will be released from prison. Under
the Board of Immigration Appeals decision he will be eligible now to become a
legal permanent resident of the United States.

Commissioner Meissner's action is a welcome break in a dogged insistence by the
I.N.S. on pressing for deportation in secret-evidence cases despite adverse
court decisions.

Nasser Ahmed, another person of Arab origin (as almost all those involved in
these cases are), has been in I.N.S. detention for three and a half years. An
immigration judge first decided against him on the basis of secret evidence.
Then, when a habeas corpus petition challenged his detention, the I.N.S. gave
his lawyers a somewhat fuller summary of the material, they put on a case, and
the judge changed his mind. The I.N.S. appealed, and Mr. Ahmed remains in
prison.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Cold War Secrecy, Reheated by Terror

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 26


The Government's use of secret evidence to detain immigrants is a cold war-era
practice that re-emerged amid the terrorism jitters of the 1990's.

Under laws and court rulings dating to the 1950's and renewed in the 1996
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act and the Immigration Reform Act of
the same year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been allowed to
detain and deport noncitizens on the basis of secret evidence without revealing
exactly what the evidence is or where it originated.

Immigration and intelligence officials have asserted that such secrecy is
necessary to protect intelligence-gathering methods and the lives of informers.

The rationale dates to the 50's, when the Government used evidence about
political activity as grounds for deporting hundreds of people who had been
members of the Communist Party.

David Cole, a volunteer lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights and a
part of the team representing Hany Kiareldeen, a Palestinian immigrant released
on Monday after being held for 19 months on the basis of secret evidence, said
that the immigration service had relied on a 1956 United States Supreme Court
ruling, Jay v. Boyd. In that case, Mr. Cole said, a man facing detention on the
basis of secret evidence that he was a Communist challenged whether the agency
had the authority to use such evidence under immigration law. A divided Court
said the authority did exist under the statute, though the justices never
addressed the constitutionality of the use of the evidence. In recent years,
other rulings have raised questions about the use of secret evidence in pressing
other actions, such as deporting immigrants or preventing their entry.

Hiroshi Motomura, a professor at the University of Colorado School of Law and an
expert in immigration law, said that after the World Trade Center bombing in
1993, fear of terrorism approached the level of fear that Communism generated in
the 1950's. But Mr. Motomura noted that, just as Americans eventually realized
that Communism was a far smaller threat to the nation than the weakening of
constitutional rights, immigration judges and others have begun to question
whether they should allow the Government unlimited power in fighting terrorism.

"There is a sense that they need to more closely scrutinize these claims of
terrorism and national security," Mr. Motomura said of the judges, "and a sense
that they don't want to repeat the mistakes of the 50's where they realize we
went overboard."

Representative David E. Bonior, a Democrat of Michigan and sponsor, along with
53 other members of Congress, of the Secret Evidence Repeal Act, said it would
take legislation, not just court opinions, to end such practices. Mr. Bonior is
pressing for hearings on his bill in the Republican-controlled House, and he
said that time is running out in this session for Congress to take action.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Man's Release Leads to Hope In I.N.S. Cases

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1401 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 26


When the guards came to his cell on Monday night, he held out his arms for the
manacles as usual.

But when he heard the whispered words "Pack up" and was led out of the Hudson
County Correctional Center to the cold, empty street, Hany Kiareldeen realized
that his long, dark odyssey through the immigration system was over.

Mr. Kiareldeen, 31, a Palestinian immigrant, was released Monday night after a
19-month sojourn in two New Jersey jails.  He had been detained on the basis of
secret evidence alleging that he had links to terrorists, including one of the
men convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. A series of immigration
court and Federal court rulings had found that the evidence was unreliable and
that its use was unconstitutional, and on Monday the Immigration and
Naturalization Service decided to stop fighting judges' orders that Mr.
Kiareldeen be freed.

His release and the court rulings have for now given hope to supporters of some
20 other people of Arab descent being held on secret evidence from anonymous
sources that the immigration agency will finally have to scrap a practice it has
used since the 50's. Citing Mr. Kiareldeen's case, advocates and legislators
renewed their calls today for reforms in Federal laws that allow the Government
to detain immigrants it is seeking to deport without detailing the evidence
against them.

Mr. Kiareldeen also hopes for such a big change, but today, reeling from the
legal ordeal that at first seemed destined to end in his deportation, he was
still trying to make sense of the personal and political drama that has left his
life in tatters but his faith in justice intact.

"I wasn't worried a lot while in prison, because I was almost sure that this was
how it should end up, because I was sure justice would win out," he said in an
interview in Newark.

He then turned somber when asked about the Government's allegations, the
evidence for which he was never allowed to see, except for sketchy summaries. He
and his lawyer have asserted that the charges -- including accusations that he
threatened the life of Attorney General Janet Reno -- were based on the
statements of an embittered former wife who talked to the Federal Bureau of
Investigations Joint Terrorism Task Force.

"It has damaged me a lot and it has damaged some relationships," said Mr.
Kiareldeen, who has lived in the United States since 1990 and who worked in an
electronics store before he was jailed. "I have to reconstruct my life."

"Bittersweet" was how some immigrant advocates and Arab-American groups
described the release of Mr. Kiareldeen, as they took note of the continued
detention of others.

"But I'm hoping this case will initiate the Government's taking a closer look at
what they use as secret evidence, and becoming a lot more judicious in light of
the loss in this case at so many administrative and judicial levels," said Kit
Gage, national coordinator of the National Coalition to Protect Political
Freedom, a coalition of advocacy groups and ethnic and civil rights groups that
came together to oppose the use of secret evidence and other immigration law
provisions.

Aly R. Abuzaakouk, the executive director of the American Muslim Council, while
applauding the release of Mr. Kiareldeen, said he believed it would not, on its
own, force the immigration agency to rethink its use of the classified evidence
to detain, deport, exclude and deny asylum to immigrants. He said the only thing
that would end those practices and repair the damage they had done to
Arab-Americans and Muslims would be the passage of a bill now before Congress
that would outlaw the use of secret evidence.

"People in our community are aware of secret evidence, and it is having a
chilling effect on their expressing themselves on issues," Mr. Abuzaakouk said.
"It has created an intimidating factor, and I don't think I.N.S. will pull back
on its own."

Donald Mueller, a spokesman for the the immigration service, said the agency's
decision to release Mr. Kiareldeen did not mean that it would abandon the use of
secret evidence altogether. He said the service had concluded, as had other
units in the Justice Department that deal with immigration cases, that the
evidence against Mr. Kiareldeen was not credible and had been effectively
rebutted by his lawyers.

A spokesman for Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan, said he was
pursuing discussions with the Justice Department about "administrative changes"
in the use of secret evidence. But Representative David E. Bonior, a Michigan
Democrat and the prime sponsor of the Secret Evidence Repeal Act of 1999, said
the only effective solution would be to eradicate the practice.

"Hany's Kiareldeen's release will be a hollow victory unless we permanently
discard this law," he said today in an interview, referring to the Antiterrorism
and Effective Death Penalty Act as well as the Immigration Reform Act, both of
1996.

Mr. Kiareldeen said he had dreamed about being released every night during his
incarceration, but he never thought it would come unheralded and almost
ignominiously, near midnight.

"I thought it would be in daylight with all my family around and with an apology
from the I.N.S.," he said, still slightly dazed.

But he said that he was not so bitter about his experience that he would abandon
his plans to seek American citizenship.

And while he was not converted to political activism by his time in detention,
he does plan to visit Washington this week to appear at a press conference with
Mr. Bonior in support of his bill.

After his release, 19 months to the day from when he was arrested, Mr.
Kiareldeen joined one of his lawyers, Regis Fernandez, his brother, his
sister-in-law, Lily, and a friend for a noisy celebration in the parking lot of
the Hudson County jail, complete with loud Arab music, a bottle of his favorite
beer, Corona, and much laughing and hugging. Then it was off to his brother's
house for the first nonprison food, or Arab food, he has had in a year and half:
grape leaves stuffed with rice and chicken.

In a news conference today with Mr. Kiareldeen, his lawyers -- David Cole,
Houieda Saad and Mr. Fernandez -- recounted how their first victory in the case
came in April, when an immigration judge, Daniel Meisner, upheld their client's
contention that he was eligible for a green card. Mr. Meisner, an administrative
law judge, had himself viewed the secret evidence in its entirety and found it
unconvincing.

Working with sketchy summaries of that same secret evidence against their
client, Ms. Saad said they were able to mount a defense built on documents, rent
checks, telephone records and testimony. Among other things, they said, they
proved that Mr. Kiareldeen was not politically active or an observant Muslim, as
those convicted in the bombings were, and even frequented go-go bars when he was
single. This became known, Mr. Fernandez said jokingly, as "the go-go bar
defense."

They also proved to the judge's satisfaction that Mr. Kiareldeen did not live
where the secret evidence said he lived when he was said to have met with one of
the World Trade Center bombers, and that he had none of the extensive telephone
contacts with the conspirators that had been such key evidence in the
Government's successful prosecution of the bombing conspirators.

Mr. Cole, a volunteer lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights and a
professor at Georgetown University Law Center, said that what turned the tide
for Mr. Kiareldeen was the immigration board rulings -- upheld on appeal to the
Board of Immigration appeals -- and a Federal District Court ruling last week.
In the decision, Judge William H. Walls said that detention on the basis of
secret evidence was a violation of due process.

That ruling, the first ever to find the detention practice unconstitutional,
broke with several rulings in the 1950's that seemed to justify the use of such
evidence. Mr. Cole said Judge Walls had followed the reasoning of several more
recent cases, which had outlawed the use of secret evidence in other types of
immigration proceedings.

He applauded the I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris Meissner, for not continuing to
pursue appeals. But he said that he first had to applaud Mr. Kiareldeen himself
for fighting the use of secret evidence rather than submitting to deportation,
as had so many other immigrants.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hany Kiareldeen, 31, yesterday with one of his lawyers, Houieda
Saad. After 19 months of incarceration on secret evidence that linked him to
terrorists, he celebrated his release with Arab food and Mexican beer. (Keith
Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 11, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Said Freeing Prisoner Would Aid Arab Status

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 814 words


A newly declassified court document shows the F.B.I. argued against freeing an
Egyptian man who has been jailed for more than three years on secret evidence
because it would improve his credibility among Arabs and people "would be more
inclined to listen to him."

The man, Nasser K. Ahmed, has been detained in an immigration proceeding since
April 1996 while the government has tried to build a case that he had links to
terrorist organizations. In an July 30 opinion, an immigration judge rejected
the F.B.I.'s contention that Mr. Ahmed was a threat to national security and
ordered his release.

In a classified appendix to the opinion that was released yesterday, the bureau
argued that Mr. Ahmed should continue to be detained not only because of the
secret evidence against him but also because agents believed he would, if freed,
become even more influential among Arabs because of his lengthy imprisonment.

"His prominence in the community will increase if he is released," an unnamed
F.B.I. agent who gave secret testimony against Mr. Ahmed told the judge. "He
would be more well known, lending to his credibility in the community both
inside the United States and outside the United States."

Arab-American groups and civil libertarians have sharply criticized the use of
secret evidence in immigration proceedings and have held up Mr. Ahmed's lengthy
detention as an example of the unfairness of the practice. In a similar case, a
Palestinian native, Hany Kiareldeen, who was also being held on secret evidence
accusing him of terrorism, was released from a New Jersey jail last month after
being detained for 19 months while the authorities tried to deport him.

"What they did was wrong," said Mr. Ahmed, 39, speaking by phone from the
Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower Manhattan, where he remains while the
government appeals his release. Mr. Ahmed said the revelation that the F.B.I.
opposed his release, fearing in part that his influence would grow because of
his imprisonment, did not surprise him.

"At the beginning, it was I'm a terrorist threat," he said. "That doesn't exist
anymore. So now it's, 'He's going to be credible, and he's going to be a risk.'
They know from Day 1 that I'm innocent of any allegation that they claim."

In the July 30 opinion in Mr. Ahmed's case, the immigration judge, Donn
Livingston, criticized the use of secret evidence by the government. The judge
could not reveal the evidence or his analysis of it until the 16-page addendum
was partly declassified a few days ago by the Justice Department.

One of Mr. Ahmed's lawyers, Louis M. Bograd, a staff lawyer with the American
Civil Liberties Union in Washington, said the document showed "just how lame and
weak" the secret evidence was and how prejudicial it had been for Mr. Ahmed's
case.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said the agency did not discuss "particulars of cases still pending
before the court." He said it would also be inappropriate to comment on evidence
developed by the F.B.I. A bureau spokesman, Joseph A. Valiquette, had no
comment. The document was not completely declassified, so it was not possible to
see the full extent of the government's secret evidence and the judge's comments
of it.

In the declassified part, however, Judge Livingston says that much of the secret
evidence was difficult to evaluate because it was "double or triple hearsay." He
also questions the reliability of some government sources and cites the
description of one source as "a friendly foreign intelligence service."

"A very real concern of this court," the judge said, is whether Egypt was the
source of secret evidence against Mr. Ahmed, who had worked as an aide to Sheik
Omar Abdel Rahman, a strong critic of the Egyptian government, during Mr. Abdel
Rahman's 1995 trial in the plot to blow up landmarks in New York City.

Judge Livingston cited "the very real danger that the Egyptian government may
seek to silence Sheik Rahman by persecuting" Mr. Ahmed, who has been seeking
political asylum in the United States.

The judge rejected other evidence suggesting Mr. Ahmed was linked to terrorist
activities and said his relationship to Mr. Abdel Rahman was not evidence that
he was a threat to national security. The evidence also includes assertions that
Mr. Ahmed raised funds for Mr. Abdel Rahman's legal defense and for Muslims in
Bosnia -- activities his lawyers say were proper.

But the F.B.I. agent who testified against Mr. Ahmed said that the bureau feared
that, "Should he be released, his popularity has increased, people would be more
inclined to listen to him."

The agent, according to the judge, also said that Mr. Ahmed's release "would
result in him becoming a 'leader in the community' " and that the bureau feared
Mr. Ahmed would flee the country if released.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 16, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Suit Says I.N.S. Undercut Honduran Aid Effort

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 675 words


Lawyers accused the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday of
undermining a federal program that offers work permits to Honduran immigrants so
they can help relatives at home recover from the devastation of Hurricane Mitch.

In a class-action lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, four
immigrant advocacy groups said the agency's processing center in Vermont had
failed to provide short-term work permits to thousands of Hondurans who have
been entitled to them for months.

In early January, Hondurans living in the United States were offered the chance
to apply for temporary protected status under a law that protects some foreign
nationals from deportation when their home country has been devastated by armed
conflict or a natural disaster.

Hurricane Mitch struck Honduras and other parts of Central America in October
and November 1998. The immigration service immediately announced that it would
suspend deportations to the affected countries as a humanitarian gesture; when
the full extent of the damage became clear, Attorney General Janet Reno expanded
the gesture with the offer of temporary protected status.

Lawyers for the Honduran immigrants said yesterday that officials in Vermont had
improperly demanded documentation from immigrants that was not legally required
for temporary protected status, further delaying the issuance of permits. The
program for Hondurans is set to expire on July 5, 2000.

Immigration officials in Washington acknowledged yesterday that there had been
problems in processing some applications.

"Over all, there was a misunderstanding or misconception on the part of the
Vermont Service Center," said Bill Strassberger, an I.N.S. spokesman. "Their
understanding of the regulations was that there was more documentation required
than actually was necessary. That's now been clarified and we are working to get
the applications processed."

The lawsuit and the official response underscored recurrent problems at the
Vermont center, which handles immigration cases from states along the East Coast
from Maine to Virginia. Applicants for citizenship and for green cards have
waited as long as three years -- longer than in other regions -- for the Vermont
center to locate and then process their requests. Its handling of the Honduran
program has drawn criticism from immigration lawyers.

Nearly 107,000 Hondurans nationwide applied for the benefit by the August
deadline, and nearly 70,000 had received a work permit as of the first week of
November, according to the agency.

However, of the nearly 36,000 requests for work permits received at the Vermont
center, 21,000 were sent back with a demand for more information. No other
service center in the country raised questions about so many applications.

To receive the legal right to live and work in the United States while their
country is rebuilding, Hondurans had to show they had resided in the United
States since Dec. 30, 1998, and had not traveled outside the country since Jan.
5, 1999.

But many applicants to the Vermont center received letters telling them they had
to prove, instead, that they had resided in the country before Dec. 30, 1998.
Some were told they had to prove they had not traveled outside the United States
since the day they had arrived.

Not only were the demands illegal, the lawsuit charges, but the agency ignored a
legal obligation to issue temporary permits so that applicants could get jobs
while their files were being processed.

"Temporary protected status is nothing new -- it has been used with dozens of
countries," said Charles Wheeler, a lawyer at the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network in San Francisco. "The I.N.S. has never requested this level of
documentation."

Most of the Hondurans who applied for the temporary protected status are in the
country illegally, immigrant advocates said. They may be unemployed or working
at black-market jobs for low wages. A work permit would give them a chance to
earn more and send more to their families, Mr. Wheeler said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Blocks Release of Egyptian Jailed on Secret Evidence

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 413 words


Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday temporarily blocked the scheduled release
of an Egyptian man who had been jailed for more than three years based on secret
evidence, saying she wanted to consider intervening in the case.

The Board of Immigration Appeals, which reviews decisions of immigration judges,
had ordered that the man, Nasser K. Ahmed, be released on bond at 5 p.m.
yesterday while it considered whether he should be deported or granted political
asylum.

But Mr. Ahmed remained in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower
Manhattan after Doris M. Meissner, commissioner of the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service, asked Ms. Reno to intervene, citing "national
security implications," the I.N.S. said.

The attorney general has the authority to review and overturn decisions of the
immigration courts, which are part of the Justice Department. Ms. Reno, in a
one-page order, said she would consider the matter and decide by 5 p.m. on
Tuesday whether to intervene formally and review Mr. Ahmed's case. "If she
decides not to intervene," said a Justice Department spokeswoman, Carole
Florman, "then the Board of Immigration Appeals order will stand, and he will be
released."

It is highly unusual for the attorney general to intervene in I.N.S. decisions,
Ms. Florman said.

Mr. Ahmed's case has been widely watched because it is one of about 20 in which
the I.N.S. has jailed people of Arab descent using classified evidence, a
practice that has been criticized by Arab-American groups and civil libertarians
as a violation of due process.

Lawyers for Mr. Ahmed said last night that they would ask to meet with Ms. Reno
or submit papers to her arguing for Mr. Ahmed's release.  Louis M. Bograd, a
lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union in Washington, criticized the
I.N.S.'s request to Ms. Reno. "I really think that after three and a half years
of detaining this man without justification," Mr. Bograd said, "they should have
allowed him to be released while his deportation proceedings continue."

Mr. Ahmed, 39, has been held since April 1996 based on the government's
assertions, largely made in classified evidence to an immigration judge, that he
had links to terrorist organizations -- allegations he has strongly denied. On
July 30, an immigration judge, Donn Livingston, after reviewing the secret
evidence, ruled that Mr. Ahmed was not a threat to national security, and should
be granted political asylum.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A Labor Shortage?

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 157 words



To the Editor:

Apparently the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates out of concern "that
the nation is literally running out of workers and that, as it does so, wages
and then prices will inevitably be pushed higher, endangering an economic
expansion" (Business Day, Nov. 17).

I don't get it: There are millions of qualified people all over the world who
would be glad to immigrate to the United States and relieve the labor shortage.
Rather than recklessly jeopardizing the economy's momentum and healthy business
climate by raising interest rates, why not encourage the Clinton administration
and Congress to take a positive approach and direct the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to drastically raise its immigration quotas instead? That
would help both the United States and ambitious potential immigrants who happen
to live in countries with high unemployment.

PAUL FEEHAN
Columbus, Ohio, Nov. 17, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 4, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

PLUS: COURT NEWS;
Berbick Is Allowed To Stay in Canada

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D;  Page 5;  Column 4;  Sports Desk

LENGTH: 134 words


Trevor Berbick, a former heavyweight champion, received permission yesterday to
stay in Canada for five years after immigration authorities tried to deport him.

The Immigration and Refugee Board said he did not pose a danger despite criminal
convictions that included rape.

Berbick, who went to Canada in 1979 from Jamaica, was told he must obey the law
as a condition for the decision. The board noted that Berbick now trains young
boxers and said it would not serve the interests of justice to deport him.

Berbick won the World Boxing Council title in 1986 before his life unraveled. In
1992 he was convicted of raping a family baby sitter in Florida and forging his
ex-wife's signature to get a mortgage. A year earlier, he was convicted of
attacking his former business manager.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 10, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Agency Takes Step Toward Return of Cuban Boy

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 9


The international furor over custody of a Cuban boy edged to the legal arena
today from the political as Washington began proceedings that could send the boy
home to Cuba and his relatives in the United States prepared a legal claim to
keep him in this country.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service sent a letter to Juan
Miguel Gonzalez in Cuba, spelling out what he could do to make his case for the
return from Miami of his 6-year-old son, Elian.

"It tells Mr. Gonzalez he can provide us with information that we will consider
in determining Elian's immigration status," said Dan Kane, an I.N.S. spokesman.
The letter was a departure for the immigration service, which had said it would
leave the issue of custody to the courts.

Critics of the I.N.S. said it had allowed Elian's status to be politicized by
Cuban exiles in the United States, who have battled to keep the boy in Miami and
made him a symbol of their opposition to President Fidel Castro of Cuba.

Washington has gradually shifted its stance. President Clinton said on Wednesday
at a news conference that there was a legal process for determining what was
best for the boy and that he felt sympathy for Elian's father.

The boy's relatives here said on Wednesday that they were preparing to use the
courts to keep him; they plan to seek official status as Elian's guardians,
request an injunction preventing his return to Cuba and a formal request for
political asylum in the United States.

Elian has been at the center of a political tug-of-war between his father, who
is backed by Cuba's Communist government, and his relatives in Miami since the
boy was rescued on Nov. 25 after drifting for two days in the Atlantic. His
mother, stepfather and nine others drowned in the crossing from Cuba.

Mr. Gonzalez says he wants Elian back, saying the boy was kidnapped by his
mother. Thousands of Cubans have staged anti-American demonstrations to back his
claim. The boy's Miami relatives say he should stay in Florida, where he would
have a better life than in Cuba.

Legal experts said it would be very difficult for Elian's relatives in Miami to
claim guardianship of the boy successfully when his father was not abusive, had
been involved in his life and wanted him back.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 14, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Mills of Cruelty

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Ana Flores, as I shall call her, came to this country from Guatemala. She has a
green card, entitling her to permanent residence. She lives in a Virginia suburb
of Washington with her two daughters, ages 9 and 8, both American citizens.

Over several years she complained to the police that her husband was assaulting
her. In June 1998, during one of their disputes, her husband sat on Ana and hit
her. Defending herself, she bit him. He called the police, who arrested her.

Ms. Flores was charged with domestic assault. In a 10-minute hearing, a Virginia
judge urged her to plead guilty without a lawyer. When she did, he sentenced her
to six months' probation and 30 days in jail, to be suspended if she finished
the probation. She did. She is now separated from her husband.

At 5 in the morning last Jan. 13 two agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service came to Ms. Flores's home and arrested her for
deportation. Why? The charging document, signed by James D. Goldman, an
assistant district director of the I.N.S., cited a section of the 1996
Immigration Act calling for deportation of anyone convicted of "a crime of
domestic violence."

So for biting an abusive husband during a domestic dispute, Ms. Flores is to be
deported. She is due to appear before an immigration judge on Jan. 13.

In writing about the Immigration Service in recent years, I have encountered
much cruelty. But this case is beyond belief. Why would the I.N.S. pursue such a
grotesquely marginal case? I asked, and officials are looking into it.

Last month 28 members of the House wrote to the Attorney General, Janet Reno,
and the Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner, urging the I.N.S. not to
seek deportation in "true hardship cases." The letter was notable because it was
signed by Representative Lamar Smith, a principal author of the stringent 1996
law, and other Republican conservatives -- and by Representative Barney Frank
and other Democratic liberals.

"There has been widespread agreement," the letter said, "that some deportations
were unfair and resulted in unjustifiable hardships." It called on the I.N.S. to
issue guidelines for its officials to exercise "prosecutorial discretion."

The I.N.S. has in fact been working on guidelines for some time, in consultation
with Representative Smith and others. If the guidelines are issued, and
followed, they should do much to prevent such horrors as the effort to deport
Ana Flores.

But prosecutorial discretion alone cannot end the injustices noted by the
Congressmen. For even if I.N.S. officials decide not to proceed against someone
who is technically deportable, that person would remain in a legal limbo,
ineligible to become a citizen and unable to travel abroad.

If Ana Flores were free of the deportation order, for example, and went to
Guatemala to visit relatives, she would be asked on her return whether she had
ever been convicted of a crime. If she answered honestly, she would be legally
inadmissible. And the law gives the I.N.S. no discretion in admission cases.

To reduce unfairness, the 1996 Immigration Act needs to be modified so that
deportation does not follow automatically from a long list of criminal offenses,
some of them trivial. A crime like domestic violence can be serious -- or not,
as in the Flores case. The seriousness of many offenses must be judged on the
facts. The attempt to eliminate judgment has proved to be a mistake with harsh
consequences.

The law should provide a regular process for deciding whether a claim of
hardship justifies calling off a deportation. There used to be just such a
process. Immigration judges had the power to stop a deportation if it would be
unjustifiably cruel. If the judge so decided, the person no longer had a legal
cloud hanging over her.

Because the 1996 act eliminated that process, I.N.S. officials are now expected
to undertake a role they have never had before -- deciding whether justice is
served by going after someone like Ana Flores. And they must do so without a
hearing, without knowing all the facts. All they may have is a notice from state
legal authorities of people recently convicted and their crimes. The role more
appropriately belongs where the issue can be argued and explored, in the
immigration courts.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Woman Jailed for Thefts Is Ordered to Be Deported

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER


A woman jailed for shoplifting about $25 worth of cigarettes, eye drops and
deodorant was ordered yesterday to be deported to Italy, which she left at age 5
when her family emigrated.

Maria Wigent, 37, who is married to an American and has two teenage sons, drew a
two-year sentence last year for three misdemeanor convictions after she had
committed multiple attempted larcenies at neighborhood stores. Under a 1996
change in United States immigration law, any noncitizen who is sentenced to more
than a year in jail can be classified as an "aggravated felon" and be subject to
deportation.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said that Ms. Wigent's case would be
turned over to the Board of Immigration Appeals.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Unfairness

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis (column, Dec. 14) mentions approvingly a letter I co-signed urging
the Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner, Doris M. Meissner, to
use discretion in applying the provisions of the 1996 immigration law
amendments, and notes that while administrative discretion would be helpful in
alleviating the law's harshness, it would not suffice. "To reduce unfairness,
the 1996 Immigration Act needs to be modified," he notes.

I agree, and I am therefore surprised that Mr. Lewis neglected to mention that
in addition to signing that letter, I have filed legislation to amend the 1996
act to cut back very substantially on the offenses that require automatic
deportation and undo other problems created in 1996.

Mr. Lewis's column may leave the impression that I think administrative
discretion is enough to solve the problems created in 1996. In fact, I believe
strongly that administrative discretion and legislative changes are both
necessary, and I am working hard on each aspect.

(Rep.) BARNEY FRANK
Newton, Mass., Dec. 15, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 22, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Necessary Deportations

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words



To the Editor:

A Dec. 21 front-page article is correct to report that deportations of
noncitizen immigrants convicted of crimes have almost doubled since the
enactment of immigration reform legislation in 1996. But you do not include a
realistic assessment of their impact on public safety.

Almost all criminal deportations are for serious crimes ranging from murder,
rape and drug trafficking to burglary, robbery and auto theft. Justice
Department statistics show that if noncitizen criminals are not deported, the
vast majority will commit additional serious crimes.

The number of true hardship cases is less than 1 percent of the total number of
deportations. Such cases are best addressed through administrative measures like
prosecutorial discretion and attorney general parole power. Legislative changes
to restore loopholes would endanger public safety.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Chairman, Subcommittee on Immigration and Claims
Washington, Dec. 21, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

6-Year-Old Cuban to Spend Christmas in Miami as I.N.S. Interview Is Put Off

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 22


Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban refugee who was rescued from an inner tube
off Florida on Thanksgiving Day, will remain in Miami at least through
Christmas, immigration officials said today.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service faxed a letter to Spencer Eig,
Elian's lawyer, saying it had postponed an inspection interview with the boy
that was scheduled for Thursday. The interview is part of the agency's procedure
for determining a person's admissibility into the United States while his
immigration status is decided.

The immigration service commissioner, Doris Meissner, will ultimately rule on
whether the boy will stay with relatives in Florida, as Cuban exiles have
demanded, or be returned to his father in Cuba, as the father and the Cuban
government have demanded.

The letter also offered reassurances that Elian will remain with his Miami
relatives and would not be placed in foster care. In recent days there had been
worried whispers that the boy would either be taken away from his father's Miami
relatives or deported to Cuba this week.

"At this point we did not have all the information we needed to complete his
inspection," said Maria Cardona, an immigration service spokeswoman. "We did not
think it was important for him to come and meet with I.N.S. inspectors. A
decision is not going to be forthcoming this week."

Immigration service officials said their decision to postpone the interview did
not affect the more important question of who will speak for the boy's
interests. Since arriving here after a journey that claimed the life of his
mother, stepfather and 10 others, the boy has been at the center of an custody
dispute between his father in Cuba and relatives in Miami, both of whom insist
they are looking out for his best interests.

"The decision we need to make is who can speak on the child's behalf regarding
the immigration issues involved in this case," Ms. Cardona said. "I.N.S.'s
decision in this regard can be made before, during or after the inspection is
completed. The Jan. 21 inspection date is not magical and it has no bearing on
our decision."

Given the frayed relations between the United States and Cuba, the tug of war
over Elian has been fraught with larger political meaning. Exile groups in Miami
have embraced the child, with local politicians visiting his Miami hone bearing
gifts and encouragement. Elian's lawyer has filed a request for political asylum
for the schoolboy, saying he had a fear of persecution should he be returned to
Cuba.

"He would not go back to the custody of his father," Mr. Eig said, "he would go
into the custody of Fidel Castro for the purposes of being used as a trophy in
parades all around the country as a symbol of Castro's victory over the United
States. We pointed out to the I.N.S. that would be particularly horrifying to
Elian because he would be turned into a symbol of the regime that drove his own
mother to her death."

Since the custody impasse began, throngs of protesters in Cuba have taken to the
streets nine times to demand the boy's return. In Havana today, protesters with
flags and banners brought traffic to a standstill as they streamed through
seaside avenue by the American Interests Section chanting "Free Elian."
According to a report from Reuters, Cuban officials had a group of children form
a human ring for "protection" around the American Interests Section, the office
of the liaison between the United States and Cuba in absence of diplomatic
relations.

Cuban officials have accused Cubans in exile of using the boy as a political
pawn. President Castro has also said that if the boy is returned, there will be
no triumphant parades. One Cuban official who spoke on condition of anonymity
said his government wanted to see the child come back to as normal a home
environment as possible.

"What has been done in Miami is part of a show that the people are doing every
day," the official said. "The boy is suffering. His mother is dead, and he has
to be with his father."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Antonio Martinez, 73, Immigration Lawyer

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 184 words


Antonio Claudio Martinez, an immigration lawyer based in Manhattan who was a
longtime presence in Dominican-American and other immigrant communities, died
last Thursday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in
Rego Park, Queens.

The cause was complications from lung cancer, his family said.

After graduating from Brooklyn Law School in 1956, he became the first
Dominican-American member of the New York State Bar Association. He helped
thousands of immigrants to gain legal residence here.

Mr. Martinez was born in the Dominican Republic and was brought to this country
at age 4. He attended Hunter College and served in the Army in the Pacific in
World War II.

His first marriage to Constancia M. Rodriguez-Guzman, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.,
ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Nieves Ceballos Martinez; his
mother, Estela Castellano of Rego Park; three sons, Francisco G. of Manhattan,
Antonio C. 2nd of Wayne, N.J., and Claudio N. of Rego Park; a daughter, Juliette
Martinez-Ozaruk of Croton-on-Hudson; and five grandchildren.







http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Expels 2 U.S. Supporters of Zapatistas Who Visited Chiapas

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 5


Mexico has ordered Kerry Appel, 48, a coffee importer from Colorado who attended
a New Years' celebration in a rebel-controlled village in southern Chiapas
state, to leave the country immediately. The order, issued on Tuesday, bars Mr.
Appel from visiting here for three years.

Another American who spent New Years' in Chiapas was interrogated and given a
week to leave. The authorities identified him as Greg Ruggeiro, 25, an editor
from Brooklyn.

Mr. Appel and Mr. Ruggeiro were among 40 American, Argentine, French, Italian
and Portuguese tourists, sympathizers of the Zapatista rebels in Chiapas, who
attended the same celebration in Chiapas. Immigration authorities have called in
most for questioning. Mr. Appel and Mr. Ruggeiro's were the first expulsion
orders. But human rights lawyers who are following the situation said they
expected that other foreigners might be ordered out.

Today, the immigration office in San Cristobal de las Casas in Chiapas was
filled with foreigners, some accompanied by lawyers, waiting to be interrogated.
At least 79 foreign tourists were ordered out of Mexico last year after trips to
Chiapas.

After a visit to Chiapas in January 1996, Mr. Appel was ordered to leave, but
was not barred from returning.

Immigration Commissioner Alejandro Carrillo Castro told reporters here on
Tuesday night that Mr. Appel had broken the law by traveling to Mexico last
month with a tourist visa, ignoring the terms of the previous order, which
required him to request a special visa from the Mexican consulate in Denver.

Mr. Appel asserted in an interview today, however, that the authorities had
never shown him the order and had repeatedly assured him after the deportation
that he faced no special restrictions. He said his Mexican lawyer was appealing
the new order.

Mr. Appel said he established his coffee importing business in Denver, the Human
Bean Company, in 1996. He purchases coffee from Chiapas cooperatives run by
indigenous farmers and markets the beans, as well as native weavings and video
documentaries that he has produced about Chiapas through a Web site,
www.thehumanbean.com.

In 1997, Mr. Appel videotaped an interview with the rebel leader, Subcomandante
Marcos. In an introduction to that interview, which is on the Web site, Mr.
Appel described his deportation, saying:

"I was told that I had no business discussing economic, social or political
subjects with the indigenous peoples of Mexico. I was told by the Mexican
government that if I wanted to see Indians, I could see them in the markets or
the museums. Then they kicked me out of Mexico."

At the celebration, in Oventic, for the new year and the sixth anniversary of
the onset of the insurgency, Mr. Appel talked, played basketball and danced with
the Indians, but did not offer political advice, he said.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 11, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Cuban Boy's Miami Relatives Are Given Temporary Custody

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 10


Despite a ruling by immigration officials that a 6-year-old Cuban refugee be
returned to his father in Cuba this week, a judge has granted temporary custody
to the boy's relatives in Miami until a guardianship hearing can be held in
March.

Judge Rosa Rodriguez of Miami-Dade Circuit Court issued the temporary order as
part of her decision that her court had jurisdiction over a custody petition
filed last week by Florida relatives of Elian Gonzalez, who was rescued from an
inner tube floating in the Atlantic Ocean on Thanksgiving Day. The petition was
filed by Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's paternal great-uncle, who said the child faced
"serious and unnecessary emotional harm" if he was returned.

Judge Rodriguez set a court date of March 6 to present evidence.

"We have always believed in the laws of this country," Mr. Gonzalez said after
the ruling. "We were always very positive that a fair decision would be reached,
and that's what happened."

Mr. Gonzalez's petition came only days after the Immigration and Naturalization
Service ruled that Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, was the only person the
agency recognized as representing the child's best interests. The agency set a
deadline of Jan. 14 for the boy to be returned to his Cuban hometown, Cardenas.

A spokesman for the immigration service said the agency had not yet seen the
judge's ruling and could not comment on how it would affect the deadline. The
agency and the Department of Justice are also reviewing a legal response to a
subpoena from Representative Dan Burton, Republican of Indiana, that seeks to
have Elian remain in this country until a Congressional hearing.

Experts in family law were surprised by today's ruling, given how the
immigration service had seemed to have settled the question of who spoke for the
child. They said the Miami relatives would be hard pressed to present a case
that Elian should be removed from his father, whose Cuban neighbors described
him as devoted.

Bernard Perlmutter, the director of the Children and Youth Law Clinic at the
University of Miami, said the ruling set the stage for the boy's Miami relatives
to argue that the Jan. 14 deadline could be bypassed.

Mr. Perlmutter said the relatives would have to prove that Elian's father had
abused, neglected or abandoned him.

"I think the I.N.S. should intervene and make the argument that there is no
proper basis for jurisdiction in this matter," Mr. Perlmutter said.

The agency originally released Elian to the care of his great-uncle since he was
rescued in November after his mother and other Cuban refugees died when their
boat capsized during an effort to reach the United States. Since then, lawyers
for the child have filed a request for political asylum, a claim that could be
bolstered if the great-uncle succeeds in being named his guardian.

"Elian can now experience due process, and it is a first step in a process we
have only just begun," said Eduardo Rasco, a lawyer for Elian's Miami relatives.

While not addressing specifics, the judge said the father would be served with
copies of the court order and would be asked to appear before her. She said that
if he did not attend the hearings, the decision could be "adverse to his
interests."

The father has repeatedly insisted he would not travel to this country, saying
that he was certain his rights as a surviving biological parent would be upheld
by any court.

Today's ruling was greeted with exultation by Elian's supporters, who staged
large public protests last week to prevent the boy's return to Cuba. They had
insisted that they only wanted a chance to present in court their case for
keeping the child in Miami, adding that they feared he would be used as a
political trophy by Cuba's President, Fidel Castro.

Jose Basulto, president of the Cuban exile group Brothers to the Rescue, said:
"Even though it is temporary, it leads us in the right direction and it leads us
to a court hearing. We will abide by the court's decision, whatever it is, but
we are not going to just sit back and let them ship Elian to Cuba just so this
country can appease Castro."

Cuban officials were in meetings in the early evening and had no immediate
comment. But at a rally outside the American Interests Section in Havana,
protesters expressed shock. "I cannot imagine something like this happening in a
country where there is law," said Ydilsis Fernandez Mojica, who works for the
ministry of education. "This is against humanity. What do those people believe?"



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2000, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about a Florida judge's grant of temporary custody of a
6-year-old Cuban boy to his Miami relatives gave an incorrect spelling from the
University of Miami in some copies for the surname of the director of the
Children and Youth Law Clinic there. He is Bernard Perlmutter, not Pearlmutter.


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Boy's Fate Called A Federal Matter

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12


Attorney General Janet Reno said today that only federal courts had the
authority to decide whether a 6-year-old boy should be reunited with his father
in Cuba but said immigration officials had lifted a Friday deadline for his
return to allow his relatives to appeal in federal court.

In a letter to lawyers for the boy's relatives in Miami, Ms. Reno said a Florida
state court had no jurisdiction in the case. The boy, Elian Gonzalez, was
rescued at sea clinging to an inner tube last November after his mother drowned.

In her letter, Ms. Reno emphatically reaffirmed her belief that the law required
that Elian should be returned to his father in Cuba.

The Justice Department is considering going to court this week to ask a federal
judge to enforce the immigration ruling in hope of speedily resolving a
difficult, emotional political and diplomatic problem.

The Clinton administration has adopted a dual approach to dealing with the case.
On one hand, officials want to show that their ruling giving Elian's father the
right to make the decision for the boy is the product of well-established law
that sets a priority on family unification and that they are willing to have it
tested in federal court. At the same time, the administration is moving to end
the stalemate quickly, possibly seeking a court order that could lead to federal
marshals' being sent to fetch Elian from the Miami relatives.

In her letter, Ms. Reno said a separate lawsuit filed in Florida state court by
the relatives to gain custody of Elian had no bearing on the case, which she
said could only be decided in federal court. Judge Rosa Rodriguez of the
Miami-Dade Circuit Court ruled on Monday that Elian must remain in the United
States until a March 6 hearing.

Ms. Reno brushed aside that ruling today, saying the state court order "has no
force or effect" on the Immigration and Naturalization Service's decision in the
case.

"The question of who may speak for a 6-year-old child in applying for admission
or asylum is a matter of federal immigration law," she wrote.

Justice Department officials and legal analysts said they believed that Ms. Reno
had the authority to decide as she did because the immigration issues under
federal jurisdiction took precedence over the custody matter before the Florida
court.
 Spencer Eig, a lawyer for the Florida relatives, said in a telephone interview
that the family would soon take up Ms. Reno's invitation to file a challenge to
the immigration ruling in federal court. But he said the relatives would also
maintain efforts to have a state court award them legal custody of Elian. "We
are not removing this case from the state court," he said. "We will seek
protection for Elian's civil rights in federal court as a separate action."

The lawyers for the Miami relatives will ask the court to reinstate an asylum
petition on behalf of Elian and argue that immigration officials wrongly decided
that the boy's father was in a position to make a decision in the child's best
interests.

No clear end appears in sight.

Officials said today's action in lifting the deadline was part of the effort to
demonstrate that the decision to rule in favor of the father was a product of
the law. One official said the deep fear behind all the legal maneuvering was
that the situation would deteriorate to a stage where the federal government
would have to use marshals to assume physical custody of the boy. "We are still
hopeful that we can resolve this matter soon," a senior official said today.

Since last week's ruling, hundreds of Cuban-Americans have protested in the
streets of South Florida. The administration has been sensitive from the
beginning to the political implications of the case. And while reluctant to
offend Cuban-American voters, senior officials have been eager to end the
situation to prevent any worsening of relations with Havana.

Today, several members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, sent a letter to
Ms. Reno urging her to respect the role of the Florida courts. The signers
included Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican, and Senator Robert G.
Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat.

Mr. Eig said today that the family would abide by any court decision and fully
understood that it would not be in the best interests of the child to have any
confrontation with the federal authorities in which Elian would be forcibly
taken from them. But he left open the possibility that the relatives might feel
that a state court ruling in their favor on custody might trump the federal
authorities.

"I was surprised that Ms. Reno would not respect a state court ruling on what is
essentially a state matter," he said, adding it was common for federal courts to
look to state courts to determine a person's status in making immigration
rulings.

Ms. Reno today made it clear that she believed otherwise. She also offered a
long rebuttal to the lawyers' contention that immigration service guidelines
mandated that Elian should be given a full hearing.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 97 words


Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the immigration case
involving Elian Gonzalez misattributed a comment about the failure of a family
court judge to disclose a prior business relationship with a spokesman for the
boy's relatives. It was Anthony V. Alfieri, director of the Center for Ethics
and Public Service at the University of Miami, who said the judge's action --
granting temporary custody to Elian's great-uncle in Miami -- was troubling. (It
was not Celena Rios, director of family court operations for the Eleventh
Judicial Circuit of Florida.)




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The Law on Elian Gonzalez

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words


Attorney General Janet Reno has correctly asserted that the tangled case of
Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban boy now living with relatives in Miami,
must be decided under federal immigration law, not in the Florida courts. Her
declaration will not settle the complicated dispute that pits the Clinton
administration and the Immigration and Naturalization Service against
Congressional conservatives and anti-Castro Cubans in Miami. But it is a start
toward legal clarity, which represents the best road out of a mess where
political agreement will never be possible.

As Ms. Reno acknowledged in a letter to lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives,
the I.N.S. created great confusion with its initial announcement that it "could
not grant custody and that such a request would have to be put before the state
courts." But as a matter of law, the I.N.S. has authority to make the
determination that Elian's father in Cuba is the boy's lawful guardian.
Immigration law experts agree that the Florida family court that intervened in
the case by awarding temporary custody to a great-uncle in Miami does not have
the authority to overrule the I.N.S. Ms. Reno said in her letter that the
government was prepared to go to federal court to enforce its primacy in the
case, and it should do so promptly.

State-federal jurisdictional disputes were common in civil rights cases in the
60's, and experience shows that calm persistence in asserting the primacy of
federal law is the best course. Cooling-off periods can be valuable, too. So the
I.N.S. decision to extend the Jan. 14 deadline for returning the boy to his
father was prudent. That will give time for resolving the legal disputes.

It is too much to hope, of course, that political passions will burn themselves
out in that time. As one anti-Castro leader in Miami said, Elian has become a
symbol of that community's 41 years of frustration with Fidel Castro and with
its shorter-term anger at the Clinton administration. But it is possible that
the hysteria in Congress, with its plans to bring Elian to Washington to testify
or grant him instant citizenship, will recede.

In hindsight, it is clear that the I.N.S. should have acted more confidently and
promptly. But the fact that the I.N.S. let relatives in Miami care for the boy
does not give them a custody claim that overrides federal law. Elian has
remained in the exclusive legal custody of the federal government since his
arrival. The I.N.S. correctly determined that the boy's father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, is his sole lawful guardian, and has the right to make the decision to
have the child returned to Cuba. There is no basis in law for overturning Mr.
Gonzalez's claim because he lives in a Communist country.

The Clinton administration has the legal authority to enforce the I.N.S.
decision immediately. But the sounder and less disruptive course would be, as
Ms. Reno suggested in her letter, to settle the matter in the proper federal
court. That should take place before the Florida judge, Rosa I. Rodriguez,
convenes her evidentiary hearing on March 6 and further stirs up the local
community -- as well as those in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail
who want to take advantage of this case.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 14, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

BOXING;
Tyson Is Cleared To Fight In Britain

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY W. SMITH

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 676 words


Two days after three London mayoral candidates raised a furor over his entry
into the country, Mike Tyson has been cleared by the Home Office to visit
Britain for his Jan. 29 heavyweight fight against Julius Francis in Manchester.

The decision by Home Office Secretary Jack Straw to allow Tyson to enter the
country bypasses possible objections by British immigration officials, who could
have kept Tyson out of the country because of his 1992 rape conviction and the
three and a half years in prison he served in Indiana. Under British immigration
law, anyone convicted of a crime that carries a sentence longer than 12 months
can be denied entry into the country. The Home Office is the agency that handles
law enforcement.

Tyson plans to travel to London on Sunday. A private gym will be set up for him
at his hotel for daily workouts. He will relocate to Manchester three days
before the bout.

"What appears to have happened is there was an intelligent decision reached and
we're grateful for that," said Jay Larkin, senior vice president of sports and
event programming at Showtime. Showtime will show a taped broadcast of the fight
in the United States.

Straw said his decision was made because he did not want to hurt the businesses
in Manchester that were expecting a windfall from the fight or disappoint the
fans who had bought tickets. Frank Warren, the fight's boxing promoter based in
London, had said he would lose $1 million if the fight did not happen. Warren
also said that all 21,000 seats at the MEN Arena had been sold.

Shelly Finkel, Tyson's manager, said Tyson, a former heavyweight champion, was
happy that everything has been settled.

"He was a little upset when he thought he couldn't go, because in some ways he's
bigger over there than he is here," Finkel said.

The story of Tyson's immigration problems was front-page news in London for the
past two days. And the list of those who have weighed in on the issue, including
Prime Minister Tony Blair, has been mind-boggling to those involved in this
bout.

"It's amazing," Larkin said, "that the prime minister of England would be
talking about Mike Tyson on the floor of Parliament, which houses the oldest
sitting legislative body in the world."

Tyson and his handlers thought he would be leaving controversy behind by going
overseas. The Nevada State Athletic Commission told Tyson to fight elsewhere
after his Oct. 23 bout against Orlin Norris. Tyson hit Norris after the bell in
the first round, and Norris injured his knee while falling from the punch.
Norris said he could not continue and, because Referee Richard Steele ruled it
an accidental foul, the bout was ruled no contest.

During a hearing on whether Tyson should keep his $8 million purse, the Nevada
commission told Tyson he would not be welcomed back to fight in the state for a
while. Madison Square Garden officials have quietly let it be known that Tyson
is not welcome there, either.

Tyson, who will earn $12 million, has remained in Las Vegas to train for his
bout against Francis, a 35-year-old journeyman.

Tommy Brooks, Tyson's trainer, said this week that Tyson has had his best
training camp since Brooks became associated with him two years ago. Brooks gave
Francis, who will earn a little over $500,000, no chance against Tyson.

"I know Julius Francis personally," Brooks said. "I've seen Julius fight before.
I've seen tapes of him. He's in for a rude awakening. We're going to put him in
the cheap seats. Mike is known for knocking guys out. Mike is looking good in
the gym. This guy doesn't stand a snowball's chance against Mike."

PUNCH LINES

ROY JONES JR., the undisputed light-heavyweight world champion, did a round of
radio interviews yesterday to promote his bout against DAVID TELESCO tomorrow at
Radio City Music Hall. The show, which will feature a heavyweight bout between
DERRICK JEFFERSON and DAVID IZON on the undercard, did not need the last-minute
promotion: all 5,700 tickets have been sold. It is the first boxing show ever at
Radio City Music Hall.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Visit Is Ordered For Cuban Boy

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 102 words


Threatened with an order from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Elian
Gonzalez's Miami relatives agreed to permit the 6-year-old boat wreck survivor
to meet his Cuban grandmothers privately on Wednesday at a place outside the
family's house.

The decision came after immigration officials warned the Miami relatives that if
they did not agree to the meeting Elian's temporary permission to remain in this
country could be revoked.

On Capitol Hill, the grandmothers pleaded with sympathetic lawmakers, who vowed
to block legislation to make Elian an American citizen.

Article, Page A10.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Support for Detainees

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 158 words



To the Editor:

I was sad to learn that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has barred
the Jesuit Refugee Service from ministering to detainees who are seeking
political asylum (news article, Feb. 20).

As a refugee who spent two years and four months in Wackenhut Detention Center
in Queens before I was granted asylum, I know how important it is to have
support from people who come to help keep hope alive.

I am a Christian, and I went to Bible study sessions in detention, which kept my
faith alive when it was challenged every day. Of course we talked about
conditions of detention with the visitors who led our sessions and cared for our
well-being. What is wrong with that?

Refugees come to this country thinking it is a land of freedom -- freedom of
speech, freedom of religion, freedom from persecution. Detention almost killed
my soul. Prayer and humanity saved me.

ADELAIDE ABANKWAH
New York, Feb. 20, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Agency Struggles With Asylum Policy in Gender Abuse Cases

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 778 words


A young Moroccan woman, now 21 and living in Queens, won asylum in the United
States in August after fleeing North Africa and her father, a fundamentalist
Muslim who beat her, locked her in her room and denied her an education. The
case continues to frustrate lawyers for immigrant women fleeing abuse, even
though it was a victory on the surface.

In granting her asylum, the United States Board of Immigration Appeals defined
her plight as religious persecution rather than domestic abuse. That means the
ruling offered no greater hope for women seeking asylum based on abuse at the
hands of fathers and brothers, husbands and boyfriends.

Indeed, not long after her case was decided last year, the board refused asylum
to a Guatemalan woman who had suffered similar abuse but whose abuser had no
political or religious affiliations that the board found important.

The two cases reflect the Immigration and Naturalization Service's latest
attempts to reckon with one of its thorniest issues: how to deal consistently
and fairly with the thousands of women who seek asylum for what is termed gender
abuse.

"This is the hardest question in refugee law right now," said Bo Cooper, the
general counsel of the agency. "We are trying to figure out how the
international definition of a refugee, written half a century ago, should be
applied to novel kinds of cases such as domestic violence."

Under that definition, Mr. Cooper said, a refugee must have a well-founded fear
of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular
social group or political opinion.

"Membership in a particular social group is the hardest to understand, the least
well defined and the one that is typically at issue in a domestic violence
cases," he said.

Some of the practices involved in such cases include genital mutilation, bride
burning, rape, mass rape, sexual abuse, spousal abuse, infanticide, forced
marriage, child marriage, slavery, forced abortion and forced pregnancy.

The Moroccan woman said she fled with the help of her mother and a friend who
gave her a forged green card. She said she twice tried to kill herself before
fleeing. She arrived in New York in April 1998.

"My father told me that to be a good Muslim woman meant that I would never be
educated," she said in a recent telephone interview from Queens. "When I
protested, I was beaten, one time being burned with the heated blade of a
knife."

The immigration service first tried to address the question of granting asylum
to women based on charges of domestic abuse in 1995, when it set guidelines and
procedures for interviewing claimants.

But the guidelines did not say whether domestic violence victims were to be
considered members of a distinct and deserving social group, as defined in the
law. Not surprisingly, then, domestic abuse cases have been settled in a
patchwork of decisions. In 1993, for example, the immigration service granted
asylum to a Haitian woman who had been raped while active in the church led by
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the former president of Haiti. Human rights advocates
hoped that it would presage a wider recognition of gender abuse.

But the ruling only muddied the waters. The agency granted her asylum because of
political persecution. As it has seemed to do since, it avoided the issue of
whether the rape by itself was grounds for asylum.

Immigration advocates, such as Nancy Kelly of the Harvard Immigration and
Refugee Clinic, called the last decade of rulings "confusing and inconsistent."

Others, though, see the differing decisions as a sign that the agency is inching
closer to acknowledging that gender abuse is a basis for asylum.

"All of these cases indicate that this area of gender asylum law is alive and
well, that it is possible to win cases based on domestic abuse," said Deborah
Anker, the director of the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinic.

If domestic abuse alone is accepted as a basis for asylum, the immigration
agency worries, there could be a wave of such cases. Advocates argue that even
if there was an increase in cases,the acts that produced them would be serious
enough to be considered grounds for asylum.

"There are millions of women who could qualify for asylum if gender abuse alone
is seen as enough to grant asylum," said Millicent Clarke, a former I.N.S.
official and now a lawyer who represents asylum seekers.

Ms. Clarke, who represented the Moroccan woman, said that although she welcomed
the ruling, she was disturbed that the board decided the case on grounds of
religious persecution even though "the gender aspects were primary." She added,
"I think the board copped out."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 22, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Reuniting a Father and Son

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words


In dismissing a lawsuit by relatives of Elian Gonzalez who sought political
asylum for the 6-year-old Cuban boy, Federal District Judge K. Michael Moore has
essentially upheld the decision of Attorney General Janet Reno and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that the boy should be repatriated to
Cuba to rejoin his father. Judge Moore's ruling should be read as affirming
I.N.S. Commissioner Doris Meissner's declaration in January that Elian is too
young to make legal decisions for himself and that his father has the sole legal
authority to speak for him in immigration matters.

In seeking political asylum for Elian, his Miami relatives are asking the
government to make a judgment about the best interests of a child that
contradicts the expressed wish of his only surviving parent. A powerful
tradition in American law has repeatedly asserted that parents, not the state,
know what is in the best interests of a child.

Under United States law, the only basis for removing a child from his or her
parents is demonstrated abuse, neglect or abandonment by a parent.  To date no
one has produced any evidence to suggest that Elian's divorced father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, is anything but devoted to his son. I.N.S. officials
interviewed Mr. Gonzalez at length in Havana last December and were satisfied
that he had maintained a close and involved relationship with Elian.

It is now nearly four months since Elian was rescued at sea from the incident
that killed his mother and several others. His Miami relatives have indicated
they plan to appeal Judge Moore's decision. That is their right. But each
passing day further postpones a long-overdue reunion between a father and his
son. In light of the clearly articulated views of the attorney general and the
Immigration Service that Elian should return home to Cuba, his relatives in
Miami ought to prepare to comply with the law and let him go.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Tug of War Over Cuban Boy in Miami Is Escalating Again

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 23


As Cuban-Americans here discussed possible strategies to keep the authorities
from returning 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez to his father in Cuba, Senator Connie
Mack of Florida moved to block immigration officials from taking Elian from his
Miami relatives anytime soon.

The senator, a Republican who has sponsored a bill to grant the boy American
citizenship, has formally requested that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service delay any action on Elian's return to Cuba until Congress acts on that
legislation or until the end of the Congressional session, said Nancy Segerdahl,
a spokeswoman at Senator Mack's Washington office.

Ms. Segerdahl said Senator Mack's request was intended to prevent government
officials from "acting drastically" and "give pause to any immediate efforts."

On Tuesday, Judge K. Michael Moore of Federal District Court here dismissed a
lawsuit requesting a political asylum hearing for the boy, concluding that only
Attorney General Janet Reno could grant him asylum.

That did not prompt any immediate protests from Cuban-Americans here, who
account for more than 700,000 of Miami-Dade County's 2.1 million people. But
leaders of more than a dozen Cuban exile groups met to plan a street protest
that police fear could turn violent.

Ms. Reno said after the judge's ruling that she would not allow asylum for
Elian, who was found floating on an inner tube off the Florida coast, and that
he should be returned as soon as possible to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
in Cardenas, Cuba. She has also said immigration officials could legally take
the boy at any time.

That is not likely, immigration experts said. Lawyers for Elian's Miami
relatives have appealed Judge Moore's decision to the Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit, in Atlanta.

Elian's return could be deferred until a ruling on the appeal, but Ms. Reno,
while refusing to specify when she would send the boy back, said today she did
not have to wait for the appeals process to run its course. Her words mobilized
Cuban-Americans here, who began surveillance of the house in the Little Havana
neighborhood where Elian lives with his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

To avoid such an abrupt departure, Senator Mack requested a report on the
immigration service's action in the case from Senator Spencer Abraham, the
Michigan Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration.

Immigration lawyers in Miami called it a last-minute tactic to buy time, but
Senator Mack said he took the action because no one seemed to be acting in the
boy's best interests. Elian has repeatedly said he wants to stay, according to
his relatives here, and is aware that he may be sent back soon.

"Every question raised in the federal court process has been a series of
technical legal questions," Senator Mack said. "Not one question in this process
has addressed what is in the boy's best interests. The only forum in which the
boy's best interests can be considered is in a custody hearing in family state
court, where all can freely speak."

Ms. Reno has said that state courts have no jurisdiction in the case.

Judge Moore concluded that only Elian's father had the legal right to speak for
him in an asylum claim. Lawyers for Elian's Miami relatives said immigration
laws let even children apply for asylum, and it is that argument they will raise
in their appeal.

Meanwhile, those who want Elian to stay are standing by. Ramon Saul Sanchez, who
leads the anti-Castro group Movimiento Democracia, said he hoped that any
protest would be peaceful, but that it was hard to guarantee. "There are things
we can control," he said, "and there are certain things we can't control."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 28, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Takes Steps to Return 6-Year-Old to Father in Cuba

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


The Justice Department threatened tonight to take custody of Elian Gonzalez as
early as Thursday to return him to Cuba unless his Miami relatives agreed
explicitly to surrender the 6-year-old if they lost their court battle to keep
him here.

Earlier in the day, a federal appeals court in Atlanta said it would hear
arguments in the case during the week of May 8, which could complicate the
department's plans.

In a letter to lawyers for Elian's Miami relatives, Justice Department officials
wrote that if they did not get a specific written commitment that the boy would
be turned over for return to Cuba, "We would have no choice but to move forward
with the termination of Elian's parole as of Thursday at 9 a.m."

That means immigration authorities would take control of Elian at that time,
although officials would not say how they would do so.

Senior Justice Department officials have acknowledged that they could use the
United States Marshal's Service to take custody of the boy, but they have
insisted that they hope such a move will not be necessary.

Officials scheduled a meeting early Tuesday morning at the regional offices of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami with the lawyers for Elian's
Miami relatives to try to resolve the situation. But Justice Department
officials warned that they would insist on an unambiguous statement from the
relatives that if they lost the legal appeals they would not obstruct efforts to
return Elian to his father.

Justice Department officials laid the groundwork for taking control of Elian by
asserting that the boy's Miami relatives had failed to comply with a government
order to say explicitly that they would not block his return to his father in
Cuba if they lost their court fight.

Seeming to anticipate that some kind of conclusion might be at hand, a crowd
began forming outside the home of the boy's relatives this afternoon. Supporters
of the family's efforts to keep Elian in the United States staged a candlelight
vigil this evening and repeated their intentions to prevent government officials
from taking him away.

Many of the protesters responded to a call by the Democracy Movement, an
anti-Castro group, to be prepared to form a human chain around the home if the
government tries to remove the child and send him back to his father in Cuba.

"There are a lot of people who aren't willing to kill but are willing to die
only for the child's rights," said Ramon Saul Sanchez, head of the Democracy
Movement.

Olga Scott, 50, arrived from Houston today to join the protest. "Over our dead
bodies, they will not take him," Ms. Scott said.

The rising emotions seemed also to be a result, at least in part, of the first
television interview with Elian, broadcast this morning by ABC's "Good Morning
America."

In it, Elian was not asked whether he wanted to return to Cuba. But he described
how the boat that was taking him and his mother from Cuba sank, and he said he
did not believe that his mother was dead.

Elian drew crayon pictures of the voyage in which his mother and 10 other people
drowned. He was found clinging to an inner tube on Thanksgiving and placed with
his relatives in Miami.

"My mother is not in heaven, not lost," he said in Spanish through his cousin
Marisleysis Gonzalez. "She must have been picked up here in Miami somewhere. She
must have lost her memory, and just doesn't know I'm here."

Up to now, the relatives and their lawyers have said repeatedly that they will
not violate any laws in their efforts to keep Elian in the United States. But
they have declined to be more specific or to comply with the Justice
Department's demand.

Kendall Coffey, a lawyer for the Miami relatives, said in an interview, "We have
said and we continue to affirm that the family will obey the law."

Asked whether that meant that the family had agreed to accept sending Elian back
if the courts ruled against them, Mr. Coffey replied that he was "reluctant to
speak to that because we are far from that moment." He said he thought the
general statement that the family would comply with the law was "more than
sufficient."

Justice Department lawyers disagree, regarding the careful statements by the
family lawyers as holding on to their options to resist.

In today's letter from the Justice Department, Michael A. Pearson, the executive
associate commissioner of the immigration service, told Spencer Eig, one of the
lawyers for the Miami relatives, that the immigration commissioner had first
ruled on Jan. 5 that Elian should go back to Cuba.

"Nearly 12 weeks have passed since the commissioner's decision and you have
never provided us with a simple, clear statement that your client is willing to
produce the child when requested to do so by the I.N.S.," Mr. Pearson wrote.

Last week, David J. Kline, a lawyer in the immigration office of the department,
said the government had the authority to terminate permission for Elian's
great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez to have temporary custody of the boy. But Mr. Kline
said the department would agree to Mr. Gonzalez's having continued custody only
if the relatives said clearly that they would send Elian back three days after
they lost in the appeals court unless they obtained an injunction from a court
allowing them to file an expedited appeal with the Supreme Court.

Mr. Kline also demanded that Elian's relatives in Miami agree to an expedited
schedule of arguments before the appeals court that would have the case argued
and ready for a decision by April 4. But the appeals court may have made the
department's case more difficult today by agreeing to a slower schedule.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 28, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Reject Case on Cutting Welfare for Legal Immigrants

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


The Supreme Court refused to hear a challenge today to portions of the 1996
welfare law that made legal immigrants ineligible for various kinds of federal
welfare assistance.

The justices turned down an appeal by the City of Chicago, supported by New York
and other cities, from a federal appeals court's ruling that the
disqualification did not violate the immigrants' constitutional right to equal
protection because it was not "wholly irrational."

As part of the major overhaul of the welfare system, the provisions intended
specifically for immigrants received relatively little public attention. But
they greatly angered officials of the cities where, because of sizable
populations of impoverished or elderly foreign-born residents, the elimination
of food stamps, Supplemental Security Income and other benefits will be most
sharply felt.

The City of Chicago told the justices that Congress had engaged in a "repulsive"
type of discrimination against noncitizens. The city said the denial of benefits
had the effect of an "unfunded mandate" because state and local governments
would have to shoulder a financial burden they previously shared with
Washington.

The full impact of the 1996 law will be delayed because, after initially
eliminating Supplemental Security Income and food stamps for noncitizens,
Congress acted the next year to restore benefits for some immigrants who were in
the country when the law took effect on Aug. 22, 1996.  This shifted the impact
to those who arrive subsequently.

The 1996 law also imposed a five-year waiting period before noncitizens can
receive Medicaid benefits or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the new
program that replaced the cash grants of the old welfare system.

The law, and the case challenging it, had nothing to do with the debate over
illegal immigration. All the provisions at issue apply to lawful permanent
residents, admitted to the country with the right to remain and to work.

The federal government, the City of Chicago said in its appeal, "is solely
responsible for the presence of lawful noncitizens in the country" and "should
not be allowed to shirk all responsibility for their welfare."

New York City, in its brief supporting Chicago's appeal, said the 1996 law "is
really about shifting the financial and social burdens of immigration to state
and local governments."

The city's suit, filed in 1997, was joined by two groups of lawful permanent
residents. The plaintiffs based their challenge on the constitutional guarantee
of equal protection. Both the federal District Court and the United States Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, said the law's distinction
between citizens and noncitizens should be upheld as long as it was "rational."

Both lower courts found a rational connection between the benefit restrictions
and the government's interest in "fostering self-reliance and easing the burden
on the welfare system," as the district court phrased it.

Ordinarily, under Supreme Court precedents, distinctions on the basis of
citizenship are subject to more exacting judicial scrutiny, but the lower courts
found that those precedents did not apply when the policy at issue involved
Congress's power over immigration. In its appeal, City of Chicago v. Shalala,
No. 99-898, the city argued that because the welfare provisions "affect no one's
immigration status," the immigration exception should not apply.

But the Clinton administration, defending the law, told the justices that
"Congress's restrictions on aliens' eligibility for federal public benefits are
properly viewed as a regulation of aliens' conduct in the United States."

The government's brief added: "Congress declared that the national policy of
immigration favors self-sufficiency on the part of aliens, which is obviously an
aspect of the aliens' conduct while in the United States."

The Supreme Court is likely to take up a challenge to the welfare law only if
the government loses one of the similar lawsuits pending in the lower courts. So
far, no conflict among the appeals courts has developed. In January, the Federal
District Court in Brooklyn invalidated the denial of Medicaid coverage for
prenatal medical care for noncitizens on the ground that the child born to such
a mother will be a citizen.

There were also these other developments at the Supreme Court today.

Detention

 In another case relating to immigration, the court refused to hear an appeal
filed by a 33-year-old Haitian, a lawful resident of the United States since the
age of 2, who has been held without bond at the Krome Detention Center in Miami
since October 1997, when he returned to Miami from a two-day visit to Haiti.

Because the man, Ralph Richardson, had a previous conviction for cocaine
trafficking, immigration officials treated him not as a returning lawful
resident, but as an "arriving alien," subject to incarceration and automatic
"removal" proceedings under the 1996 immigration law.

His request for a bond hearing was denied. The federal appeals court in Atlanta
denied his petition for a writ of habeas corpus, which challenged his continued
detention without a hearing, on the ground that the 1996 law had abolished
habeas corpus in the context of detention of aliens in his category.

According to the Clinton administration, which urged the justices to deny the
appeal, Richardson v. Reno, No. 99-887, it is sufficient that Mr. Richardson
will eventually be able to challenge various aspects of his treatment in an
appeal from a final order of removal, if that is the eventual disposition of his
case.

Zoning

Despite a prolonged and evidently vigorous effort, Justice Antonin Scalia failed
to persuade enough of his colleagues to hear a constitutional challenge to an
action by the San Francisco Planning Commission.

The commission denied an application to convert 24 residential units in a small
hotel to tourist units after the hotel's owner offered to pay only $100,000
toward replacing the lost residential units instead of the $600,000 the city
requested. The owner then brought an unsuccessful lawsuit to challenge the
permit denial as an unconstitutional "taking" of private property.

Justice Scalia dissented from the court's refusal to hear the owner's appeal,
Lambert v. San Francisco, No. 99-697. Joined by Justices Anthony Kennedy and
Clarence Thomas, he wrote that the California courts appeared to be evading
recent Supreme Court decisions that gave property owners more tools for
challenging zoning decisions. But despite having kept the case under
consideration at the justices' private weekly conferences since the first week
in January -- an unusual situation that was the source of considerable interest
around the court -- Justice Scalia was unable to pick up the necessary fourth
vote to hear the case.





http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 29, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Standoff Over Cuban Boy's Fate Intensifies

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 28


On a day when people vowed to die for Elian Gonzalez, and his relatives said the
Virgin Mary had reappeared on his bedroom mirror, United States immigration
officials and the boy's Miami relatives remained in a standoff over the
government's demand that his great-uncle promise to turn him over to federal
officials if the relatives lose the court fight to keep him.

Immigration officials this morning continued to press lawyers for the boy's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, to encourage him to sign a document agreeing to a
peaceful, orderly resolution to the emotionally charged situation if the United
States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit rules against the family in a
hearing in May.

The family lashed back.

"They said, 'If you don't sign the paper, we remove Elian,' " said Armando
Gutierrez, a spokesman for the family. "They are the ones who put this kid in
Lazaro's home and they just want him to sign a blank statement, which is not the
American way."

Mr. Gutierrez said he did not know whether Mr. Gonzalez, an automobile mechanic,
would agree to sign the letter.

Immigration officials were to meet on Wednesday with Mr. Gonzalez and ask him,
face to face, to comply. If the family continues to defy immigration officials,
the agency could remove the boy from the home as early as Thursday at 9 a.m.,
government officials said.

But that could be more difficult than it sounds.

As lawyers continued their war of words behind closed doors and television
microphones, the increasingly dramatic, poignant saga of 6-year-old Elian became
increasingly heated and strange.

Outside the house, where a group of about 50 Cuban exiles have kept a
round-the-clock vigil, several people warned that, no matter what papers are
signed, they do not intend to allow anyone to take Elian away, even if that
means dying for him.

"I am not afraid of Clinton, of Janet Reno or of the police," said Jose Ramos,
an elderly Cuban-American retiree who stood guard outside the house on Northwest
Second Street in Little Havana. "I will die for Elian."

Mr. Ramos echoed the feelings of many people here who said they would form human
chains, lie down in front of cars and form walls with their bodies to protect
Elian from the immigration service, agents of Cuban President Fidel Castro and
anyone else who tries to take him away.

"This a battle between good and evil, and right now America is evil," said Dulce
Gonzalez, no relation to Elian, a retired schoolteacher who came to Miami from
Cuba 30 years ago. "Today, we are destroying our Constitution."

Meanwhile, on "Good Morning America," viewers got another look at Elian and
Diane Sawyer coloring and playing games, as ABC offered the second installment
of a three-part series in which Ms. Sawyer and Elian spoke about his ordeal and
stood on their heads. Ms. Sawyer said Elian told her he wanted to stay in Miami,
but a network spokesman said ABC did not air that segment because of the already
incendiary nature of the confrontation between the government and the boy's
family.

And, in perhaps the most unusual development, relatives continued to claim that
the Virgin Mary had appeared to them in a mirror in Elian's bedroom. The
great-uncle, Mr. Gonzalez, said he wept with joy when he first saw it.

A week ago, United States District Judge K. Michael Moore dismissed a lawsuit
requesting a political asylum hearing for Elian, and said that only Attorney
General Janet Reno could grant him asylum. Ms. Reno said he should be returned,
as soon as possible, to his father in Cuba.

Members of Elian's Miami family have said that if the father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, came to Miami to get the boy, and if Elian wanted to go, they would
allow it.

But experts on immigration say they doubt the family has any intention of giving
the boy up.

"It looks like a standoff, but this is crunch time for I.N.S.," said Max Castro,
a senior research associate for the Dante B. Fascell North-South Center of the
University of Miami, and an expert on Cuban issues. "I.N.S. is going to have to
execute this in some way."

If immigration officials waver, the family will just stall, he said.

Elian was found floating off the coast of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on an inner
tube on Thanksgiving Day, after surviving a boat capsizing that killed his
mother and 10 others. Two others survived the capsizing, but it is Elian who has
been in the center of a storm of attention ever since.

Immigration officials have said they do not want to traumatize the boy by
forcibly removing him from the home, and they do not want to antagonize the
city's large Cuban-American population. Cuban-Americans make up more than
700,000 of Miami-Dade County's 2.1 million people.

It may be far too late for that. Demonstrators outside the boy's house warned
that bad days are coming for the city.

"We are very angry," said Arturo Perez, another retiree who is spending his days
outside the house. "We are going to stop Miami."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Legal Process Snarled by Politics

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and ELAINE SCIOLINO

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1306 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30


"Ultimately," Doris M. Meissner, the nation's top immigration officer, said
today, "the question here is a legal question."

Would that it were so simple.

Federal court case No. 11424-D, Elian Gonzalez v. Janet Reno, is no ordinary
immigration matter, no ordinary child custody fight.

The fate of the 6-year-old Cuban boy rescued at sea four months ago while his
mother perished has undergone a transformation from a wrenching family drama
into a legal, diplomatic and political showdown.

The case, which now features Vice President Al Gore's taking a position at
variance with that of the rest of the Clinton administration, marks the coming
together of three interwoven strands: the tormented history of relations between
the United States and Fidel Castro's Cuba, the political influence of
Cuban-Americans in South Florida, and longstanding immigration and family law.

Over the last several weeks, the administration's position has hardened,
reflecting its interpretation of immigration law and its desire to resolve the
matter quickly to avoid political damage to President Clinton and Mr. Gore. The
administration is supported by many experts in immigration and family law, who
say that without the political overtones of the case it would have been resolved
long ago in favor of the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.

Administration officials are adamant and virtually unanimous in the belief that
longstanding immigration policy should be observed in this case. Bending the
rules to allow Elian to remain in this country when he has a competent father
abroad, they say, would set a dangerous precedent that could affect hundreds of
Americans with children held abroad by estranged spouses or other relatives.

"There has been almost no debate about this case at any agency," said a senior
officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "If you are an American
parent and your child is taken to a foreign country and they think their way of
life is better than ours and make him or her a citizen of that country to
prevent his repatriation, that would be in the mind of any parent an absolutely
unacceptable position."

Nobody in the administration had advocated anything close to that position, this
official asserted, until Mr. Gore today urged that Congress adopt legislation
that would allow Elian to stay in this country while a family court adjudicated
his case. The vice president apparently acted out of concern that supporting the
administration's desire to return Elian to Cuba promptly could cost the Gore
campaign Cuban-American votes in Florida and elsewhere.

Despite agreement on the law and the desired outcome of the case within the
administration as a whole, there has been mounting frustration at the White
House and the State Department, where officials feel that the Justice Department
and immigration authorities moved too slowly early in the case and showed too
much deference to Elian's relatives in Miami.

Administration officials also expressed concern today that Justice and the
immigration agency did not have a strategy for a final resolution to the matter.

The case has inflamed Cuban-American tensions that have become over the years
more like a bitter intrafamily squabble than a dispute between nations with
differing political systems. Mr. Clinton has offered a number of minor economic
and political openings to Havana and is trying to handle this case in a way that
balances that effort with desire not to alienate Cuban-American voters. With
some 800,000 Cuban-Americans in Florida, many separated from relatives in Cuba,
any question of relations between the two countries quickly becomes a matter of
partisan passion that politicians seek to exploit for electoral advantage.

Republicans earlier this year proposed legislation to make Elian and his
immediate family in Cuba citizens of the United States, a step that would
protect him from any deportation order and allow their reunification here. But
the Republicans abandoned the effort after many of their allies, including the
conservative Family Research Council, warned that such a policy could encourage
other countries to countenance the kidnapping of American children.

A new effort, endorsed by Mr. Gore today, was undertaken this week by two
Republican senators, Connie Mack of Florida and Robert C. Smith of New
Hampshire, and one Democrat, Bob Graham of Florida, to grant Elian and his
family in Cuba permanent-residency status, a step somewhat short of citizenship.

The senators accused the Justice Department of running roughshod over the rights
of the boy's relatives in Miami, and called on Mr. Clinton to suspend all
deportation proceedings.

With Mr. Castro's surprise announcement on Wednesday that Elian's father would
travel to the United States to be reunited with him, and Mr. Gore's surprise
announcement that he favored granting the boy and his family permanent-resident
status, the battle is now entering its endgame. As it does, it threatens to move
from courtroom and conference room to the streets. Cuban-Americans appear
prepared to forcibly block any effort to remove Elian from the home of relatives
to be reunited with his father.

Ms. Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
on NBC's "Today" program this morning that Elian's father had a presumptive
right to custody. She and other United States officials, including Mr. Clinton,
have pleaded with the boy's relatives in Miami and the wider Cuban-American
community to respect the law and, if their appeal in the federal courts fails,
to allow the peaceable reunion of father and son. But so much emotion has
accrued to this case that a simple legal resolution to the matter seems a
distant dream.

Administration officials cannot recall an immigration case that has so
transfixed the nation or opened such political wounds. Attorney General Reno,
who has deep family roots in South Florida, has told intimates that she is
personally distraught at the plight of the child and fearful of civil unrest if
he is deported.

Ms. Reno said publicly today that she had shown forbearance in seeking Elian's
return, even though she felt strongly that what she called the "sacred bond"
between father and child should be honored.

"We did not move hastily," she said at her weekly news conference, answering
critics who accuse her of hard-heartedness, "although nothing, no court order or
anything, prevented us from doing so. The relatives had their day in court."

Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore have tried to navigate their way through the
intensifying dispute, stressing that it is at root a custody case that should be
decided in court with a presumption in favor of the father.

The boy's relatives in Miami, other Cuban-Americans and Republican politicians
in Florida and Washington accuse the administration of pursuing a cold-hearted
policy that would deprive him of the fruits of liberty in the United States. To
these exiles, Cuba under Mr. Castro is an unfit place to rear a child.

But the administration and many experts on immigration and custody law argue
that this is simply a case of an unaccompanied minor who should be returned to
his father under American law and custom.

"The question isn't why has the Clinton administration taken such a hard line,
it's why the Clinton administration has taken such a soft line," said Jan Ting,
a former assistant I.N.S. commissioner for refugee affairs and now a professor
of law at Temple University. He said the president should send in federal forces
to carry out the law, as Dwight D. Eisenhower did in Little Rock, Ark., and John
F. Kennedy did in Mississippi and Alabama.

"The current administration seems to lack the backbone of its predecessors," Mr.
Ting said, "and has consistently caved in to intimidation and threats of civil
disorder."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Hair Salons Convicted Of Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 69 words


Jacques Dessange Inc., the United States subsidiary of Franklin Holding, which
operates 650 hair salons worldwide, has been found guilty of immigration fraud
for sneaking 30 French hair stylists and colorists into the United States.
Howard Deutsch, a lawyer who processed their visas, was convicted as well.

The government said the company had falsely claimed that the 30 stylists were
top executives.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 11, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Iraqi Doctor, Once on C.I.A.'s Payroll, Fights to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 10


In a strange twist to a complex intelligence case, a doctor who worked for the
C.I.A. in Iraq, but was detained by United States immigration officials after
being spirited here for protection, has decided to fight for political asylum in
America rather than being sent to a neutral third country.

The doctor, Dr. Ali Yassin Mohammed Karim, returned to court today at the
Terminal Island immigration and detention facility, where he has been held for
three years, to contest government assertions that he is a national security
threat with ties to Iraqi, Syrian or Iranian intelligence operations.

If he loses the right to stay in the United States, he risks indefinite
detention in American immigration jails, or, more remotely, deportation back to
Iraq, where his lawyers say he would certainly be executed.

Dr. Ali took part in the C.I.A.'s failed campaign with the Iraqi National
Congress to undermine Saddam Hussein in the years after the Persian Gulf war,
but was among six held as national security threats when they were evacuated
with thousands of others to the United States. The six men were ordered deported
after a 40-day trial in 1997 in which the defendants were unable to contest the
government's evidence because it was presented in secret.

But after R. James Woolsey, a former director of central intlligence, intervened
on the Iraqis' behalf and got much of the evidence declassified, immigration
officials offered the men a settlement that would place them and their families
in safe countries that agreed to accept them. Five of the men agreed and were
released last summer from detention facilities to live with their families in
Lincoln, Neb., until their status is resolved.

But Dr. Ali was divorced from his wife after they arrived in the United States,
and she and his children have been granted asylum. His lawyer, Niels W. Frenzen,
said Dr. Ali fears that signing the settlement would prevent him from ever
returning here to see his family.

Much of the questioning during the morning session today focused on Dr. Ali's
relationship with his cousin, Aras, whom American officials maintained in
documents had a connection with Iranian intelligence agents and was, in part,
the basis for the government's decision to hold him as a security threat. One
F.B.I. counterintelligence agent, John Peterson, acknowledged under
cross-examination this morning that the relationship may have meant little.

"It may have nothing to do with him, it may have a great deal to do with him."
Mr. Peterson subsequently acknowledged that he did not know for sure, but
assumed, that the intelligence regarding Dr. Ali's cousin had been verified.

Mr. Woolsey is expected in court later this week to take partin the
representation of Dr. Ali. Also, a retired senior C.I.A. case officer, Warren
Marik, who was stationed in Iraq and acted as the liaison between the C.I.A. and
the Iraqi National Congress resistance group, is expected to testify on Dr.
Ali's behalf later in the week.

Dr. Ali's mother, Zakia Hakki, who now lives in Virginia and was present at the
hearing this morning, said her son is the subject of a death warrant by the
presidential palace in Iraq and that American officials made a "grave mistake"
in suspecting him as a double agent.

"I didn't prepare for this," Ms. Hakki said. "When you try to accuse him of
being a threat, the highest crime, you have to give him a chance to defend
himself."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: CHRONOLOGY;
Custody Tug of War Over Cuban Boy

BYLINE: Agence France-Presse

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 314 words


Following is a chronology of major events in the custody battle over Elian
Gonzalez:

NOV. 25, 1999: Fishermen rescue Elian from an inner tube in waters off Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. He is turned over to Lazaro Gonzalez, a great-uncle in Miami.


NOV. 27: Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who lives in Cuba, appeals to the
Cuban government to help secure Elian's return.

NOV. 30: United States immigration officials grant Elian temporary permission to
stay in this country.

DEC. 10: Lazaro Gonzalez files a first asylum request for Elian.

JAN. 5: The Immigration and Naturalization Service rules that only the father
can legally represent Elian and sets a Jan. 14 deadline for compliance with his
request that the child be sent back to Cuba.

JAN. 10: A Florida state court rules that Florida family court can decide the
merit of a motion for temporary custody by Lazaro Gonzalez, saying the boy
should stay with him until a fuller custody hearing. The great-uncle files a
second asylum request.

JAN. 12: Attorney General Janet Reno says federal courts must decide the case.

JAN. 27: The I.N.S. asks a federal court in Miami to reject the asylum request.
Ms. Reno says the parental bond takes precedence over politics.

FEB. 22: The United States Supreme Court rejects a petition for Elian's return
to his father in Cuba.

MARCH 21: A federal judge rejects a request for an asylum hearing for Elian,
saying it is up to Ms. Reno to rule on the issue.

APRIL 12: Ms. Reno sets a Thursday deadline for the relatives to turn the boy
over to United States authorities at an airport outside Miami.

APRIL 13: The 2 p.m. deadline passes and Elian remains at the Gonzalez home. The
Justice Department says it will not enforce the handover until an appeals court
reviews the Miami family's request to keep Elian at least temporarily.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 20, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Court Has Conservative Bent

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19


The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, which ruled today that
Elian Gonzalez must remain in the United States pending a political asylum claim
on his behalf, defies easy categorization, academics and lawyers say.

Although it was widely viewed as a liberal court that advanced a civil rights
agenda and, more recently, rose to the defense of gays, the 11th Circuit, based
in Atlanta, has in recent years displayed a more conservative bent, notably in
immigrant rights cases.

In a 1992 ruling, the court upheld President George Bush's order to intercept
Haitian refugees at sea and return them to their homeland without the benefit of
political asylum hearings. At the time, the court held that only aliens who
reached the United States had the right to apply for asylum.

Ira Kurzban, a Miami immigration lawyer who has defended Haitian refugees, said
the appeals court "generally is considered pro-government on immigration cases."

Larry Klayman, chairman of Judicial Watch, a conservative legal watchdog group
in Washington, said the court was "by and large a conservative circuit."

The judges who ruled unanimously to keep Elian in the United States represent a
diverse group.

J. L. Edmondson, a Reagan appointee and a former law professor, is the
longest-serving member of the three and a law-and-order conservative who tends
to side with prosecutors in capital cases. In 1996 he upheld a state law
mandating drug testing for office seekers, a decision later overturned by the
Supreme Court.

Judge Joel F. Dubina, a former district judge from Alabama who was put on the
appeals court by President Bush, is perceived as more of a centrist. He has
weighed in on two prominent cases involving gay rights.

Judge Dubina pleased gay activists by striking down a statute barring public
funds from going to a gay college group, but he pleased their critics when he
upheld a move by the state's attorney general to withdraw a job offer to a
lesbian. The judge faced criticism in his confirmation process for his reported
membership in an all-white country club in Montgomery, Ala.

Judge Charles R. Wilson, the only African-American member on the 12-member
court, was appointed by President Clinton last year. As a United States attorney
in Tampa, Fla., he handled a flood of drug-trafficking cases, and was active in
prosecuting health care fraud.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Elian's Interest?

BYLINE: By David A. Martin;  David A. Martin, a law professor at the University
of Virginia, was general counsel at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from 1995 to 1998.

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words


The federal appeals court that issued the stay in the Elian Gonzalez case
wrongly fixated on one brief phrase in the immigration statute, the one holding
that "any alien . . . irrespective of such alien's status, may apply for
asylum." In the court's view, the plain language of the statute seemed "to
support Plaintiff's argument that he, despite his age, is entitled to apply
personally for asylum."

This ruling prompted some sardonic e-mail advice among law professors
specializing in immigration. Immigration lawyers should hang around Disney World
and keep an eye out for happy foreign kids, wait until one is off by himself for
a moment, and then ask him if he'd like to stay here. If the answer is yes, tell
him you can help, and get him to make a crayon mark on the signature line of the
asylum form. You can fill in the details later.

This is a joke, of course, but it carries a serious message. The assertion by
Elian's Miami relatives that "any alien" means the I.N.S. has to take seriously
any child's fleeting resistance to going home portends a dangerous intrusion
into family affairs. It overlooks the fickleness and suggestibility of
6-year-olds. And it's a silly reading of a general law.

Of course Congress didn't directly exclude asylum applications by young children
when it passed the immigration statute in 1980. By the same token, it didn't
expressly exclude children's applications for licenses to operate nuclear power
plants. Normally, we rely on other laws governing the capacity of minors to take
care of common sense issues like that. In other situations, courts readily reach
the sensible result that administrators don't have to accept filings from
children tendered by meddling adults, even if the child made a mark on the page
and says that he wants whatever goody is on offer.

Does this mean youngsters should never be able to apply for asylum independently
of their parents? No -- the I.N.S. recognizes that a hard-and-fast rule on this
point would not fit all cases. In 1998 the agency issued new guidelines on how
to handle juvenile asylum claims. And in the Elian case, the Justice Department
has specifically acknowledged -- both publicly and to the Miami family -- that
the I.N.S. will sometimes consider a child's asylum claim against the wishes of
the parent. But the issue is how to draw the line.

In the Elian case, the I.N.S. kept open the possibility of an independent claim
while it interviewed Juan Miguel Gonzalez in Cuba. Finding that he was a fit
parent who had had a close relationship with Elian, the commissioner determined
that no conflict of interest existed between parent and child, and that there
was no reason to override the father's wishes that all asylum claims be
disregarded.

In a different case, perhaps with an older child, a more distant parent or a
greater showing of grave risks to the minor, the agency might consider such a
claim. But in this matter it would be a shame to throw out the I.N.S.'s careful
consideration based on a slavish devotion to the literal words of the statute.

The appeals court order is a preliminary ruling; the government had not even
filed its main brief. The court promised "to think more and hard about this case
for which no sure and clear answers shine out today." One hopes it will awaken
to the treacherous consequences of a literal reading of the asylum statute.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 22, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE LEGAL QUESTIONS;
Court's Ruling Is Giving Experts Pause About Rights of Children to Be Heard

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words


The federal appeals court ruling on Wednesday in the Elian Gonzalez case has
startled experts on family law because it suggests that immigration officials
should ask 6-year-old Elian whether he wants to return to Marxist Cuba or remain
with his Miami relatives, regardless of the wishes of his father.

But just how much control should a 6-year-old have over his future? Beyond the
international political fight, and the chanting of the crowds outside a small
Miami house, should Elian be able to choose his country?

At least until Elian's case, the answer under American law seemed to be that a
6-year-old had no such right.

"The rule is that parents decide for children," said Martin Guggenheim, an
expert on children's rights at New York University Law School.

Some of the language of the preliminary ruling by a three-judge panel of the
United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, and the
reaction of legal experts this week, has suddenly placed unusual attention on a
little-examined corner of American law. In fact, very young children, those
under 12, are seldom asked to decide questions as important as whether they will
live with their parents, legal experts say.

Some lawyers and judges noted that the appeals judges' suggestion that Elian
should be interviewed by immigration officials did not mean that his preferences
would carry any significant weight. Immigration officials could still conclude
that the boy is too immature to make any meaningful decision about whether to
seek political asylum.

But some of the experts said they were troubled by the fact that the judges
seemed to suggest that the boy had already made meaningful decisions about
seeking asylum. The court said not only that Elian might be able to apply for
asylum, but also that "it appears he did so." The judges noted that the boy had
signed an application filed with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"It would be a nearly meaningless question to ask a 6-year-old whether he
prefers one economic system to another economic system, one culture to another
culture," said Lee E. Teitelbaum, an expert on juvenile law who is the dean of
Cornell University Law School. "These questions are hard enough for adults to
answer."

In American courts dealing with more routine disputes like custody battles,
older children are sometimes asked their views, but courts do not necessarily
feel bound to abide by them. Some states set 16 as the age when courts must
follow the wishes of children in custody disputes between two parents.

That legal approach to children is based on a view that very young children do
not have the maturity to make decisions about their future and that to ask them
to try may be psychologically harmful.

"Anyone who is not a 'mature minor' under the law cannot make any decision over
a parent's objection," Professor Guggenheim said. "You can't apply for amnesty
over a parent's objection; you can't go to the dentist over a parent's
objection. Your parents decide where you go to school, what church you go to,
who your friends are."

The legal question is complicated in the Elian Gonzalez case, partly because
there is no absolute rule in American law setting forth how old children should
be before their opinions are considered in court. "We tend not to draw the
line," said Carol Sanger, an expert on children's legal rights at Columbia Law
School.

But Professor Sanger said the courts had not expanded their flexible approach to
credit the wishes of a 6-year-old on an issue as important as where he should
live when a living parent has expressed a strong desire.

"We use a maturity standard," Professor Sanger said. "But the judicial system
thinks a 6-year-old is inherently immature. We think they discuss what they want
now: chocolate milk, an electric car."

Some legal experts said the suggestion by the appellate court that officials
should ask a 6-year-old to decide whether to seek asylum violated principles
that have been widely accepted. "American courts think certain things have to be
decided by adults, and the adults who decide them ought to be the parents," said
Michael S. Wald, a specialist in children's legal issues at Stanford University
Law School.

There has been some expansion of children's rights in recent years, with
children treated less and less like the property of their parents. In the
1970's, Hillary Rodham Clinton was one of the proponents of that movement,
writing law review articles proposing the expansion of children's rights in some
circumstances. (She has said Elian should be reunited with his father.)

But even taking into account this more modern view of children, some experts say
it would be difficult for the courts to use the Gonzalez case to expand
children's rights to the point of giving a 6-year-old veto power over his
father's decision that no asylum application should be filed for his son.

To a large extent, the varying treatment of children in the American legal
system depends on the context. For example, the "age of majority" at which
children are deemed to be able to make all decisions independently varies from
17 to 21. Under federal law, 18-year-olds can vote.

Nationwide, children 7 and younger are typically deemed so immature in their
thought processes that they cannot form the conscious intent to commit crimes.
So, even when they commit violent acts they are often immune from prosecution.

But when children are called upon to testify as witnesses, judges apply a
different test. They evaluate whether a potential child witness understands the
nature of the oath to tell the truth by asking, for example, whether the child
knows what it means to lie.

Professor Guggenheim of New York University said that under that test, very few
6- or 7-year-olds qualify to present sworn testimony. But he said many courts do
hear sworn testimony in civil and criminal trials from children 8 and older.

Professor Sanger of Columbia said the courts have different standards in
evaluating children's participation in court proceedings. As witnesses of events
involving other people, like observing a crime, one test is whether a child
would be a reliable witness. Many courts have concluded that children can
correctly report events that they have observed.

But she and other experts said a different issue arises when a child is being
asked to explain in court what he or she wants in the future, for example, when
parents are battling over custody. In the cases of very young children, she
said, courts have overwhelmingly shied away from asking children to make choices
between parents. That is partly because judges typically conclude that children
can be manipulated and that they can suffer psychologically later from the
choices they made as children.

"It has been concluded by the courts that for the majority of children,"
Professor Wald of Stanford said, "it will be harmful for them to have their
voices heard because it puts them in loyalty conflicts and it encourages
disputes that get drawn out for years."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Strength Through Restraint

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words


With Elian Gonzalez reunited with his father, the nation has begun an important
debate about the government's handling of the case, especially the forcible
seizure of the Cuban boy by heavily armed federal agents before dawn on
Saturday. Few actions in recent times have so powerfully drawn the attention of
Americans to the exercise of authority by the federal government, a fundamental
issue in the governance of a democracy. The Justice Department acted rashly and
unwisely in ordering the raid, and its decisions now require the most careful
evaluation by Congress and the American people.

That will not be easy in the charged aftermath of the commando-style operation
at the Miami home of Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez. The sight of an
assault team armed with automatic weapons storming a private residence at night
to take custody of a 6-year-old child understandably alarms and angers many
citizens, even when no shots were fired. Politicians are predictably but
unconstructively rushing to exploit the affair.

The central issue is not whether the government had the legal authority to take
custody of Elian. It clearly did. Federal statutes give the Immigration and
Naturalization Service the power to enforce immigration laws, and the agency was
well within its rights to determine that Elian, who was rescued at sea, should
be placed in the custody of his father rather than his great-uncle.

The government's mistake was turning prematurely to the use of force rather than
first applying the full leverage of the law against the Miami relatives. The
Justice Department has yet to offer a good reason why it did not seek a court
order instructing Lazaro Gonzalez to produce Elian. That would have carried
greater authority with the public than acting under an I.N.S. administrative
order, and would also subject Mr. Gonzalez to arrest and criminal penalties if
he defied the court.

Eric Holder, the deputy attorney general, argued yesterday on NBC's "Meet the
Press" that the government was compelled to act on Saturday because Elian's
welfare was threatened the longer he stayed with his relatives and because they
were not negotiating in good faith. But by creating an artificial timetable for
action, the Justice Department fell into the trap of letting tactical
considerations drive its decisions at a moment when further negotiations seemed
warranted.

When contemplating the use of force in a custody case like this, where there is
no immediate danger of violent criminal activity, the government must exhaust
other remedies first, and insure that it obtains the unambiguous authorization
of a court to take action. These steps may not be required by law in an
immigration case, but they are necessary to reassure the public that the
government is not acting arbitrarily or using excessive force -- even if it has
a search warrant -- when it invades someone's home in the middle of the night.

In a society governed by the rule of law, the government has a duty not only to
follow the law faithfully but also to apply it judiciously against citizens who
are not behaving violently. The authority of the law and the power of the
government are not diminished when the Justice Department moves deliberately, as
it often did in Southern civil rights enforcement in the 1960's.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Custody Change Could Affect Boy's Asylum Case

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24


The fact that Elian Gonzalez is now in the custody of his father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, most likely weakens his, or his Miami relatives', case for him to be
granted asylum in the United States, immigration lawyers say.

Before federal marshals wrested the 6-year-old Cuban boy from the relatives'
home in Miami just before dawn on Saturday, he had signed an application for
asylum. Last week, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in
Atlanta agreed to hear his application on May 11, and his father agreed to hold
Elian in the United States until then.

But now that Mr. Gonzalez has custody of his son, he can make a stronger case
against asylum and take him home to Cuba, perhaps well before May 11, said Jose
Pertierra, an immigration lawyer in Washington who is not involved with the
case.

"I'm sure that's what's being planned by Juan Miguel's attorneys," Mr. Pertierra
said. He said the case of Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle who had been holding
the boy in Miami, had been weakened by several factors, including his losing the
day-to-day care of the boy, which the Justice Department allowed until days
before the raid on the house.

The father, whose lawyers have not disclosed their strategy, could try to
withdraw the application for asylum that Elian signed, Mr. Pertierra said, or he
could ask Elian himself to withdraw it.

Or the Immigration and Naturalization Service could interview the boy, find that
he is not competent to understand his application and ask the court to dismiss
it. That, however, appears unlikely.

"It's not something we would do," said Maria Cardona, spokeswoman for the
immigration service.

She said the argument the immigration service intends to make before the court's
three judges is not whether the asylum application should be honored or
dismissed but whether a 6-year-old is competent to make one. In an 83-page brief
filed today with the appeals court, the Justice Department argued that the
asylum application was not the boy's doing and that it amounted to "a
substantial intrusion into the realm of parental authority for a distant
relative to be able to trigger government procedures concerning the parent's
6-year-old son."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Prominent Jordanian Moderate Says the U.S. Denied Him Entry

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, May 4


Immigration officials at Kennedy International Airport detained a prominent
moderate Islamist political leader from Jordan for a long interrogation and sent
him home on the next flight, he said, prompting high-level protests to
embarrassed American diplomats here today.

The traveler, Ishaq Farhan, 67, a senator and university president, arrived on
Tuesday in New York on a Royal Jordanian Airways flight from Amman. He had
planned to visit a son and daughter who live in the United States and to give
talks to American Islamic groups. Mr. Farhan's Jordanian diplomatic passport was
stamped with a five-year multiple-entry visa valid until December 2003, the
latest in a series of United States visas that he had since graduating with a
doctorate from Columbia University four decades ago.

On presenting his passport, Mr. Farhan said, he was taken to a room where
officers from the Immigration and Naturalization Service told him that the State
Department had revoked his visa and requested that he be interrogated. He
recounted:

"They asked me: 'Do you belong to a terrorist organization? Do you believe in
terrorism?' I said, 'No,' and, 'No, that I believed in democracy and that I
learned about democracy studying in the United States.' "

After six hours of questioning, he said, he was ordered to buy a $2,000 one-way
ticket on KLM flights back to Amman, double the cost, he said, of his original
round-trip excursion fare. "Financially speaking, morally speaking," Mr. Farhan
said, "it was a bad experience. This shouldn't happen between two countries that
respect one another."

Mr. Farhan, a leader of the Islamist Action Front, Jordan's biggest political
party, said the immigration officials had told him that he would not be allowed
to re-enter the United States for at least five years.

The State Department said today that it had revoked his visa last year, but that
it had not notified him. Officials declined to explain the move, except to note
that grounds for such actions would include suspected terrorist associations or
convictions for crimes.

"We recognize that Dr. Farhan is highly respected in Jordan and is well-known to
the U.S. Embassy there," a spokesman said. "The matter is under review."

Two officials declined to say whether an apology would be extended. "It's not
something we're happy about," one said.

The United States ambassador here, William Burns, called Mr. Farhan today to
"express his concern" about the incident and "promised to try to find out what
happened and what can be done about it," a spokeswoman for the embassy said.

American diplomats in Jordan said they were unaware of information that would
merit interrogating or deporting Mr. Farhan, whom they consider an important
moderating force. Mr. Farhan, who held cabinet posts under the late King
Hussein, opposed the Islamist boycott of the last general elections and has kept
a distance from the vociferous opposition to peaceful relations with Israel.

The detention and expulsion touched a raw nerve in Jordan, which considers
itself the closest United States ally in the Arab world but sometimes resents
what it considers an American inability to distinguish between mainstream Islam
and extremist fundamentalism.

The incident was headlined in most major newspapers today. The foreign minister
called Mr. Burns to seek an official explanation.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 12, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Rabbi Is Deported 5 Years After Conviction, Lawyer Says

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words


A Hasidic rabbi on parole in Rockland County after serving a prison term for
kidnapping a teenager under his tutelage was deported to Israel yesterday, even
as his conviction was being appealed, his lawyer said.

The case of the rabbi, Shlomo Helbrans, has drawn widespread attention not only
for the nature of the kidnapping charge, but also because of a federal
investigation into whether his parole after two years in prison was the result
of improper political influence on the Pataki administration.

Immigration officials have sought to deport the rabbi since 1992, at first
saying he had entered the country illegally in 1990, and later citing federal
law that allows the deportation of convicted felons. On March 7, the Board of
Immigration Appeal dismissed his final appeal of a deportation order.

Rabbi Helbrans, 38, an Israeli citizen, was arrested Wednesday night by agents
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the police station in Spring
Valley, N.Y., where he had gone expecting a regular meeting with his parole
officer, said Mark Thorn, an I.N.S. spokesman.  Yesterday, Rabbi Helbrans was
put on a plane for Israel at 5:25 p.m., his lawyer, Ronald G. Russo, said.

About an hour earlier, the rabbi's wife, Malka, was arrested and charged with
obstructing governmental affairs and striking a federal agent at the Manhattan
detention center where the rabbi had been held, Mr. Russo said.

Mike Gilhooly, regional spokesman for the immigration agency, said he could not
confirm that the rabbi was deported or that Mrs. Helbrans was arrested.

The rabbi was convicted in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn in 1994 in the
kidnapping of Shai Fhima Reuven, who disappeared in April 1992, when he was 13,
after his mother sent him to a Brooklyn yeshiva run by the rabbi. When the boy
resurfaced two years later, he said he had run away from his mother, who he said
had beaten him. The mother called the allegation a lie, and accused Rabbi
Helbrans of brainwashing her son.

After a November 1996 decision by the State Parole Board to release Rabbi
Helbrans after two years in prison, the United States attorney's office began
investigating whether the board had been influenced by a personal appeal from
Leon Perlmutter, a fund-raiser for Gov. George E. Pataki in the Hasidic
community. The Pataki administration has denied there was any improper
influence. Federal officials said yesterday that the investigation was
continuing.

Mr. Russo, the rabbi's lawyer, said he was disturbed by his client's deportation
because he thought he had an agreement with the immigration service to wait for
the result of an appeal of the kidnapping conviction in the United States Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

If the court overturns the conviction, Mr. Russo said, there would be no reason
to deport Rabbi Helbrans, who had lived with his wife and their six children in
Monsey, N.Y. Mrs. Helbrans is six months pregnant, Mr. Russo said.

A jury convicted Mrs. Helbrans of conspiring with her husband to hide the
teenager, but the conviction was thrown out by the trial judge for lack of
evidence.

Mr. Thorn of the immigration service declined to comment on Mr. Russo's
assertions. Amy Otten, a spokeswoman for the agency in Washington, said there is
no blanket policy on whether to withhold deportations pending criminal appeals.

Rick Kenney, a spokesman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review, a
sister agency to the immigration service, said that even if the kidnapping
charge was overturned, the deportation order still included an earlier charge
that Rabbi Helbrans entered the country illegally on Sept. 14, 1990.

"That charge still stands," Mr. Kenney said. But, he added, "Because it was a
less serious ground for deportation, he might be eligible for more forms of
relief. So, yeah, if he's trying to get his kidnapping conviction overturned,
that might make a difference."

Josef Goldman, a fellow Hasid in Monsey, where Rabbi Helbrans was affiliated
with the Lev Tahor yeshiva, said the community was "very, very upset" about the
rabbi's arrest.  "The I.N.S. is showing a very ugly face here, a very ugly
face," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 18, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Secrets Trial of High Immigration Official Begins

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 17


A trusted veteran United States immigration official betrayed his country when
he passed on a government secret to a wealthy friend who plans to do business in
Cuba after President Fidel Castro's death, a federal prosecutor said today in
his opening statement in the official's espionage trial.

The official, Mariano Faget, a Cuban-American who has worked for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service since 1970, is charged with violating the Espionage
Act by leaking classified information in a sting operation by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and by lying about meeting with agents of the Cuban Interest
Section, Cuba's equivalent of an embassy in the United States.

"You're going to have to decide which side Mr. Faget is on," Dick Gregorie, an
assistant United States attorney, told a 12-member federal jury here this
afternoon.

But Edward O'Donnell, a lawyer for Mr. Faget, said his client had done nothing
to warrant charges under the Espionage Act, and nothing to betray his country or
to jeopardize national security.

Mr. Faget, 54, who rose up the ranks to become acting district deputy director
of the immigration office in Miami, has been held without bond since his arrest
in February.

Mr. Gregorie said federal agents suspicious of Mr. Faget, who has a high
security clearance and access to classified information, showed him a phony
document about the impending defection of a Cuban official.

Just 12 minutes later, the prosecutor said, Mr. Gregorie used his private
cellular telephone to call Pedro Font, a Cuban-American boyhood friend and
business associate, and told him about it.

Mr. Faget has said he did not intend for the information to be used by Cuban
spies.

Both Mr. Faget and Mr. Font are on the board of a company called America-Cuba,
formed to do business in post-Castro Cuba.

But Mr. Gregorie said Mr. Faget and others established a Panamanian company as a
way to get around the United States embargo of Cuba. The company would buy land
for cemeteries in Cuba, and ultimately transport the bodies of Cuban exiles in
the United States back to Cuba for burial, for a price.

Mr. Faget used his government connections and information to help his business
associates, Mr. Gregorie said.

He said Mr. Faget met in a Miami bar with Jose Imperatori, a Cuban diplomat,
even though under the guidelines of his own agency, he is not supposed to meet
with agents of a foreign country. As a result of the meeting, the United States
expelled Mr. Imperatori.

In his opening statement, Mr. O'Donnell described Mr. Faget as a longtime public
servant with an unblemished record.

Mr. Faget faces up to five years in prison if convicted.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

The High-Tech ID

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 127 words



To the Editor:

Re "False Birth Certificates Let Immigrants Outwit System" (news article, May
29):

The remedies suggested by the Commission on Immigration Reform for false birth
certificates -- single certificate design, matching births and deaths,
standardized application forms, computerized storage of birth records -- are
worthy but superficial remedies for a much larger problem of inaccurate
identification of our citizenry.

Fair administration of immigration laws, meaningful gun control and effective
criminal justice require accurate identification based on one or more physical
attributes, be they DNA, retinal or digital. Photographs, birth dates and credit
card numbers do not suffice.

HENRY ELKINS
Bronxville, N.Y., May 30, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE OVERVIEW;
Court Upholds I.N.S.'s Rejection Of Asylum Effort for Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 1


A federal appellate panel today upheld the right of immigration officials to let
Elian Gonzalez's father take the boy back to Cuba.

A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit,
in Atlanta, ruled unanimously that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
had the power to decide that only a parent can act for such a young child in
immigration proceedings.

The decision let Juan Miguel Gonzalez move a step closer to taking his son home,
though the panel barred Elian from leaving the United States for at least 21
days to give his Miami relatives, who had sought asylum for the boy, time to
appeal the decision.

The ruling is seen as a solid defeat for the relatives who took him in after a
failed crossing from Cuba drowned his mother and 10 others and left the boy
floating on an inner tube off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving Day. They
remained angry and defiant. In Miami's Little Havana section, where Elian had
become an icon, there was anger, but the city was quiet.

Elian's father was elated.

"I want to thank the American people," Mr. Gonzalez told reporters in
Washington, where he and his son are staying. "I hope we can finally go home."

The judges said that while they might make the opposite decision, the law gave
wide discretion to the immigration service in such cases and the powers of the
executive branch should be respected.

"This case, at first sight, seems to be about little more than a child and his
father," the panel wrote in their decision. "But, for this court, the case is
mainly about the separation of powers under our constitutional system of
government."

That plain language, some legal experts said, would make a successful appeal
difficult.

"This is a very important step in achieving the goal we have sought from the
very beginning, to give Juan Miguel and his family the opportunity to return to
a life together," Attorney General Janet Reno said.

But the Elian case has involved more than a family. It has drawn international
attention -- not all of it good -- to Miami and its powerful Cuban-American
community, stirring resentment among the city's other ethnic groups and leading
to turmoil in city hall. It also brought Ms. Reno under intense criticism for
her handling of the case in her hometown of Miami.

The 33-page ruling upheld a decision by a Federal District Court judge in March
that Elian was too young to comprehend a complicated asylum application, and
that his father's rights to take him home outweighed the desires of the boy's
Miami relatives to keep him here.

The decision was written by Judge J. L. Edmondson, who was appointed by
President Ronald Reagan, and was joined by Judge Joel F. Dubina, an appointee of
President George Bush, and Judge Charles R. Wilson, an appointee of President
Clinton.

The three-judge panel found that the immigration service was "within the outside
border of reasonable choices" in denying the child's asylum application, which
he had signed in a childlike scrawl, "ELIAN."

David Abraham, a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami, said
the panel recognized "the conservative traditions of respecting the separation
of powers and recognizing that Congress has delegated the authority to make the
calls in tough cases" to the immigration service.

"The court found that I.N.S. was not arbitrary in what it did," he said.

The family was, as of this evening, weighing its options. But some form of
appeal seems likely. The family can ask for a rehearing of the case by the same
three-judge panel, or appeal the decision to the full 11-judge 11th Circuit
Court of Appeals, or appeal to the Supreme Court.

"We have not concluded, we're going to keep fighting for Elian's freedom," said
Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great uncle and the man who defied federal orders to
give up the boy.

His defiance led to a raid on April 22 in which federal agents removed the boy
from the uncle's home and took him to Maryland, where he was reunited with his
father. Father and son are now staying in Washington in a home owned by an
international youth organization.

As for whether there are grounds for an appeal, Kendall Coffey, a lawyer for the
family, said the ruling "did not constitute a resounding endorsement of the way
I.N.S. handled this matter."

The appellate panel did, in fact, write that "the court neither approves nor
disapproves the I.N.S. decision to reject the asylum application filed on
plaintiff's behalf." But, the judges wrote, the immigration service did not
contradict federal law.

Gregory B. Craig, the lawyer representing Elian's father, said it was time for
the Miami relatives to give up their battle to keep Elian. "It is now time to
end this chapter of Elian's life and to let this family go in peace," he said.

Outside the house in Little Havana where Elian lived for almost five months,
news of the ruling drove several women to their knees on the narrow asphalt
street. Men wept outside the house, a shrine of sorts here in the Cuban section
of Miami, even though Elian's Miami relatives are no longer staying there.

"I'm hurt," said Bienvenido Comas, 27, a City of Miami engineer. "I cried today.
But I have no more tears."

Like many here in a city dominated politically, economically and culturally by
Cuban-Americans, Mr. Comas said he had been disappointed again and again in this
emotionally charged case that led to protests and angry divisions between the
city's ethnic groups.

But there were no violent outbreaks in the city, even in the heart of Little
Havana, where protesters had burned dumpsters and tires and clashed with the
police after the raid. The police made more than 300 arrests then.

This time, there was only sadness and disillusionment on Southwest Eight Street,
Flagler Street and outside the tiny walkup cafes that usually buzz with
political talk.

"Today's a gloomy day," said Jose Portonado, an artist who lives in Little
Havana. "This was our last hope."

But the return of Elian to Cuba is still, more than likely, at least a few weeks
away, and perhaps longer.  The precise timing remains uncertain, depending on
what appeal the Miami relatives seek.

The appeals panel said that a previous injunction they issued to keep Elian in
this country during appeals remained in force until the panel issued a mandate
to enforce today's ruling. Such a mandate would not be issued until seven days
after the case was effectively closed under federal appellate rules. The panel
shortened the usual 45-day period to formally close the case to 14 days.

That means the Miami relatives have just 14 days to appeal the case.

If the family wants to appeal the case directly to the Supreme Court, their
lawyers must seek a separate order staying Elian's departure from a Supreme
Court justice or the entire court.

If the family does not appeal, which is unlikely, the mandate to enforce the
order will be filed in 21 days.

In Miami, political and legal experts said the Elian affair would not do Miami
any good if it was prolonged even more. "The case demonstrated that the
overwhelming majority of Americans were not prepared to have distant relatives
kidnap a child from his relatives as a way of continuing a 40-year-old struggle
that means less and less to them every day," Mr. Abraham said.

But here, where hatred of Fidel is still fresh, Cuban-Americans cannot stand the
thought of returning the child to a Communist government.

In Germany, President Clinton said he was pleased with the court's decision. "As
I have said before, this is a case about the importance of family and the bond
between a father and son," Mr. Clinton said in a written statement from Berlin,
the second stop on the president's European tour. "I have supported the Justice
Department's conclusion that Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, is the one
best suited to speak for his child."

And in Atlanta, Vice President Al Gore said he continued to believe that a
family court should decide Elian's case. George W. Bush, campaigning in Nevada,
said Mr. Gore should urge Mr. Clinton to allow such a family court hearing.

Lazaro Gonzalez said the family has no choice but to keep fighting any way it
can. "We are going to keep searching for the laws that Elian is entitled to," he
said. "So that Elian Gonzalez remains in a free country, as his mom wished."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian Gonzalez's father, after
yesterday's ruling. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Elian Gonzalez's Miami
relatives Lazaro Gonzalez and his daughter, Marisleysis, vowed in Washington to
continue fighting to keep him in this country. He was taken from their home in
an April 22 federal raid.; At the home in Miami where Elian Gonzalez once stayed
with relatives, the scene yesterday was one of anguish for those Cuban-Americans
who oppose efforts by Elian's father to return to the boy to Cuba. (Photographs
by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A16)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE LEGAL ISSUES;
Tepid Endorsement Of Government's Actions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 919 words


The Federal appeals court ruling yesterday in the Elian Gonzalez case reaffirmed
legal principles that give Federal agencies -- and particularly immigration
officials -- wide authority.

The decision by a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit was a clear but somewhat lukewarm endorsement of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's position that only Elian's father -- not the 6-year-old
boy himself or his Miami relatives -- could decide whether the boy would seek
asylum.

"Although the courts should not be unquestioning, we should respect the other
branches' policy-making powers," the decision said. "The judicial power is a
limited power."

To experts on family law, the ruling was an endorsement of legal rules that
generally declare that, unless they are abusive, parents speak for their
children in deciding where and with whom the children live.

But some immigration lawyers said they were troubled that the court's decision
gave the immigration service such wide latitude.

"Our concern is, this is setting a dangerous precedent for other children" who
might need to seek asylum in this country, said Wendy Young, a lawyer and the
director for government relations of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women
and Children. The group works to increase refugees' asylum and immigration
rights internationally.

"The court," Ms. Young said, "is placing in the hands of the I.N.S. the total
discretion of deciding which of those claims it will hear, and which of those
claims it won't hear, based on the child's age."

The judges suggested that if it had been up to them, they might have made a
different decision and considered whether Elian needed asylum from the Marxist
Cuban government. But they said they were not permitted to second-guess a
decision by immigration officials that fit "within the range of reasonable
choices," even if that decision "worries us some."

The three judges who ruled yesterday -- J. L. Edmondson, Joel F. Dubina and
Charles R. Wilson -- were the same judges who ruled in April that Elian had to
remain in this country while his case was decided.

Although the decision did little to change existing law, some immigration
lawyers said, the judges' hands-off position in such a high-profile case was
likely to be taken by immigration officials as a signal that the courts would
seldom intervene.

"The ruling is worrying as a precedent in the sense that there are many cases in
which minors -- mostly unaccompanied -- need to claim protection from
persecution," said Arthur C. Helton, an immigration law expert and a senior
fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

The Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children said 4,600 unaccompanied
children were detained for possible deportation by immigration officials last
year.

An applicant is eligible for asylum under the law if he or she has a
"well-founded fear of persecution" based on political beliefs or membership in
racial, religious, national or social groups.

In its opinion yesterday the court itself noted that the decision could hurt
some children. "We recognize, that, in some instances, the I.N.S. policy of
deferring to parents -- especially those residing outside of this country --
might hinder some 6-year-olds with nonfrivolous asylum claims," the opinion
said. But, the judges concluded, "we cannot disturb the I.N.S. policy in this
case just because it might be imperfect."

Elian's claim for asylum began with an application filed by his great-uncle and
later an application filed in the boy's own name. His father subsequently told
the immigration officials that he did not want an application for asylum to be
considered.

The boy's Miami relatives argued that it was by definition abusive for his
father to insist on returning Elian to Cuba.

Courts generally defer to the expertise of administrative agencies. But in the
area of immigration law, courts have held that the authority of judges is even
more limited, because immigration policy is part of foreign relations, where the
executive branch is given wide authority.

Some experts on immigration law said yesterday that they did not share the
concerns of some immigration lawyers that the decision yesterday could harm
other children.

David A. Martin, a former general counsel of the immigration service, said it
was standard practice for the courts to recognize that immigration officials,
not judges, are experts in making decisions about such issues.

Mr. Martin, who is a law professor at the University of Virginia, said the
opinion yesterday was of limited reach because the immigration service conceded
that some children could seek asylum even if their parents objected, like when
they were threatened with imminent harm.

"In this case," he said, "it became a question of line drawing: When do you
consider the wishes of the parent and when do you consider the child's case
independently?"

Other immigration law experts said that given the facts of Elian's case, it
would have been extraordinary for a court to require immigration officials to
consider an application filed against his father's wishes.

There are cases in which courts have gone too far in refusing to review the
decision of immigration officials, said Stephen H. Legomsky, a professor of
immigration law at the Washington University School of Law in St. Louis.

But, Mr. Legomsky said, "any court would come out this way in terms of the
father having the right to decide for this 6-year old child."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 3, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Meaning of Asylum To a Child of 6

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

Elisa Massimino ("A Ruling's Risks for Other Elians," Op-Ed, June 2) is rightly
concerned about the effect of the court decision upholding immigration
officials' right to let Elian Gonzalez's father take the boy back to Cuba. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service may not always act in a child's best
interest when deciding whether to grant asylum.

The problem with the Gonzalez case, however, is that there's no evidence that
Elian, who is 6, ever asked for asylum, or that at his age he has any concept of
the meaning of asylum.

If Elian returns to Cuba from the United States, the upside may be that he will
be responsible for improved relations between the two countries. And it's
doubtful that when he reaches the ripe old age of 18 he will be prevented from
traveling freely to or living in any country in the world.

DOUG GIEBEL
Big Sandy, Mont., June 2, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 16, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Miami Relatives Seek Review of Decision That Would Let Boy Return to Cuba

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15


Lawyers for the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez today asked all 12 judges of
the federal appeals court based in Atlanta to reverse a decision that would
allow the boy's father to take him back to Cuba.

Two weeks ago, a panel of three judges from that court dealt a major setback to
the relatives who have been trying to keep 6-year-old Elian in the United
States. The three judges ruled unanimously that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, part of the Justice Department, had the authority to
decide that only Elian's father could act for such a young child in immigration
proceedings.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, opposes the request for asylum filed on
the boy's behalf by the Miami relatives. Mr. Gonzalez, who has been living with
his son in a leafy Washington neighborhood while the legal case is being
decided, has said he will return to Cuba with Elian as soon as possible.

The Miami relatives, who had been given 14 days to appeal the panel's decision
of June 1, filed papers today contending that the judges had misinterpreted the
law and the Constitution. In particular, they argued that the judges had
neglected considering a Supreme Court ruling issued last month, which they
contended should have a substantial effect on the case.

The three-judge panel based its ruling largely on a 1984 Supreme Court decision
that executive branch agencies like the immigration service are entitled to wide
discretion in interpreting their own regulations. While the judges gave broad
hints that they did not agree with the immigration service's decision to deny an
asylum hearing, they were emphatic that the agency's officials were free to make
a decision without judicial interference as long as it was not unreasonable.

"Although courts should not be unquestioning, we should respect other branches'
policy making powers," the judges wrote.

But lawyers for the Miami relatives say the three judges ignored a ruling the
Supreme Court handed down on May 1. In that case, the justices ruled 6 to 3 that
courts need not defer to an executive agency decision that is "contained in an
opinion letter" as opposed to a ruling made after a formal procedure in which
notice is given and comment is taken from the public.

The May 1 ruling came in a Texas case in which the justices rejected a Labor
Department ruling and said public employers, like state governments and their
agencies, can require employees to take compensatory time off at specific times.

The immigration service's decision on whether a 6-year-old like Elian could seek
asylum independently from his father was an agency interpretation of the
existing law.

"This error undeniably affected the outcome of this case," said the brief filed
for Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

To gain a rehearing, Lazaro Gonzalez and his family would have to persuade at
least 7 of the 12 judges on the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit. The odds are generally against obtaining such a review because of the
momentum provided by the earlier opinion. But if the Miami relatives should
succeed, Elian's case would carry on for weeks, if not months, as the full
12-member court reviewed the case.

If the full court denied the request for a rehearing, it would set in motion a
process that would allow Juan Miguel Gonzalez to take Elian back to Cuba in a
matter of days. The boy's father is under a court order not to remove Elian from
the United States. But the three-judge panel said the order would be lifted as
soon as it issued a mandate enforcing the ruling. Under normal circumstances
that would occur seven days after the final decision at the appeals court level.

That means, for example, if the full court declined to hear the case, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez would be free to return to Cuba with Elian seven days later. The
only remaining remedy for the Miami relatives would be to seek an emergency stay
from the Supreme Court within those seven days. But that would be a remote
possibility if the appeals court decided against them because the Supreme Court
issues such stays only in cases in which there is a substantial likelihood of
success.

Attorney General Janet Reno, who has been resolute in insisting that the boy
belongs with his father, said today that she hoped "that the matter could be
considered and ruled upon promptly and that we can go forward."

Lawyers for Juan Miguel Gonzalez and the Justice Department have until Tuesday
morning to file a reply brief with the appeals court.

Elian was picked up floating on an inner tube off Florida after the boat in
which he and his mother had been bound for the United States capsized. His
mother and 10 others drowned, and Elian was placed by the authorities with
Lazaro Gonzalez in Miami.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The lawyers who filed an appeal yesterday for Elian Gonzalez's
Miami relatives were, from left, Kendall Coffey, Linda Osberg-Braun, Roger
Bernstein and Spencer Eig. (Reuters)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Bush Seeks to Boost Image With Minorities

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 5


Gov. George W. Bush told members of one of the nation's largest and most
influential Hispanic groups today that he was on a mission to topple any
stereotype that Republicans were insensitive to minorities and new immigrants.

And Mr. Bush sought to prove his own compassion by proposing to spend an
additional $100 million in federal money every year to expedite foreigners'
applications for immigration.

"It doesn't matter what party you're from," he said, as he stood before more
than 1,000 people at the annual convention of the National Council of La Raza.
"You've got to admit: When it takes three to five years to process paperwork,
that's too long. It's time to reform the I.N.S."

The Texas governor first called for an overhaul of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in an address last week to a meeting of the League of
United Latin American Citizens in Washington. At that time, he proposed
splitting the immigration agency into two operations, one dedicated to law
enforcement and the other to providing services to immigrants.

Today, he also proposed the infusion of additional federal money for those
services, saying the agency should hire more workers and institute performance
incentives so that no immigration application languished for more than six
months.

But Mr. Bush mentioned that plan only in passing, in the context of a fairly
general assertion of his belief that his agenda, priorities and attitude of
compassion should appeal to minority voters who had perhaps been suspicious of
Republicans in the past.

He made that claim in a state where many Hispanic voters still feel profound
resentment over the harsh tone of Republicans' successful quest several years
ago to pass Proposition 187, which sought to deny public services to the
children of illegal immigrants. Court challenges subsequently blocked
implementation of parts of that policy.

Mr. Bush has acknowledged that he faces a formidable challenge in courting
Hispanic voters in California. But he asked them today to judge him not by the
past actions of members of his party but by the amount of time he was spending
in densely Hispanic neighborhoods.

"I like to be seen in neighborhoods where sometimes Republicans aren't seen,"
the governor said. "I like to fight that stereotype that sometimes we don't have
the corazon necessary to hear the voices of people from all political parties
and all walks of life."

Mr. Bush sporadically used Spanish phrases and words like "corazon," which means
"heart," in today's speech.

Although Mr. Bush repeatedly announced his appreciation of diversity and his
concern for minorities, he did not offer much detail about the specific policies
he wanted to implement, or how they would help Hispanics or other minorities. He
offered an only slightly altered version of his usual stump speech, framing some
of his positions in terms of how they would benefit foreigners and recent
immigrants.

He said that his tax cut proposals would help Hispanic entrepreneurs, that free
trade would improve economic conditions in Mexico and that his push for
educational accountability would lead to better test scores for minority
children.

Mr. Bush spoke for 19 minutes. In contrast, Vice President Al Gore's appearance
at the La Raza convention on Monday night lasted about an hour, and half of that
time was devoted to answering questions from the audience.

Mr. Bush did not open the door to a similar exchange with the audience, although
he did hold a brief news conference with reporters after he spoke. His speech
was his only public event of the day, and it came on a week when he planned to
spend every other day at home in Texas.

Mr. Bush's appearance today reflected not only his effort to demonstrate concern
for members of minorities and to project a sensitive, moderate image, but also
his desire to compete seriously for California's 54 electoral votes -- 21 more
than any other state -- or at least make the appearance of doing so.

Even if Mr. Bush does not carry the state, his campaign would like to give Mr.
Gore a scare and a good reason to spend campaign cash on advertising in
California's expensive media markets.

Making inroads with Hispanic voters, who represented about 13 percent of the
Californians who voted in the 1998 elections, is a key part of Mr. Bush's
strategy in the state, which he has visited six times, including today, since
the Republican primaries essentially ended in the spring.

As he has done in previous appearances, Mr. Bush introduced his nephew George P.
Bush, the oldest son of his brother Jeb and Jeb's wife, Columba, and noted that
Columba's Mexican ancestry made his nephew half-Hispanic. He told the members of
La Raza how proud he was to have Hispanic blood in his family.

In calling for improvements at the immigration service, Mr. Bush was joining
voices in both major political parties and staking ground that was anything but
controversial. Douglas Hattaway, a spokesman for the Gore campaign, said Mr.
Bush was defining a problem that was already on its way to being solved.

"Once again, Bush is playing follow the leader," Mr. Hattaway said. "Al Gore has
long believed that we should streamline the I.N.S., and under the leadership of
this administration, the I.N.S. has already cut the application time
significantly."

Before Mr. Bush left the stage at the La Raza conference, he was presented with
a birthday cake decorated to look like an American flag. Mr. Bush, who turns 54
on Thursday, said he did not have any special celebration planned.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush greeted Rosario Marin yesterday outside the
San Diego Convention Center. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 9, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Way We Live Now: 07-09-00: The Ethicist;
Conjugal Miss

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 534 words


Three years ago I met a 45-year-old woman in China and arranged for her to come
to New York. We were married within two weeks. Since that time she has refused
to disrobe in front of me or to have sexual intercourse. We do not sleep in the
same room. She refuses to visit a Chinese-speaking woman therapist. If I divorce
her, she may lose her immigration status and be forced to return to China. Would
it be unethical to divorce her? -- R.S. Flushing, N.Y.

A whirlwind courtship, a quick trip to the altar, a romance gone sour -- you
know the old saying: marry in haste, repent in China. But if yours is a real
situation, that is a harsh fate to impose on a woman with whom you've lived for
three years and for whom you seem to have some feeling. You are right to seek a
solution to your intimate problems that does not involve a deportation hearing.
In fact, your first step should be to get some legal advice so neither of you
ends up on the wrong side of the immigration laws.

Even if divorce would not lead to deportation, you should make every effort to
improve your marriage.

If she married you simply to get to the United States or if you married a
mail-order bride, the origins of your union are less significant than what
you've made of it. And it is not just your wife who should talk to a therapist;
resolving this conflict is something you must undertake together.

If these efforts fail, you might consider an accommodation that allows you to
seek sexual satisfaction elsewhere while the two of you stay married -- without
putting her on a plane to China, that is. Her eagerness to remain in America
does not trump your desire for marital happiness and a fulfilling erotic life,
but you should seek a solution that does not provide for one person's
tranquillity at the expense of the other's.

It is possible that your wife will neither disrobe nor have sexual intercourse
because love is absent or because of her sexual orientation. There is also an
odder possibility to consider, a scenario treated with great sensitivity in "M.
Butterfly."

At a sales meeting on e-technology, a presenter said that to be successful, we
should disregard those with minimal income in favor of those with substantial
income. How does one deal with this social injustice? -- J.L.M., Omaha

I assume the presenter was encouraging you to disregard the poor in your
marketing efforts, not to run them over with your Lexus should anyone making
less than $15,000 a year fail to get out of your way quickly enough. There is,
on the face of it, nothing unethical about devotion to goods or services that
only a few can afford -- hence the existence of Tiffany, the Four Seasons and
Patricia Duff. Indeed, most of the world's people are unable to afford pretty
much everything on sale in American department stores. But it is also true that
fortunes have been made by producing things many people can enjoy -- paperback
books, ballpoint pens, fresh peaches. Thus, while catering to the rich is an
option, it is not the only option. The best way to respond to what you see as
social injustice is to have the courage of your convictions and find a different
job, one that allows you to live your values.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Niemann)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

2 New Arrests In Investigation Of Bomb Plot

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 880 words


Two Algerians, one in Brooklyn and the other in Seattle, have been arrested in
the continuing investigation of a terrorist bomb plot. The new arrests came amid
indications that federal authorities are focusing their efforts on a network of
Algerians in New York, Seattle and Boston, officials said yesterday.

The Brooklyn man, Abdelwaheb Hamdouche, was taken into custody Saturday night at
Kennedy International Airport as he was preparing to leave for Paris on a KLM
flight, officials said. Mr. Hamdouche, 34, a naturalized French citizen, was
held as a material witness in the bomb plot investigation, and it is believed
that he was ordered to remain in custody after a closed hearing yesterday in
Federal District Court in Manhattan.

In Seattle, the authorities said they had arrested another Algerian man, Abdel
Hakim Tizegha, on charges of entering the country illegally. He is believed to
be an associate of a man charged last week in the bomb plot, law enforcement
officials said, but he has not been accused of any direct role.

The new arrests on both coasts stem from what the authorities said was a bomb
plot foiled in Seattle last month after the arrest of Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian
who has been linked to a terrorist group.

Mr. Ressam was charged with attempting to smuggle powerful explosives and
sophisticated timing devices in a car he was taking on a ferry across the
Canadian border near Seattle.

While the scope of the investigation into the plot appeared to be growing, many
details of the case remained murky yesterday. It was not clear why the
authorities believed Mr. Hamdouche was a witness. It was also not known why he
had been released without being charged after he was taken into custody last
Thursday during a raid in Brooklyn in which another Algerian, Abdel Ghani, was
arrested on charges of being an accomplice in the bomb plot.

A criminal complaint accused Mr. Ghani of having knowledge of "a terrorist
network of Algerian nationals" that also included Mr. Ressam, and said that he
had planned to travel with Mr. Ressam to Chicago to raise money for the group.

After yesterday's closed hearing, neither a federal prosecutor, David N. Kelley,
nor Mr. Hamdouche's lawyer, Mitchell A. Golub, would comment or even describe
the proceeding.

A federal magistrate judge, Michael H. Dolinger, refused a request by The New
York Times to open the session, and afterward, he would not say why he had
conducted it in secret.

The arrest of Mr. Hamdouche, who lived in the same building as Mr. Ghani,
appeared to be a tactical move seeking to compel his presence before a federal
grand jury or for questioning by federal agents.

The authorities may be hoping to see if Mr. Hamdouche can tell them anything
about Mr. Ghani, and whether he might cooperate in the investigation. In order
for Magistrate Dolinger to detain Mr. Hamdouche, the government had to show that
he was material, or valuable, to the investigation, and that he was a risk to
flee or be unavailable.

No one would say if Mr. Hamdouche had been ordered held, but he did not leave
the courtroom with his defense lawyer as the hearing ended.

The new arrests indicated that law enforcement authorities are continuing to
reel in friends and associates of Mr. Ressam and Mr. Ghani, although the high
degree of secrecy imposed on the case has made it difficult to learn precisely
what the authorities suspect of each man.

The criminal complaint filed against Mr. Tizegha yesterday in federal district
court in Seattle, for example, makes no mention of the bomb plot, nor did
prosecutors discuss any link in a hearing.

But law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Mr.
Tizegha was believed to have been a longtime friend of Mr. Ghani, and may have
spent time with him in Seattle when Mr. Ghani went there in mid-December to meet
Mr. Ressam. The plot was interrupted when an immigration agent questioned Mr.
Ressam at the border and the explosives were discovered in his car, the
government has charged.

The complaint in Seattle against Mr. Tizegha says he entered the United States
illegally as a stowaway on a ship in 1993, and lived in Boston, where he
formally applied for political asylum.

After his asylum request was rejected, he was ordered deported in 1997, and he
lost an appeal in June of last year. He then disappeared from view of the
authorities, the complaint said, until his arrest the day before Christmas in
Bellevue, Wash., on immigration charges.

His roommate, who was interviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
revealed that Mr. Tizegha had moved to Seattle in the winter of 1998, and then
went to Vancouver, British Columbia, to apply for refugee status in Canada, the
complaint said.

Last November, he sneaked back into the United States, crossing the border
through the woods at Blaine, Wash., to avoid contact with immigration agents,
the complaint said. The authorities say he then caught a bus in Bellingham,
Wash., which he rode to Seattle. Later, after his arrest, he made a phone call
and asked his roommate to burn the bus ticket he had used to travel to Seattle,
the complaint said.

A federal magistrate judge in Seattle ordered Mr. Tizegha held pending a bail
hearing on Wednesday.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 30, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Between Migrants and Spain: The Sea That Kills

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

DATELINE: ALGECIRAS, Spain


Soon after sunset, every evening, Spanish police boats set out to zigzag on the
choppy Mediterranean, their night-vision scopes and infrared cameras at the
ready to pierce the darkness.

Their mission is to intercept small motorboats crowded with clandestine African
migrants, mostly young men who want to sneak ashore and hunt for work in Europe.

Across the water, in Morocco, a fake Spanish visa may cost as much as $3,000.
But a network of smugglers offer secret night rides for a third of that in
rickety fishing vessels painted deep blue for camouflage.

The coast of southern Spain, like the United States' border with Mexico, is a
fault line where the worlds of rich and poor people meet, a magnet for migrants
seeking a better life.

Ship captains call the strait that separates Europe from Africa here one of the
world's most treacherous sea passages, a wind tunnel where the waters of the
Atlantic and Mediterranean mix with fury, producing high swells and powerful
crosscurrents. And yet, night after night, hundreds of people risk their lives
on a 10-mile crossing that may last two hours, stretch from dusk to dawn, or,
worse, end in death by drowning.

From just a trickle a few years ago, tens of thousands of undocumented migrants
are now taking this route every year, drawn by the booming market in low-paying
jobs that Europeans do not want.

"This is a regular night," said Lt. Juan Fernandez at the Spanish Civil Guard
base in Algeciras one recent evening. At 11 p.m. the first patrol boat had
reported back to base: it had caught a 50-foot boat with 20 men aboard and was
bringing them ashore. At 2:30 a.m. a boat was intercepted with 25 people.
Earlier, the police helicopter had signaled three other vessels, but they got
away in the dark.

As on most nights, the majority of the men were from Morocco. Others may come
from as far away as central Africa. Those who consider themselves lucky make it
to farms in Spain, restaurant kitchens in France or construction sites in the
Netherlands. But for a growing number the trip ends here. The Civil Guard
regularly finds bloated bodies or flotsam from the flimsy boats, which are often
equipped only with small outboard motors.

"Sometimes the boats are hit by big cargo ships that don't even see them," said
Lieutenant Fernandez, who has spent many nights patrolling the water. "Usually,
the boats are overloaded and they capsize easily. These are the poor who dream
of riches in Europe, but many can't swim because they are mountain people. And
they don't even have life jackets."

The price of lost European dreams is starkly visible in the windswept cemetery
of Tarifa, a village on the southernmost tip of Spain. A mass grave that bears
no names is covered with wildflowers. Juan Gallardo, the village gravedigger,
said he buried 14 drowned bodies here in 1997. He believed they were Moroccans.
Nearby, he had dug a grave for five young black men. They had also washed up on
the rocks below Tarifa.

"They looked young, maybe 18 or 20," Mr. Gallardo said. "Poor things, no one
ever came to ask for them. Their families must still be waiting for news."

At Algeciras, 10 miles to the east, the cemetery has close to 100 graves of
people who drowned in the strait. Almost all are nameless. Only the date of
burial and case number have been scratched into the rough cement. Jose Sampalo,
an undertaker, said almost half of them were buried in the last three years.
Seven drowned just in January.

"No one is really keeping track of all the dead," said Abdel Hamid Beyuki, head
of the Moroccan Workers' Association in Spain. "Bodies also wash up on the
Moroccan coast or they are just lost." His group estimates that some 3,000
people may have drowned in the last five years.

Statistics about the number of migrant workers who make it to the Spanish shores
and then deeper into Europe are equally uncertain. "We reckon we catch about one
in four people, at least on this part of the coast," said Lt. Ovidio Corredor at
the Algeciras Civil Guard base.

Once detained, the undocumented migrants are are taken to detention centers and,
often on the same day, returned by ferryboats to the Moroccan port of Tangiers.
"Some carry drugs to pay for their passage," said Lieutenant Corredor. "But they
stay here and go to jail."

According to the Interior Ministry in Madrid, Spain expelled 17,000 undocumented
aliens last year. The ministry said it estimated that some 50,000 legal and
illegal workers arrive every year, most of them North Africans.

Many travel on to France, Belgium and the Netherlands, where they can disappear
and find support in the large established North African communities. Others stay
in Spain, where Moroccans are the biggest contingent of foreign workers.

Spain's Interior Ministry concedes that it can only guess at the number of
undocumented people in the country, perhaps some 150,000. But it recognizes that
they often find work. They do the low-paid, backbreaking jobs in the great
expanses of hothouses that grow winter vegetables. And they work in the olive
and orange groves of Andalusia or the factories around Barcelona.

"Spanish employers can be fined for hiring illegal immigrants, but they are
often tolerated because they are needed," a government official said. He was
merely acknowledging the status quo: despite high unemployment of 14 percent,
prospering Spain does want the cheap labor and the seasonal work provided by
uncounted foreigners.

So does much of Western Europe. It is why the story repeats itself elsewhere
along the Mediterranean. In recent years, boatloads of Tunisians have been
crossing to Sicily or have used other Italian islands as steppingstones into the
European Union. Albanians, Kurds and Iraqis by the thousands have been sneaking
ashore in Italy and Greece.

Cheap labor is only part of the economic equation. As Europeans have fewer
children and the population ages, they need immigrants to help make up the pool
of workers that will pay for the Continent's costly social security and pension
systems.

In Spain, demographers say that the need for foreign workers will become
particularly acute. The country now has among the lowest birthrates in Europe --
just 1.1 children per woman. (It takes an average of 2.1 children per woman to
keep the population from shrinking.)

Nevertheless, Spain accepted only 30,000 immigrants last year. Specialists say
that it will soon have to import far more to maintain the labor pool needed to
sustain its elderly.

But here, as elsewhere in Western Europe, there are signs of rising xenophobia
and racism in communities that feel besieged by immigrants. In February, crowds
attacked Moroccan laborers in southeastern Spain. Last year, there were several
racist incidents near Barcelona. Human rights groups fear that extremists here
could build constituencies by campaigning against foreigners, as they have in
Austria, Belgium, France and Germany.

The European Union has tried to enlist Morocco to stem the flow of people coming
illegally, and equipped the Moroccan coast guard with new radar and boats. The
Union is also offering more favorable trade terms and is including Morocco among
the countries -- along with Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia -- that
will get special development aid in the hope of reducing the flight of their
people to Europe.

But European diplomats in Morocco said the Rabat government was ignoring the
problem. "Migration acts as a safety valve for this nation that has more than 40
percent unemployment and no welfare," one said, adding that Morocco received
some $2 billion a year from its citizens living in Europe. "That's one of the
country's main sources of hard currency," the diplomat said. "It's become almost
indispensable."

Moroccan officials have argued that it is better to regulate the traffic across
the Mediterranean by setting a quota for migrant workers rather than leave it to
smugglers. Talks have been going on for several years.

With Morocco needing to export labor and Europe needing to import it, the flow
seems destined to grow. That at least is the perception of the Spanish Civil
Guard that patrols this coast.

At its base in Algeciras, Lieutenant Corredor showed half a dozen newly
confiscated boats. "People used to cross only in the summer," he said. "January
and February used to be totally quiet."

This January, the guards at Algeciras caught 615 people on the water. Some were
drug smugglers, most were migrants.

Lieutenant Corredor pointed to one flimsy dark blue boat. "A floating coffin,"
he said. "This one was adrift with engine trouble and 25 people aboard. We had
to revive some of them. They were half dead with cold."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spain is increasingly a magnet for Africans hoping to find jobs
in Europe. These illegal immigrants, of unknown nationality, landed on the
southern coast of Spain in February and fled before the police arrived. (Agence
France-Presse)

Map of the Mediterranean highlighting Spain and Morocco: The Civil Guard, with a
base in Algeciras, seeks to stem migrants.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 20, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Indonesians Deport an American Journalist

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 19


An American journalist who has criticized Indonesia for its treatment of the
East Timorese was deported today after entering the country illegally, the state
news agency Antara said.

Allan Nairn, who writes for The Nation magazine, was arrested in the East Timor
capital, Dili, while surveying damage by rampaging Indonesian troops and their
militia auxiliaries.

Immigration officials in Kupang, in the Indonesian province of West Timor, put
Mr. Nairn on a flight to Singapore, saying he had entered without the correct
visa. "In his visa, he is listed as a tourist," Antara quoted an immigration
officer, Surya Pranata, as saying. "But in reality, he is a journalist and
covertly in Indonesia. We are sending him back to his country because he is
violating his entry permit."

Mr. Nairn, who was beaten when he witnessed a massacre of civilians by
Indonesian troops in 1991 in East Timor, has reported extensively on the
Indonesian Army's special forces. That unit has been accused by the United
Nations and international observers of orchestrating much of the violence
unleashed in East Timor over the past two weeks.

Mr. Nairn was expelled last year after he accused the Pentagon of training the
special forces unit in violation of a congressional ban on working with
Indonesian forces.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 6, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Schumer Joins Runner's Citizenship Plea

BYLINE: By BILL DEDMAN

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


The fastest marathoner in the world has a new running partner: a United States
senator.

The marathoner, Khalid Khannouchi, a Moroccan who set the world record last
month in Chicago (2 hours 5 minutes 42 seconds), wants to run in an American
uniform in the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia. He came to Brooklyn in 1993
and married an American citizen in 1996, but so far has been unable to get his
citizenship papers.

The senator, Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, has written to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Schumer is a member of the Senate
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, which helps oversee the I.N.S.

Delays by the I.N.S. are responsible for Khannouchi's two-year wait for
citizenship, Schumer contends.

The I.N.S. admits that the New York office has had some long delays but balks at
moving Khannouchi's case along quickly.

"It is not our practice to move people ahead of the thousands of others who are
waiting," said Russell A. Bergeron, director of media relations. "Everyone's
citizenship application is important."

Schumer will make a public appearance with Khannouchi in Central Park this
morning along with Representative Sue W. Kelly, a Republican who represents the
Ossining, N.Y., area, where Khannouchi lives.

Kelly introduced a bill on Khannouchi's behalf this year but was rebuffed by
Representative Lamar S. Smith of Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration and Claims. Smith said it would be unfair to help
Khannouchi compete against American citizens for the few slots on the Olympic
team.

So far, however, only one American has run 2:14, the cutoff set by the Olympics,
and three slots are available.

Khannouchi has said he will not race for Morocco, where he said he was blocked
by track officials, but instead wants to win a medal for his adopted country.

"That's my dream," he said after setting the world record. "I want to give
something back. I'm so grateful. 'Thank you' is nothing. I really want to do
something for the Americans."

A spokesman for the New York office of the I.N.S., Mark Thorn, said he could not
comment on Khannouchi's case, but he acknowledged that there had been delays
nationwide in processing immigration applications.

"Cases are moving through the system in 15 to 24 months on average," Thorn said.
"Some cases could take more time or less. The number of pending cases has been
significantly reduced over the past year."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

May 28-June 3;
Closer to Going Home

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 70 words


In a decision that caused several people in Miami's Little Havana to sink to
their knees in despair, a federal appellate panel upheld the right of
immigration officials to deny 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez a political asylum
hearing. It was one more hurdle, but not the last, in Juan Miguel Gonzalez's
legal fight to return his son to Cuba. Lawyers for Elian's Miami relatives are
expected to appeal.   RICK BRAGG

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 5, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
Where Dreams of Asylum Can Come True or Die

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section E; Page 6; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 664 words


Sometimes the most engrossing television is also the hardest to watch, and that
is certainly the case with "Well-Founded Fear," which opens a new season of the
"P.O.V." series on PBS tonight. The two-hour documentary by Shari Robertson and
Michael Camerini takes an amazingly unflinching look at the process for seeking
political asylum in the United States. The viewer who sticks with it ends up
rewarded but deeply rattled, on several levels.

The filmmakers managed to get permission from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to record the secretive hearings at which the fates of asylum seekers
are decided, and they have fleshed out those vignettes with interviews of both
the applicants and the hearing officers. The mix of emotions at play is
dramatic. The strength of this film is that it is largely left to speak for
itself, and that requires work on the viewer's part.

From a sheer technical standpoint the film is not one that can be watched
casually, while paying the bills or whatever. It jumps abruptly from case to
case, and when the asylum seekers talk, there are subtitles (to show the often
alarming contrast between what they said and what the translators tell the
hearing officers they said).

But what truly makes this a difficult film is the discomfort and dismay it makes
the viewer feel. Hearing the asylum seekers' tales of woe is only one part of
this, though a big part. Throw a dart at a map of the world, it seems, and there
is an excellent chance of hitting a spot where people are arrested, persecuted,
abused for scant reason: Algeria, Romania, China, Sudan.

"Americans take everything for granted," one asylum seeker says. "They have no
clue what's out there." This is wrong, of course; Americans know full well the
beauty of the freedoms they enjoy. But even the most attuned American will be
distressed anew at this stark reminder of how so many others live.

The most gripping part of "Well-Founded Fear," though, is not the tales of the
applicants but the portraits of those who have to decide whether those stories
are true and whether they merit asylum. The hearing officers here speak with
rare candor. They know how imperfect, almost random, the process is, and how
their own prejudices affect it.

They talk about how they are more likely to approve an applicant who is well
educated, about how they sometimes have to resist the impulse to hug the person
across the table. They talk about how when they started on the job all of the
stories sounded true, but now none do.

"Well-Founded Fear" leaves us wanting to know more about these heroic and, it
sometimes seems, heartless people: How are they recruited and trained? How do
they adjust to drab domestic life after such a wrenching day? It also leaves us
wondering about the asylum process: what finally lands applicants in the hearing
office, when some have been living comfortably in this country for years?

Mostly, though, this film leaves us sighing at the great disconnect that we see
so often between high ideals and one-on-one reality. The ideal of dignified care
for the terminally ill comes down to finding people willing to change bedpans.
The ideal of feeding the hungry comes down to people willing to work soup lines.
And the ideal of having the United States be a place of refuge comes down to a
snap judgment in a hearing room, based on fuzzy stories told across a language
barrier.

"They stay fuzzy forever," one hearing officer says, "and we still have to make
a decision based on fuzziness."

P.O.V.
Well-Founded Fear

PBS, tonight at 9
(Channel 13 in New York)

Michael Camerini and Shari Robertson, producers and directors; Mr. Camerini,
camera; music by Mark Suozzo; Karen Schmeer, Suzanne Pancrazi and Christopher
Osborn, editors; John Dildine, sound. For P.O.V.: Cara Mertes, executive
producer. The series is produced by American Documentary Inc.; Ellen Schneider,
executive director; Ward Chamberlin, chief executive officer.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Asylum seekers waiting to be interviewed in "Well-Founded Fear."
(Leo Hsu/"P.O.V.")

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

90 Asylum Seekers at Center Are Infected by Man With TB

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 495 words


Many of the foreign asylum seekers held at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center in Queens were infected with the tuberculosis microbe
this month through contact with a West African detainee who reportedly entered
the country already in the infectious stage of the disease, Federal health
officials said yesterday.

In all, 90 detainees were infected during the man's two-week stay at the center,
but none have developed active TB, the officials said.

The ill detainee, whose name and nationality were not released, is now being
treated at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. Doctors said that his initial skin
test to screen for tuberculosis was negative, but that after he complained of a
cough at the detention center clinic, he was given a chest X-ray and found to
have the active form of the disease.

Although not everyone who is infected will develop the active form of the
disease, the standard procedure once a skin test shows a positive result is to
take a chest X-ray to discover if the tuberculosis is active; if it is, the
patient is hospitalized and treated.

But TB may not become active for months after exposure, so even if the X-ray
does not show a problem, the accepted procedure is to administer drugs to kill
the microbe.

Neal Collins, an officer with the Public Health Service who is the clinical
director of the Queens detention center, said that all the detainees exposed to
tuberculosis had been started on a regimen of drugs to kill the TB microbe.
Letters have been sent to the people already released, advising them to see a
doctor.

Tuberculosis in its active stage is highly contagious, and the microbe can be
spread when the sick person coughs, sneezes or sometimes merely talks. Although
the United States has seen an overall decline in TB cases in the last 10 years,
most immigrants come from parts of the world where the disease is rampant. The
World Health Organization has estimated that one-third of the world's population
is infected.

All immigrants entering detention centers are given a skin test to screen for
tuberculosis exposure.

A large number of the immigrants who come to the Queens detention center are
already infected and receive treatment during their stay, Dr. Collins said, but
active tuberculosis cases in detention centers in the New York region are rare.

A few immigration centers around the country, like the Port Isabel detention
center near Brownsville, Tex., give chest X-rays to every detainee who is taken
in. That way, officials said, active tuberculosis can be spotted almost
immediately, rather than after the two or three days needed for results from a
tuberculosis skin test, which may indicate only exposure to the disease.

By the end of next year, digital x-ray machines to screen for TB are expected to
be installed at every immigration center in the country, said Gene Migliaccio,
director of immigrant health services at the Public Health Service in
Washington.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Bars Catholic Group From Counseling Detainees

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 661 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has barred a group of Roman Catholic
counselors from detention centers in the New York area in what the group is
calling an effort to limit asylum seekers' access to advocacy organizations.

Two of the agency's detention centers, Wackenhut in Queens and Elizabeth in New
Jersey, are administered by private companies for the agency. The I.N.S. itself
administers the Varick Street Service Processing Center in Lower Manhattan,
which houses immigrants who have criminal records. The three centers hold about
600 people, some of whom have been in detention for more than a year.

"They clearly do not want detainees to speak to us about the experience of
detention," said Will Coley, the director of the barred group, Jesuit Refugee
Service in New Jersey, which had provided English classes and pastoral services
in Elizabeth. "They do not want us to give hope to detainees, to possibly
educate them about their rights or let us see what detainees are experiencing."

But the I.N.S., in a statement from Andrea J. Quarantillo, the district
director, said the refugee service "broke the covenant that had been reached
with I.N.S." The program to offer English classes, pastoral visits and Bible
study, Ms. Quarantillo said, "was initiated to provide detainees with a positive
outlet for their energies that would not deal with detention issues."

The work of the religious group became an issue when discussions in their
sessions violated the agency's restrictions. Mr. Coley said immigration
officials were adamant that his volunteers not talk about issues of detention,
and he admitted that some had broken that rule, although he said it was
inadvertent.

Mr. Coley said the detainees inevitably brought up issues of detention in the
classes and Bible groups, especially because many lacked legal representation.

In November, the Jesuit Refugee Service was barred from the Elizabeth center,
which holds 300 detainees, after two and a half years of work. The service said
80 to 90 people had attended weekly Bible classes, and about 180 people studied
English.

The refugee service said the agency has not responded to a request it made two
months ago to work in the Wackenhut facility.

In Varick, the Rev. Peter Piasta of the Archdiocese of New York saw his
services, which included celebrating Mass, suspended last year.

The I.N.S., unlike the prison system, does not permit a formal ministry program
for the some 17,400 people in its detention centers nationwide.

The agency cited two specific incidents that led to the termination of the
program at Elizabeth. During a Bible study on Nov. 17, 1999, led by the Rev.
Thomas Sheridan, a priest and a retired theology professor, the weekly
lectionary was taken from a passage in Matthew. In the passage, Jesus admonishes
his followers to welcome strangers and comfort those who are in prison.

The ensuing discussion, which was monitored by the agency, apparently touched on
issues of detention, and the Jesuit Refugee Service was thrown out of the center
the next day.

The discussion in the Bible study came only a day after another volunteer had
asked students in an English class to write evaluations of the program and
describe the experience of detention. The volunteer, with an I.N.S. monitor
present, also informed the students about a coming meeting of an immigration
rights group.

Ms. Quarantillo, in the statement, said that the I.N.S. "has no objection to
Matthew 25 or any other Bible passage and does not seek to censor them. We only
request that detention issues not be included in the lesson plans."

On Friday, the agency accepted a proposal by the Rev. Joe Parrish, an Episcopal
priest, to hold Protestant Bible classes and religious services at the Elizabeth
center with four other Protestant pastors. Mr. Parrish said he was told that he
would not be allowed to include the Jesuits in the group, but that the
authorities did not say why.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Will Coley, director of the Jesuit Refugee Service in New
Jersey, outside the I.N.S. detention center in Elizabeth, from which his group
is barred. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
2 Immigrant Detainees Accuse Guards of Abuse

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Two immigrants seeking asylum in the United States claim that guards at a
privately run detention center here beat and mistreated them after they
complained about conditions.

Their civil rights lawsuit accuses Corrections Corporation of America of
sanctioning "abusive practices to control and discipline the refugees." The
charge is based on complaints from detainees at Elizabeth and other lockups run
by the corporation, their lawyer, W. Gaston Fairey, said.

The detainees, Oluwole Aboyade of Nigeria and Salah Dafali from the Gaza Strip,
have been held for about two years, for illegally entering the United States.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: PRISONS;
IMMIGRANTS SUE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 74 words


Immigrants detained by federal authorities at the Passaic County Jail charge
that "inhumane and subhuman conditions" there include crammed dormitories with
poor ventilation and cold food in unhygienic circumstances. A handwritten
lawsuit filed last week by 26 detainees against the Immigration and
Naturalization Service also charges that they are not given drinkable water,
proper medical care or access to overseas phone lines.




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
I.N.S. Officers Accused Of Sex With Detainees

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 28


Officials are investigating accusations that Immigration and Naturalization
Service officers at a detention center here had sexual contact with detainees.
At least two officers at the center, the Krome Service Processing Center, have
been reassigned.

Among the accusations: A transsexual detainee complained of having been sexually
assaulted twice by an officer; and a female detainee who became pregnant while
at the center said that it was because a guard had sex with her. Another woman
who became pregnant while at the center said she had sex with a fellow detainee.

No names were released, and the authorities did not say how many officers were
under investigation.

The accusations were referred to the agency's Office of Internal Audit and the
Justice Department's inspector general, said Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.

Consensual sex between prison or detention officers and their wards is a
misdemeanor under federal law, and a felony under Florida law, according to the
Justice Department.





http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

People-Smuggling Suspect Is Held After 5-Year Hunt

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words


After a five-year pursuit spanning Asia and the Americas, the authorities say
the Hong Kong police have captured a ringleader of the Golden Venture human
smuggling operation, in which 10 illegal Chinese immigrants died after a
freighter ran aground off Queens in 1993.

The suspect, Cheng Chui Ping, 51, was arrested on Monday morning at Chek Lap Kok
Airport in Hong Kong by officers from the Hong Kong Narcotics Bureau, law
enforcement officials said. She was apparently dropping off her son, who lives
in the New York City region, they said.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service will seek Ms. Cheng's extradition at a hearing on June 16, on the basis
of a 1994 federal indictment in Manhattan involving a separate smuggling
operation.

People in Chinatown in Manhattan, where she once ran several businesses, say
that Ms. Cheng was viewed as a benevolent figure and was affectionately called
Sister Ping or Big Sister Ping.

She often found jobs for people and helped them to navigate the bureaucracy, and
the word in the neighborhood was that she could provide loans for relatives back
in China faster and at better rates than the Bank of China.

She resembled a nonthreatening aunt, people in Chinatown recalled: she was short
and amiable, wore no makeup and shunned fancy clothes, looking every bit like
someone who grew up in rural China.

But beneath that unassuming exterior, law enforcement authorities have long
contended, is a leader in the lucrative trade of human smuggling. To them, she
has made untold millions on the backs of poor, vulnerable and unsophisticated
illegal Chinese immigrants who are forced to pay tens of thousands of dollars,
per head, for the voyage to America.

They portray her as a ruthless criminal mind, a powerful "snakehead," or
smuggler, with numerous contacts in Chinese government and business among her
closest friends.

"She is considered the very top snakehead, and she has this aura of
invincibility," said Ko-lin Chin, an associate professor at Rutgers who has
written extensively about smuggling. "People in the community were saying that
she couldn't be arrested, she couldn't be punished because she's so powerful and
so well connected."

Her arrest delivers a powerful message to all smugglers, said Russell A.
Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service. He said it shows that
even the most mythic figures are not immune, especially since the flow of
smuggling to the United States has essentially remained steady since the Golden
Venture disaster. If anything, the smugglers have gotten more creative,
sometimes ferrying illegal immigrants via metal cargo containers, a method
highlighted by the discovery in Seattle recently of 15 emaciated stowaways.

Yesterday, the authorities provided only sketchy details of the investigation,
saying that they did not want to jeopardize it. But they did convey a great
sense of relief, pride and satisfaction at catching someone they said had always
seemed to be one step ahead of them.

Michael Klosson, the United States consul general in Hong Kong, said in a
statement, "The arrest of Cheng Chui Ping after several years of diligent
detective work demonstrates once again our common determination to bring to
justice those who engage in the reprehensive and deadly practice of human
smuggling."

The freighter named the Golden Venture was carrying nearly 300 illegal
immigrants when it ran aground 200 yards from the Rockaway peninsula in Queens
in 1993. The passengers jumped overboard. It was early morning and dark; the
waters were turbulent. Ten of the passengers drowned or died of hypothermia.

The immigrants, most from China's southeastern Fujian province, had made various
down payments to get aboard, and were supposed to pay the rest of their fee of
$30,000 per person after their illegal arrival in the United States. Nearly all
of those who made it to shore were quickly corralled; many then spent up to
three and a half years in American jails after their voyage.

In 1998, two who are believed to have been Golden Venture ringleaders -- Guo
Liang-chi, also known as Ah Kay, and Lee Peng Fei, also known as Char Lee --
were sentenced to terms in excess of 20 years in prison. But Ms. Cheng has
always been viewed as one of the most powerful smuggling suspects.

Ms. Cheng, who law enforcement officials say is a permanent United States
resident, previously served a four-month term for smuggling in 1991, said Peter
Kwong, a professor of Asian-American studies at Hunter College. In 1994, she was
indicted in the Southern District of New York on federal charges that she
organized a smuggling mission aboard a small fishing vessel called the Blue
Chip.

The authorities said that after Ms. Cheng left America in the mid-1990's, she
spent most of her time shuttling between Hong Kong and Fujian, and traveling
under false passports throughout Asia, South America and possibly Europe. But
this week, when they heard that she would be at the airport, Hong Kong
authorities deployed about 40 officers to ensure that she would not escape.

"This is a major score for us in terms of her arrest," said Gerald Rose, the
supervisor of the F.B.I.-New York Police Department Joint Asian Organized Crime
Squad, which worked with the federal immigration service to investigate the case
against Ms. Cheng.

When Ms. Cheng was arrested, she insisted that the authorities had mistaken her
for someone else, but once she was fingerprinted, she admitted her identity, one
official said. Federal prosecutors have 60 days to seek a racketeering
indictment against Ms. Cheng, who will face a maximum penalty of life in prison
if she is convicted, the authorities said.

As for the illegal immigrants from the Golden Venture, about 170 have been
deported, 60 remain in the United States after being granted asylum or other
relief, and almost 40 are still awaiting the resolution of their cases, said
Rich Kenney, a spokesman for the Executive Office for Immigration Review, which
handles the immigration hearings.

The case came into focus again two years ago, when Wang Wu Dong, a Golden
Venture passenger who had been deported, tried to sneak into the United States
again -- only to board a ship that also missed its destination, this time in New
Jersey. The name of the boat was the Oops II.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Golden Venture, a freighter, was carrying nearly 300 illegal
immigrants when it ran aground off Queens in 1993, killing 10. (Paul DeMaria)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Facing Deportation, Thai Boy, 2, Has H.I.V.

BYLINE: By the Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 179 words


A 2-year-old Thai boy at the center of an immigration dispute in California has
the AIDS virus, Thai health authorities said yesterday.

The health ministry said the diagnosis was made by California doctors appointed
by the judge handling the case of the boy, Phanupong Khaisri.

Judge Dickran Tevrizian of Federal District Court in Los Angeles delayed the
deportation of the boy last month and appointed two doctors to examine him,
because he seemed to have the flu. The boy had been detained by immigration
officials who said he was used as a decoy by a people-smuggling ring.

The judge's ruling came after leaders of Thais in Los Angeles went to court to
block Phanupong's deportation, saying that his mother had been sold into sexual
slavery and that his father had committed suicide after contracting AIDS. They
feared that deportation would harm the boy's health.

It was not clear how the diagnosis would affect the case. Earlier this month,
Judge Tevrizian said he would not deport the boy until he was sure he would get
proper care in his homeland.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Injustices

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words


With unemployment rates at a 30-year low and strong growth in the high-tech
sector, many technology companies are hard pressed to find enough programmers
and other skilled workers to meet their needs. One way industry has dealt with
the labor shortage has been to hire skilled foreign workers who are allowed to
come to this country under special, temporary H-1B visas. But now demand for
skilled workers is outstripping the number of such workers allowed in each year
by statute. Congress needs to raise the visa cap temporarily to ease the
shortages. It should also correct some severe injustices in the immigration laws
that have hurt immigrants who have been in this country for more than a decade.

Under current law, H-1B visas, which permit foreign workers to stay in the
United States for upto six years, are capped at 115,000 for fiscal year 2000 and
will decline to 65,000 in 2002. There is bipartisan support in Congress to
increase that cap for a limited time. One reasonable proposal, sponsored by
Representatives David Dreier, Republican of California, and Zoe Lofgren,
Democrat of California, would increase the cap to 200,000 visas per year through
2003. Their bill would set aside a number of the visas for nonprofit research
institutions and would require that 60,000 visas be reserved for people with
advanced degrees. The proposal would also increase the visa application fee to
$1,000 from $500 and direct the money toward job training and education
programs.

The Clinton administration supports a temporary increase in the visa cap, but
with higher fees than the Dreier-Lofgren plan. It also wants Congress to correct
some other immigration problems.

In 1997, Congress granted permanent residency to Nicaraguan and Cuban refugees
who fled oppression by their leftist regimes in the 1980's. But it granted only
lesser forms of relief to Guatemalans and Salvadorans who fled right-wing
regimes, and it neglected Haitians and Hondurans. Congress should dismantle
these distinctions and allow Central American refugees to apply for permanent
residency on an equal basis.

Congress should also cure a legal mess left over from the 1986 immigration
overhaul. At that time Congress granted amnesty to illegal aliens who had been
in the country before 1982. But some 300,000 people were improperly denied the
opportunity to apply for amnesty by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Years of litigation followed, with the courts ruling in favor of the immigrants.
Then in 1996, Congress stripped the courts of jurisdiction over these cases,
leaving these immigrants, a great number of whom had been granted work
authorization, in legal limbo. A sensible bill now pending in Congress would
allow these individuals and other similarly situated people who have been here
since the mid-1980's to stay permanently.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

More Foreign Workers?

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 159 words



To the Editor:

Re "Immigration Injustices" (editorial, July 5):

You argue that Congress should increase the number of H-1B visas in order to
relieve the high-tech labor shortage. That overlooks the severe age
discrimination that is practiced in most high-tech companies. One does not have
to look hard to find any number of skilled, experienced, older (over 35) workers
who can't even get an interview, much less a job.

High-tech companies love H-1B visa workers because they will work extremely long
hours for substandard wages. They are generally young, have no local family and
because of visa regulations, are unable to easily change jobs.

If high-tech companies really want to hire more workers, they should accept
older workers, pay more and stop demanding unreasonable hours. Not only will
they be able to hire more new workers, but they will also stop losing the ones
they have.

DOUGLAS SURBER
Orinda, Calif., July 5, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 24, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Construction Worker Dies in Brooklyn Building Collapse

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER and JAYSON BLAIR

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words


A building under construction in Brooklyn collapsed yesterday, plunging a dozen
immigrant workers down four stories in a cascade of wet concrete, killing one
and badly injuring the others.

City officials said the collapse was apparently a result of shoddy construction,
as the contractor had apparently failed to provide enough support for the upper
floors, where the collapse occurred. The site, at 50 Middleton Avenue in
Williamsburg, was also the scene of a collapse three months ago.

Many of the victims were Mexican immigrants, and one law enforcement official
said the contractor was being investigated for possible use of undocumented
workers.

The collapse came about 8:35 a.m., as the construction crew began to pour
concrete for the third floor of a residential complex. Fire and ambulance crews
arrived within minutes and found the injured workers in the basement, stunned
and half buried in a pool of wet concrete several feet deep.

"You would just see hands and feet in the cement, some lying face up, some lying
face down," said Officer William Pieszak of the Emergency Service Unit, who
arrived minutes after the collapse. "They thought they were drowning. They
thought they were being buried alive."

"It was chaos around here," Officer Pieszak went on. "They just went into a
hole. Guys were running around with their mouths bloody, with their nose bloody.
Guys were in a daze."

Peering into the wrecked basement, Capt. Edward Kearon of Ladder Company 108
could see at least four men lying in the pool of wet concrete.

"We used portable ladders to get down to the basement and put the victims onto
backboards and bring them out," Captain Kearon said. "One man was wedged
underneath a pile of metal, and we had to cut him out while his body was covered
with concrete and metal."

The worker who was killed, tentatively identified as Daniel Eduardo, 22, was
crushed by concrete building blocks, metal reinforcing rods and other debris as
the intervening floors gave way.

Another victim, whose name was not known by the authorities, was in critical
condition last night in the operating room at Bellevue Hospital Center.  Two
others were in serious condition.

The city's Buildings Department immediately shut down the construction site, a
six-building row house residential complex from No. 50 to No. 60 Middleton
Street. It is in a primarily Hasidic section of Williamsburg that has been
undergoing a construction boom to accommodate the swelling population of
Hasidim.

After the collapse, several agencies immediately began investigations, officials
said, including the Brooklyn district attorney's office, which was looking into
possible criminal negligence, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in the
event that illegal immigrants were being employed, and the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration in case federal workplace regulations were violated.

The Buildings Department had ordered the site closed on Aug. 10, said Paul Wein,
a department spokesman, when another unit, at 58 Middleton Street, collapsed
because the builders had overloaded the second-floor unit with concrete blocks.
Construction was allowed to resume a week later.

The building permit lists the site's owner as Faye Schwimmer of Faye Industries
Corporation and the contractor as Chaim Ostreicher of Industrial Enterprises,
both at 527 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn. There was no answer yesterday at the
telephone numbers listed for both companies.

Acting Buildings Commissioner Richard C. Visconti said it appeared that the
floor gave way because the joists, or supports that hold it up, were not
properly secured.

"We believe the collapse was caused by not properly bracing the floor joists
before pouring the concrete," Mr. Visconti said. "We're investigating the
building's blueprints and the size and gauge of the joist."

In the coming days, law enforcement officials said, there would be inquiries
into whether the construction company was violating the law by failing to pay
the prevailing wage or by employing illegal immigrants.

"These both became issues during interviews with the injured workers," one law
enforcement official said.

Workers at the site who spoke to reporters afterward said the dead man, Mr.
Eduardo, was one of a group of illegal immigrants on the job.

One worker said he was being paid $8 an hour, while others on the site were
being paid $6 to $10 an hour. A construction union official said the union wage
for jobs such as pouring or smoothing concrete was $20 to $25 an hour, plus
benefits.

Many illegal immigrants, including Mexicans, Poles and Jamaicans, gather early
in the morning at Division Street and Bedford Avenue, hoping to pick up day jobs
on construction or maintenance from contractors cruising by. Men at that corner
yesterday, however, said the same crew, most of whom were Latino, had been
working steadily on the Middleton Street project.

"I live near the accident and see the same crew going to lunch all the time,"
said Daniel Ayala, 26, who worked at a nearby site for three hours yesterday.

"With these jobs, you bust your butt and they want to pay you $6 an hour," Mr.
Ayala said. "It isn't right. The bosses are always rushing us to do the job
fast."

Fire Department officials said the collapse occurred as the concrete mixing
truck's chute and hose were raised to the unfinished fourth level of the
brick-faced building and began to pour concrete down to the northeast corner of
the unfinished third floor. Workers there waited to rake it smooth.

"We were laying down cement," said Lauriano Avilez, from the southern Mexican
state of Guerrero, who said he had been in New York for five years. "I didn't
even notice. All of a sudden, everything fell, all of it. I was left hanging. I
just hung on with my hands."

Others were less fortunate. Rescuers pulled battered workers out with the
concrete hardening white on their bodies.

"It was a harrowing scene when we first arrived," said a deputy assistant chief,
Salvatore Cassano, the Fire Department's citywide tour commander. "People were
trapped up to their necks in wet cement. We dug them out by hand and shovel."

A few blocks away, two emergency medical technicians, Julie Moreland and
Jeanette Perez, took their first call of the day and went to the collapse site.

"We pulled our stretcher out of the truck, and Fire brought this guy out
strapped to their longboard, fully immobilized," Ms. Moreland said.

"His whole body was cement. He was covered with cement, his nose, his ears, his
eyes were closed shut and everything. He had multiple fractures, his shoulder,
the whole left side of his face and jaw, his lower left leg.

"We washed his face so we could give him oxygen, he was combative, moaning and
groaning," she said, describing the ride to Bellevue.

Last night the unidentified man was in critical condition after more than three
hours of surgery.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: City officials said the contractor at 50 Middleton Avenue in
the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn apparently failed to provide enough support
for the upper floors, where a collapse occurred yesterday. One worker was
crushed by concrete building blocks, metal reinforcing rods and other debris.
(William C. Lopez for The New York Times)(pg. B5); City officials said the
building collapse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in which one worker was killed
yesterday, was apparently a result of shoddy construction. A previous collapse
had occurred at the site three months ago. (William C. Lopez for The New York
Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 24, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Laborers Say They Knew of Job Risks

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 823 words


Lauriano Avilez said that he and other immigrant workers who poured concrete and
put up the cinder block walls at a construction site that collapsed yesterday in
Williamsburg, Brooklyn, knew toiling inside the structure had its risks.

"Yes, we knew it wasn't stable," said Mr. Avilez, who was shaken but uninjured
when the third floor of the building fell in yesterday morning, killing one of
his colleagues and injuring several others. "The building was not in good
condition. It was not well-constructed."

But Mr. Avilez, who said he came to New York from the Mexican state of Guerrero
five years ago, said that he and the other workers never gave much thought to
the potential dangers. "To tell the truth," he said in a quiet voice, "I wasn't
worried about that."

After yesterday's collapse, however, the construction workers and advocates for
immigrants were raising questions about unsafe conditions at construction sites,
especially in Williamsburg, which is undergoing a building boom to accommodate a
growth spurt, driven in large part by Hasidic Jews, who typically have large
families.

Immigrant advocates said a large number of workers at the many construction
sites in the neighborhood are in the country illegally, and tend to take
low-paying and sometimes risky jobs as they embark on new lives in New York.
Many of them, the advocates say, are Mexicans, who demographers say are one of
the fastest-growing immigrant groups in the city and now number over 300,000.

"Most of the newly arrived Mexicans don't have immigration papers, so they take
any job they can get, construction among them," said Anne Pilsbury, director of
Central American Legal Assistance, an organization in Williamsburg that provides
legal aid to immigrants. "But obviously they're not working for the major
construction companies, they're working for the more irregular crews. These jobs
pay below the market going rate, and that's why they ended up with undocumented
people who are not unionized, and are not going to complain about dangerous
practices."

The authorities were investigating yesterday whether there were code violations
at the accident site, at 50 Middleton Avenue, and whether the owner of the
building and the construction contractor had violated the law by failing to pay
the prevailing wage for construction projects and by using undocumented workers.

The Rev. Brian Karvelis, pastor of Transfiguration Roman Catholic Church on
Marcy Avenue in Williamsburg, said he often hears about local workers who have
lost fingers or suffered other injuries in work-related accidents. "People who
come here are desperate," he said. "They come from extreme poverty. They come
here, and they have no money, no papers, and if they stop working they're on the
street. So it's terror that forces them to take any job."

Hasidic leaders and landlords have been busy constructing apartment blocks,
bland brick structures that are going up on several blocks in the heart of
Williamsburg. "There's not enough room for Jewish families, so there's been an
expansion and more buildings going up on the other side of Bedford Avenue," said
Abie Kon, who has lived in the community 30 years.

Immigrant day laborers in Williamsburg often get hired after waiting in the
morning for employers on the corner of Division Street and Bedford Avenue,
several neighborhood workers said. If hired, they said, they will often stick
with the project until it is completed.

Several Mexican immigrants said they had worked at construction sites that, in
retrospect, were unsafe, either because the crew was too small or because the
operation lacked necessities like scaffolding. But the workers said they were
content to have a job they could go to for weeks and even months at a time,
paying up to $10 an hour.

"Yes, in truth it's dangerous," said Augustin Rosales Martinez, 35, who comes
from rural Puebla, in southern Mexico. "When you're up at the top, putting up
beams and walls, there's not much to protect you."

Juan Jose Rivera, 27, a Mexican immigrant who works for a company that sells
building materials in Williamsburg, said many of his countrymen look for jobs in
construction because they worked as carpenters in their homeland. Accustomed to
difficult conditions and low wages, the workers see the job situation in New
York as an improvement over what they had in Mexico, Mr. Rivera said.

"Unfortunately, there are paisanos who get used to low pay and bad conditions
and don't complain," he said. "It might be hard work. It might be dangerous, but
they do it."

Alfonso Castillo, a Honduran immigrant who worked for the contractor providing
the concrete to the building on Middleton Avenue, said workers from Mexico and
Central America are in high demand because they have a reputation for working
hard under difficult conditions.

"They look for us because we'll do this work," Mr. Castillo said. "No one else
is going to do this."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

TRENDS;
Who Will Fill the Jobs in Silicon Valleys and Alleys?

BYLINE: By ALISA TANG

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 5; Workplace

LENGTH: 226 words


Demand is exploding: The number of computer engineers, technicians and systems
analysts is expected to double by 2008 to 2.7 million from less than 1.4 million
in 1998, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Alas, the story on the supply side is not quite so upbeat. The number of
bachelor's degrees in computer science awarded in the United States has been
declining for a decade, to 24,800 in 1995 from 42,200 in 1986. That slump was
only partly offset by a gain in master's degrees, to 10,600 from 8,100.

Well, can't immigration fill the gap? That seemed to be the solution two years
ago, after pressure from industry induced Washington to increase the quota of
special six-year visas for skilled foreign workers to 115,000 from 65,000. But
now the government is planning to decrease the total to 107,500 in 2001 and
knock it back down to the base 65,000 in 2002. And that, complains the
Employment Policy Foundation, an industry research group in Washington, could
lead to a dire labor shortage.

The question is whether we want high-skilled work to be done in the U.S. or not,
said Ed Potter, the foundation's president. If our current educational system
doesn't produce enough people with sufficient skills to do this work, with
global technology these high-wage jobs can be done in India or Scotland or
anywhere.   ALISA TANG


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs

FASTEST-GROWING OCCUPATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES, 1998-2008
In thousands of workers (actual and projected)

1998:
2008:

Computer engineers
1998: 299
2008: 622
(108%)

Computer support specialists
1998: 429
2008: 869
(102%)

Systems analysts
1998: 617
2008: 1,194
(94%)

Database administrators
1998: 87
2008: 155
(77%)

Desktop publishing specialists
1998: 26
2008: 44
(73%)

Graph tracks computer science degrees granted, 1975-1995, in thousands.

QUOTAS ON SPECIAL VISAS,

1997-2002
1997: 65,000
1998: 65,000
1999: 115,000
2000: 115,000
2001: 107,500
2002: 65,000

(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Employment Policy Foundation tabulations
of data from National Center for Education Statistics and National Science
Foundation)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Rebuild a City That Others Fled

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla., Feb. 20


An interminably flat, hot and often windy farming town, Homestead became lodged
in the annals of natural disasters in August 1992 when Hurricane Andrew, the
most damaging storm in American history, destroyed this community.

Homestead has still not reclaimed its old self. The hurricane chased out much of
the middle class, obliterated an Air Force base that poured more than $400
million a year into the area's economy and reduced houses, trailer parks and
3,000 acres of lime groves to a horizon of sticks.

Still, in the rubble of Hurricane Andrew, an entirely different Homestead has
begun to bloom, a transformed community that says much about the changes that
are sweeping small towns across this state and much of the South.

In accidental defiance of government planners and developers who have been
repeatedly rebuffed in courting investment and big employers, the poorest of
Homestead's work force, its migrant workers, mostly from Mexico and Central
America, is rebuilding this town, store by store, job by job.

The town has not reclaimed its former vigor, and the rising Latin population is
mainly working poor. But Homestead is hardly dying.

Among the farmworker families taking hold here are the Berroneses.

Thirty-seven years ago, Julio Berrones, now 81, his wife, Ignacia, 77, and their
12 children moved from Mexico to a barracks in Homestead's South Dade labor
camp.

Following the harvest in a flatbed truck for several years, members of the
family picked fruits and vegetables from Florida to Michigan. With the wages of
so many, the family was eventually able to buy a four-bedroom house in Florida
City, adjacent to Homestead, for $50,000.

"My mother said, 'We have to mainstream the kids,' " said Eddie Berrones, who
was 3 months old when the family moved here.

Today, Eddie Berrones, a graduate of the University of Texas, is the executive
director of a community service program for 500 poor children and Homestead's
first Hispanic city councilman.

A brother, Julio, is a housing contractor; Lupe, a sister, owns a bridal
boutique and a banquet business; Rosie teaches nursing; Anita is a nursing
administrator; Cesar owns Casita Tejas restaurant on Krome Avenue, Homestead's
main street; Olga has bought the beauty salon nearby; and Juan, the oldest at
54, lives on the mortgages he collects on homes he built as a contractor.

From the 14 Berroneses who settled here in the 1960's, Eddie Berrones said, "we
are now 108, total," including spouses.

Homestead is an example of a change occurring in many communities, particularly
in Florida and Texas, where farmworkers and other immigrants have begun to
settle.

Still, Homestead's economy is not what it was before the storm. "People said,
'Three, four years, we'll be back,' " said Jack Levy, a commercial photographer,
former president of the Chamber of Commerce and a Homestead "pioneer," as
settlers of the first half of the 1900's are known.

"It wasn't true," said Mr. Levy, who moved from Homestead, 30 miles south of
Miami, to north-central Florida the year after the storm. "My wife said, 'Enough
is enough.' We lost a tremendous number of the middle class, those with enough
income to spend on something more than survival." Many of those who left were
retirees who lost small houses and mobile houses. Others were the 6,000 workers,
civilian and military, who lost their jobs or were transferred when the air base
was closed.

Homestead's other big loss was the Cleveland Indians, for whom the city had
built an $18 million baseball park. The town had leased it to the team for 20
years for spring training. But fearing the loss of their middle-class fans, the
team moved to Winter Haven, in central Florida. Homestead spent $9 million
repairing the damage to the park but has not found another major tenant.

The pioneers' institutions -- the churches and service clubs, like Rotary and
Kiwanis -- have shrunk.  Curt Ivey, the city manager, said membership in the
high school's honors program had shriveled because many of the new students have
not had the same educational opportunities.

The year before the storm, Homestead's hospital had a profit of about $850,000,
said its chief executive, Bo Boulenger. But retirees with federal Medicare
coverage have been replaced by poor families who often cannot afford treatment,
Mr. Boulenger said, and the hospital has struggled, losing $6 million last year.
Twenty percent of the patients, he said, have no insurance.

New ventures have moved in: A stock car race track opened and a Wal-Mart
department store. But they did not require the trained work force needed by
companies like Lucent Technologies, which decided to build a factory elsewhere.

The population has returned to the pre-hurricane level of about 27,000, but it
is poorer and less educated than previous residents. The Hispanic population has
climbed to about 45 percent from 30 percent in 1990.

"We have replaced a person making 2X with one making 1X," said Bob Epling,
president of the Homestead's Community Bank. "The entire community, like ships,
has gone down with the outgoing tide."

Less perceptibly, however, a new tide is rolling in. On Krome Avenue, the two
busiest businesses are Mexican-American restaurants: Cesar Berrones's and on
another corner, El Toro Taco.

Many Hispanic doctors, lawyers and real estate agents have offices on Krome
Avenue.

Nearby, along a one-block stretch of Washington Avenue, 21 of 26 shops were
owned by Hispanic immigrants.

Patricia Carballo, daughter of immigrants from Ecuador, owns Agencia Azteca. She
provides tax preparation services, bus tickets, photographs for identification
documents, a mail drop, translation and help in transmitting money to Mexico and
Central American countries.

While Homestead's economic planners contemplate schemes, like redeveloping the
air base as an airport and luring factories, Mrs. Carballo said: "We're looking
at the small picture. We're doing one-on-one."

Her 29-year-old Cuba-born husband, Ernesto, manages the Mexico Supermarket
across the street.  While other supermarkets have struggled, Mr. Carballo and
his brother, Sergio, the owner, have expanded and added goods.

The butcher shop stretches the width of the store's back wall. Butchers prepare
the meat on order, including flat meat, for fajitas, Mexican sausage and beef
tongue. The store offers hot peppers, plantains and edible cactuses.

There is a road these entrepreneurs travel from the farm fields to main street.
They set up stalls in the immense Bargain Town Flea Market on the Dixie Highway,
U.S. 1, that slices through town and expand from there.

"My husband and sons have sold in the flea market for 12 years," said Maria E.
Rodriguez, who immigrated from Cuba and works in the men's apparel shop on
Washington Avenue that a son, Guillermo, opened a year ago. "Homestead changes
every day, a little bit."

Walter Gillis Peacock, a sociologist at Florida International University, who
studied the hurricane's effects on Homestead's minorities, said of the
immigrants: "They're drawing on past experience. Many are from rural
communities, and rural communities have marketplaces. The shops you see in
Bargain Town are the same shops you see in Central America and Mexico."

Some people here seem to resent the changing face of Homestead. A white
saleswoman at a retail store has kept an album with photographs of litter on the
sidewalks. One showed a beer bottle by the trunk of a tree, crumpled paper in
the gutter, a spent cigarette pack.

"It's the first world and the third world, and the third world is winning out,"
she said.

Serious conflicts among Homestead's ethnic groups -- the Hispanics, Haitians,
African-Americans, whites -- are rare, city officials say.

"I grew up really never feeling any different from anyone in this town," Eddie
Berrones says.

It was only after he was first elected to the city council, in 1997, that Mr.
Berrones detected some resentment. "I realized something different about the
perceptions, the mentality of people of other ethnic groups," he said. "I'm
putting it diplomatically.

"Four years ago, before I ran for the city council," Mr. Berrones said, we had
200 registered Hispanic voters. When I ran in November 1997, there were 1,400."

Last November, when he won again, he said, "there were 2,000."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Families like the Berroneses, who moved to South Florida 37
years ago, have helped reshape Homestead. (Alex Quesada/Matrix, for The New York
Times)(pg. A10)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Flock to Union Banner at a Forum

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 857 words


Immigrant workers, a huge but often voiceless group, were given a chance to
speak up yesterday, and speak they did: about abuses on the job, about mandatory
70-hour weeks, about not being allowed to take bathroom breaks, about making
just $2 an hour.

These workers were given their soapbox at an unusual forum sponsored by the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., which is seeking to persuade millions of immigrant workers to
join unions, though labor has long turned a cold shoulder to them.

The forum, at a union hall in Lower Manhattan, was the official kickoff of a
nationwide effort by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to reach out to immigrant workers as
labor leaders increasingly acknowledge their importance to the future of
American unions.

"Immigrants are not only the history of the union movement, they are its future,
its soul, its spirit," Linda Chavez-Thomson, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s secretary
treasurer, told the 300 people at the forum. "We are on the side of working
people everywhere, and that means we are on the side of immigrants."

The forum was part educational session, part revival meeting, part public
relations vehicle, aimed at burnishing labor's image among immigrants. The forum
was held at the headquarters of Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees
International Union, a local that represents 55,000 building service workers
from 54 countries.

Many immigrants at the forum appeared happy to flock to the union banner.
Herbert Jean-Baptiste, an immigrant from Haiti, complained that 90 percent of
immigrants who work at nursing homes lack health insurance.

Syed Armughan, a limousine driver from Pakistan, said that many drivers had to
work 70-hour weeks, received no health insurance or retirement benefits and
earned less than $30,000 a year.

And Zonia Villanueva, a housekeeper from El Salvador, complained that many
employment agencies charged exorbitant fees and that many homeowners cheated
their maids out of wages.

"We are workers who contribute to the economy," Ms. Villanueva said. "People
depend on us to clean their houses and care for their children. We have been in
the country for many years and we pay taxes. We want to stand up for our rights.
We want to live and work free from intimidation. We only want the respect that
every worker deserves."

The forum reflected a sharp change in organized labor's approach toward
immigrants. For decades, many unions and union members looked askance at
newcomers, viewing them as interlopers stealing jobs and driving down wages.

But as the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has focused increasingly on unionizing workers on the
lowest rungs, like waiters, janitors and hotel maids, union leaders have
recognized that they have to improve labor's image among immigrants.

Explaining the reason for the forum, Ms. Chavez-Thompson said, "We want to bring
a better understanding within the labor movement because there has been such
strong opposition to immigrants."

Yesterday's forum came six weeks after the American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations reversed its longstanding policy and called
for granting legal status to all illegal aliens and repealing laws that bar
employers from hiring illegal immigrants. In the mid-1980's, the labor movement,
worried about high unemployment, backed legislation that made it illegal for
employers to hire illegal immigrants.

"There's been an amazing sea change in the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s attitude toward
immigrants," said Kent Wong, director of the labor studies center at the
University of California in Los Angeles, who attended yesterday's forum.

In many ways, the forum was a stacked house, filled with union leaders and
pro-union immigrants who repeatedly talked about all that unions could do for
immigrants. Not surprisingly, none of the immigrants invited to speak criticized
the many union leaders who do a poor job fighting for workers or the many
construction unions that long turned their backs on non-European immigrants.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. plans similar forums in Atlanta (April 29), Chicago (May 6)
and Los Angeles (June 10). The purpose of these meetings, union officials said,
is to listen to immigrants speak about their problems at work, while also
spreading the word about how unions can help them.

Immigrant after immigrant talked yesterday about how, just when a unionization
drive was gathering steam, their employers called in immigration authorities to
crack down on illegal immigrants. That tactic, these workers said, often took
the wind out of organizing drives.

John Wilhelm, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union,
spoke angrily of how immigration officials, acting on an employer's tip,
arrested eight hotel maids who worked at a Holiday Inn in Minneapolis. The
arrests came four days after the hotel's housekeepers voted to unionize, and all
eight arrested were on the union's negotiating team.

Joshua Bernstein, a policy analyst at the National Immigration Law Center, said
this fear of arrest and deportation "is bad for American workers because it adds
a weapon to the arsenal businesses can use to undermine efforts to improve all
of our working conditions."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation: The Immigration Debate;
Full Employment Opens the Door

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 922 words


JUST a few years ago, lawmakers were in full cry about the supposed dangers of
immigration -- from crime to welfare cheats to lost jobs.

Yet now Congress is poised to pass a bill that would grant visas to tens of
thousands more temporary high-tech workers from abroad. And an unlikely
coalition of business and immigrants rights groups is pushing to fling the door
open wider: to unskilled workers who could fill shortages in hotels and on
farms, and even to roll back an array of restrictive measures passed with great
fanfare in 1996.

Clearly, the national conversation about immigrants and immigration has changed
dramatically. Representative Howard L. Berman, a Democrat from California,
described the political momentum generated by the temporary workers bill this
way: "There's a train going through. Can I get on it?"

Sometime later this summer, Congress is expected to pass H1B, which would nearly
double, to 200,000, the number of such visas issued every year for the next
three years. The measure has bipartisan support, including the blessings of both
presumptive Presidential candidates .

If it passes, H1B will be the largest guest worker measure since the 1942
bracero program, which imported millions of Mexicans farmworkers into virtual
servitude, until it was dismantled in 1964.

A broad new service industry coalition, representing everything from hospitals
to hotels, is seeking its own temporary workers from abroad. And agribusiness,
which has unsuccessfully lobbied for temporary field workers in the past, has
renewed its efforts.

Meanwhile, traditional immigrants rights groups are urging lawmakers to lift the
1996 measures that bar immigrants from some government benefits, tighten
political asylum rules and require the automatic deportation of non-citizens who
had been convicted of certain felony crimes.

A coalition calling itself "Fix 96," is urging lawmakers to repeal the mandatory
deportation law and restore social security benefits and food stamps to
immigrants who arrived after 1996; benefits to pre-1996 immigrants have already
been restored.

Another coalition of business and civil rights groups is calling on Congress to
grant legal status to some 300,000 immigrants who fled political violence in El
Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti and Honduras but were denied refugee status in this
country. The same group wants Congress to raise the cap on family reunification
visas, while religious leaders and a left-right coalition led by Henry Cisneros
and Jack Kemp have called for amnesty for others who have lived here illegally
for many years.

In what Rick Swartz, a leading immigration lobbyist, calls the "H1B- plus"
strategy, activists are trying to bundle both the family reunification and
amnesty proposals with the high-tech worker bill, turning it into a kind of
omnibus immigration measure.

"The economy is very strong right now and who knows what it's going to look like
a year from now," Mr. Swarz said. "A strong economy enables you to do more.
Secondly, an election year in which the politics of immigration may be more
positive than negative. Third, you have both major presidential candidates being
pro-immigrant at least in their rhetoric."

Of course, good times have usually meant open doors, and these are,
economically, the best times ever. Still, none of the other immigration bills
enjoy anything like the consensus surrounding H1B. The farm lobby's guest worker
bill, which the House immigration subcommittee debated Thursday, is likely to
face strong opposition from labor and Latino groups, who don't accept the
industry's claims of a labor shortage. They want a provision to legalize the
immigration status of farm workers, a majority of whom are undocumented Hispanic
immigrants, while the industry bill would allow some farm workers to gain
permanent residency.

John Young, executive director of the New England Apple Council who heads the
immigration committee of the National Council of Agricultural Employers, remains
optimistic. "I think the opportunity is very good for passage, better than it
has been in the past few years," he said.

ASERVICE industry umbrella group called the Essential Worker Coalition also
cites labor shortages in tourism and other trades, and has just begun what it
likes to call an H1B program tailored for groundskeepers, housekeepers and other
low-skilled workers, many of them seasonal.

"The high-tech industry has done a very good job in making their case," argued
John Gay, a lobbyist for the American Hotel and Motel association and a
spokesman for the coalition. "We need to do the same making our case."

Many service industry workers are illegal immigrants from Central America and
Haiti, and Mr. Gay's group has thrown its support behind the National Council of
La Raza, a leading Latino rights group, which proposes amnesty for undocumented
immigrants who have lived and worked here since 1986.

One area in which there has been little movement has been the restoration of
government benefits that were cut in 1996. A number of bills have been
introduced to repeal the mandatory deportation law, but none have made it out of
the immigration subcommittees. Efforts to restore the due process rights of
asylum-seekers have had a similar fate.

To Mr. Swartz, the reason is clear. "It's harder to get the business community
to support a bill on the legal rights of people getting deported," he pointed
out, "than to get a legalization program for Central Americans who are working
in their restaurants."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 9, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

At Camp for Migrants, The Living Isn't Easy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

DATELINE: WESTOVER, Md., Aug. 3


They call it Camp Somerset, and each July it springs to life, filling with 700
people. But despite the pickup soccer game each evening, it should not be
mistaken for a summer camp.

Far from it. Camp Somerset, a former prisoner-of-war camp, is now a camp for
migrant workers. The long corrugated steel buildings from the 1940's, when
hundreds of German soldiers were detained here, are now packed with migrants,
who squeeze in two's, three's and four's into cramped, sweltering rooms.

Every summer, hundreds of Mexicans and Guatemalans make a 20-hour bus trip from
their home base in Florida to Camp Somerset, where they stay for a month in the
harvest season to pick tomatoes -- some days for more than the minimum wage,
some days for less. The camp, 30 miles inland from the luxury beach communities
on the Maryland shore, is one of the biggest labor camps on the Eastern
Seaboard.

Some migrants, many of them illegal immigrants who come here to work and then
travel to other parts of the country, put together a few hundred dollars in
extra cash each month to send back home. Others come to take their chances in
the United States and, if lucky, save enough to buy a 10-year-old pickup truck,
a symbol of success in the migrant pecking order.

Like most of the workers, Alfonso Ortega, a 20-year-old from Veracruz, Mexico,
is not enthusiastic about the camp, although he loves one aspect of life here:
it is rent free.

"We don't like all the trash that's around -- it stinks," Mr. Ortega said as a
breeze wafted a most unwelcome odor from the overflowing Dumpster some 25 yards
from his room. Large garbage bins dot the camp, a collection of 20 buildings
hidden from the main road by hundreds of trees.

The odor aside, Mr. Ortega is not bitter about his life in the United States.
"You know, in Mexico we're needy," he said. "The wages are much worse. We're
trying to make a better future. I'm very thankful for the two years here because
I've been able to earn money and take care of my mother and brother."

He tries to telegraph money home every three weeks, he said. His biggest
complaint was that he had paid a smuggler $500 to take him to the United States,
but the smuggler deceived him and dumped him just south of the border.

"So I was a wetback," Mr. Ortega said with an awkward grin, describing his trip
across the Rio Grande.

By 9 in the evening his roommate was asleep, tired from a long day (the work
days are sometimes as long as 12 hours) and from having woken at 5 A.M. to make
tortillas, the staple of Mexican meals. Their room, a 10- by 11-foot square, has
two beds, a cast-iron hot plate, two beat-up fans, an aging green Hotpoint
refrigerator, several comic-book novels and a picture of the Virgin Mary. As in
many rooms in the camp, a plastic mattress cover -- required to help keep the
mattresses sanitary -- is being used as a curtain to keep out the sun.

Despite its temporary nature, Camp Somerset has a distinct social pyramid. On
top are the crew leaders, who herd 30 or so workers to the fields each morning.
They drive gleaming, new, oversized wide-body pickup trucks, almost twice as
long as regular pickups.

Below the crew leaders is a small group of swaggering pickers who are not here
to send money home so much as to patch together a life style of fancy boots,
silver belts and expensive beer. Next comes the largest stratum: the hard
workers like Mr. Ortega, who keep their heads down and send home as much money
as they can.

At the bottom are aging workers, often in their 50's, often somewhat broken
after years of hard manual labor. They are usually unable to save money to send
home, and they sometimes bury their problems in drink.

Mr. Ortega, who dreams of becoming a construction worker in Florida, is known as
a hard worker, sometimes picking 160 buckets of tomatoes in eight hours in the
field. At the piece rate of 45 cents a bucket, that comes to $72 before taxes,
an excellent daily haul for a migrant. But some days, when the fields are
stingy, the pickers end up picking just 80 buckets and earning just $36.

Several workers complained that on some days there is no work and on other days
there is just three hours of picking. One day Mr. Ortega worked only three hours
laying black plastic sheeting to protect the tomatoes.

"We just got paid $10, $15 that day," Mr. Ortega said, less than the $5.15 an
hour minimum wage. Several workers also grumbled that they were not paid for the
three or four hours spent each day being shuttled to the tomato fields by their
crew leaders.

Dennett Butler, president of the Somerset Country Growers Association, said the
tomato companies made sure to raise each worker's wages to $5.15 an hour when
the piece rate left their pay below the minimum wage.

Camp Somerset's residents give the camp mixed reviews, although many acknowledge
that the conditions are often better than in the trailers they rent in Florida.
While leaning on his scratched, rusting Dodge Ram truck, Alberto Lara, a sleek,
muscular tomato picker, said: "Look, the camp is good. It's free. We're here
only a short time. And there are a lot of nice people."

But Orbelio Martinez, a pencil-thin 49-year-old, said there was little to rave
about. "It's bad here -- the bed, the stove, the water," he said of his freshly
painted, stultifyingly hot room. "It's not good when you get to the shower. The
hot water is cold."

Mr. Martinez also complained about being squeezed four to a room. "They drink,
they get up early, it's hard to sleep," he said.

Mr. Butler, the growers' leader, said the camp was much better than it was in
the days when it housed German prisoners. "It's adequate for the time that we
use it," he said, "which is four to six weeks a year. We provide all the
necessary things that are required by Federal, state and local standards: shower
rooms, dishwashing rooms, smoke detectors, trash removal."

In the 1980's the growers who own and run Camp Somerset renovated much of it,
enlarging the windows. More recently, new shower rooms were added and the number
of water heaters was tripled. But Mr. Butler acknowledged that it was hard to
provide enough hot water for 700 workers who return from work at the same time,
adding that the workers had made it even harder by removing the water-conserving
shower nozzles.

"We try to supply everything necessary, and we do it free of charge," Mr. Butler
said. "I recognize it's not like year-round housing. It wasn't designed for
that."

David Roberts, who helps oversee migrant housing for the Maryland Department of
Health, said the camp was inspected before and during each season. The
department tells the growers the maximum number of people who can live in each
room, he said, but he acknowledged that workers sometimes squeezed in an extra
friend.

After weeks of picking tomatoes, some workers grow frustrated about saving so
little, about sweltering in rooms without air conditioning and about never
swimming at the beaches they pass on the way to the fields.

"We just want to live and be treated like Americans," said Jumaro Zarate, 50, a
worker from Guerrero State in Mexico. "We have brains like Americans. We have
skins like Americans, maybe a little darker. But we don't want to be treated
like dogs."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alberto Lara, outside his barrack, is one of the hundreds of
migrant tomato pickers spending a month at Camp Somerset in Maryland. (Stephen
Crowley/The New York Times)

Map of Maryland showing the locaton of Westover: Camp Somerset, in Westover, is
home to 700 summer workers.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS;
Butcher, Baker, Skyscraper Maker: What America Earns

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and KARL RUSSELL

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words


HOW do your earnings measure up?

This set of charts allows you, over the Labor Day weekend, to compare the fruits
of your labor with the fruits of others in the same line of work, not only in
your home city, but in other cities as well. Are you a podiatrist in Chicago?
Well, consider moving to Detroit, where the average annual pay for your
profession is $94,080, considerably above the $80,020 in Chicago.

Such detailed data are being gathered for the first time by the Government's
Bureau of Labor Statistics, which has expanded its wage surveys. Instead of just
telling the nation what secretaries, for example, earn in an individual industry
-- the hotel industry, for example -- annual wage levels are now available for
secretaries across all industries and in 300 cities.

The goal of accumulating all this data is to help the Labor Department's Alien
Labor Certification Program determine prevailing pay for a particular occupation
in a particular city. By law, employers are required to pay at least the
prevailing wage to immigrant workers; now the Government has a new tool for
applying the rule.

But beyond keeping pay apace for immigrant workers, the detailed data have other
uses. For one, millions of Americans can now compare their pay with the average
wages for their occupation -- in their hometowns, in other cities and regions,
or across the nation.

And the expanded data are becoming available just as states and cities are
taking over programs once operated at the national level. Welfare is one. For
the first time, the wages for low-skilled jobs -- those generally available to
people shifting from welfare to work -- will be easy to determine. The average
pay of a janitor in Kokomo, Ind. -- $29,170 -- is more than double the amount in
Wichita Falls, Tex.

"We will be able to judge how people are faring as national programs disappear,"
said Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

But beware the shortcomings of the bureau's new survey. How can it be that the
highest-paid occupation in New York City is "structural metal worker" -- the
people who erect a skyscraper's steel framework? There is no question that great
skill is required to walk narrow girders dozens of stories up. Even so, don't
investment bankers and white-shoe lawyers earn more?

Well, of course they do. The problem is that the bureau's survey covers only
employees who get regular paychecks, with taxes withheld, and qualify for
unemployment insurance. That eliminates a whole army of workers, including
business owners and partners (the latter is the status of most well-paid lawyers
and investment bankers), the self-employed and day laborers.

Another problem is the survey's response rate. Since 1996, the survey has been
mailed annually to 400,000 companies, and roughly 30 percent have failed to
reply each year.

For lack of enough replies from New York companies, the bureau could not produce
reliable wage estimates for salaried physicians, lawyers, judges, top executives
and securities brokers.

The annual earnings in these charts are for 1997. The 1998 numbers will be
published in December and those for 1999 in December 2000. Meanwhile, says
Douglas Himes, a bureau economist who helps to produce the survey, one should
add roughly 5 or 6 percent in raises over the last two years to bring the wages
up to date.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Salaries in the Biggest Cities"
The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently released a study examining the average
annual salaries in some 770 job categories around the country, as of 1997. Data
were not available for every type of job in each city, because insufficient
responses produced a margin of error too high or the quality of the data was
poor. The self-employed were excluded. Herer are the highest- and lowest-paying
jobs for the 10 largest cities.

LOS ANGELES

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Lawyers: $83,500
Engineering, math and natural-science managers: 76,760
General managers and top executives: 73,700
Physicists and astronomers: 73,440
Otherengineers*: 71,810

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Barbers: $10,990
Shampooers: 11,670
Textile machine operators: 11,840
Waiters: 12,350
Ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers: 12,570

NEW YORK

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Structural metal workers: $70,140
Communications, transp. and utilities managers: 67,230
Physicists and astronomers: 67,110
Physical therapists: 66,680
Personnel, training and labor-relations managers: 64,330

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Fast-food cooks: $12,830
Shampooers: 13,090
Manicurists: 13,130
Ship, bus and train attendants: 13,330
Ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers: 13,690

CHICAGO

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Physicians and surgeons: $101,910
Pilots and flight engineers: 98,180
Chiropractors: 88,250
Dentists: 83,890
Podiatrists: 82,020

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Waiters: $12,480
Cafeteria attendants and bartender helpers: 12,660
Fast-food cooks: 12,880
Food preparers/servers: 12,980
Ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers: 12,990

PHILADELPHIA

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Dentists: $89,820
Lawyers: 75,910
Engineering, math and natural-science managers: 69,250
General managers and top executives: 69,000
Podiatrists: 67,790

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Waiters: $12,310
Fast-food cooks: 12,330
Bartenders: 13,100
Amusement and recreation attendants: 13,120
Coffee shop or cafeteria-counter attendants: 13,130

WASHINGTON

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Pilots and flight engineers: $95,960
Judges and magistrates: 92,090
Dentists: 91,020
Physicians and surgeons: 88,250
Podiatrists: 85,430

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Fast-food cooks: $12,520
Personal and home-care aides: 13,890
Food preparers/servers: 13,970
Shampooers: 13,990
Waiters: 14,020

DETROIT

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Physicians and surgeons: $98,320
Dentists: 96,070
Podiatrists: 94,080
Broadcast news analysts: 89,970
Broadcast technicians: 77,010

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Waiters: $12,250
Ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers: 12,450
Fast-food cooks: 13,110
Coffee shop or cafeteria-counter attendants: 14,290
Crossing guards: 14,420

HOUSTON

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Chiropractors: $101,140
Dentists: 91,490
Mining, quarrying, oil-and-gas drilling managers: 90,610
Public administration chief executives; legislators: 86,820
Lawyers: 85,270

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Cafeteria attendants and bartender helpers: $11,590
Fast-food cooks: 11,740
Restaurant hosts: 12,000
Nonrestaurant food servers, except vendors: 12,010
Ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers: 12,160

ATLANTA

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Dentists: $101,390
Physicians and surgeons: 97,210
Podiatrists: 84,780
Optometrists: 78,760
Lawyers: 73,840

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers: $11,250
Food preparers/servers: 12,300
Clothing hand pressers: 12,660
Movie projectionists: 12,740
Cafeteria attendants and bartender helpers: 12,870

BOSTON

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Physicians and surgeons: $102,810
Pilots and flight engineers: 101,550
Post-secondary law teachers: 91,580
Dentists: 86,000
Post-secondary business teachers: 80,500

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Waiters: $13,220
Baggage porters and bellhops: 13,360
Food preparers/servers: 14,220
Funeral attendants: 14,220
Coffee shop or cafeteria-counter attendants: 14,290

DALLAS

HIGH-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Dentists: $101,380
Podiatrists: 84,440
Real-estate brokers: 80,070
Lawyers: 76,900
Pilots and flight engineers: 72,310

LOW-PAYING OCCUPATIONS
Waiters: $11,720
Fast-food cooks: 12,030
Personal and home-care aides: 12,370
Food preparers/servers: 12,390
Cafeteria attendants and bartender helpers: 12,420

SALARIES IN THE MOST COMMON JOBS

Here are where salaries are the highest and the lowest for the 10 most common
jobs in America.

RETAIL SALESPERSONS

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Elkhart-Goshen, Ind.: $28,930
Stamford-Norwalk, Conn.: $26,440
Anchorage: $21,480

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $17,970

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Lawrence, Kan.: $13,460
Bryan-College Station, Tex.: $14,130
State College, Pa.: $14,260

GENERAL MANAGERS AND TOP EXECUTIVES

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Bergen-Passaic, N.J.: $89,880
Stamford-Norwalk, Conn.: $88,920
Middlesex-Sommerset-Hunterdon, N.J.: $87,640

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $60,690

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Cumberland, Md.: $39,260
Jacksonville, N.C.: $40,960
Panama City, Fla.: $41,300

CASHIERS

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Santa Rosa, Calif.: $19,580
San Francisco: $19,400
Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, Wash.: $19,190

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $14,480

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Alexandria, La.: $11,990
Altoona, Pa.: $12,070
Elmira, N.Y.: $12,200

GENERAL OFFICE CLERKS

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Washington: $27,760
San Jose, Calif.: $24,990
Anchorage: $24,980

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $20,250

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Brownsville-Harlingen-San Benito, Tex.: $15,160
McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, Tex.: $15,290
Victoria, Tex.: $15,370

SECRETARIES
Except legal and medical

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Stamford-Norwalk, Conn.: $34,270
San Jose, Calif.: $32,040
New York: $31,870

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $23,970

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Jonesboro, Ark.: $17,210
Houma, La.: $17,210
Hattiesburg, Miss.: $17,240

REGISTERED NURSES

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Oakland, Calif.: $58,520
San Francisco: $58,260
Santa Cruz-Watsonville, Calif.: $57,790

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $41,400

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Glens Falls, N.Y.: $27,690
Fort Smith, Ark.dd sbn<wkd/%F con 28,370
Rapid City, S.D.: $30,230

WAITERS

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Santa Fe, N.M.: $18,060
Brockton, Mass.: $15,830
Stamford-Norwalk, Conn.: $14,880

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $12,200

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Lake Charles, La.: $10,990
Enid, Okla.: $10,990
Hattiesburg, Miss.: $11,000

JANITORS AND CLEANERS
Except maids and housekeepers

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Kokomo, Ind.: $29,170
New York: $24,060
Flint, Mich.: $22,340

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $17,070

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Lake Charles, La.: $12,230
Greenville, N.C.: $12,380
Wichita Falls, Tex.: $12,640

BOOKKEEPING, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING CLERKS

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
New York: $30,300
San Jose, Calif.: $29,800
Trenton: $29,680

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $23,580

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Laredo, Tex.: $17,540
McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, Tex.: $18,000
Johnstown, Pa.: $18,060

SUPERVISERS AND MANAGERS

HIGHEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Bergen-Passaic, N.J.: $51,170
New York: $49,240
Newark: $46,450

NATIONAL AVERAGE: $33,950

LOWEST-PAYING AREAS: AVG. ANNUAL SALARY
Johnstown, Pa.: $20,130
Sharon, Pa.: $22,750
Lawton, Okla.: $23,000

*Engineers except aeronautical, astronautical, metallurgical, ceramic,
materials, mining, petroleum, chemical, nuclear, civil, agricultural, computer,
industrial, safety, mechanical and marine.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 20, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Sending Babies to Be Raised in Child-Friendly China

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words



To the Editor:

A Sept. 14 front-page article treated the plight of immigrant workers who send
their children back to China as a human interest story, but deteriorating real
wages and the lack of child care are economic trends that affect the majority of
American workers.

Even though Americans are working more hours now than they did in the 1970's, it
is no longer possible for most families to survive on a single income.

The immigrant mothers in your article struggle with jobs that do not pay a
living wage for themselves, let alone for their children.

As all working mothers know, the American economy is not conducive to balancing
the demands of work and children, notwithstanding the popular political
discourse on family values.

SARAH ZAIDI
New York, Sept. 14, 1999




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Germans Seek Foreign Labor For New Era Of Computers

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 8


Vinod Kymar, the political counselor at the Indian Embassy here, is a puzzled
man. Never in his many years in Germany has he read so much about his country in
the press, nor found so much of it to be nonsense.

"High technology seems to have suddenly become synonymous with India here," Mr.
Kymar said. "But the Germans are waking up about a decade late. The United
States has already taken the cream of our talented computer people. All that
remains for the Germans are leftovers."

India's occupation of center-stage in Germany's political debates began a few
weeks ago with an apparently offhand remark at a trade fair from Chancellor
Gerhard Schroder. He said his country urgently needed new talent in its
high-technology sector and should be prepared to give residency documents, or
green cards, to brilliant Indians.

The remark reflected a serious issue: underfunded, state-run German universities
have been very slow to adapt their traditional curricula to reflect the
explosive growth of Internet-related industries. In all of Germany, there is
just one newly created chair in e-commerce, at the Goethe University in
Frankfurt.

As a result, in a country with more than four million unemployed, there are an
estimated 75,000 to 100,000 jobs vacant in the booming Internet sector, with few
Germans apparently qualified to fill them. Hence the Social Democratic
chancellor's sudden infatuation with Indian software engineers.

"We urgently need new programmers and developers for our projects, but we
generally find the German education with its focus on heavy philosophical
concepts does not turn out the people we want," said Amelie Heinrichsdorff of
Acotec, a start-up software company based in Berlin. "We think globally and
would like to hire talent wherever we can."

The dot-com view of the world is still far from that of Germany's opposition
Christian Democratic Party. When the government began drafting a law to allow up
to 20,000 foreign computer specialists into Germany with green cards, an outcry
erupted.

Jurgen Ruttgers, a leading Christian Democrat, produced a campaign slogan in
Germany's largest state, North Rhine-Westphalia, saying, "Children instead of
Indians." Chancellor Schroder described the posters as "indecent and
economically damaging."

Later, Mr. Ruttgers refined his message slightly, urging, "More education
instead of more immigration." He was supported by the substantial wing of his
party that remains deeply opposed to the idea of Germany as a "land of
immigration," despite the fact that more than seven million foreigners live
here.

But the difficulties of the Christian Democrats' anti-foreigner message became
evident when Dieter Hundt, the head of the powerful employers' federation,
lambasted Mr. Ruttgers' campaign as "poorly thought out and miserably
populistic."

The sight of big business and conservative Christian Democracy tearing each
other to shreds is novel in Germany. But then this is a time of substantial
political and cultural shift, with the Social Democrats adopting many
pro-business measures and many Germans developing a sudden infatuation with the
Internet. Yet even the government's methods appear marked by bureaucratic
hesitations of old.

Walter Riester, the Social Democratic labor minister, has proposed limiting the
stays of the new green-card immigrants to an initial period of three and a
maximum of five years. He also wants to shape the proposed law so that jobs
would be offered to foreigners only after an extensive search has been made for
a qualified German.

But Antje Radcke, a leader of the Green Party, which is the junior partner in
the coalition government, said such proposals were far too cumbersome. "If we
should have learned one thing from the experience of the 'gastarbeiters' who
started coming here in the 1960's, it is that attempts to try to limit the stays
of people are doomed to failure."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 12, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Asks Congress to Raise the Limit on Visas for Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 11


Racing to keep up with a booming economy, President Clinton today proposed an
increase of more than 85 percent in the number of skilled foreign workers who
could be admitted to the United States to fill job openings in high-technology
industries.

Mr. Clinton asked Congress to provide 200,000 visas for such workers in each of
the next three years. The existing law, adopted in 1998, limits the number of
such visas to 107,500 in 2001. After that, under existing law, the ceiling will
fall back to 65,000 a year, the level in effect before Congressional action in
1998.

In January 1998, the Clinton administration said it did not support an increase
in the number of visas. But the president, under pressure from Congress and the
computer industry, agreed to support a modest increase six months later. Since
then, technology companies say, the demand for computer programmers, engineers
and other skilled workers has outstripped the supply and exceeded official
expectations.

Many in Congress favor an even bigger increase than the one Mr. Clinton proposed
today. Congress therefore appears likely to approve a substantial increase in
the number of visas, known as H-1B visas, for high-technology workers.

Robert Cohen, senior vice president of the Information Technology Association of
America, an industry group, welcomed the president's proposal.

"It's very encouraging that the White House sees the need to raise the cap," Mr.
Cohen said. "The administration understands better now than in 1998 that
information technology gives an incredible push to the overall economy. But the
number of visas proposed by the administration is probably not adequate. We
would be pleased to see the cap eliminated, so the marketplace could decide how
many people are needed to get the job done."

Nations in Europe and Asia are competing for the same pool of high-technology
workers. And Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan, said some American
companies would "move their operations overseas, taking American jobs with
them," if they could not get the workers they needed here.

India provides by far the largest number of skilled foreign workers under the
H-1B visa program. Its citizens received 47 percent of such visas issued in the
last year. The next largest share went to China, with 9 percent.

Gene Sperling, the president's economic policy adviser, set forth Mr. Clinton's
proposal in a letter to Congress.

The best way to increase the supply of skilled workers is to improve the
education and training of United States citizens and other people already in the
country, Mr. Sperling said.

"However," he said, "at times, U.S. businesses need additional access to the
international labor market to maintain and enhance our global competitiveness,
particularly in high-growth new technology industries and particularly in tight
labor markets."

Mr. Sperling said the previous increase in the number of H-1B visas had proved
inadequate because "our economy has grown beyond anyone's most optimistic
predictions."

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration, was skeptical, saying, "There is still no
objective, credible study that documents a shortage of American high-tech
workers."

Michael W. Gildea, a policy analyst in the professional employee division of the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., said: "We would have preferred no increase in the number of
visas. We see no credible evidence of widespread shortages of information
technology workers."

Mr. Sperling said technology companies appeared to have difficulty finding
workers with the necessary skills. But he added, "The lack of clear data
suggests that it's best to offer a temporary solution, and to make that solution
contingent on an increase in spending for the education and training of American
workers."

Mr. Clinton proposed a sharp increase in the fees charged to employers who use
the foreign worker program. He said the fee for an H-1B visa, now $500, should
be raised to $2,000 for most employers, with a visa fee of $3,000 for companies
that depend heavily on skilled foreign workers.

The president said he would use the fees to help pay for the training of
American workers, especially those who are underrepresented in the information
technology industry, like women, blacks and Hispanics.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Help China And Help Chinatown

BYLINE: By Henry Wong;  Henry Wong just completed his junior year at Yale
University.

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN


In their fight against granting China permanent normal trade relations, labor
unions say they are trying to protect Americans from having to compete with
foreign workers who are paid barely a living wage to work in inhumane
conditions. But keeping China out of the global economy will actually hurt
American factory workers more than it helps them.

Consider my mother, who has been a garment worker in New York City for more than
20 years. Despite being a union member, she is paid the minimum wage or
sometimes less. The factory she works in has little ventilation and dirty
toilets. My father, who was a restaurant worker, is now 70 and unable to work,
and my mother's income is essential. Fluctuating demand for American textiles
has threatened to put my family in the streets. Already, several factory
closings in Chinatown have forced her into dirtier and hotter factories.

Yet my mother encourages me to buy goods made by companies accused of using
sweatshops in third world countries. For years, I could not understand why she
would do this instead of fighting the global market forces that could put her
out of work. But the unfortunate paradox, I began to realize, is this: The
products made in factories in developing countries are the only kind factory
workers in this country can afford to buy.

My parents and other Chinese immigrants constantly remind me how much more my
generation has, living in the United States. "When I was growing up in China, we
ate roast pig once a year during Chinese New Year," my father tells me. "Now, we
can eat roast pig every day."

Internet-ready computers, video games, Chinese candies, clothes, food, and woks
are all made available and affordable by this country's open markets. Lower
prices and imported goods may seem like frivolous benefits to many Americans,
but to poor immigrant families, they mean a lot.

Moreover, Chinese immigrants like my parents know all too well the consequences
of living in an isolated society and closed economy. When I asked my mother why
she left China for Hong Kong before coming to the United States, she said:
"Everybody was running to Hong Kong then. China was poor. China was Communist."
As Hong Kong prospered and grew as a trading hub, China, closed off from the
outside, continued to suffer from poverty, famine and political oppression.

Opening China to the global market can only help reduce these conditions, which
continue today. While an international labor standard would be useful, it is too
idealistic and impractical, and mandated living wages would rob countries with
cheap labor of the competitive advantage they need to lift their people out of
poverty.

The labor movement has done too little to improve my mother's workplace, and its
current international fight seems misplaced. Squeezing globalization with the
vise of protectionism helps neither American nor Chinese workers. If the labor
movement wins its battle against so-called free trade, it will find the American
working class suffering most.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Johnny Sweetwater)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 9, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
Banishing the Dickensian Factor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words


IN this era when the consumer is king, many Americans are displaying noblesse
oblige toward the millions of foreign workers who make the goods that flood
store shelves. High school students have demonstrated at Disney's Mickey-filled
emporiums over the company's use of low-wage factories in China and Haiti. Nuns
concerned about child labor have distributed leaflets outside Gap stores. At
Duke and Georgetown, students have staged sit-ins to protest conditions at
factories producing apparel carrying their college logos. And everyone seems to
beat up on Nike.

For years, these anti-sweatshop protests accomplished next to nothing. Many
manufacturers responded by simply saying they did not control the overseas
factories that they contracted with. Some embarrassed designers adopted codes of
conduct, which were often ignored abroad. Before monitors visited, factory
owners hid their under-aged workers and ordered employees to say they worked
40-hour weeks, not the more typical 75 hours.

But as the anti-sweatshop movement continues to grow -- and grow louder --
manufacturers have recently taken steps that just might improve working
conditions around the world. Companies see that many consumers want to know that
their clothing was not made under Dickensian conditions. So for the first time,
industry giants have joined an ambitious effort, the Fair Labor Association,
that has adopted a code and called for large-scale overseas monitoring that
begins this fall.

Nike, Reebok, Liz Claiborne, Philips Van Heusen and other manufacturers have
joined the association, a White House-backed program that promises to inspect
hundreds of factories yearly. Currently only a factory or two is monitored each
month. The association's leaders say this latest effort, well financed and
international, should make a difference. Monitors, ranging from accounting firms
to union-friendly Jesuit advocates, will visit factories to check that there is
no child labor, that managers do not sexually harass workers and that no one
works more than 60 hours a week.

The days of companies adopting a see-no-evil stance are over, said Sam Brown,
executive director of the association, which includes several consumer and human
rights groups. "This effort says for the first time, 'You must know, you have to
know about conditions in every single factory, and you have to bear
responsibility,' " Mr. Brown said.

The association's plans call for monitoring 30 percent of its members' 4,000
factories over the next three years, with 5 to 10 percent of each company's
factories being monitored each subsequent year. Some critics say the percentage
is too small to uncover every problem, but association members say monitoring,
and requiring that complaints about conditions be investigated, will greatly
help.

Many critics say the association and other monitoring efforts will do little to
improve the lives of third-world workers. They fear that corporations may hide
the monitors' findings from the public, and that the accounting firms doing the
monitoring will not dig hard enough to find problems.

"I think the Fair Labor Association is just window-dressing," said Charles
Kernaghan, director of the National Labor Committee, a labor rights group. "You
don't have full disclosure of what's found, and it doesn't require that
factories pay a living wage. And it allows companies to produce in China, a
country that prohibits independent trade unions."

Other monitoring efforts have sprouted because some groups think the association
is too lenient toward manufacturers while others believe it is too harsh. Social
Accountability International, an offshoot of the nonprofit Council on Economic
Priorities, has persuaded Toys "R" Us, Avon Products and Eddie Bauer to push
their manufacturers to comply with minimum labor standards developed by a group
of companies, unions and nongovernment organizations. Students from 56
universities including Brown and Cornell recently formed the Workers Rights
Consortium to work with nongovernment organizations overseas to review
conditions at factories making T-shirts and other apparel carrying college
logos. And the industry's main trade group, the American Apparel Manufacturers
Association, has also adopted a code of conduct. Stung by criticisms, Nike, the
Gap and others have hired their own monitors, and many critics say these
companies have improved labor practices.

"None of the programs have achieved critical mass yet," said Elliot Schrage, a
Columbia University Business School professor who advises companies on how to
improve factory conditions, "but the principle that the conditions under which
products are made is a legitimate concern for consumers is now well
established."

The word sweatshop has long been used to describe factories with low wages and
deplorable conditions, but whether a particular factory is a sweatshop is often
in the eye of the beholder. An American or European may quickly conclude that a
Chinese or Vietnamese factory paying workers $2 a day is a sweatshop. But the
young women working there often say they earn far more than at other local
factories or in the farm villages they left behind.

"The question is to make sure these young people, mostly women a long way from
home, are not abused," Mr. Brown said. "Even if the situation is better than
where they were, that doesn't mean there shouldn't be minimal standards of
decency on how you treat people."

THE nation's largest apparel union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and
Textile Employees, argues that free trade has encouraged American companies to
move factories to countries with the lowest wages and worst conditions. Hoping
to slow this exodus and help foreign workers, the union wants the World Trade
Organization to allow trade sanctions against countries that perpetuate
sweatshops by not enforcing their laws on minimum wage and overtime. But the
W.T.O. has rejected such proposals.

Monitoring, Mr. Brown said, is the best alternative for improving factory
conditions. "It is the way to think about how you make free trade into fair
trade," he said. "It's a way to ensure that the goods are produced under
conditions that don't shock the conscience."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker sewing blue jeans for export in a factory outside of
Phnom Penh, Cambodia. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

More Foreign Workers?

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 98 words



To the Editor:

While I applaud your effort to keep our high-tech economy moving along by
recommending that Congress raise the H-1B visa cap to ease the high-tech worker
shortage (editorial, July 5), I am sorry that you do not recommend the
retraining of American workers to help ease the shortage. High-tech companies
are very quick to demand new bodies to help fuel their growth, but they are very
slow to retrain (or train, for that matter) the many underemployed (or
unemployed) people who live and work near these businesses.

JANE SULLIVAN
San Francisco, July 5, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 18, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Official Held On Spying Charges

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17


A supervisor in the Miami office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
was arrested today and charged with spying for the Cuban government.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation said in a news release that the official,
Miriano Faget, was being held at the Federal Detention Center in Miami. He is
charged with "communicating national defense information to an unauthorized
person" and making false statements.

Mr. Faget, a 54-year-old supervisory ajudication officer, was born in Havana but
immigrated to the United States. As an I.N.S supervisor, he held a "secret"
security clearance, giving him access to government files that were sensitive,
but not the most highly classified. In his job he supervised individual
immigration and natutralization cases.

The F.B.I. said that Mr. Faget had "access to classified and senstive I.N.S.
files relating to confidential law-enforcement sources and Cuban defectors" and
that he had met with Cuban intelligence officers in Miami and other American
cities.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 29, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Workers Are Trapped In Limbo By I.N.S.

BYLINE: By SARA ROBINSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 27


Like thousands of other professionals, Nick Saw came to this country to apply
his skills in the booming high-technology industry, working under a temporary
visa. And like many temporary workers, Mr. Saw wants to stay.

But the prospect of establishing a lasting foothold in the United States makes
him, in some ways, a captive to his employer, which sponsored his visa
application. If he tries to switch companies, or is laid off, he has to start
the immigration process all over. Even the company he works for,
Hewlett-Packard, cannot promote him if it will change his basic job description.

And the period of limbo for such workers can be long. Mr. Saw, a 30-year-old
British citizen, applied for a green card, which gives permanent residency
status, when he arrived two years ago; he will probably have to wait several
more years.

He plans to stay with his job for now, he says, but he is frustrated about
having so little control over his future. "I'd sooner leave the country than put
my life on hold all over again," he said.

Legions of foreign professionals at high-tech companies across the country are
in the same position. Over the last decade, tens of thousands have been admitted
to the United States each year on temporary work visas to address what the
technology industry says is a severe shortage of skilled workers.

Now the industry is pushing to expand the largest such visa program, known as
H-1B, which allows workers to stay in the United States for six years. Under
legislation introduced this month in the Senate, the annual allotment of the
six-year visas -- which had already grown to 115,000 in 1998 from 65,000 in 1990
-- would be temporarily increased to 195,000. Those with advanced degrees from
American universities will be exempt from the limitations.

But even as the gates have been opened wider, the road to permanent immigrant
status has become more difficult. Over the last two years, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has become increasingly unable to cope with its growing
workload, and the wait for a green card has stretched to several years.

Since 1990, the law has allotted 140,000 green cards each year to applicants
sponsored by employers, but that limit has never been reached. Last year, only
62,000 cards were issued despite a backlog of hundreds of thousands of
applications. Ron Gotcher, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, said he advised
clients applying for green cards to be prepared to wait at least five years.

For workers from India and China, the problem is particularly acute. Although
more than half the H-1B visas go to citizens of India or China, the law
specifies that only 7 percent of employment-based green cards can go to
applicants from any one country. So applicants from India and China often wait
several years for an open slot before they can even apply. If their visas
expire, the workers must leave the country for at least a year before they can
restart the application process.

Some of the workers compare themselves to indentured servants.

"The information technology revolution is occurring on the backs of these
workers," said Pradeep Chaphalkar, a green-card holder from India who is a
spokesman for the Immigrants Support Network, an organization of workers seeking
permanent residency.

When the visa program was introduced in 1990, the stated goal was to bring in
workers temporarily to fill jobs for which there were no American workers. But
the technology boom in the 1990's created an unceasing demand for skilled
workers.

Now the "temporary" designation is largely ignored by employers, who recruit
workers with the promise of aid in immigration, and employees, who see work
visas as a route to permanent residency.

But a green-card application must specify a job and employer, and those cannot
be changed. And in a market in which job hopping is the norm, being tied to one
employer can be a hardship.

"For years I am supposed to be doing exactly the same thing for exactly the same
company, and that is so unlikely in this area," said Nenad Nedeljkovic, a Serb
working in Silicon Valley. "I get a couple of calls every week from recruiters,
and every time I tell them that I have to wait."

From the foreign workers to their employers to organized labor, all seem to
acknowledge that the system is flawed, but agendas for reforming it diverge
widely.

The Senate legislation, endorsed by the American Electronics Association, enjoys
strong bipartisan support. In addition to increasing the number of H-1B visas
through 2002, it would liberalize the per-country limits on green cards.

Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who heads the the Senate
immigration subcommittee and is a sponsor of the bill, said the immigration
service had been "very unresponsive" to the problem.

Large high-technology companies say the foreign labor pool is essential. Mary
Dee Beall, government affairs manager at Hewlett-Packard, says that if companies
cannot hire the workers they need by bringing some in from overseas, they will
shift jobs abroad.

Unions, however, are concerned that the system is susceptible to employer fraud
and abuse. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has called for training American workers and
enforcing labor laws in lieu of bringing in more workers from abroad.

Assertions that companies exploit the system to pay foreigners less are hard to
document. But some workers say they are paid far less than the average for
people with their education, skills and experience.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nick Saw, who works for Hewlett-Packard, is among those seeking
permanent residency who must stay at their company, in the same position,
because their employers sponsored their applications for green cards. (Peter
DaSilva for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 3, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Elian and the Embargo

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 132 words



To the Editor:

Now that Vice President Al Gore has endorsed a bill that would give Elian
Gonzalez permanent residency (front page, March 31), its passage may be
inevitable. But politicians' cynical posturing at one boy's expense can still be
transformed into something that helps millions of Cuban children.

Congress should amend the Gonzalez bill to lift the American embargo on Cuba,
beginning with food and medicine. This embargo punishes millions of Cuban
children just like Elian. Rather than bringing democracy to Cuba, it brings
suffering and repression. Lifting it would let Cubans choose their future. The
Gonzalez debate, shameful though it has been, might give Congress the political
cover to take this overdue step.

DAVID KEPPEL
Essex, Conn., March 31, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Services Knots

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

You report various efforts in Congress to strengthen law enforcement so that
women and children will not be brought to this country under false pretenses and
be forced to work against their will and so that families do not lose their
homes because of deceptive loan practices (news articles, April 2).

In 1996 Congress barred federally financed legal services lawyers from
representing undocumented immigrants, even with non-federal money. Congress has
also barred these lawyers from bringing class actions or seeking enhanced
penalties in the form of legal fees, making it difficult to protect people from
consumer fraud. Legal services lawyers could be more effective in helping
innocent people protect themselves if Congress lifted these curbs.

LAURA ABEL
New York, April 3, 2000

The writer is a staff lawyer at the Brennan Center for Justice, New York
University School of Law.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Terror Trial Evidence

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 177 words



To the Editor:

You missed the approach that I and others advocated at the House Judiciary
Committee hearings on "secret evidence" (news article, May 23).

The F.B.I. wants to retain the current system, under which certain aliens
suspected of terrorism may receive no information about the evidence against
them. The A.C.L.U. and others testified in support of an extreme proposal that
would require that these aliens receive all the evidence against them, including
classified information.

We proposed that, if national security might otherwise be jeopardized, the law
should always require disclosure of the nature of the charges and an appropriate
summary of the evidence sufficient to permit the alien to prepare a defense.

Any Congressional effort to refine existing immigration practices involving
suspected terrorists must appropriately balance national security concerns with
traditional constitutional safeguards of due process.

THOMAS C. HOMBURGER
Vice Chairman, National Commission
Anti-Defamation League
Chicago, May 24, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation: Fears of Rape and Violence;
Women Newly Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words


NO one denies that their stories are horrific: beatings, rape, genital
mutilation or the threat of it. But foreign women seeking asylum on these
grounds have received a mixed welcome in the United States.

Three years ago, the door opened a bit for some women who claimed that their sex
rendered them victims of persecution. In a landmark decision, the Board of
Immigration Appeals granted asylum to Fauziya Kassindja, who said her clitoris
would be cut off if she were forced to return home to Togo. The board, the
highest administrative court for asylum cases, agreed that female circumcision
was equivalent to the more widely recognized rights violations of political and
religious persecution. Ms. Kassindja's case also met other important criteria --
a well-founded fear of persecution because she belonged to a social group, in
her case women of her tribe who opposed genital mutilation.

But the Kassindja ruling has not, as many women's groups and human rights
lawyers hoped, blazed an unambiguous trail for others seeking a safe haven from
persecution based on sex. In late June, the board denied asylum to Rodi Alvarado
Pena, a Guatemalan woman who had escaped both a brutal husband and apathetic
authorities.

Ten of the 15 members of the appeals board said Ms. Alvarado had not proved she
was persecuted because of her social class or opinion. Her husband raped and
beat her regardless of her beliefs, the judges ruled, and while Ms. Alvarado may
merit protection on humanitarian grounds, asylum is not meant to be an
all-encompassing remedy for people fleeing oppressive societies.

Because of the attention to these cases, rights advocates are challenging the
conventional wisdom. Ms. Alvarado's supporters have petitioned Attorney General
Janet Reno and the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco to review the
decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals. They also may try a novel tack:
portraying Ms. Alvarado as a victim of torture who should not be sent back to
her torturer.

"This decision has really garnered the attention of people across the country on
different levels -- from Congress to the immigration advocates, to women's
groups and people in the Administration," said Karen Musalo, a professor at
Hastings College of the Law at the University of California in San Francisco.
"But for the time being, it is a binding precedent that has devastating
consequences."

Applicants for asylum must first prove they cannot return home because of
"persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion." The
law was a product of the cold war, written with dissidents from totalitarian
regimes in mind.

"The assumption was that there is a distinction between political and economic
suffering and between what was political and personal," said Gary E. Rubin, the
director of public policy of the New York Association for New Americans. "Now
the line between personal and political is being renegotiated and things that
people thought were personal tended to have political meaning."

In the recent past, the meaning of "social group" has been extended to include
those persecuted on the basis of sexual orientation, ethnicity and even, in the
case of journalists, profession. Gender as social group seemed the natural next
frontier.

IN 1985 the executive committee of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees said women facing abuse because they transgress the customs of their
society are a special "social group." It took another eight years before the
United Nations recognized violence against women as a human rights violation.
The same year, spurred in part by the reports of a systematic pattern of rape in
Bosnia, Canada adopted pioneering guidelines granting refugee status to women
facing persecution on account of their gender. Two years later the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service broadened its own guidelines to give
greater weight to women seeking asylum who feared genital mutilation and sexual
violence. In 1996 female circumcision, whether part of a woman's culture or not,
was outlawed in this country.

But inconsistent rulings in recent cases here and in Canada show that each woman
seeking asylum on grounds of gender-based persecution must fight the battle
anew. Last year, the board denied asylum to Adelaide Abankwah, a Ghanaian who
feared she would be circumcised forcibly if she returned home. The board said
she had not proved that her fear was reasonable. Ms. Abankwah was released only
on July 20, after two years in a New York City detention center, when a Federal
appeals court ruled she could not be expected to provide the kind of proof the
board had demanded. "A genuine refugee does not flee her native country armed
with affidavits, expert witnesses, and extensive documentation," the court said,
and sent the case back to the immigration board.

A different issue, central to Ms. Alvarado's case, is likely to affect asylum
seekers fleeing countries where violence against women is considered within the
rights of husbands and fathers. Ms. Alvarado's lawyers argued that she belonged
to a persecuted social group they defined as "Guatemalan women who have been
involved intimately with Guatemalan male companions, who believe that women are
to live under male domination." The judges said the group defined was not
cohesive enough to qualify for asylum. They also said Ms. Alvarado had not shown
that her husband beat her because she was, or he believed her to be, opposed to
the patriarchal culture.

Women's advocates say the only act of opposition that women in such cultures can
take is to flee their country. And a society that fails to punish batterers or
ignores women's basic human rights is enforcing a political policy, they say.

That is the disputed new frontier for women seeking asylum. As an immigration
judge in Virginia ruled in 1994 in the case of a Jordanian woman who ran away
from an abusive husband, a woman can challenge the system simply by seeking a
new life in the United States. The judge, Paul A. Nejelski, wrote, "The
respondent has espoused a belief that she is an individual."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seeking asylum under the Convention Against Torture, Ablavi
Haden of Togo was detained in the Dallas County Jail last year but released this
year. Her case is pending. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 5, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Some Immigrants Have Angry Words for Queens Billboard

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 675 words


These 17 words on a bright-red billboard in a racially diverse Queens community
have evoked fury and even tears: "Over 80 percent of Americans support very
little or no more immigration. Is anyone listening to us?"

Since the billboard, commissioned by a Queens resident, went up May 1 on a wall
in Sunnyside, its message has outraged some community leaders and residents. But
the man responsible for it maintains that he is only trying to educate the
public about immigration issues.

The Queens Borough President, Claire Shulman, and a dozen religious and
community leaders held a news conference yesterday and denounced the billboard,
one of three with similar messages posted around the city by Craig Nelsen, a
Sunnyside resident.

"Here in Queens, immigrants have revitalized our communities and enriched our
culture," Ms. Shulman said. "Queens is the most diverse county in the United
States and is proof that people of every race, nationality and ethnicity can
live and work together for the improvement of all of our communities."

But Mr. Nelsen, who showed up at the news conference and talked to reporters
afterward, said the billboards were not meant to advocate barring any particular
group of immigrants, but to focus attention on societal problems like crowded
schools and urban sprawl that he says have been worsened by immigration.

"I just want a chance to get the issue into the mainstream," he said.  "The
majority of Americans support us. Once the debate is out there, and people lose
their sensitivity to it, those people will realize it's not about skin color.
It's about numbers."

Mr. Nelsen, who maintains a Web site called ProjectUSA, said he paid $2,250 of
his own money to rent three billboards for three months. Since then, he said, he
has received donations from more than 500 supporters.

The billboard in Sunnyside is posted on the wall of Mario's, an Italian
restaurant at 43d Street and 47th Avenue. Mr. Nelsen has also rented a billboard
carrying the same message on a building at Fresh Pond Road and Myrtle Avenue in
Ridgewood. A third billboard on Tillary Street near Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn
uses a slight variation: "Tired of sitting in traffic? Every day, another 6,000
immigrants arrive. Every day!!"

Mr. Nelsen, who is in his 30's, described himself as a full-time activist who
became concerned about overpopulation while teaching English in Beijing from
1995 to 1997. He said he placed the first billboard in Sunnyside because that is
where he lives.

There was no answer last night at the offices of Sale Point Posters Inc. in
Rockville Centre, N.Y., which rented the billboard space in Sunnyside to Mr.
Nelsen.

Even in a diverse borough, Sunnyside is known for its large number of
immigrants. They made up 55 percent of Sunnyside's 31,891 residents in the 1990
Census, according to an analysis by the Queens College sociology department. In
comparison, immigrants account for 36 percent of the population in Queens.

Yesterday afternoon, the red billboard in Sunnyside stopped several passers-by.
One man said he wanted to throw garbage at it. Others gathered in front of the
billboard, arguing about what the message meant to them.

Carlos Chauca, a co-owner of Mario's who immigrated from Ecuador, said his
patrons had not complained about the billboard on the side of his business.
"It's not up to me because we don't own the property," he said. "To me, I'm not
offended because I make my living working hard and I'm happy with what I'm doing
in this country."

Amit Patel, whose parents came from Uganda, said he agreed with the billboard
because there were no longer enough jobs or apartments for all the immigrants.
"We have people in this country, they don't have jobs for years," he said. "So
how are you going to afford these immigrants? It's a burden on the taxpayers."

But many others shook their heads in anger and disapproval. "This puts a knife
to the immigrant in the back," Haydee Gonzalez, who immigrated from Cuba 31
years ago, said as a tear slipped down her cheek.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Craig Nelsen, standing near the billboard he paid for in
Sunnyside, Queens, debated with Edward Juarez-Pagliocco of the International
Immigrants Foundation after a news conference yesterday. (Photographs by Chester
Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 6, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Multi-Ethnic Kosovo Doesn't Make Sense;
Billboards of Hate

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words



To the Editor:

Re "Some Immigrants Have Angry Words for Queens Billboard" (news article, Aug.
5):

Nearly every significant movement of hate has centered around the notion that
certain members of society belonged while others were forcing their way in,
keeping the "insiders" from their entitled resources, prosperity and place of
prominence. In the most famous case, the "outsiders" were Jews in Germany. While
it is well known that six million eventually paid with their lives for being
different, this began with public displays of swastikas and anti-Jewish slogans
depicting Jews as unwelcome.

The message that is being sent by the anti-immigration slogans on billboards
erected by Craig Nelsen, a Queens resident, in largely immigrant neighborhoods
in Brooklyn and Queens fits this model perfectly. These billboards should be
recognized for what they truly are.

ERIC ZEIDMAN
Ridgewood, Queens, Aug. 5, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 9, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration: Let Debate Go On

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words



To the Editor:

The contention by Craig Nelsen, a Queens resident, that most Americans support
very little or no more immigration (news article, Aug. 5) may upset defenders of
immigration, but it should not surprise them.

Ever since the earliest days of the 17th century, at least some Americans have
called for restricting immigration. And while many have framed their opposition
in nakedly racist terms, others have always sought to dress up bigotry in
high-minded concern for the common good.

In the 1840's, nativists cast their attacks on Irish Catholics in terms of civic
duty: loyalty to the pope rendered those immigrants incapable of exercising the
duties of citizenship.  In the 1880's, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act
as a measure designed to protect American workers from cheap coolie labor. Mr.
Nelsen's billboard campaign is simply the latest version of this tradition.

EDWARD T. O'DONNELL
New York, Aug. 6, 1999

The writer is an assistant professor of history at Hunter College, CUNY.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Kerr)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 9, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration: Let Debate Go On

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words



To the Editor:

Re "Some Immigrants Have Angry Words for Queens Billboard" (news article, Aug.
5): The millions of migrants who have sought new homes, in the process leaving
behind native lands and often beloved relatives, have done so in search of
opportunity, namely, the opportunity to realize one's own creativity through the
institutions of a free society. This is why the United States attracts people
from around the world, from affluent countries as well as impoverished ones.

Reasoned discourse is an integral element of a free society. The opponents of
Craig Nelsen's billboard must recognize and, if the need arises, doggedly defend
his right to place his billboard. Instead of making unfounded accusations of
racism -- the fastest way to end a thoughtful discussion -- perhaps community
members can place billboards celebrating the achievements of immigrants.

REIHAN M. SALAM
Brooklyn, Aug. 5, 1999



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Cut Immigration Now

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 127 words



To the Editor:

Re "Immigration: Let Debate Go On" (letters, Aug. 9):

While I believe that immigrants who come here should be well treated, I also
agree with Craig Nelsen, a Queens resident who commissioned billboards
highlighting the high rate of immigration to the United States, that numbers do
matter.

In the 1990's the United States will take in more immigrants than in any other
decade, which, if trends continue, will double our population in 70 years.

The real issue behind this is why Congress has failed to set the proper quotas.
In 1995 a Congressional commission on immigration recommended that legal
immigration be cut by one-third.

It is time for Congress to follow through.

WILLIAM COLLARD
Manhasset, N.Y., Aug. 9, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Backlog Reduces Grants of Legal Residence

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 11


The United States gave legal permanent residence last year to 660,477
foreigners, the lowest number in a decade as the Federal immigration service
struggled to deal with a growing backlog of applications.

The figures for fiscal 1998, announced today by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, reflected a 17 percent drop from 1997 and a 28 percent
drop from 1996.

The immigration service estimated that it would have granted legal permanent
residence to as many as 140,000 additional people last year had it been able to
keep pace with its caseload. The backlog is 890,000, a sharp increase from a
backlog of 121,000 applications in fiscal 1994.

An immigration service spokeswoman said processing times had soared to as much
as three years from an average of four months in 1994.

One-fifth of the legal immigrants last year came from Mexico. Over all,
immigrants from Mexico and Canada accounted for 38 percent, followed by those
from Asia (33 percent) and Europe (14 percent).

In addition, 637,000 people were granted citizenship last year. The citizenship
backlog is 1.7 million.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Jeanne Moore

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 928 words



EUROPE

AUSTRIA: IRAQI DEPARTS
The second in command to the Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein, left Austria one
day after a Viennese official filed a criminal complaint against him for human
rights abuses in Iraq. Izzat Ibrahim, deputy chairman of Iraq's ruling
Revolutionary Command Council, arrived in Austria on Aug. 6 for undisclosed
medical treatment. Foreign Ministry officials would not say whether the charges
had prompted him to cut short his visit.  (AP)


SWITZERLAND: SETTING HER SIGHTS
The next chief prosecutor of the United Nations war crimes court, Swiss Attorney
General Carla Del Ponte, said in a magazine interview that she would "go all
out" to see the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, tried in The Hague. Mr.
Milosevic has been indicted on war crimes charges by the international war
crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Mrs. Del Ponte takes up her new
position on Sept. 15.(Agence France-Presse)

FRANCE: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HELD
At least 210 people without immigration papers, all awaiting clandestine passage
to England, were arrested in police sweeps in and around Calais, the English
Channel port, this week, French officials said. British immigration officials
have been complaining that dozens of refugees from Kosovo are being smuggled
illegally across the Channel every week in trucks on ferries, often after paying
large amounts of money to fixers.  Craig R. Whitney (NYT)

MIDDLE EAST ISRAEL: TALKS COLLAPSE
Two days of talks on the release of Palestinians jailed in Israel broke down
over how it would be decided which prisoners would go free, negotiators said.
Prime Minister Ehud Barak refused to change the criteria of his predecessor,
Benjamin Netanyahu, who refused to release Palestinians linked to violent
attacks on Israelis, and freed many common criminals instead.  (AP)

THE AMERICAS COLOMBIA: RURAL MASSACRE
At least eight peasants were killed in the northern village of San Roque in what
the police said they suspected was a right-wing paramilitary attack. Gunmen
killed four members of a family at a gas station, then stormed into the homes of
four farm workers and opened fire after checking their identities against a list
they carried, the police said. The area is also a frequent stage for leftist
rebel attacks.  (Agence France-Presse)

VENEZUELA: APPEAL FOR COLOMBIA
Foreign Minister Jose Vicente Rangel called for an international peace
conference to help stop the violence in neighboring Colombia, which has become
an increasing concern to countries in the region and the United States. Leftist
rebels, as well as extreme right-wing paramilitary groups, have stepped up their
activity in recent weeks, leaving hundreds of people dead and forcing thousands
to flee their homes.  (Agence France-Presse)

ASIA

TAIWAN: MISSILE SHIELD
President Lee Teng-hui said Taiwan needs the protection of a proposed regional
anti-missile system that is backed by Washington and Tokyo and has been
condemned by China. His statement was among the strongest public endorsements of
the still embryonic system, which Beijing sees as another move by Taiwan away
from reunification with the mainland. On Monday, Washington and Tokyo signed a
memorandum to begin sharing technology on anti-missile defenses.  (Reuters)

INDONESIA: CYBER WARNING
The Nobel Peace laureate Jose Ramos Horta warned of the possibility of an
economic war that could include computer viruses planted in Indonesia's banking
system if Jakarta refused to accept a vote for independence in East Timor on
Aug. 30. Writing in The Sydney Morning Herald, Mr. Ramos Horta said that 100
computer hackers in Europe, Canada and the United States were planning to attack
Indonesia's banking, army, aviation and communications computers if the ballot
was not free and fair.  (Reuters)

SINGAPORE: NEW PRESIDENT
Government-backed candidate S. R. Nathan was declared the city-state's next
President after the other potential candidates were found ineligible to run
against him. The election set for Aug. 28 was canceled. The President has
limited responsibility over civil service appointments and government and
statutory board budgets.  (AP)

INDIA: SECURE SEAT
The Congress leader Sonia Gandhi has declared her candidacy for one of her
party's safest seats in Parliament, in the district of Bellary in the southern
state of Karnataka. A Congress party candidate has won the seat in every
election since 1952. Getting into the swing of campaigning, the Italian-born
Mrs. Gandhi said she no longer feels even "one bit Italian" and apologized for
her Italian-accented Hindi.  Barry Bearak (NYT)

AFRICA

SOUTH AFRICA: KILLERS PARDONED
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission granted amnesty to three apartheid-era
policemen who, in June 1986 in the former KwaNdebele homeland, shot dead nine
young activists and then set fire to their bodies. The commission's amnesty
committee is empowered to grant pardons for atrocities committed under
apartheid, provided they were politically motivated and the amnesty applicants
disclose all details.  (Agence France-Presse)

MOZAMBIQUE: REGIONAL PEACE APPEAL
Leaders from the 14-member Southern African Development Community wrapped up a
summit meeting, renewing their call for peace in Congo. African heads of states
agreed to carry out a shaky cease-fire agreement in Congo and said that key
rebel factions that had not yet committed themselves to the peace pact aimed at
ending the yearlong war would soon sign up.  (Reuters)


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Map of India

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 22, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Helping the Adoption Of Russian Children

BYLINE: By CYNTHIA MAGRIEL WETZLER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 9; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

DATELINE: YORKTOWN HEIGHTS


THE best thing about her family is having a mother and father and a brother,
said Zoe Berman, 6, who was adopted in 1994 from an orphanage in Yoshkar Ola, a
town 600 miles east of Moscow in Russia.

Zoe's mother, Karen Klein Berman of Larchmont, national chairwoman of Families
for Russian and Ukrainian Adoption -- which opened its Westchester chapter in
1997 -- a support network of 2,000 members for adoptive families with children
from the former Soviet Union, said: "Zoe is fantastic. She has artistic talents
and athletic abilities I could never give birth to biologically."

Zoe is among the many Russian children adopted by American families. In 1998 the
United States Embassy's immigrant visa unit in Moscow issued 4,521 immigrant
visas to Russian orphans adopted by American citizens, making Russia the No. 1
source of foreign adoptions for American families.

Many adoptive parents with well-adjusted children say Russian orphans have been
stereotyped as children with serious medical and emotional disorders. Dr. Andrew
Adesman, director of the Evaluation Center for Adoption in New Hyde Park, said
recently: "The media has concentrated on high-profile, unusual cases, which
haven't reflected well on the whole adoption process. As a result, the
all-important question has arisen, 'Are these children damaged goods?' All
children who have spent an appreciable amount of time in an institution are at
risk for developmental delays and/or emotional problems. There is neglect and
undernourishment. But not every child at risk presents problems. Risk sounds
scary. Yes, there are increased risks, but the majority do well."

Over the last five years, pre-adoption and post-adoption consultation services
are more readily available, parents are more enlightened about risks and more
children are adopted under the age of 1, Dr. Adesman said.

Dr. Boris Gindis, a psychologist specializing in international adoption
evaluations and services in Suffern, said, "While there are no reliable
statistics on the number of internationally adopted children in need of
rehabilitative and remediation services, the majority of adoptions from overseas
are rewarding, successful experiences."

Dr. Jane Aronson, director of International Adoption Medical Consultation
Services in Mineola on Long Island, said: "Video and medical reports from Russia
are limited, only a moment in time in a child's life in an institution. The
decision to adopt is based on parents' intuition, what they see in a child's
eyes. These reviews with prospective parents are tender experiences. I take them
very seriously."

Terry and Francis Naumann, adoptive parents of biological siblings, Roland, 6,
and Bea, 8, said, "We went into this with our eyes open." Bea was 3 when the
Naumanns brought her home with her brother. She weighed 17 pounds and could not
sit up. But, five years later, Ms. Naumann said, Bea is an active, normal,
healthy child.

Because of the current economic crisis in Russia, a lack of food in orphanages
leaves children undernourished. Many adopted children overcome their problems
with affection, nutrition and perhaps remedial intervention. But some parents
report a continuing effort to help an adopted child overcome early orphanage
experiences.

The New York State chairwoman of Families for Russian and Ukrainian Adoption is
Liz Evans of Katonah, who with her husband, Scott, have adopted two children
from Russia. She can be reached at 232-9742 by those needing adoption
information.

At a Fourth of July gathering here of Families for Russian and Ukrainian
Adoption, where the Naumann family was the host, 22 adopted Russian children and
their families had a barbecue with a group of Russian lawmakers. The Russians
were visiting to learn about the American adoption process and to satisfy any
doubts about the well-being of the children.

Nina Reznik, a representative from the Russian Parliament, said: "We have seen
happy families and happy children. To actually see this is very important."

Barbara and Robert Wolff returned to their home in Yorktown Heights from St.
Petersburg four months ago with Andrei, a 17-month-old baby with a bright smile
and a round face. "He came from a caring orphanage," Mrs. Wolff said.

Ms. Naumann said: "Visiting an orphanage in Russia leaves an indelible
impression on your soul. Parents going over to pick up a child bring an extra
suitcase full of clothes, food and medicine."

She continued: "Families for Russian and Ukrainian Adoption is a buddy system
with a Web site -- www.frua.org -- and a chat room. We help with the
pre-adoptive paperwork, which can be daunting, and we plan social events where
the kids can grow up knowing children who share their background." She touched
her son Roland's cheek. "I just want to see more people go to Russia and get
these kids," she said.

The average cost to adopt a child from Russia is $15,000 to $25,000, Ms. Nauman
said. Adoptions are begun through adoption agencies specializing in
international adoption.

Another organization involved in adoptions is the Bridge of Hope project, a
collaboration between the Cradle of Hope international adoption agency in
Washington and the Golden Bridge of Friendship, a nonprofit organization in
Suffern, which brings Russian orphans 7 through 12 to the United States for a
five-week summer stay. The children attend day camps and live with families that
are considering adoption.

Lea Sigiel-Wolinetz, founder of the Golden Bridge of Friendship and organizer of
the Bridge of Hope project, now in its third summer, said, "Our commitment is to
find adoptive parents for all these children, but part of what we want is a
cultural experience for them." The first year all 13 of the children that were
brought to the United States were adopted. The second year 34 of 36 children
were adopted. Fifty children came this year. Bridge of Hope barbecues and pool
parties give prospective parents a chance to meet the children. Information
about them is also available on the Internet at www.cradlehope.org and from
Bridge of Hope at (301) 587-4400.

"I felt at first that maybe it would not be fair to the children to bring them
here, thinking they are going to stay," Ms. Sigiel-Wolinetz said. "So we tell
them they are coming for a vacation. The alternative, not bringing them, is
worse. Older Russian children have virtually no chance of being adopted in
Russia." All the children go back to Russia after the five-week stay. Russian
adoptions, which may take several months, must be processed in Russian courts.

There is a growing trend, particularly among parents who have delayed their
childbearing years, to adopt an older child, Ms. Sigiel-Wolinetz said. "Both
parents and children need a second chance in their lives," she said.

George and Susan West of New Castle adopted Zhenya, now 11, two years ago
through the Bridge of Hope program. Their biological daughter, Sophia, is 6. Ms.
West said, "It was important for us to have a trial to check out the family
dynamics. We fell in love."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Grounds encouraged walking at a barbecue in Yorktown Heights.
Left: Melanie Matero and her son, Sasha, were among those who attended the
event, sponsored by Families for Russian and Ukrainian Adoption. Benjamin
Rozenblat applied a Band-Aid to the foot of his son, Jamin, at the barbecue that
was given for adopted Russian children and families. (Photographs by Richard L.
Harbus for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 27, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 47 words


A front-page article yesterday about drug arrests at Miami International Airport
misstated the affiliations of some of those arrested. No United States Customs
Bureau agent was arrested, and only one employee of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was arrested, not two.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN AND QUEENS UP CLOSE;
Anti-Immigrant Ads Exiled

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 488 words


The founder of an anti-immigration group has complained that city pressure
caused a Long Island company to tear up his contract and pull down his
billboards, which were critical of immigration policy.

The founder, Craig Nelsen of Project USA, had put up the billboards in
Sunnyside, Ridgewood and Downtown Brooklyn. He said he intends to put up more.
Mr. Nelsen said his goal was to widen public debate with provocative signs like
the one in Sunnyside, which read: "Over 80 percent of Americans support very
little or no more immigration. Is anyone listening to us?"

The city's Buildings Department ordered one of the billboards down on Aug. 11,
after the Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, complained that the sign at
Tillary Street and Flatbush Avenue did not have a permit.

A few days later, Sale Point Posters, the Rockville Centre, N.Y., company that
owns the billboard space, took down the two other signs, Mr. Nelsen said. The
one in Ridgewood was not due to be removed until Aug. 31, he said, and the
contract for the Sunnyside sign lapsed July 31, although the company did not
remove it until after the protests by elected officials.

Mr. Nelsen said the company told him that it was getting "backdoor pressure" to
remove the signs.

There was certainly public outrage from city politicians. Claire Shulman, the
Queens Borough President, held a news conference on Aug. 5 to condemn the
posters' anti-immigration message. On Aug. 11, the City Council passed a
resolution denouncing them, and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone called for a
crackdown.

"Right after that, the billboard company called me begging to be let out of the
contract," Mr. Nelsen said.

Sale Point officials did not return a call for comment. But city officials said
they were not trying to stifle Mr. Nelsen's speech. Paul Wein, a Buildings
Department spokesman, said, "It's not what the billboard said; it's the
structure itself."

Mr. Nelsen said he asked the New York Civil Liberties Union to represent him,
but the organization has expressed reluctance about taking the case because it
often defends immigrant rights.

But Bill Batson, the assistant director of the Civil Liberties Union, said he
could not comment on whether or not the organization would take Mr. Nelsen's
case, and said judgments are made on a constitutional, not a political, basis.
"Anyone who knows the Civil Liberties union knows that objectionable content is
never a factor in our decision-making," he said.

Mr. Nelsen said he has contracts for seven more billboards and will unveil their
slogans and locations on Sept. 7. As for the old signs, the Sunnyside billboard
has been replaced with a sign for Crest toothpaste, in Spanish.

That suits the Queens Borough President's office. "We are happy this resulted in
a message meant to create smiles," said Dan Andrews, a spokesman. "Rather than
the message that was there."   JULIAN E. BARNES


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: City politicians denounced billboards like this one in
Sunnyside, Queens. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ART;
Each Wave of Immigrants: Their Hard Work, Hard Times

BYLINE: By BESS LIEBENSON

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 643 words


IMMIGRATION in the latter half of the 19th century transformed the face of
Norwalk and the way it perceived itself.

"Before 1850 it was a sleepy coastal town that served as a market center for the
agricultural back country," said the historian Dr. Gloria Stewart, author of
several books on Norwalk, who with Joanna Torow, the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion
Museum program director and Ralph Bloom, director of the Norwalk Museum,
assembled the exhibition "Strong Backs and Willing Hands: Immigrants and the
Building of Norwalk 1850-1890."

The exhibition at the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum in Norwalk through Sept.
12 -- displayed in the three-story octagonal gallery designed for the original
owner's personal art collection -- brings home the impact of immigration, its
effect on social and physical lives and role in Norwalk's progress.

Norwalk circa 1850 is shown as a community of 4,700 people. Its population
included descendants of settlers with names like Gregory, Benedict and St. John
as well as African Americans who farmed, fished and worked in businesses like
shipbuilding and the coastal trade.

It seemed to be instinctive for townspeople to feel concerned about change as
waves of immigrants arrived between 1850 and 1900. The Irish, most visible as
the first large wave of newcomers in 1850, bore the brunt of anti-immigrant
hysteria; frequently the men worked as laborers and the women in households and
garment factories.

In the 1860's, a wave of German immigrants often became grocers, butchers and
cigar makers. Poles and Austrians, Eastern Europeans, Hungarians and Italians
followed.

Those who came before each wave tended to be wary -- if not outrightly
contemptuous -- of later arrivals. "They looked down on people who had funny
names and spoke funny languages," Dr. Stewart said. "Local entrepreneurs,
however, hastened to take advantage of the two strengths the striving immigrants
had to offer: Strong backs and willing hands."

The show is arranged in sections covering four areas of growth: transportation,
construction, manufacturing and small businesses. Its emphasis is on the
important role immigrants played in Norwalk's dramatic growth in manufacturing,
commerce and industry.

Within 30 years, the agricultural town of fewer than 5,000 before 1850 -- was
transformed into an industrial commercial center of 17,500, its population more
than tripled. The exhibition's archival photographs are spiced with the products
that were made -- molds and tools for hat making and the hats themselves, for
example -- as well as pottery. There was, Dr. Stewart said, a pottery industry
with a national market as well as a hat factory and a corset company that
produced 650 dozen garments a day. One eye-catching item, a pennant that unfolds
to 92 feet, flew from the mast of the schooner Florence Isabel Lockwood built in
Norwalk. Another curiosity is the rustic wood and rope scaffold that hooked onto
parts of the mansion's roof so workers could lay slate tiles on its sections.
There are tool boxes, barrels used to ship goods, hat boxes, a crock with a blue
slipware design and household goods sold in small shops: a pitcher and basin set
complete with accessories, an oil lamp, parlor spittoon, a tea set, carved and
painted with letters surviving from a shop sign.

There are also rather haunting photographs: Servants at the back door of a
house, a sign painter plying his trade, men working at oystering and women at
hat making.

"We want people to come away thinking what a great contribution immigrant groups
can make to the life of a country," Dr. Stewart said. "We still have a large
immigrant population and it is still a land of opportunity."

The Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum, 295 West Avenue in Norwalk, is open Tuesday
through Friday, 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. and Saturday and Sunday 1 to 4 P.M.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Circa 1870: oystermen who worked for the Tallmadge Brothers
aboard the Mildred, right. Circa 1890: a sign painter, above, and, upper right,
women working at the Volk Hat Company. (Photographs above and upper right from
the Norwalk Museum, right from Tallmadge Brothers)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ART;
Immigrants: Hard Work, Hard Times

BYLINE: By BESS LIEBENSON

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 14; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: NORWALK


IMMIGRATION in the latter half of the 19th century transformed the face of
Norwalk and the way it perceived itself.

"Before 1850 it was a sleepy coastal town that served as a market center for the
agricultural back country," said the historian Dr. Gloria Stewart, author of
several books on Norwalk, who with Joanna Torow, the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion
Museum program director and Ralph Bloom, director of the Norwalk Museum,
assembled the exhibition "Strong Backs and Willing Hands: Immigrants and the
Building of Norwalk 1850-1890."

The exhibition at the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum here is displayed in the
three-story octagonal gallery designed for the original owner's personal
collection. It brings home the impact of immigration, its effect on social and
physical lives and its role in Norwalk's progress.

Norwalk circa 1850 is shown as a community of 4,700 people. Its population
included descendants of settlers with names like Gergory, Benedict and St. John
as well as African Americans who farmed, fished and worked in businesses like
shipbuilding and the coastal trade.

It seemed to be instinctive for townspeople to feel concerned about change as
waves of immigrants arrived between 1850 and 1900. The Irish, most visible as
the first large wave of newcomers in 1850, bore the brunt of anti-immigrant
hysteria; frequently the men worked as laborers and the women in households and
garment factories.

In the 1860's, a wave of German immigrants often became grocers, butchers and
cigar makers. Poles and Austrians, Eastern Europeans, Hungarians and Italians
followed.

Those who came before each wave tended to be wary -- if not outrightly
contemptuous -- of later arrivals. "They looked down on people who had funny
names and spoke funny languages," Dr. Stewart said. "Local entrepreneurs,
however, hastened to take advantage of the two strengths the striving immigrants
had to offer: Strong backs and willing hands."

The show is arranged in sections covering four areas of growth: transportation,
construction, manufacturing and small businesses. Its emphasis is on the
important role immigrants played in Norwalk's dramatic growth in manufacturing,
commerce and industry. Within 30 years, the agricultural town of fewer than
5,000 before 1850 -- was transformed into an industrial commercial center of
17,500, its population more than tripled.

The exhibition's archival photographs are spiced with the products that were
made -- molds and tools for hat making and the hats themselves, for example --
as well as pottery. There was, Dr. Stewart said, a pottery industry with a
national market as well as a hat factory and a corset company that produced 650
dozen garments a day. One eye-catching item, a pennant that unfolds to 92 feet,
flew from the mast of the schooner Florence Isabel Lockwood built in Norwalk.
Another curiosity is the rustic wood and rope scaffold that hooked onto parts of
the mansion's roof so workers could lay slate tiles on its sections. There are
tool boxes, barrels used to ship goods, hat boxes, a crock with a blue slipware
design and household goods sold in small shops: a pitcher and basin set complete
with accessories, an oil lamp, parlor spitoon, a tea set, carved and painted
with letters surviving from a shop sign.

There are also rather haunting photographs: Servants at the back door of a
house, a sign painter plying his trade, men working at oystering and women at
hat making. "We want people to come away thinking what a great contribution
immigrant groups can make to the life of a country," Dr. Stewart said. "We still
have a large immigrant population and it is still a land of opportunity."

The exhibition on immigration at the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum at 295 West
Avenue runs through Sept. 12. The number to call for information is (203)
838-1434.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, a poster published by the Parliamentary Recruiting
Committee. Right, John Walker's "Generations (Homage to My Father)" from 1996.
Below, detail from Mr. Walker's "Impossible Memory" from 1994-95.

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 1, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Business Travel;
A system for a quick pass through immigration at airports has surprisingly few
users.

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words


AN automated system at eight airports now allows international business
travelers to bypass long immigration lines and get on their way more quickly.

But the program has not expanded as quickly as Federal officials had
anticipated. Part of the reason for that could be that some eligible travelers
may not have enrolled simply because they cannot imagine that anyone in
authority is actually interested in making life easier for the frequent business
traveler.

Some business travelers could well be skeptical of "the idea of the Government
wanting to facilitate" their convenience, Eyleen Schmidt, a spokeswoman for the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, conceded with a chuckle.

So Federal inspectors on duty at the sometimes interminable immigrations lines
at the eight participating airports have begun handing out packets of
information to passengers who appear to be eligible for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's Automated Passenger Accelerated Service System, which
is known as Inspass. Passengers can fill out enrollment forms and get their
hands electronically "profiled" at Inspass offices at the participating
airports.

Once enrolled, passengers receive identification cards that allow them to "zip
around the immigrations lines," Ms. Schmidt said. This is done by scanning their
cards and passing their hands through automatic readers that validate
identities. Average processing times are 20 seconds or less, Ms. Schmidt said,
though business travelers have experienced some small delays when an electronic
system is down.

The Inspass program has been rolled out slowly, but since 1995 it has processed
more than 300,000 admissions to the United States. In the last year, enrollment
has more than doubled, to about 45,000 people.

Some business travelers, seeing fellow passengers hustle through the automated
system while they stand in line, may assume that only tycoons and the otherwise
well-connected are eligible. In fact, Ms. Schmidt said, "the only requirement
for eligibility is that you travel on business more than two times a year."
(Those with criminal records, including tycoons, are not eligible, however.)

Besides Americans, Canadians and citizens of the 26 countries participating in
the multinational Visa Waiver Pilot Program -- who otherwise meet the
business-travel requirements -- are also eligible.  Among the countries
participating in the visa waiver program are Argentina, Australia, Belgium,
Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Japan.

Inspass kiosks are now operating at these airports: Kennedy International
(International Arrivals, Terminal 4; American Airlines, Terminal 8; British
Airways, Terminal 7, and Delta Air Lines, Terminal 2); Los Angeles
International; Newark International; Miami International; San Francisco
International; Dulles International, and at United States immigration
preclearance sites at Pearson International in Toronto and Vancouver
International.

Given the high satisfaction rates among participants, the agency was ready to
expand the service quickly to 23 airports that serve significant numbers of
Americans returning home from international business trips. But financing for
the hardware to operate the program was reduced in the last year, so current
plans are to expand the program only to Seattle and Honolulu by the end of this
year. Plans for expanding to Atlanta; Boston; Chicago; Cincinnati; Dallas-Fort
Worth; Detroit; Houston; Minneapolis; Montreal; Orlando, Fla.; Ottawa; St.
Louis, and a yet-to-be-chosen location are now on hold.

The card, which is free, is good for one year at every location. Users must
still carry a passport, in case a technical glitch required a visit to a live
I.N.S. inspector at a booth. Travelers must also still pass through customs.

Enrolling involves filling out I.N.S. form I-823, which can be obtained and
processed at the Inspass enrollment offices at the eight participating airports.
The form can also be downloaded from the Web at www
.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/howdoi /inspass.htm. "We estimate that for those who use
the system we can get you from the jet way to the street in a total of 20
minutes or less," Ms. Schmidt said.

Side Trips

About 40 percent of all Americans who make trips of 50 miles or more attend a
sporting event while traveling, according to a recent survey by the Travel
Industry Association of America. Baseball is the favorite attraction, followed
by football, basketball and auto racing. Business travelers are the biggest
spenders. Anyone spending $500 or more at a stadium or arena is probably
traveling on business, the survey found.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WASHINGTON HEIGHTS -- BUZZ;
For Dominicans, Minimum Wage, Maximum Uncertainty

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 440 words


THE SETTING -- 6:15 A.M. Monday at St. Nicholas Avenue and West 179th Street in
front of the Party Time Bridal store. About a dozen immigrants, mostly
Dominicans, waited for the vans and school buses that charge $4 to $6, round
trip, to shuttle them to factory jobs in New Jersey. For these workers, most of
whom make minimum wage, that's a sizable chunk of their daily earnings.

THE BUZZ -- Maximo Jose Jiminez, 51, said he worked at Good Times Home Video in
Jersey City packaging CD's, cassettes and books, taking home about $170 a week
after taxes.  "It's sufficient to rent a room, and to eat something, but nothing
too good," he said. Still, he did not regret leaving the Dominican Republic in
1978. "I wouldn't have made it to age 50. I would have died of malnutrition or
tuberculosis or something else."

There is little if any formal application process for the factory work, he said,
and workers learn about jobs through word of mouth.

Deyaniris Minaya, 27, and Zenobia Vargas, 51, package sponges at Tempo Systems
in Hackensack. "We're temporary workers, so there are a lot of layoffs," Ms.
Minaya said. "I've worked in 10 companies in the last eight months."

As Diofila Morales described the seamstress job she held in downtown Manhattan
for 16 years before her company left the city and she turned to temporary work,
Luis Castillo, 69, interrupted: "Thirty years here, and she hasn't taken even a
single penny from the government. I haven't either, never."

Mr. Castillo, a naturalized American citizen who retired to the Dominican
Republic four years ago, had come back to New York to visit his children and
decided to work for a few months packing children's clothing at a factory.

Across the street, eight women were waiting for the van that would take them to
their workplace. They talked about their jobs, their families, the unseasonably
cold morning, and the uncouth language of the van driver. Now was the time to
chat; at work, silence is the rule. "We're like mute people," Soveya Fox said.
"Five-minute breaks, and 10 hours standing."

Back in front of Party Time, Jose Tatis, who came here three years ago from the
sleepy Dominican coastal town of Monte Cristi, was getting restless. He had been
laid off the week before, and an acquaintance who had promised to help him get a
new job had not shown up.

"He told me to meet him right here at this time," Mr. Tatis said. "I don't know
what could have happened. I was supposedly going to start today." He waited
another few minutes before heading home in frustration, as the others packed
themselves into the waiting vans.
   SETH KUGEL


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The early morning ritual at the corner of St. Nicholas Avenue
and West 179th Street: A dozen immigrants chat while they wait for the vans and
buses that shuttle them to factory jobs in New Jersey. (Angel Franco/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

If You're Thinking of Living In /Norwood;
A Miniature U.N. Bordered by Parkland

BYLINE: By MAGGIE GARB

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1517 words


NORWOOD residents like to boast that their neighborhood is like the United
Nations. All continents on the globe are represented in the population of the
north central Bronx community. Even more to the point, longtime residents say,
like the U.N.'s General Assembly, Norwood has a long tradition of vibrant,
sometimes raucous, community meetings over issues ranging from the health of the
trees on Mosholu Parkway to local hospital services and Bangladeshi cultural
programs at neighborhood schools.

A working-class community, Norwood is an island of densely packed winding
streets set amid some of the city's finest parkland. The 1,132-acre Van
Cortlandt Park sprawls along its western border, Woodlawn Cemetery stretches to
the north and the New York Botanical Garden marks the neighborhood's eastern
edge. Its southern boundary is the tree-lined Mosholu Parkway.

Long a refuge for Jewish and Italian immigrants moving out of the Lower East
Side and with a strong concentration of Irish, Norwood has undergone several
incarnations.

In the 1970's, Puerto Rican families moved in. Then in the eighties, new Irish
immigrants arrived, followed by Albanian, Korean, Pakistani, Bangladeshi,
Russian and Latin American immigrants. These days, the neighborhood is home to
two large Catholic churches, several Protestant denominations, two Orthodox
synagogues and a mosque.

"Waves of immigrants have come through in the last 25 years," said Sally
Dunford, executive director of the West Bronx Housing and Neighborhood Resource
Center and a lifelong Norwood resident. "One of the beauties of Norwood is that
it is a racially and ethnically mixed neighborhood and people live together
remarkably well."

That the demographic changes have caused little conflict is largely due to the
strength of the area's community organizations and to the efforts of its largest
institution, Montefiore Medical Center, which operates a 679-bed hospital on its
Norwood campus. In the late seventies when sections of the South Bronx were
ravaged by crime and rundown buildings, officials at Montefiore worked with
neighborhood activists to stabilize property values and preserve residential
buildings.

The medical center had for years generated fears that it planned to buy large
chunks of residential property and displace longtime residents. But in 1981,
when Montefiore's directors founded the Mosholu Preservation Corporation, the
relationship between the hospital and the community began to improve.

Armed with a $500,000 endowment from the hospital and a board that brought
community leaders and hospital officials together, Mosholu Preservation began
buying and renovating some of the neighborhood's most blighted apartment
buildings.

By demonstrating the medical center's commitment to the community, Mosholu
Preservation hoped to encourage private investors and property owners to stay in
the neighborhood and reinvest in their properties, said Maurice E. LaBonne,
Montefiore's vice president for real estate and development.

"We tried to be a catalyst," Mr. LaBonne said. "We showed that these renovations
could be done and then convinced the private market that it was worthwhile to
reinvest in the neighborhood."

In the last 15 years, almost every building in the neighborhood has undergone
some form of renovation, said Dart Westphal, Mosholu Preservation's president.

"Twenty years ago, people were very frightened" he said. "There was the sense
that they couldn't get a tenant with a job and couldn't find someone to buy
their building. The general strategy of reinvestment worked in this
neighborhood."

Mosholu Preservation now owns six apartment buildings with rents set at market
rates. In 1992, the organization, working with the nonprofit New York City
Housing Partnership, bought a vacant lot on the west side of the Reservoir Oval
and built nine two- and three-bedroom condominiums, which it sold for $85,000 to
$94,000 each. It has also moved to help revitalize the neighborhood's commercial
strips and began The Norwood News, a biweekly neighborhood newspaper with a
current circulation of 13,000.

Among the other longtime community groups that pitched in to preserve the
neighborhood is the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center. Serving 20,000 people
each year, the center runs fitness programs, senior services, baseball, soccer
and basketball leagues and a summer jobs program for area teen-agers.

N ORWOOD never fell apart," Mr. Westphal said. "It never experienced the kind of
abandonment that happened in other parts of the Bronx. A lot of the community
groups came together to renovate property and to organize the neighborhood."

Although housing prices tumbled in the late eighties, rentals and sales have
picked up in the last few years, area brokers say. Studio apartments rent for
$550, one-bedrooms for $650 to $725 and two-bedrooms for $800 to $900, said
Asllan Bushant of Kol Sagreda Real Estate.

The two- , three- and four-family houses that line quiet residential streets
have been selling quickly in the last year. Many are in need of some repairs and
few are sold through brokers as homeowners tend to advertise in neighborhood
newspapers or find buyers through word of mouth.

Prices range from $200,000 for a two-family house to $420,000 for a four-family,
said Nick Palushaj of the ZNS Realty Corporation. Co-ops sell for $25,000 for a
studio to as much as $65,000 for a one-bedroom, he added.

"You have a lot of working-class homeowners in this area," Mr. Palushaj said.
"Many are immigrants who work in the restaurants and hotels in Manhattan, a lot
work at the hospital and some are even single parents who can afford to buy
here."

Recently, two controversial issues -- a city plan to build a water filtration
plant in neighboring Van Cortlandt Park and the threatened closing of North
Central Bronx Hospital -- have prompted a host of community meetings and street
protests.

Responding to a Federal Environmental Protection Agency mandate to build a new
water treatment plant, city officials announced last December that the plant
would likely be built on 11 acres on the eastern edge of Van Cortlandt Park. The
plant will provide water to residents of the Bronx and Westchester.

Construction is scheduled to begin in September 2001.

ANGRY that the city is claiming precious parkland and concerned about the
disruptive impact of the multiyear construction process, Norwood residents are
almost uniformly opposed to putting the plant near their neighborhood. Though
they lost the first round of the battle when the City Council gave a final
approval to the project on July 21, the fight will likely continue in the
courts, said City Councilwoman June M. Eisland, who opposes the project.

The hospital battle is slightly more complicated and there, too, many Norwood
residents believe they have lost the fight. North Central Bronx Hospital is a
public facility operated by the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation next to
the Montefiore Medical Center.

When the hospital closed its pediatric ward last year and laid off several dozen
staff members, rumors of its closing began to circulate.

Many Norwood residents were outraged, concerned that, if North Central Bronx
Hospital closed, low-income residents and those lacking health insurance would
be turned away from Montefiore, which as a private hospital is not required to
provide nonemergency care to patients unable to pay for medical care or those
with the federally financed Medicaid insurance. This summer, the hospital
workers' union and Norwood residents staged two protests against the hospital
closing.

Officials with the Health and Hospitals Corporation have repeatedly assured
Norwood residents that North Central Bronx Hospital will remain open.

"There has been a lot of misinformation spread," said Jane Zimmerman, the
hospitals corporation's senior vice president for communications. "H.H.C. is not
planning to close N.C.B."

In addition, community leaders have complained for several years about
over-crowding and low scores on standardized tests at the neighborhood's public
schools. Nearly 80 percent of fourth graders at Public School 20 scored at or
above the national average on reading tests last year, but just 16 percent at
P.S. 6 and 43.6 percent at P.S.  280 read at or above the national average.

At the neighborhood middle school, M.S. 80, 74.6 percent of students achieved
the national average on the reading exams. The closest public high school is De
Witt Clinton, which is operating at 113 percent of capacity, said a Board of
Education spokeswoman, Margie Feinberg.

Two Roman Catholic schools, St. Ann's and St. Brendan's, offer prekindergarten
through eighth-grade classes. Tuition is $1,900 a year.

"Some people are concerned about the schools," said Syed Jamin Ali, a Norwood
resident and president of the North Bronx Islamic Center. "But this is a very
strong community, one that fights anyone who tries to hurt it. It's cheap
compared to other places in New York, which means that a lot of people move
here. And it's also very nice."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Row of frame houses along Hull Avenue is typical of Norwood, an
island of densely packed winding streets that are set amid some of the city's
finest parkland. Above, row of condominium buildings on west side of Reservoir
Oval. Left, commercial strip along Jerome Avenue. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner
for The New York Times) "On the Market" -- 2-family frame house with 5 bedrooms
and 2 baths at 3280 Hull Avenue, $195,000. 2-family house with 4 bedrooms and 2
baths at 3145 Hull Avenue, $220,000. 4-family house, 2 bedrooms, 1 bath per
apartment, at 171 East 205th Street, $420,000.

Chart: "GAZETTEER"

POPULATION: 37,844 (1997 estimate).
AREA: .58 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $32,971 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE FOR A 2-FAMILY HOUSE: $200,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $200,000.
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $160,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM CO-OP: $65,000.
MIDRANGE RENT FOR A 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $850.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 11 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 45 minutes on the D or No. 4 subway train.
GOVERNMENT: City Councilwoman June M. Eisland, Democrat.
CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 10467.
DANCE FOR SUCCESS: Barbara Klein and Neil Goldstein have been teaching Bronx
children to dance for the last 23 years. The couple, Bronx natives, run the
Bronx Dance Theater, which specializes in classical dance but offers courses in
every dance form from hip-hop to modern, ballet to Afro-Caribbean. In 1987, they
moved their dance school into an abandoned Art Deco-style movie theater on 204th
Street in Norwood. A decade later, they opened the Bronx Dance Academy, a New
York City public school that specializes in dance. The school's 100 sixth,
seventh and eighth graders are recruited from District 10 in the Bronx and
audition to gain entry. The academy's students have performed on Broadway and
have moved on to the American Ballet Theater's dance school. "People talk about
the problems with kids today," Mr. Goldstein said. "I talk about
self-realization. When these kids face the discipline of dance every day, after
a while they see they can master the classical positions, and once that happens,
the kid is on the other side." The season opens in late October with a Halloween
performance and continues with performances of the "Nutcracker Suite."

Map of the Bronx, highlighting Norwood.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 8, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

A U.S. Office Opens, Stirring Saigon Memories

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam, Sept. 7


In the heart of the old Saigon, on the site where the American Ambassador fled
in a helicopter from his embassy roof 24 years ago, a new United States
consulate was dedicated today, a symbol of a new but unsure relationship of old
enemies trying to be friends.

The new beige-and-green building is modest compared with the multistoried
concrete block that was a nerve center for the Vietnam War. The old compound was
demolished last year.

Instead of dealing with body counts and B-52 bombing sorties, the consulate is
generally expected to grant 25,000 immigrant and 150,000 visitors' visas a year,
making it one of the busiest posts in the world.

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, here for the formal commissioning of
the consulate, spoke of the changing dynamic between the United States and
Vietnam, still cocooned by an orthodox Communist Party and struggling to emerge
on the economic stage.

"In this place, surrounded by reminders of the past, our two countries will be
moving resolutely toward a better future," she said.

As much as the two sides may try to put the war behind them, the dialogue and
the visions of the past still reverberate. A former Deputy Foreign Minister of
Vietnam, Le Mai, was fond of reminding Americans that "Vietnam is a country, not
only a war."

The two top American diplomats in Vietnam fought here. Ambassador Pete Peterson,
a former Navy pilot, spent six and a half years as a prisoner of war in Hanoi,
where the American Embassy now stands.  The Consul General here, Charles Ray,
served two tours as an Army officer in the war.

They are both big admirers of Vietnam and contend that the emotions of the war
should be replaced by closer political and economic ties. But a ceremony on the
tarmac of Hanoi International Airport this morning was a reminder that the war's
legacy is still very much alive.

Ms. Albright witnessed Vietnamese officials' handing over to a Pentagon group
the remains of four bodies believed to be those of American soldiers who died in
combat in the 1960's and who have been listed as missing in action. The remains
were placed in four aluminum coffins, each covered with an American flag, and
put aboard a C-17 Air Force plane for the trip home.

The search for American soldiers missing in action has been progressing since
1992, when the Vietnamese Government gave permission to the Pentagon to work
here. Ms. Albright stressed that access to the Vietnamese countryside to find
those still listed as missing in action was the basis on which the two countries
resumed diplomatic relations five years ago and that it remained paramount to
good relations.

Since 1973, the remains of 529 members of the armed forces have been identified
and returned to their families, according to the Pentagon. An additional 1,530
are yet to be found. About 200,000 Vietnamese soldiers who died have not been
accounted for, according to the Government here.

Recently, in a reciprocal gesture, the Pentagon agreed to open its archives to
Vietnamese officials to examine records and maps to assist them in their search
for their missing in action.

Ms. Albright devoted much of her time in Hanoi to trying to persuade the top
Communist officials that it is in their interest to complete a trade agreement
with Washington. The proposed pact, under discussion for four years, would open
Vietnamese markets to American companies and would give Vietnam normal trading
relations with the United States. Vietnam remains one of a handful of countries
that has not been extended such status by the United States.

But since signing a preliminary agreement in July, the Vietnamese have not
completed the final accord, even with the approach of an economic meeting of
Asian nations in New Zealand this weekend, where the Vietnamese are widely
expected to sign. Ms. Albright said after her talks in Hanoi that she was
hopeful that the Vietnamese would resolve "technical issues" in time.

Some of the Vietnamese nervousness about the trade accord appears to rise from
uncertainty in the Government about whether Communist Party control can be
maintained with the intrusion of Western investment and accompanying trends that
free trade would bring, diplomats said.

Hanoi remains one of the few cities in Asia relatively untouched by Western
culture and consumption. McDonald's does not operate in Vietnam.

The governing Communist Party elite, including Prime Minister Phan Van Khai,
were trained in the Soviet Union, and still, diplomats said, hark to those days.
Ho Chi Minh remains a revered figure, and a visit to his tomb is a popular
excursion.

The lack of a trade agreement, which is intended to slice import tariffs like
the 200 percent duty on imported cars and to require a new openness in
commercial transactions has severely hampered growth.

Despite an initial buzz of interest by Western companies when the United States
and Vietnam opened diplomatic relations, foreign investment has declined in the
last several years, according to the World Bank.

The economy was buffeted by the Asian financial crisis, and the state retains
control of all important industries. The World Bank recently reported plummeting
export growth. About 250 American companies are doing business in Vietnam. But
many have reduced their presence. Some have left, and not many are making money,
American officials said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 15, 1999, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

A picture caption last Wednesday about the dedication of the new United States
Consulate in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, referred imprecisely to a
picture of the American helicopter evacuation of the city in 1975. The building
shown housed employees of the United States Embassy, but was not the embassy
itself.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The United States Consulate in Ho Chi Minh City, above, was
built on the site where the old American Embassy stood in wartime Saigon.
(Agence France-Presse); Scene below is the evacuation in 1975. The office is
expected to extend 175,000 visas a year, making it one of the busiest posts in
the world. (Reuters)


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 8, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Foe Puts Up Another Billboard; City to Investigate Legality

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 580 words


The man who caused a furor last month by putting up anti-immigration slogans on
three billboards has put up a new sign near the Williamsburg Bridge in Brooklyn,
and city officials said they would investigate whether it was placed there
illegally.

The message on the billboard claims that immigrants will swell the population of
the United States population to a half-billion. It was put up by Craig Nelsen, a
Queens resident who maintain a Web site called ProjectUSA. A Department of
Buildings spokesman said the city has no permit on file for the billboard, which
is about 20 feet high and about 40 feet wide, and is attached to the side of a
building. The agency will assign inspectors this week to see if it is legal.

"I hope they rip it down. It will draw more attention," Mr. Nelsen said in a
telephone interview yesterday. "The more they squawk, the better we look. The
average American just agrees with us on this. Every time the city rips down the
billboard it just strengthens our position."

The billboard, visible from the ramp leading from the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway
to the bridge, reads, "Because of mass immigration, the U.S. population will
exceed half a billion in my lifetime. Help us, Congress. - An American Kid, age
6."

Last month, a number of public officials denounced the messages on three similar
billboards used by Mr. Nelsen , two of them in Queens and the third near the
Brooklyn side of the Manhattan Bridge that reads "Tired of sitting in traffic?
Every day, another 6,000 immigrants arrive. Every day!!" That billboard was
ordered removed after the Buildings Department, investigating a complaint by the
Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, said it was illegal. Another of Mr.
Nelsen's messages was removed by the company that leased him space on another
billboard because of political opposition to the signs, Mr. Nelsen said.

Mr. Nelsen said he filed a notice of claim last Friday alerting the city that he
intended to sue it for damages. Mr. Nelson said the city interfered with his
contract for the billboard, abridged his freedom of speech and defamed him .

Mr. Nelsen said he is renting the sign beside the Williamsburg Bridge for $6,500
a month. The fee was considerably higher than the $2,250 he paid to rent the
three previous billboards because of the new sign's size and highly visible
location. Although he invented the child and the quote for the billboard, he
said his claim that the population will rise to 500 million is based on census
data. The United States Census Bureau has issued three estimates of the
population for 2050, based on different scenarios, of 519 million, 394 million
and 283 million.

Several people from Williamsburg passing by the billboard yesterday took issue
with is message. "This is a country of immigrants, the founders of the country
were immigrants," said Crestian Santana, 20, who left the Dominican Republic
three years ago.

Some Williamsburg residents agreed with the sentiment on the sign. Tino Lopez,
17, who lives at 261 South Third Street, the building on which the sign is
posted, said he thinks there are too many immigrants in New York. "They are a
bunch of pains," said Mr. Lopez, whose parents moved to New York from Puerto
Rico before he was born. "They are not the same as us."

Mr. Nelsen said all the publicity over his previous round of signs has helped
him win a racially diverse group of supporters who support ending or limiting
legal immigration.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Nelsen of Queens, left, with his latest billboard, near
the Williamsburg Bridge in Brooklyn, expressing his opposition to immigration.
(Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 11, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Medical Dilemmas

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 117 words



To the Editor:

As a pediatrician whose patients are predominantly children from low-income
families, I applaud Vice President Gore's proposal to guarantee health insurance
for all children by 2005 by raising the income limit for participation in the
Children's Health Insurance Program (front page, Sept. 8).

But for many immigrant children in the United States, the major barrier to
insurance is not the income requirement, but the law, which denies coverage even
to some legal immigrants. Lacking insurance, immigrant children often appear in
emergency rooms for treatment, at much higher long-term cost to the taxpayer.

LEE M. SANDERS, M.D.
Palo Alto, Calif., Sept. 8, 1999



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

If You're Thinking of Living In /Garfield, N.J.;
Where Immigrants Feel Right at Home

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1592 words


A 10-FOOT-HIGH bronze statue of Christopher Columbus, Queen Isabella of Spain
and a woman representing the New World stands on the shore of Dahnert's Lake in
Garfield, a 2.08-square-mile city in Bergen County. Three sets of crystals at
their feet symbolize Columbus's three ships, which set sail for the New World in
1492. Like Columbus, most residents of Garfield have come from Europe, and heavy
immigration continues to this day.

According to Mayor Louis G. Aloia, each ethnic group has its own enclave, with
the largest concentrations known locally as Little Warsaw around Lanza Avenue,
at the northern tip of the city, and Little Italy, in the Harrison Avenue
section on the east side. There are also clusters of immigrants from India,
Pakistan, Yugoslavia, Albania, Spain, Portugal and South America.

"Many people live their entire lives here without learning to speak English,"
the Mayor said. "They don't need it because they live and shop among people from
their home countries."

The housing stock is sturdy, compact and utilitarian, mainly prewar brick- and
vinyl-sided two-family homes on small lots of less than one-tenth of an acre.
Prices for two-family houses start at $170,000, said Ted Wasek, a sales
representative for the Re/ Max Property Center, which is in neighboring Passaic.
For that price, a buyer could expect a two-bedroom unit on the ground floor and
a one-bedroom on the top floor. Houses with two three-bedroom units go for
$215,000.

In the last three years, 30 older two-family houses on lots of 75 by 100 feet or
bigger have been demolished and replaced by modern two-family homes with two-car
garages, which can sell for more than $400,000.

Single-family homes built in the 1940's and 1950's make up a fifth of the
housing stock. They range from $140,000 for small, three-bedroom, one-bath
colonials or Cape Cods up to $185,000 for four-bedroom, two-bath colonials.
However, a one-bedroom house is on the market for $90,000. The few newer
single-family houses in the city can sell for up to $380,000.

There are eight garden apartment complexes with a total of 274 units. The
largest is the 84-unit Deborah Gardens on Maple Street. Rentals in two-family
homes and garden apartment complexes range from $450 to $850, Mr. Wasek said.

The city has 50 town-house type condominiums in clusters of nine to 12 units,
mainly on Midland Avenue. Most of the condominiums have two bedrooms and a bath
and sell for $90,000 to $110,000.

Among those buying a home in the last year was Marie Bennette, the comptroller
of an electronics company in a nearby town. Ms. Bennette sold her three-bedroom
colonial, also in Garfield, to her son and bought a two-bedroom Cape Cod home on
the corner of Belmont Avenue and Orchard Street a year ago. Ms. Bennette, 63,
said she was downsizing but wanted to stay in Garfield.

"It's a city with walkable business districts, but it's not too big," she said.
"There is very little crime, the homes are affordable and I have a lot of
friends here."

MS. BENNETTE says she particularly likes the diversity of the city, which
manifests itself in the availability of ethnic foods like Italian cannolis and
Polish sausage. She also likes its proximity to major highways. Route 46 passes
through the northernmost corner and Routes 20, 21, the Garden State Parkway and
Interstate 80 are all within 10 miles.

Garfield was part of the 5,320-acre Acqueyquinonke tract bought from the
Hackensack branch of the Leni Lenape tribe in 1679 by Jacques Cortelyou of Long
Island. The price of the land, which stretches from the current Saddle River to
Glen Rock, was 200 fathoms of white wampum, 11 guns, 50 rounds of powder, 6
blankets, 3 coats, 7 kettles, a pair of shoes and a few dozen tools.

During the Revolutionary War, in November 1776, British troops camped in what is
now Garfield for a week as they waited for rains to end so they could ford the
Passaic River in pursuit of George Washington's army. Until the last half of the
19th century, what is now Garfield was a sleepy farming area that went by a
series of names, one of which was Cadmus Melon Patch.

In 1859 the Dundee Dam was built across the Passaic River between Clifton and
this city to make the river more navigable. The dam also provided cooling waters
for burgeoning textile, chemical and paper industries. By the turn of the
century, more than 10,000 workers were flocking into Garfield daily and the
Passaic River was so heavily polluted with dyes, chemicals and raw sewage that a
nearby tavern owner called his establishment the Black Sea Hotel.

After World War II, most factories moved out, cutting the river pollution, but
used-car lots sprung up in their place along the riverfront on River Drive,
obstructing the view of the dam. Local officials hope to eventually buy some of
those properties and convert them into a scenic overlook.

The city got its first train station in 1881, when the Bergen County Railroad
(now part of the New Jersey Transit system) was built linking Hoboken and
Ramsey. The station was named for President James A. Garfield, who was
assassinated that year. When the city split from Saddle River in 1888, it
adopted the station's name.

Although Bergen County estimates indicate that Garfield's population has grown
by only 300, to 27,054, since the 1990 census, Mayor Aloia says that many
immigrants have not been counted and that the growth is actually about 10 times
the county estimate. This is causing parking problems on the narrow streets,
traffic problems and increased demand on municipal services like police, fire,
rescue and, especially, the Garfield public school system.

"Many of those people are in illegal apartments," Mayor explained.

To combat the problem, the municipality has launched a program under which
vehicles must obtain stickers -- given only to legal residents -- to park on
certain streets. It is also installing electronic water meters, which allow the
city to monitor consumption.

"If someone is using too much water, there may be too many people living in the
building," Mayor Aloia said.

According to a school board member, Salvatore Bonanti, enrollment in the
Garfield Public School District has grown by 700 pupils in the last three years,
to 3,800. As a result, the five elementary schools, the 536-student Thomas
Jefferson Middle School and the 920-student Garfield High School are all
overcrowded.

"Our class size is now 26 and we will need about 60 new classrooms within five
years," Mr. Bonanti said. The average class size in New Jersey is 22.

Last year, four modular classrooms in trailer-like structures were added to
three of the elementary schools and the middle school. The district also rented
a floor of the Three Saints Russian Orthodox Church on Outwater Lane to provide
an extra eight classrooms. Negotiations are under way to buy a three-acre tract
on Lanza Avenue for the construction of a new middle school.

Mr. Bonanti says he also hopes the city will buy the Holy Name School, a Roman
Catholic facility that was made redundant by the consolidation of four Catholic
schools into the Garfield Catholic Academy, which uses just two buildings on
MacArthur Avenue and Lanza Road and serves boys and girls from kindergarten
through eighth grade. Tuition ranges from $1,775 to $2,225. Other parochial
schools include the nondenominational Heritage Christian School on Midland
Avenue for boys and girls from preschool through grade 12 (tuition is $2,200).

IN addition to overcrowding, the district is dealing with language problems,
with about 45 percent of the students taking English-as-a-second-language
classes. The system is now dealing with an influx of children from Albania and
Poland, and Macedonia and other areas of the former Yugoslavia.

"Finding the right English-as-a-second-language teachers is a major problem,"
Mr. Bonanti said. "For instance, we are struggling to find teachers who know
Macedonian."

Of last year's graduating class, 60 percent went on to two- or four-year
colleges. On the Scholastic Assessment Test, Garfield's graduating class scored
a combined verbal and mathematics average of 891 out of a possible 1,600,
compared with a state average score of 1,006. The school offers advanced
placement courses in biology, computer science, calculus and United States
history.

The high school has a wide-ranging sports program, including varsity teams in
golf, tennis, baseball, basketball, swimming, volleyball and track and field.
For the last two years, the boys' and girls' track teams were state champions
for intermediate-size schools.

Starting this year, the State Department of Education is financing half-day
preschool for all Garfield students because the city is considered a special
needs district under a formula that takes into account population density and
income levels.

Although Garfield has just one supermarket, there are dozens of ethnic grocery
stores and seven bakeries sprinkled throughout the city. There are also seven
banks and dozens of restaurants. Among them are Charlie Blood's, serving Italian
seafood, on Frederick Street; Goodfellows, with Italian food, on Midland Avenue;
Golden Eagle, with Polish food, on Lanza Avenue, and Pescador, with Portuguese
food, on Passaic Street. The closest large mall is the Paramus Mall five miles
to the north.

The largest park in the city is 20th Century Field off Midland Avenue. The
15-acre site has two baseball diamonds, two softball diamonds, a lighted
football stadium, two tennis courts and a walking trail.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dundee Dam, background left, was built in 1859 to make the
Passaic River more navigable. It also provided cooling waters for textile,
chemical and paper industries. At right, newer homes on Maitland Avenue. City
Hall, once part of a worsted mill, with Fire Department bell in foreground.
(Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); "On the Markets" --
3-bedroom, 2-bath colonial, 2-car garage at 504 Van Bussum Avenue, $185,000.
2-family colonial, 2 bedrooms, 1 bath in each unit at 90 Prospect Street,
$228,000. 2-family house, 3 bedrooms, 4 baths in each unit at 36 Prescott
Avenue, $446,900.

Chart: "GAZETTEER"

POPULATION: 30,000 (1999 estimate).
AREA: 2.08 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $37,000 (1999 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $185,000.
TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $4,200.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $168,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $163,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $110,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $130,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $130,000.
MEDIAN RENT OF A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $700.
GOVERNMENT: Five-member City Council, which chooses one member as Mayor. Council
members and Mayor serve four-year terms. Current Mayor is Louis G. Aloia,
Republican.
SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $7,490.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 12 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 25 minutes via New Jersey Transit bus to Port
Authority Bus Terminal, $3.25; or 25 minutes via New Jersey Transit train to
Hoboken, $3.35 one-way, $94 weekly commutation, then five minutes on PATH train,
$1.
CITY OF INDUSTRIAL PEACE: In the 1930's, Garfield called itself the "City of
Industrial Peace." The origin of the title is unclear, but one version is that
it originated when Garfield and the surrounding cities formed one of the most
important textile-manufacturing areas in the United States. After strikes in the
textile mills in 1926 and 1929, Congress passed the National Security Act,
allowing the President to declare martial law to combat labor actions. In 1933,
President Franklin D. Roosevelt exercised that power to allow the military to
take over the mills in Lodi, East Paterson and Passaic. Since Garfield's mill
workers did not join the strike, their mills were not taken over and were
considered to be at peace with the Federal Government.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigration Billboard Had Ignoble Replacement

SECTION: Section 14;  Page 15;  Column 2;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 207 words



To the Editor:

When I saw the man with the stump where his hand should have been, in a
photograph published by The New York Times earlier this year, I felt heartbreak.
He was one of tens of thousands of civilians mutilated in warfare in Africa.
Then there are those who survived the atrocities of the Pol Pot regime in
Cambodia and the survivors of civil war in El Salvador. As the son of an
immigrant, I'd like to take them all into this wonderful country. Clearly we
can't.

The specter of racial and ethnic prejudice is so horrible that Americans of good
will shy away from anything that even remotely smacks of prejudice. Thus the
reaction to the billboards in Queens regarding immigration policy is
understandable.

The United States of the turn of the 21st century is not the America of the
early 19th and 20th century, which needed many backs to do the hard labor of
building, for example, the New York City subway. Such is no longer the case.
Current United States law has limitations on immigration because common sense
says we can't have unrestricted entry.

So what do we do? What we don't do is muzzle rational discourse, which is all
that the billboards seem to be asking for.

JOHN MORAN
Jackson Heights, Queens

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigration Billboard Had Ignoble Replacement

SECTION: Section 14;  Page 15;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 157 words



To the Editor:

Your article on the exile of anti-immigrant ads neglected to mention what
replaced the billboard in Brooklyn that politicians were so eager to denounce
("Anti-Immigrant Ads Exiled," Aug. 29).

The huge billboard at Tillary Street and Flatbush Avenue, which anyone
approaching the Brooklyn Bridge cannot help but see, became the site of an
advertisement for a hip-hop music company, featuring three tough-looking black
men and the word M.U.R.D.E.R in enormous letters.

Regardless of the skin color of the this record company's owners, this billboard
promotes violence and reinforces a stereotype of young, black men as violent and
antisocial. It is, in fact, selling this stereotype to the black children who
play in nearby playgrounds and who ride their bikes by this billboard every day.
Is this not just as harmful to our city as an anti-immigrant message?

RACHEL AND DAN FISHER
Park Slope, Brooklyn


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

News of Quake in Taiwan Prompts Worries in Flushing

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 650 words


Ellen Young was one of the lucky ones. Like other residents of Taiwanese
heritage in New York City, including the many Taiwanese immigrants in Flushing,
Queens, she dashed for a telephone the minute she heard that an enormous
earthquake had struck in the early morning in Taiwan, where her elderly father
and mother live.

At first, Ms. Young, an immigration consultant who lives in Elmhurst, Queens,
heard a recorded message yesterday saying that all circuits were busy now and
could she please try again later. Tears welling up in her eyes, she punched her
parents' phone number repeatedly until, after a few more attempts, she finally
heard her mother's hushed voice saying she and her father were fine and that
they were going to lie in bed and wait for the daylight.

"No, no," Ms. Young heard herself say, almost shouting, "find a flashlight, look
for cracks in the ceilings or the walls and if you see anything, get out right
away, now!" But, to her horror, her mother said, "We're old and our life is near
the end." At last, Ms. Young, 47, persuaded her mother to inspect the house,
which seemed to be sound.

News of the deadly earthquake in Taiwan spread quickly by radio, television and
word of mouth among ethnic Chinese residents of New York City. Many of the
approximately 100,000 Taiwanese immigrants in the metropolitan region have
settled in Flushing, said Mark Lii, 45, director of the Flushing Chinese
Business Association, a leading Taiwanese-American business group.

"If the result of the earthquake is very serious, we will do something to try to
help," said Mr. Lii, owner of the Ten Ren Tea and Ginseng Co., which has stores
in Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn.

The earthquake hit about 1:47 P.M. yesterday (1:47 A.M. today, Taiwan time).
Barely half an hour passed before the telephone started ringing furiously at the
Chinese Information and Cultural Center in Manhattan, which Frances Soong, the
spokesman for the center, described as the "de facto Taiwanese consulate."
Taiwan's official, and contested, status as a Chinese province prevents it from
having either a consulate or an embassy.

Taiwanese residents here were desperate for information about the earthquake and
especially how to reach loved ones, since the telephone lines to Taiwan were
jammed, Mr. Soong said. "Everyone is quite concerned about casualties," he said,
but the center had little information.

At the Flushing Chinese Business Association, community leaders met last night
to plan a parade in October celebrating the Nationalist Chinese Revolution of
1911. But the talk inevitably turned to the earthquake, how to organize
fund-raisers and raise medical supplies, and perhaps even send a delegation from
Queens.

Especially alarming to the community leaders gathered last night were the
initial reports that the earthquake registered anywhere from 7.3 to as much as
8.1 on the standard seismic scale that measures earthquake force. The quake that
devastated Turkey in August measured 7.4 on the scale.

Moreover, Taiwan's dense population was another cause for alarm. Twenty-two
million Taiwanese live on an island about the size of Maryland and Delaware
combined, whereas the Turkish quake was spread over a wide region in a country
the size of Texas.

Whatever the ultimate dimensions of the Taiwan disaster, the politics of Chinese
relations are never far from anything involving Taiwan. Timothy Chung, 48, heard
the earthquake news from a friend about 4 P.M. in his Queens store, Chinese Herb
and Healthy Food. But none of the other Chinese in the store appeared to react
to the news, he said.

"My customers are mainly from mainland China, and they didn't feel as much shock
as I did," Mr. Chung said. "That's all right. I wasn't angry, because in my mind
I was already trying to call my uncle," who lives in a small town in the middle
of Taiwan. He was unable to reach his uncle.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Is This America?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


You are awakened by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents knocking at
your door. They tell you they are taking you into detention -- prison -- to be
held for deportation. You say: "But I am an American citizen. I can't be
deported."

For the next three years you keep making that claim of citizenship. You want it
to be decided by a Federal judge, but they make you go through an extended
administrative process. You have no right to a Government-provided lawyer if you
cannot afford your own. And all this time you remain in prison.

A fanciful scenario? Not at all. That is exactly what I.N.S. lawyers say should
happen to someone who is taken in for deportation and claims to be a U.S.
citizen. They take that position in a case now going on in Alaska.

Hawa Said, 21, was born in Yemen. Her parents were divorced, and her mother
left. When she was 1 year old, her father emigrated with her to the United
States -- to Anchorage, where he owns a watch-repair shop. In 1996 he became a
naturalized U.S. citizen. Under U.S. law, because she was under 18 she
automatically became a citizen, too.

Last year Ms. Said was convicted in the Alaska courts of a cocaine offense. She
was given a three-year sentence, all but 30 days suspended. This past May she
reported to jail to serve the time. Instead of being released at the end, she
was taken into custody by the I.N.S. as an "aggravated felon." The 1996
immigration law requires detention and deportation of such convicted aliens. But
Ms. Said said she was a citizen.

An Anchorage lawyer, Margaret D. Stock, took on the case. She sought the classic
remedy for someone wrongly imprisoned: a writ of habeas corpus.

Federal District Judge H. Russel Holland found last month that Ms. Said had
"made out a prima facie case" that she was indeed a citizen. But then, at the
urging of the I.N.S., he changed his mind and said she would have to make that
claim in an administrative deportation proceeding.

Ms. Said has now appeared before an immigration judge. If he decides against
her, she can go to the Board of Immigration Appeals. The next move is to the
U.S. Court of Appeals. But if it found facts in dispute, which it likely would,
it would have to send the case down to a U.S. District Court for fact-finding.
Then it would go back up to the Court of Appeals. While all that went on --
three years is a minimum, probably understated -- Ms. Said would remain in
prison.

That tormenting process flies in the face of a notable Supreme Court decision,
the 1922 case of Ng Fung Ho v. White. A person of Chinese origin, held for
deportation, claimed to be a U.S. citizen. The Government said the question
should be decided administratively. The Court held that it must be a decision
for the courts.

Justice Louis D. Brandeis, writing for a unanimous Court, said the Constitution
entitled the claimant to a judicial decision, on habeas corpus, of his
citizenship. To deport someone who may be a citizen, he said, may deprive him
"of all that makes life worth living."

Could Congress, in the 1996 immigration law, sweep aside that constitutional
decision? Did it really mean to do so?

The case raises troubling issues of Government power. But there are also human
issues.

Ms. Said is seven months pregnant. After taking her into custody, the I.N.S.
sent her to a facility in San Diego, 2,427 miles away from her home and family;
it brought her back only when ordered to by Judge Holland. She is held in a
state prison with Alaskan criminals. She knows no one in Yemen and speaks no
Arabic.

The case of Hawa Said is an extreme example, but not the only one, of what must
be an I.N.S. mind-set. I always ask myself why immigration agents -- and I.N.S.
lawyers -- feel they must grind their targets down so inflexibly, so
mercilessly. The new Immigration Act, harsh as it is, does not require that
level of inhumanity.

The Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner, is a humane person. So is her
boss, Attorney General Janet Reno. But somehow they seem unwilling, or unable,
to infuse the immigration service with the quality of mercy, not to mention
respect for the Constitution.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

EARTHQUAKE IN TAIWAN: THE U.S. KIN;
Immigrants From Taiwan and the Mainland Unite to Show Concern

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 861 words


Surrounded by spools of brightly colored thread, Ling Li and a half dozen other
Taiwan women sat around a table yesterday, trying to watch as their teacher
demonstrated the day's project. But the women, students enrolled in a
traditional macrame class at the Taiwan Center in Flushing, Queens, had other
things on their mind.

"All everyone wants to talk about is the earthquake," said Mrs. Li, a homemaker
from New Rochelle, N.Y., as she worked on an elaborate pendant made of hundreds
of tiny knots. "We're so shocked and worried, it's hard to do anything else."

Like many immigrants from Taiwan, Mrs. Li said she could barely sleep on Monday
night, her head filled with images from the television news of shattered high
rises and people buried alive. She said her brother and his family live on the
13th floor of a building in Taichung, and a day of pushing the redial button on
her phone yielded only busy signals.

Many immigrants in the New York metropolitan region spent yesterday frantically
trying to call loved ones. Others spent their time calling fellow immigrants to
organize efforts to send money to their homeland to help earthquake victims.

Offers of help, ranging from money to medical care, flooded the Chinese
Information and Cultural Center, an agency of the Taiwan Government with offices
in Manhattan and Queens.

"Communication is still very difficult with our head office in Taiwan," said
Tate Huang, an information officer for the center. "But we are arranging with
Taiwanese churches and business groups here to find a way to get the
contributions and help to Taiwan."

But even as the earthquake dominated talk at the restaurants and businesses of
Flushing, Queens -- the center of Taiwan immigration in the New York area --
concern for the victims extended beyond that hub to Chinatowns in Manhattan and
Sunset Park, Brooklyn, where a vast majority of immigrant residents are from
mainland China.

Leaders of Chinese organizations in all three boroughs said the political lines
that have long divided the communities have blurred over time, and never more so
than in times of crisis, at least for the short term.

Paul Mak, president of the Brooklyn Chinese American Association, a social
services agency, said his organization and business groups in Sunset Park have
started discussing ways to raise money for a relief effort. "Even though the
majority of people here are from mainland China, the effect was so devastating
it's something that everyone would want to contribute to," he said.

The Chinatown Consolidated Benevolent Association, an organization that
represents immigrants from Guangdong Province in southern China but has long had
ties to the nationalist government in Taiwan, plans to announce a fund-raising
campaign today. "As compatriots, we are all the same," said Yut Y. Eng, the
president of the association.

Despite the unifying force of compassion that has sparked various relief
efforts, it appeared that the drives would proceed on separate tracks. "The
response will be there from throughout the Chinese community," said David Chen,
the executive director of the Chinatown Planning Council, a social services
agency with branches in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. "But given the politics
of Chinatown and the Chinese community, there will probably be all sorts of
circles doing the same thing. And who knows, there probably will be a little
friendly competition over who can raise more money."

Chinatown, for example, will have at least two different relief efforts. One
will be from the association that represents Cantonese immigrants from Guangdong
Province, and which has traditionally been pro-Taiwan, and one from groups
representing the recent influx of immigrants from Fujian Province, who have more
ties to mainland China.

"On the whole China issue, the polarization is really with political leaders and
not with the people anymore," Mr. Chen said. "Even the staunchest
pro-nationalist Chinese are investing in mainland China, so interests have
become very mixed."

Even Flushing, a community that started attracting Taiwan immigrants in the late
1970's because they felt they did not fit in with the Cantonese-speaking
immigrants in Chinatown, has evolved as its population from mainland China has
grown.

While Flushing has long celebrated the Nationalist Chinese Revolution of 1911 on
Oct. 10 -- a major holiday in Taiwan -- it has ignored dates that commemorate
the creation of the People's Republic of China in 1949. But this year, for the
first time, a parade celebrating the Oct. 1 founding of the Communist Government
will be held.

"There are many political differences," said Che-Tsao Huang, a communications
professor at York College in Queens and a Taiwan immigrant who is organizing the
parade. "But by and large people in Taiwan really view themselves as Chinese,
and there are many people, like me, who believe that Taiwan and China are one
and should be one."

His philosophy of unity, he added, applied to the 50th anniversary of the
founding of the People's Republic of China and to a crisis like the Taiwanese
earthquake. "It goes for good times and bad," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 23, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Across America, Immigration Is Changing the Face of Religion

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1929 words

DATELINE: COLUMBUS JUNCTION, Iowa


On a hillside that rises above a Middle American vista of shoulder-high corn,
red barns and shiny silos sits St. Joseph the Worker Roman Catholic Church, a
place whose recent inner changes reflect those emerging in the wider American
religious landscape.

The parish was founded more than a century ago for the Northern European
immigrants arriving in the fertile lands of southeastern Iowa. Their descendants
still worship at St. Joseph. But an hour after they have left an early morning
Mass, the little church is crowded again, this time with worshipers from a more
recent wave of newcomers.

To a casual observer, much looks the same -- just another group, families and
couples, dressed in jeans and work shirts, a few women in skirts and blouses.
But then Mass begins.

The Rev. Bernard Weir, born and reared in Iowa, begins the liturgy with a phrase
deeply familiar to those standing before him, many from Mexico or southern
Texas. "En el nombre del Padre y del Hijo y del Espiritu Santo," the 44-year-old
priest says, in an American-accented Spanish that he has worked hard to learn
since he arrived in this tiny town -- "in the name of the Father, the Son and
the Holy Ghost."

His congregation responds with an amen and embarks on a series of
Spanish-language hymns, accompanied by a guitarist who stands near a portrait of
the Virgin of Guadalupe, the symbol of Mexican Catholicism.

As the scene suggests, the life of organized religion in the United States has
been growing more diverse than it was two or three decades ago, and not just in
traditional immigrant gateways like New York, Chicago, Miami and Los Angeles,
but in many small places in between.

The change that has captured the most attention has been brought by the visible
communities of Muslims, Buddhists and Hindus, who have built mosques and temples
in cities, suburbs and rural areas. But equally important is the impact of large
numbers of Christians, from Latin America, Asia and Africa, where the faith has
been growing.

These changes are having a profound impact on Christian communities, from
Catholics to mainline Protestants, evangelicals and Pentecostals. Some Catholic
bishops are asking their priests to learn a second language, often Spanish.
Protestant denominations have stepped up efforts to create non-English-speaking
congregations or try to bring immigrant-led churches into the fold.

Everywhere, houses of worship are becoming multilingual zones. A single church
building may have a Spanish-speaking congregation on Sunday morning at 8, an
English-speaking congregation at 10, a Korean-speaking congregation at 2 o'clock
in the afternoon and a Vietnamese group in the evening.

Among the parishes in the Episcopal Church's Diocese of New York, significant
growth has come in the Bronx, among Latin American, African and Caribbean
immigrants. Archdeacon Michael S. Kendall said that within the diocese, "every
Sunday, we celebrate in 14 languages."

In Orange County, Calif., many United Methodist congregations advertise services
in Cambodian, Samoan or Tongan. A service in their own tongue can be highly
attractive to many immigrants because it is the language in which they learned
to pray, an intimate act.

Nationally, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) has increased its Korean-language
congregations to 350 from 20 over the last three decades, even though its total
membership has declined.

But it is within the Catholic Church, with 61 million baptized members, that
recent immigration has been most strongly felt.

Here in the Diocese of Davenport, which encompasses southeastern Iowa, some say
the change is pushing the church to recognize that it is once again becoming an
immigrant church, an identity it largely lost after the election of President
John F. Kennedy, the nation's first Catholic President.

Whereas the first wave of Catholic immigrants came mainly from Europe, the newer
influx is more diverse, coming from East Asia, the Caribbean and, especially,
Latin America.

But Hispanic Catholics are far from a monolithic presence in the church,
encompassing people who trace their backgrounds to 23 nations, according to the
United States Catholic Conference. Many have lived in the United States for
generations, some tracing their roots to the Spanish settlers in the Southwest.

The presence of immigrants, Hispanic and others, has spread far and wide,
rippling out to the Southeast and the Midwest -- to places like Columbus
Junction, whose population is less than 2,000 -- where such groups went largely
unnoticed.

To be sure, not all are Catholics. David Seeley, the new, bilingual pastor of
the Free Methodist Church nearby, said he was attracted to this area because it
gave him an opportunity to add a Spanish-language congregation to his church.

"If I don't get a Hispanic congregation, then I will have considered myself to
have failed," Mr. Seeley said.

A handful of Mexican or Mexican-American families settled in Louisa County,
which includes Columbus Junction, in the 1960's after having worked here as
migrant laborers.

But no one seems certain how many new families from Mexico, Central America and
the Texas border have arrived over the last decade in Columbus Junction, a town
overlooking the confluence of the Cedar and Iowa Rivers, to work in meat-packing
operations or nearby factories. Mike Braun, who owns a hog farm outside town and
is serving his second term on the school board, said a majority of students in
the lower elementary grades were Hispanic.

The immigrants tend to be younger than longtime residents, and many have
recently started families. Over the past seven years, Father Weir has found he
does more baptisms of infants from Mexican or Mexican-American families than of
babies from non-Hispanic residents.

Some of the immigrants share apartments or have rented trailers. But others have
bought houses and started businesses -- grocery stores, bakeries and bars -- in
the town's pocket-size business district. Proprietors keep late hours, luring
people back to sidewalks once empty in the evenings, said Earlene Lekwa, the
Mayor of Columbus Junction, who was elected two years ago after campaigning
door-to-door among Hispanic and non-Hispanic residents.

Among the parishioners of St. Joseph's Church, Humberto Hernandez, a baker's
son, moved to Houston from Mexico in 1985, then came here to work at a large
meat-packing plant, which opened in the late 1980's. "In Texas there are a lot
of jobs, but they don't pay much," Mr. Hernandez said. After a decade, he and
his wife, Maria, opened a convenience store in nearby Conesville, a tiny town
surrounded by melon fields.

The Hispanic and non-Hispanic communities mix little, by the accounts of people
in both groups. They say language keeps them apart, as do different working
schedules, especially with some at the meat-packing plant working on Saturdays.

"I think you might see a little bit of it in the summer," with families getting
together around Little League games, Mayor Lekwa said.

But church is a more adult experience, which makes mixing more difficult. When
the Diocese of Davenport assigned Father Weir here on July 4, 1991, his goal was
to bring the two communities closer.

An extrovert with close-cropped hair and a goatee, he initially relied on a
bilingual adolescent to translate at the Spanish-language Mass. But the next
year he was given a sabbatical to learn the language, studying in northern
Mexico.

The experience went badly, Father Weir said, the result of "horrid culture
shock." He found he could not get waited on in restaurants and, in a couple of
confusing encounters, had people swear at him.

"I couldn't speak the language, couldn't find my way around," Father Weir said.
"And so I found myself very much isolated, because I didn't have any kind of
social support."

But the experience also awakened within him a profound empathy for immigrants.
"I learned what it was like to be a foreigner and discriminated against," he
said. "And that was much more important than the Spanish."

After Father Weir returned to St. Joseph's, he decided the church would be
unlocked 24 hours a day as a gesture of welcome. That happened after an
immigrant got stranded without a ride one winter evening, tried to get into the
church to get warm and found it shut.

The incident showed that many immigrants looked to the parish and its priest for
services that longtime residents did not need.

While Father Weir's non-Hispanic parishioners expected him to be there to
celebrate Mass and to baptize, marry, counsel and bury them, the new immigrants
wanted more from him. He was called upon to help them find jobs, housing,
furniture.

"Lots of people arrive with absolutely nothing," Father Weir said, "and need all
the services, need clothes, need food, need help registering at school."

Father Weir grew up in Albia, a town of fewer than 4,000 people about 60 miles
southeast of Des Moines. He was the second of seven children; his father was an
appliance repairman, his mother a tailor. His father's family came from Scotland
and his mother's from Ireland, but the most recent immigrants on either side
arrived five generations ago, by Father Weir's estimate. "I grew up very white,"
he said.

But his ministry has changed him. "My heart is not as white as the way I grew
up." And that, he added, "puts me sometimes in a strange position, of not
fitting into either culture."

Getting to know a community, especially one made up of people who have uprooted
themselves, takes "a lot more than getting the language," Father Weir said,
adding that a priest must also try "to figure out some of the cultural
elements," which can be picked up at events like games and parties.

By paying such close attention to his Hispanic parishioners, Father Weir has
caused some grumbling among his English-speaking parishioners. They have been
reluctant to discuss their discontent with an outsider, although one couple,
speaking privately, have said they objected to having a Spanish-language Mass on
the ground that everyone should learn English.

Lately, that sentiment appears reflected in a move in Iowa to make English the
official language for county business. It is under consideration locally, and
Father Weir attended a public meeting to speak against it, he said.

Still, he said, his goal is church unity, to forge a single parish, "one people
under God."

But unforeseen circumstances have clouded that vision. A Mexican priest who was
the pastor of a Spanish-language mission parish in Muscatine, a Mississippi
River city of 23,500 people about 25 miles northeast of Columbus Junction, left
last year. As one of the few priests in the diocese who can speak Spanish,
Father Weir was assigned to take his place while continuing to serve Columbus
Junction and another parish.

By the end of June he relinquished the English-language Mass in Columbus
Junction to two priests who would visit from nearby towns. "It was just getting
too much," he said.

The arrangement has upset some people who go to the English-language Mass, among
them Pam Braun, the wife of the school board member. Mrs. Braun is sympathetic
to the immigrants and said she thought her children benefited by being exposed
to another culture in their schools. But at church, she said, attendance has
fallen. "How do we have relationships with itinerant priests?" she asked.

Father Weir said he did not think it was good for two groups in the same parish
to be served by different priests. "Unfortunately, it's the reality in many
places," he said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Mission in Muscatine, Iowa,
the Rev. Bernard Weir, center, who also serves in two other parishes, talked
with a family at a recent quinceanera, celebrating a girl's 15th birthday. (Buzz
Orr for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 24, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Kashmir Separatists Stopped By India on Way to the U.N.

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 23


Indian immigration authorities today prevented leaders of an alliance of
Kashmiri separatist groups from leaving the airport here for New York, where
they had planned to seek support for their cause at the United Nations, alliance
officials said.

The alliance, the All Parties Freedom Conference, is an umbrella organization of
24 Kashmiri separatist groups.

It has been advocating that the people of Kashmir, the lone state in
predominantly Hindu India that has a Muslim majority, boycott the national
elections that end on Oct. 3 as a protest against the Indian Government.

One leader who was stopped at the airport, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, has maintained
that the status of Kashmir is not a territorial dispute between India and
Pakistan, but a political issue.

The Kashmiri people should have the right, by vote, to decide whether to be
independent, join India or join Muslim Pakistan, he has said.

Mr. Farooq has traveled before to the United States and met American officials
in the hope that the Washington would intervene in the dispute.

Mr. Farooq and Maulana Mohammad Abbas Ansari, executive council members of the
conference, had checked their luggage and received their boarding passes when
immigration authorities stopped them and took their passports and tickets,
conference officials said.

They were planning to attend the annual meeting of the Organization of Islamic
Conference, as well as make their case at the United Nations.

"Authorities told them that the Home Ministry had given orders that they not be
allowed to leave the country," said A. M. Banday, bureau chief of the Delhi
office of the conference.

A spokeswoman for the Government said she had not been informed about the case.
Officials in the Foreign and Interior Ministries would not comment to Reuters.

The last few weeks have been tumultuous in Kashmir. Militant groups have been
implicated in the assassination of a Hindu nationalist Parliamentary candidate,
as well as in many attacks on soldiers and police officers.

Experts on the region say the fear of violence, as well as the Kashmiri people's
disillusionment with Indian government, have contributed to the low turnout in
the election.

The turnout has been the lowest anywhere in India. In the summer capital,
Srinagar, 15 percent of the people voted. In another Parliamentary constituency,
the turnout was 27 percent.

Nationally, the turnout has been 58 percent.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 25, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cardinal Helps Propel Bid to Unionize Limousine Drivers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 923 words


With a behind-the-scenes boost from John Cardinal O'Connor, a campaign to
unionize New York's nearly 12,000 black-car drivers took a major step forward
this week when a limousine company that has fought unionization for two years
signed a union contract.

The company, Last Radio Group, reached an agreement with the drivers' union
after the Cardinal wrote letters to several Wall Street firms -- among the
biggest customers of limousine companies -- to urge them to patronize unionized
companies that provide health insurance and other benefits.

Last Radio reached an agreement with the union on Wednesday night, the day
before its 150 drivers had scheduled a strike in what would have been the first
walkout ever by black-car drivers in the city.

"We needed a union because we were getting nothing," said Humberto Montana, a
Cuban immigrant who has driven limousines for Last Radio since 1985. "There were
grievances that the drivers couldn't get ironed out. There was no medical, no
sick days, no benefits whatsoever."

Officials with the International Association of Machinists, which began trying
to unionize the city's black-car drivers three years ago, said they asked
Cardinal O'Connor to lend a hand because he has long backed unions and has shown
special concern for helping low-paid immigrant workers.

The city's black-car drivers are overwhelmingly immigrants, with most coming
from Pakistan, India and Bangladesh. Many complain that despite their gleaming
cars and suits, they earn only $20,000 a year, after subtracting payments for
their cars, repairs, gas, insurance and franchise fees. Many nonunion drivers
say that because the black-car companies do not provide health insurance, it can
be a financial disaster when someone in their family becomes seriously ill.

Kevin Lynch, the machinists' organizing director for the New York region, said,
"We asked the Cardinal to make contact with any folks he knows on Wall Street
and tell them this is a moral issue that affects very hard-working immigrant
families."

Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York, said, "The
Cardinal has for his entire life been a supporter of organized labor, and he was
asked to assist, if he could, and he did write to several firms asking that they
use limousine services that use unionized workers."

The union received support from several investment firms, including Merrill
Lynch; Goldman, Sachs; Oppenheimer; Lazard Asset Management, and Invesco,
machinists' officials said. They added that they got an important boost when U S
Airways said it would hire unionized car services when it ordered limousines for
passengers arriving on its La Guardia Airport shuttle.

Union officials said the Wall Street firms agreed to patronize unionized
companies partly to please the Cardinal, partly to help downtrodden workers and
partly to avoid angering unions that place billions of dollars in investments on
Wall Street. Mr. Lynch said that when Wall Street firms began signaling they
wanted to use unionized car services, it softened Last's and other companies'
opposition to signing a contract.

With Wednesday's agreement, Last becomes the fourth black-car company in the
city to sign a union contract, bringing to approximately 800 the number of
drivers under contract. Mr. Lynch predicted that two other black-car companies
controlled by Last's owners -- Royal and Executive, which together have 300
drivers -- would soon sign a union contract.

Last's owners, Joseph Aracari and Turgut Ozen, did not return several calls made
to their office.

The company's new contract provides for dental benefits, life insurance and free
legal services -- a boon for drivers often involved in legal disputes with the
Taxi and Limousine Commission. Under the contract, Last Radio has promised to
begin providing health coverage within six months, and the union will be given
access to the company's books to determine whether the drivers should have to
contribute to the health premiums.

In April 1998, the machinists gained the right to represent the company's
drivers when 75 Last drivers voted to join the union and 52 voted against. Last
Radio refused to recognize the union, however, insisting that its drivers were
not employees but independent contractors who, under Federal law, do not have
the right to form a union.

But last December, the National Labor Relations Board ruled that the drivers
were employees rather than contractors because Last had so much control over
them, ordering them, for instance, how to dress and what to charge customers.

To turn up pressure against the company, the union arranged for 30 Last drivers
to begin working for unionized limousine companies -- a move that made it harder
for Last to serve its customers while helping its unionized competitors.

Craig Livingston, a lawyer for the machinists' union, said: "The reason Last
gave in was we were doing boss replacement -- the drivers were moving from one
boss to another. That's a lot different from striker replacement, where workers
lose their jobs during strikes."

There are more than 40 black-car companies in New York; the three unionized
companies in addition to Last are Elite Limousine Plus, Nite Rider and V.I.P.

Nina Lesavoy, a partner with Invesco, an Atlanta-based investment firm with a
large Wall Street office, said her company responded to labor's pleas by
deciding to use unionized black-car companies, but only after determining that
the service and prices of the unionized companies were competitive.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'Balance of Hardships'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Dickens gave us the classic picture of official heartlessness: the government
Circumlocution Office, burial ground of hope in "Little Dorrit." It would take
his savage wit to tell, properly, the story of Sherol Boles and the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Mrs. Boles is a 33-year-old woman from Barbados. In 1996 she married Michael
Boles, an American who served 12 years in the U.S. Marines. They have 2-year-old
twins, born three months prematurely weighing less than two pounds each; they
were hospitalized for months and are still under medical treatment.

The I.N.S. has ruled that Mrs.  Boles's marriage entitles her to permanent
residence here: a green card. But for reasons in the past she is legally
deportable, and the I.N.S. says she must be deported. If she is, it may be as
long as 10 years before she can enter the United States again.

Mrs. Boles wants to have her deportation case reopened, so account can be taken
of her now-established right to a green card and her children's fragile health.
If she is deported alone, her husband could not possibly take care of the twins
by himself. If she takes them with her, the medical care they need may not be
available in Barbados.

But the case cannot be reopened without the consent of I.N.S. officials, and
they refuse to give it. Why? I.N.S. lawyers explained in a brief, "She has not
shown that she would suffer irreparable injury or that the balance of hardships
tilt in her favor." Dickens could not have put more unfeeling words in the mouth
of one of his fictional tormentors.

Mrs. Boles is still in the United States because her lawyer, Harvey Kaplan of
Boston, sought and won a stay of deportation from the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit. The I.N.S. is urging the court to withdraw the stay.

The past chapters of the story deepen its harshness. Mrs. Boles came to the
United States in 1990, to Boston. Some years later she tried to obtain legal
permanent residence by using the services of one Joseph Chatelain, who called
himself an "immigration adviser." By 1995 Mrs. Boles and others realized they
had been defrauded by Mr. Chatelain. She testified in full and agreed to be a
witness against him, but he fled and has not been found.

In 1995, on the basis of her own statements, an immigration judge ordered her
deported. He allowed her to depart voluntarily -- legally advantageous -- by
April 1996 "or any extensions as granted" by the I.N.S. Immigration officials in
Boston, citing her cooperation in the Chatelain case, extended the date
successively to March 1998.

In the meantime Mrs. Boles had married and moved to her husband's home in
Phoenix. In February 1997 Michael Boles filed an I-130 petition to get his wife
permanent residence. The petition went to the I.N.S. Texas service center,
covering Phoenix. It was then transferred to a California center, and from there
back to the local I.N.S. office in Phoenix.

In May 1998, with the petition still pending and the date for voluntary
departure just past, the I.N.S. office in Boston gave Mrs. Boles a year's stay
of deportation. A year later she had still heard nothing about her green card.
She asked an I.N.S. officer in Phoenix for a further stay. Denying it, he said
the delay on the green card petition must mean that her marriage was fraudulent
-- in effect blaming her for the notorious inefficiency of the I.N.S.

"Based on a careful review of the facts of this case," an official wrote, "there
do not appear to be any unusual humanitarian factors."

The petition for a green card was finally granted this past June, more than two
years after it was filed. So far it has not helped Sherol Boles. If she is
deported, she may come within provisions of the harsh 1996 Immigration Act that
would bar her from this country for 5 or 10 years.

Tough as it is, the 1996 law gives the I.N.S. power to reopen this case. But the
service seems determined in its refusal. In its First Circuit brief it argued
that the court has no power to review its decision, right or wrong.

Why is the I.N.S. so adamant? It must want to establish the principle that
nobody -- not even a court -- can make it pay attention to reason and humanity.
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 30, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Name and Story Revealed For Body Found in Barrel

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: MINEOLA


The mummified body of a pregnant woman found stuffed in a steel drum under a
Long Island house was tentatively identified yesterday as Reyna Angelica
Marroquin, a Salvadoran immigrant, the police said.

The woman was a factory worker at a flower business owned by Howard Elkin, who
lived at the house in Jericho from 1957 to 1972.

Investigators identified the woman after finding her Social Security number
inside a barely legible, decaying address book on the bottom of the tightly
sealed drum, said Detective Sgt. Robert Edwards of the Nassau County Police. Mr.
Elkin's name was also in the book, he said.

Another crucial piece of evidence found in the book was the name, address and
phone number of a confidante of Ms. Marroquin's, who provided information
linking her disappearance in 1969 to Mr. Elkin.

The other woman went to the local police department in 1969, but they told her
she could not file a missing persons report because she was not a family member,
Sergeant Edwards said.

Mr. Elkin shot himself to death on Sept. 10, the day after Nassau County
detectives interviewed him in Boca Raton, Fla.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

When Immigrants Aren't Welcome

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words



To the Editor:

Re " 'Balance of Hardships' " (column, Sept. 28) by Anthony Lewis: It would seem
unlikely that a native-born Midwestern family like mine could be separated by
the Draconian policies of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, but this
is what has happened.

While teaching English in Slovakia a few years ago, my sister developed a close
friendship with a Slovak man.  When he came to visit her in 1997, United States
customs officials accused him of attempting illegal immigration, forced him to
sign incomprehensible documents and escorted him onto a plane back to Eastern
Europe.

My sister later returned to teaching in Slovakia and fell in love with her
friend, who was offered a full scholarship to study in Ann Arbor this fall.
However, his visa was rejected because of his encounter with the I.N.S. in 1997.


JENNIFER D. OSTER
New York, Sept. 28, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
After a Flood, Immigrants Vanish Again

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: BOUND BROOK, N.J.


ON the day after Floyd stormed by, the Rev. Lou Kilgore woke early and
experienced a kind of secular epiphany. Outside, the sky was churning with the
thrum of Coast Guard helicopters stabbing their spotlights through the predawn
gloom at hundreds of people clinging to rooftops as the Raritan River ran 14
feet deep down Main Street. And Mr. Kilgore, the pastor of Bound Brook
Presbyterian Church, suddenly had a thought: "The invisible have become
visible."

On the rooftops was the bulk of the Hispanic immigrant community, most of them
Costa Rican and most of them in the country illegally.

The last Census does not even mention Costa Ricans in Bound Brook, but as the
suburbanization of immigration, both legal and covert, continues, it has brought
this community of strangers into the heart of Somerset County, one of New
Jersey's most prosperous. Into the cheap housing down where the river overruns
its banks.

And for a few days after the flood, Mr. Kilgore held out the hope that the light
that the flood shined on Bound Brook's immigrant community would help the wider
community see and meet and help their Central American neighbors.

Local churches quickly began hustling the flood victims into members' houses and
onto mats laid in fellowship halls and Sunday school classrooms. More than 700
camped on exercise mats in the high school gym, and a network of volunteer cooks
was set up to provide meals.

"We hoped that while the white-hot spotlight from the Federal emergency people
and the Red Cross and the news media was on them that we as a community would
get to know who these people are," Mr. Kilgore said. "We wanted to make sure the
lights were not just shining on a flood, but on the shortage of affordable
housing and access to medical care and social services after the water's gone
down."

But now the flood is two weeks past and Mr. Kilgore has discovered that the
forces that kept the Costa Ricans invisible in good times are conspiring to keep
them invisible in crisis. Many used false names to get jobs, so emergency relief
workers cannot check employment records, a necessary step to assign benefits.
Church groups that help disaster victims rebuild will not work on rental
properties, and most of the immigrants are renters. Registering with the Red
Cross means revealing an identity many would just as soon keep hidden.

Steadily, even stealthily, the flood victims have drifted away from the shelters
into a new invisibility.

"They are human beings, they live here, but their status as illegal immigrants
means that in the broad sense they are not recognized and identified as our
neighbors," Mr. Kilgore said. "And now that their homes are ruined, it means
they are going to remain invisible, because their losses are not going to be
listed in the Federal emergency assessments and when the Red Cross goes through,
well, quite frankly, most of this population is afraid of any agency that works
with the government, and they will make themselves invisible."

Down in the flood plain, where Main Street becomes Vosseller Street, Elias
Manguel and his wife, Melody, were stepping around the piles of soaked and
stinking carpet to measure the damage to the apartments they own over a bodega.
Part of their flood losses, they concede, will be that many of their tenants
have vanished.

"There were two young guys in back -- what was their name? Was one of them
Eric?" Mrs. Manguel asked her husband. "Anyway, they said they would come back
if they could be on the second floor. But the young couple on the ground floor,
they were just married, they were both working two jobs, they're not coming
back, and the others -- I don't know." Mr. Manguel stopped for a moment. "I
think all this has scared them away," he said.

On Talmage Street a woman sat in the back of a muddy Toyota, trying to dress a
little girl. She said her name was Miriam, just Miriam, and that she cleaned
houses.

Where was she living now? "With a friend," she said in heavily accented English.
How long could she stay? "I don't know," she said, not liking the questions.
Where would she go? "I don't know," she said. "Someplace, you know?"

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Books in Brief: Fiction

BYLINE: By Jon Garelick

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 283 words



A BAR IN BROOKLYN
 Novellas & Stories 1970-1978.
 By Andrei Codrescu.
 Black Sparrow, cloth, $25; paper, $15.

The 53-year-old poet, essayist, novelist and National Public Radio personality
has here collected the first fiction he published in America after immigrating
from Romania in 1966. It shows a restless imagination wrestling with, and
liberated by, America and the English language. The results are frankly
surrealistic and occasionally masterly. In the novella "Monsieur Teste in
America" (first published in The Paris Review in 1975), a 29-year-old immigrant
invites his mentor from the old country to help him find his way in the new
land. In "Samba de los Agentes," a Colombian immigrant is fired from the New
York City police force and becomes a filmmaker, then a poet and novelist, while
living with his mother and two sisters, both of whom are prostitutes. In "Three
Simple Hearts," a man and two women (with two children in tow) take off on an
eroticized cross-country road trip. But these narratives and the other stories
collected here are mere armatures on which Codrescu can explode one metaphor
after another, discoursing freely on the anxieties of art and exile, literary
and immigration agents and, of course, sex and death. Monsieur Teste is turned
into a potbellied stove that burns reason and logic; Dracula is revealed to be
the "the father of the modern state and the inventor of nationalism;" and
American democracy is shown to be founded, literally, on the butchering and
consumption of its own. There's also a brilliant apologia for fat cops. But
Codrescu's comic indulgences can be exhausting, and the shorter pieces are truly
slight.   Jon Garelick

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Thwarts Basic Justice

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis's Sept. 21 and Oct. 5 columns on the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's treatment of Hawa Said, a Yemeni immigrant who claims
she should be tried as a citizen, only mentions in passing that Ms. Said was
convicted of drug trafficking. If she had led a life free of crime, would she
have become involved with the I.N.S. at all?

Mr. Lewis's question, "Why bring a dubious, marginal case like that against Ms.
Said?", prompts this reply: A deportation case stemming from a conviction for a
criminal act should be moved to the front of the huge backlog of work the I.N.S.
is trying to overcome. The processing of Ms. Said's deportation case arises from
her being jailed for the greater evil of drug trafficking; this is a critical,
not a marginal, factor.

STEVE DELL'OLIO
Stamford, Conn., Oct. 6, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Thwarts Basic Justice

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis (column, Oct. 5) is right to question the fairness of Immigration
and Naturalization Service policy. His criticisms could also be directed toward
the agency's use of secret evidence, which allows immigrants to be detained on
charges about which neither they nor their lawyers know or have a chance to
rebut.

This is the situation faced by Mazen Al-Najjar, a respected academic at the
University of South Florida in Tampa and a father of three, who has been behind
bars since May 1997 without being given a chance to see the evidence against
him. This negates the most basic principle of our judicial system: that no one
should be imprisoned without an opportunity to confront the accusation against
him.

ALY R. ABUZAAKOUK
Washington, Oct. 5, 1999

The writer is executive director of the American Muslim Council.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 10, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

OFF THE SHELF;
A Gloomy View of Immigration

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 895 words


FROM Mississippi to Minnesota these days, there's hardly a heartland city
without a Peruvian restaurant, West African hair-braiding place or Korean green
grocer. Asians are now the country's fastest-growing ethnic minority group.
Hispanic people will soon be the biggest one, outnumbering African-Americans by
a wide margin. Nearly one in five children born today has at least one
foreign-born parent.

America's "second great migration" has prompted as much controversy as the
first, which brought millions of Europeans to Ellis Island. Are immigrants one
reason that America's economy has been the world's most vibrant for nearly two
decades? Or are they to blame for the stagnant wages of America's unskilled
workers and the growing gap between haves and have-nots? Are the newcomers
models of hard work, thrift and old-fashioned family values, or deadbeats who
evade taxes and collect welfare? Will their children and grandchildren join the
economic mainstream or wind up in the underclass?

There are no cut and dried answers. But for an impressively researched, brightly
written and tightly argued polemic against America's current liberal immigration
policy, look at "Heaven's Door: Immigration Policy and the American Economy"
(Princeton University Press, 1999) by George J. Borjas, one the nation's leading
-- and certainly gloomiest -- experts on immigration.

Mr. Borjas himself is a shining example of the classic immigrant rags to riches
story. A refugee from Cuba who grew up in a Miami ghetto, he wound up with an
Ivy League education and today holds a Harvard professorship. But in "Heaven's
Door," Professor Borjas calls for sharply restricting the number of future
immigrants, especially those who, as his own family was in the early 60's, are
poor, unskilled and uneducated. "My family would never have been able to pass
the test that I think would best serve the interests of the United States," he
writes. "There were no college graduates in my family, no wealth to prove that
we would not become public charges, no particular skills that would seem
urgently needed."

Since the 60's, as Professor Borjas tells it, family ties rather than education,
skills or national origin have determined which foreigners get to pursue the
American dream. As a result, two-thirds of the recent arrivals have come from
Latin America and Asia. Four out of 10 wind up in the bottom one-fifth of the
income distribution. And, by the late 1990's, the average new arrival had two
fewer years of schooling than the average native-born American. In contrast, 30
years ago, most immigrants came from Europe, and the average newcomer was ahead
in education.

Mr. Borjas acknowledges that, despite a "precipitous decline" in average skills,
immigration is keeping an aging work force younger than it would otherwise be,
and has, on the whole, been good for the economy. Unskilled immigrants provide
employers with bargain-priced labor and provide middle-class consumers with
bargain-priced services from baby-sitting to nursing-home care.

But, reflecting a growing unease among economists over inequality, he argues
that while immigration has increased the total economic pie modestly, the far
more significant effect has been to depress opportunity and pay for the most
disadvantaged native-born workers, especially African-Americans. "The central
issue in the debate therefore," he says, "is not whether immigration increases
the size of the economic pie; it is about how the pie is split."

Perhaps. But immigration has not been a major reason that wages at the bottom
have stagnated for more than two decades. Rather, the computer age has rewarded
the college-educated and punished high school dropouts. Further, Mr. Borjas is
overly jaundiced in his views. He scarcely acknowledges that unemployment is at
a 30-year low, that poverty is at an all-time low while typical family income is
at a record, or that bottom-rung wages have lately been rising briskly. True,
the pay of low-wage native workers would no doubt have risen even sooner and
faster absent immigration, but the extra supply of willing labor has also helped
keep inflation at bay and therefore allowed the economic expansion to keep
rolling.

FURTHER, Mr. Borjas argues that the sheer number and concentration of immigrants
are creating the same ghetto effect that has marginalized inner-city blacks. But
immigrants have lately been fanning out all over the country.

The education gap is real, and Mr. Borjas is probably right in concluding that
it will take several generations to erase. But he plays down some of recent
immigrants' strengths -- strong family ties and a super work ethic -- that augur
well for upward mobility. Hispanics have employment rates nearly as high as
whites, and, as a 1998 study showed, second-generation children have higher
grades and lower dropout rates than other American children.

Few people, even the most ardent free marketeers, would argue that America
should open its doors to every third-world citizen who wants to emigrate.
Immigration confers permanent and scarce political and economic rights. But the
case for cutting immigration in half and largely limiting it, as some countries
do, to the well heeled and well educated is not nearly so economically -- much
less morally or politically -- compelling as Mr. Borjas would have you believe.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Chart: "WHAT THEY'RE READING"

COMPILED BY ALISA TANG

Luke Szymczak, 36
Communications equipment analyst at Prudential Securities.
BOOK -- "Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan," by Edmund Morris
WHY -- "There aren't a lot of personal portraits of him, and Morris had
excellent access. It's hard to separate the fiction from the reality, which is
not what one would want in a biography. People waited 10 years for this story,
and it appears that we're getting something between a cartoon strip and a
sitcom."

Fernando J. Espuelas, 33
Chairman and chief executive of Starmedia, an on-line network for Spanish and
Portuguese speakers.
BOOK -- "Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies," by Jared Diamond
(1997)
WHY -- "This book answers many of the why's of history - why did our cultures
and societies take their shape? Why and how were the patterns of history set
15,000 years ago?"

Debra J. Chrapaty, 38
President of E*Trade Group's technologies division.
BOOK -- "Memoirs of a Geisha," by Arthur S. Golden (1997)
WHY -- "To gain some cultural insight without leaving Silicon Valley."

Ryan Jacob, 30
Chairman of Jacob Asset Management, an investment advisory firm that focuses on
Internet-related investments, and former portfolio manager of the Internet Fund.

BOOK -- "A Prayer for the City," by Buzz Bissinger (1997)
WHY -- "I'm a transplanted Philadelphian rather than a hard- core New Yorker.
The author shadowed the Mayor during his term and gave a wonderful insight on
the day-to-day activities of the mayor of a big city, especially one as diverse
as Philadelphia, which is small enough to have a home-town feel, but large
enough to have various strata."

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CALENDAR

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk

LENGTH: 301 words



The Italian Immigrant Table

"Tutti a Tavola," an exhibition celebrating immigrant Italian food, opens
tomorrow in the Ellis Island Immigration Museum. The show, which runs through
March 19, includes pictures, cooking utensils, recipes and displays of
late-19th-century kitchens and restaurants. Admission is free, but the ferry is
$7. Open daily, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.

Sampling White Truffles

A white truffle festival with dishes from Barbetta, San Pietro, the Italian
Culinary Institute and the Plaza Hotel will be held on Sunday, 5:30 to 7 P.M.,
at the Plaza. Tickets are $55; for information, (888) 662-6442.


Japan on View

The Japan Society is planning two events promoting food and drink. On Sunday,
noon to 4 P.M., a street fair on East 47th Street from First to Second Avenues
will feature crafts and music as well as food from Japanese restaurants. On Oct.
27, at 6:30 P.M. at the society, 333 East 47th Street, Sake Export Association
members will talk about sake-making. Reservations, $ 20: (212) 832-1155.

The Kosher Lower East Side

"A Taste of the Lower East Side" on Sunday will combine a tour of historic
synagogues with samplings of kosher foods. Buses will leave at 1, 1:30 and 2
P.M. from the Education Alliance, 197 East Broadway (Jefferson Street). The fee
is $21 for adults; $18 for students and those 65 and older. Reservations
required: (212) 598-1200.

Brooklyn Dining

 The second edition of "Brooklyn Eats," a guide to Brooklyn dining, will be
introduced on Tuesday, 6 to 8:30 P.M., at a tasting party at the New York
Marriott Brooklyn, 333 Adams Street (Tillary Street), downtown. Several dozen
restaurants will offer samples. Tickets, which include a copy of the book, are
$50 in advance from (212) 239-6200, or $65 at the door.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Appeals Judge Halts Release Of Immigrant

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 21


A Federal appeals court judge today blocked the release of a 31-year-old
Palestinian immigrant who has been detained for 18 months on the basis of
classified evidence of alleged links to terrorists. The judge also ruled that
the case be taken up next week by a three-judge panel.

Noting that there were "complex jurisdictional and due process questions"
involved in the case, Judge Leonard Garth, in the Federal Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit, stayed a lower-court order that the immigrant, Hany
Kiareldeen, be immediately released from jail in Hudson County, N.J.

But the judge told the parties in the case to file their legal briefs by
Tuesday, and said he would recommend "very strongly" that the three-judge Court
of Appeals panel expedite the matter since "there is very questionable legal
authority at the moment for holding" Mr. Kiareldeen.

On Wednesday, Judge William H. Walls of Federal District Court issued a forceful
ruling that Mr. Kiareldeen's detention violated basic due-process rights in the
Constitution, and ordered his release. But Judge Garth blocked that order after
the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service challenged the jurisdiction
of the District Court in the case.

In granting a temporary stay of the release order, the appeals judge said he had
planted himself midway between the Government's request for an indefinite stay
pending resolution of the entire case and the position of Mr. Kiareldeen's
lawyers and Judge Walls that he be released immediately.

Mr. Kiareldeen remains in the Hudson County Correctional Center.  The secret
evidence on which he has been detained, according to unclassified and sketchy
summaries of Federal Bureau of Investigation reports, alleges that he met with
Nidal A. Ayyad, a convicted conspirator in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing,
just a week before the bombing, uttered threats against the life of Attorney
General Janet Reno and was associated with terrorist groups.

Mr. Kiareldeen, a native of Gaza who has lived in the United States for nine
years, has denied the allegations, saying they are the angry concoctions of his
vindictive ex-wife.

Today's decision by the appeals judge capped a week of rapid developments in the
case, which has broken new legal ground on the issue of secret evidence at
almost every turn.

On Monday, a Board of Immigration Appeals panel released a ruling that rejected
the secret evidence against Mr. Kiareldeen as unreliable, upholding an earlier
determination by an Immigration Court judge.  The board ordered the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to cease trying to deport Mr. Kiareldeen and to grant
him a green card as a resident alien, based largely on his 1997 marriage to an
American citizen.

On Wednesday, Judge Walls issued his decision in a Federal lawsuit that Mr.
Kiareldeen had brought in August. It was the first ruling by a judge that the
use of secret evidence in detaining an immigrant was an unconstitutional
violation of due process. Later that day, a different Board of Immigration
Appeals panel, hearing another facet of the case, ordered the I.N.S. to release
Mr. Kiareldeen on $1,500 bond.

Today, Douglas Ginsburg, a Justice Department lawyer in the Office of
Immigration Litigation, said the immigration agency had asked the board to stay
its bond ruling. A spokesman for the board, Susan Eastwood, said the panel,
which is part of the Justice Department's Executive Office of Immigration
Review, had yet to rule on the stay request.

Those involved in the case say that if the board denies the request, Mr.
Kiareldeen could be released regardless of Judge Garth's temporary stay, unless
the immigration agency appeals directly to Attorney General Reno to overturn the
decision.

An appeal would force Ms. Reno to mediate a long-simmering difference of opinion
among four agencies within her department: on one side, the F.B.I. and the
immigration service, which say Mr. Kiareldeen is a danger, and on the other
side, the Immigration Courts and the Board of Immigration Appeals, whose
administrative law judges have repeatedly rejected that point of view.

Mike Gilhooly, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that if the board
rejects the request for the stay of its bond order, the law and regulations are
not clear on how much time the I.N.S. will have to make its appeal to the
Attorney General or how long she will have to consider the appeal.

"Until the board decides the issue of the stay we requested, he will remain in
our custody," Mr. Gilhooly said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Weeding Out Terrorists

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

The use of secret information in deportation proceedings against immigrants
suspected of being terrorists threatens our democratic principles. The Federal
District judge who said no to this barbaric procedure is courageous (news
article, Oct. 21).

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service's myopic and inhumane procedures
to ferret out terrorists are equally unfair. The I.N.S. says it must evaluate
all people seeking green cards in the United States to determine whether they
are terrorists.

It takes more than one year for the agency to determine whether a potential
terrorist is in our midst! And every immigrant, no matter how innocent, must
wait for this absurdly long determination to be made.

RICHARD BREITMAN
Minneapolis, Oct. 21, 1999

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 24, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
A Polyglot City That Dreams In English

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: CLIFTON, N.J.


QUESTION: Why did the Clifton City Council adopt an English-only policy for city
notices?

Official answer: Because English is the language of this country, and people
should learn it so they can find the American dream.

Q: But what does the City of Clifton care what dream people find?

A: We already do lots to help immigrants get settled, get around and learn
English in school, and they appreciate that help. So we should encourage them to
get used to using the language, too.

Q: But why?

A: Because this is America.

City officials say they have practical reasons for becoming the only city in New
Jersey to make English the only language for nonemergency public notices. One
reason is that immigrant groups tend to complain when notices seem to be aimed
only at them. This happened last summer, when a warning about loud car radios
was printed in Spanish and Arabic, and not, say, Polish or Ukrainian or Korean,
or any of the other languages spoken here.

Yet in a city that is alive with the music of immigrant tongues, where even some
of the city leaders are foreign-born, the matter of language seems to reach
beyond the practical and down to something more inexpressibly basic, down to the
level of faith.

"I look at it from the perspective of a child coming here and not knowing any
English," said Councilman Stefan Tatarenko, the sponsor of the English-only
rule, who moved to the United States from Germany as a child. "We did not have
English-as-a-second-language instruction as we have now, we didn't have
bilingual education as we have now, and yet, I learned it by the time I was in
the third grade."

The English-only rule was adopted nearly two months ago. So far, the city has
received criticism in editorials and expressions of concern from civil rights
groups, but no legal efforts have been made to block the new rule. Judging by a
nonscientific sample, foreign-born residents in Clifton seemed more likely than
natives to agree with Mr. Tatarenko on English only.

Take Maricel Godoy, who was born in Colombia and works for Latin American Travel
on Clifton Avenue. Thanks to bilingual education rules, seven of the eight
classes she took in her last year at Kennedy High School in nearby Paterson were
held in Spanish. Now, 10 years later, she is conscious of her Spanish-influenced
pronunciation and says she wishes she had been made to speak English more.

"In school, we never had to speak English," Ms. Godoy said. "But English is
America's language, and if they want us to use it, I respect that."

BUT then listen to Elaf Abdeljabbar. Born in Passaic to Palestinian immigrant
parents, she's a Jersey Girl right down to her glossy fingernails and her
no-nonsense way of handling nosy reporters. And she thinks the English-only
ordinance is discriminatory.

"People around here are fuming about it because they think Clifton is very
prejudiced," Ms. Abdeljabbar said as she waited on customers at her father's
store, Al Aqsa Trading Company. "You have to speak the language and eventually
you're going to learn it, but what are the new people going to do? Learn it in a
week?"

Donald R. Kowal, another Councilman, suggested that taking some time to learn
English was fine with him. He just didn't want immigrants to put it off too
long.

"I honestly believe that if my grandparents had just stayed in their community
and just known Polish, they would never have bettered themselves," Mr. Kowal
said. "After all," he said, in a phrase that explained everything, "this is
America."

Across town, in the East Side's Polish neighborhoods, the Rev. Waclaw Sokolowski
sat reading his breviary at St. John Kanty Roman Catholic Church.

"To me, it seems right that they should want to use English," said Father
Sokolowski, who came to the United States from the outskirts of Gdansk 11 years
ago.

"But I also believe it depends on how large the community is," he went on,
hunting for a solution. "There is nothing wrong with helping people."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 24, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

POSTINGS: A $21-Billion Mortgage Initiative;
Fannie Mae Eases Loans

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 232 words


Mortgage programs aimed at making home ownership more accessible for recently
arrived immigrants, low-income families and people with poor credit histories in
New York City, Nassau, Suffolk and Rockland Counties were announced last week by
Fannie Mae, the nation's largest purchaser of mortgages from banks and other
home-mortgage originators.

In one of the programs, aimed particularly at immigrants, Fannie Mae plans to
purchase $50 million in loans that have been granted on properties that include
co-ops and two-family homes. When their credit worthiness is being assessed,
applicants seeking the mortgages under this program will be allowed greater
flexibility in counting part-time or multiple-job income, and greater use of
income from relatives who live with the home buyers.

A new program for people with poor credit histories, to be made available by the
end of the year, will offer mortgage rates as much as 2 percentage points lower
than typically charged such borrowers.

Fannie Mae, which purchases mortgages and packages the loans in pools for sale
to investors, announced that $21 billion in mortgage financing would be made
available through these, as well as existing community revitalization and
development programs in the New York area over the next five years.

For more information, including participating lenders and guidelines, call (800)
732-6643.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Canada's Link to the Queen Grows Livelier

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1663 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


In 1942, with Japanese troops occupying Hong Kong, a well-dressed Chinese family
stood quietly on a dock waiting to board a ship for evacuation to Canada, a
country then legally closed to Chinese immigration. A colonial inspector
skeptically eyed the family, including 3-year-old Adrienne Poy, and then
announced loudly that they did not look like Canadians to him.

"They were first turned away, because they were Chinese," Prime Minister Jean
Chretien recounted in early October in a speech broadcast nationwide from
Canada's gilded Senate chamber. Behind him, on a throne of scarlet velour and
Canadian oak, sat Adrienne, now 60 and about to become Governor General, the
personal representative of Queen Elizabeth II to Canada.

The fairy-tale rise of Adrienne Clarkson from wartime refugee to the nation's
first immigrant Governor General has captivated Canada, created an uproar, and
pumped fresh blood into monarchism in the country. This new attention to the
monarchy comes as Australia, which Canada often uses as a benchmark, prepares to
vote Nov. 6 in a referendum on whether to break with the British crown and
become a republic.

Traditionally, Canada's Prime Minister has appointed a bland retired politician
as Governor General. Although largely ceremonial, the post does carry the
authority to dismiss the Prime Minister in time of crisis, a confrontation that
has not occurred since 1926.

But with Madame Clarkson, as she likes to be addressed, Canadians suddenly have
a media savvy woman with intellectual gravitas -- a skilled communicator
familiar to virtually every household from Newfoundland to British Columbia.
From 1963 until a few months ago, generations of Canadians grew up watching
Adrienne Clarkson on public television -- book reviewer, investigative reporter,
foreign correspondent and cultural program hostess.

She became such a television icon that one comedian lampooned her familiar
introduction line, announcing imperiously, "I'm Adrienne Clarkson -- and you're
not."

"Everyone knows Adrienne Clarkson; she's been on TV, for the CBC, for years,"
said David Giles, a cell phone repairman here. "She's something new and exciting
and fresh. The others were old and stodgy."

The first Asian to become the Queen's representative here, she has also
attracted some thinly veiled racist thunderbolts.

"This appointment degrades Her Majesty, the office of Governor General and
Canada as a whole," Kenneth Lieblich, a leader of the Monarchist League of
Canada, wrote to a newspaper from the Vancouver area, a region with a population
that is 20 percent Chinese.

Of a woman who has written three novels, headed the nation's largest publishing
company, served for five years as a diplomat in Paris, been host on an estimated
3,500 public television shows, and most recently headed the Canadian Museum of
Civilization, he said, "Her qualifications are mediocre at best, and her loyalty
to the crown is unknown and untested."

Others complained that she and her husband, John Ralston Saul, were leftists
opposed to free trade with the United States and devoted to affirmative action
for women.

"Ms. Clarkson emerged as a spokesperson for cultural and economic nationalism
and the left in general," The National Post said in an editorial titled "A
Governor General for half the country."

Two days later, this conservative newspaper went after her husband, a
52-year-old author and philosopher. "Like so many left-wing intellectuals, Mr.
Ralston Saul appears to see the world from a book-lined cave without windows,"
an editorialist wrote. "The shadows that dance on his cranial wall are not
Plato's imperfect representations of 'ideal' reality, but projections of
capitalist ghosts and goblins."

Then reporters rummaged through the couple's personal life, discovering that
after 15 years of living together they hastily married this summer after
learning that she was in the running to become the Queen's representative.
Digging further, they found that she feuded with her Toronto neighbors and was
so estranged from her two adult daughters that she did not list them in her
official biographies.

"She's been given a scandalous, rocky ride in the press," complained Margaret
Atwood, the novelist and a friend. "She has had some press that I would consider
basically sexist and racist."

But somewhere between the Sept. 8 appointment and the Oct. 7 installation,
Canadians began to be fascinated by their Governor General designate.

"O.K., let's recap," a reader said in a letter to The Globe and Mail last week.
"She has an ex-spouse who doesn't want to talk about her, daughters who are
uninterested in her achievements and seem to prefer their stepmother. She fights
with her neighbors and she gets married to keep up appearances with the Queen.
It looks as if the Prime Minister has chosen a perfect royal representative!"

By the time the new Governor General walked into Parliament past the clicking
heels of the Princess Patricia's Light Infantry last week, The National Post
published a poll showed that 83 percent of adults surveyed called her
appointment "good" or "very good."

In contrast, only one-quarter could identify her predecessor, Romeo LeBlanc, a
former member of Parliament for the governing Liberal Party.

In the Senate chamber, as she alternated smoothly between British-accented
English and Parisian-accented French, her words did not always match the velvet
and ermine decor.

"We did not arrive as part of a regular immigration procedure," she said,
looking fondly at her 92-year-old father, seated in a place of honor. Recalling
how the family won a waiver to a Canadian law barring Chinese immigrants, she
added, "There was no such thing for a Chinese family at that time in Canadian
history."

Recalling her family's move to Canada's capital in 1942, she said, "The city of
Ottawa, then, was small and white -- like most of Canada."

She was eager to learn French, she recalled, but was barred from enrolling at a
local public French school because she was Protestant and the school was
controlled by Catholics. Her journey to become a Canadian was eased by a series
of Ontario public school teachers, she said, "who treated me only as bright --
not bright yellow."

The speech soon evolved into an eloquent ode to "the Canadian dream," peppered
with citations from a dozen Canadian writers, ranging from Samuel de Champlain,
the 17th-century French explorer, to Leonard Cohen, the contemporary songwriter.

"We must not see ourselves as a small country of 30 million people, floundering
in a large land mass," she said, lecturing Canadians about their frequent lack
of national pride and self-confidence. "We are among the healthiest,
best-educated people in the world, with great natural riches."

The smoke from a 21-gun artillery salute was still in the air and the new
Governor General's horse-drawn landau was clip-clopping from Parliament Hill to
Rideau Hall when Canadian reporters started to rave about someone they usually
ignore: the representative of the Queen.

At the 79-acre estate, the Governor General was greeted by aides addressing her
as "Your Excellency." In an interview in a high-ceilinged drawing room of the
1838 viceregal palace, she serenely dismissed the press uproar of last month.

Wearing her new, nonpartisan, representative-of-the-Queen hat, the former
television interviewer deftly ducked controversial subjects like Canada's
detention this summer of about 600 immigrants who arrived without passports in
boats from China.

But according to a friend, she was secretly pleased by one newspaper cartoon
last month. In the cartoon, a Mountie sternly looked down at a huddled boatload
of illegal Chinese immigrants, then warned a fellow Mountie to be careful
because "one of them could be a future Governor General."

According to the complaint in a wrongful-death suit filed by Mrs. Lum against
Carnival in Federal District Court in Miami, on the second night Mr. Lum
complained that he was not feeling well. He vomited and spent the next day
resting in the cabin. His wife, meanwhile, heard other passengers discussing
people falling ill with diarrhea and vomiting.

At 1:30 A.M. on the third day, Mrs. Lum said in an interview, she woke when her
husband collapsed outside the cabin's bathroom. She said she called the ship's
infirmary but the nurse tried to discourage her from bringing him there because
it was so late. Mrs. Lum said she insisted, and her husband was put on an
intravenous solution to avoid dehydration.

After a time, the nurse took Mr. Lum's blood pressure and said he was improving
and could return to his cabin. Tired but relieved, Mrs. Lum hurried to the cabin
to get towels and a change of clothes, because her husband had soiled his pants.

"My daughter and niece were awake, and I told them he was fine and would be
coming back," Mrs. Lum said. "I was gone about five minutes, and when I got back
to the infirmary the doctor and nurse asked me to wait in the waiting room."

Sobbing briefly, Mrs. Lum said she waited for several minutes, wondering what
was going on. Then the doctor and nurse returned.

"They came back and told me that he had taken a turn for the worse and he had
died," she said. "I asked them how that was possible, and they said there was
nothing they could do."

Mr. Lum was the only person to die among the 52 passengers and 16 crew members
who came down with viral gastroenteritis on the cruise. His death was caused by
extensive blood loss from a tear in his esophagus caused by vomiting, according
to the family's complaint.

"Mr. Lum died of retching to death," said Erik Peterson, the family's lawyer.

Curtis J. Mase, a lawyer for Carnival, said in court papers that the company was
not responsible, contending that the death was an act of God and that Mr. Lum
had failed to seek timely or appropriate medical care.

"Russell Lum's own negligence contributed to his death and injuries," Mr. Mase
said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 1999, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article on Oct. 25 described the appointment of Adrienne Clarkson as Canada's
governor general, the personal representative of Queen Elizabeth II. Ms.
Clarkson, a Chinese-Canadian television personality, is the country's first
immigrant governor general.

While citing widespread acclaim, the article also reported that the appointment
had "attracted some thinly veiled racist thunderbolts." At that point, the
article quoted from a letter deploring the appointment, written to two
newspapers by Kenneth Lieblich, a former leader of the Monarchist League of
Canada. But the letter does not mention race.

In a later letter, to The Times, Mr. Lieblich said his objection to Ms. Clarkson
was based on her lack of political experience and had nothing to do with race.
The juxtaposition of Mr. Lieblich's first letter with a reference to racism was
not justified by any evidence.

An article on Sunday about the quality of medical care on cruise ships misstated
the salary of a doctor for Carnival Cruise Lines. The doctor, Mauro Neri, was
hired by Carnival in 1996 for $1,057 a week, not $1,057 a month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adrienne Clarkson, a wartime refugee from China who became a
television personality, is Canada's new representative of the Queen. (Associated
Press)Photos: NIGHTMARE AT SEA -- Elizabeth Carlisle of Ann Arbor, Mich.,
suffered a ruptured appendix and an infection while on a cruise with her
parents, Darcy and Kristopher Carlisle. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York
Times)(pg. 37); FATAL HOLIDAY -- The body of James Curtis is taken from a cruise
ship in February. He died after a doctor failed to detect an abdominal rupture.
Irma Curtis, left, who asked a friend to videotape the body's removal, said she
watched helplessly as her husband died. (pg. 36)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Film, Immigrants Bring Real Life to Acting Jobs

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 963 words


Cesar Monzon lives in a single basement room in Queens, thousands of miles from
his family in Peru, whom he has seen for only two weeks in 11 years. When he
does not have work, he spends his days on a Queens corner with dozens of other
immigrants, hoping that a contractor will drive up with an offer of low-paying,
back-straining work.

"When a person matures he accepts what life gives him," Mr. Monzon said,
"including the suffering."

But one fortuitous meeting on that Queens street corner relieved Mr. Monzon of a
bit of his suffering. As Mr. Monzon was waiting there for work five years ago,
he met David Riker, a writer and director who was making a film about immigrants
in New York.

Today, Mr. Monzon and a few dozen fellow Hispanic immigrants who are not actors
and were cast by Mr. Riker in "La Ciudad," or "The City," are the subject of a
rising buzz that may make the film a sleeper hit in the city's Spanish-speaking
neighborhoods and beyond.

The film, shot in black and white, tells four stories: of day laborers hired to
clean bricks, of a homeless puppeteer and his daughter, of a young couple from
the same town in Mexico who fall in love and of a seamstress struggling to find
money for a sick child back home. Although the tales are fictional, they rely on
stories the immigrants told Mr. Riker during his five years of research.

The film, which opened over the weekend at the Quad Cinema on 13th Street in
Manhattan, has drawn strong reviews and was sold out for several screenings. It
has struck a chord among Hispanic people, who have been hearing about the film
almost nightly in coverage on the Spanish-language television network Univision.

Although the film is fictional, to Mr. Monzon it is fact. "It is my story," he
said yesterday at a Mexican restaurant in Corona, Queens, near the room he rents
for $300 a month. In its telling, he said, he has found some comfort. "In
reality, life is like that," he said of the film's stories about immigrants
facing exploitation, pain and loneliness. Seeing what he has felt manifested on
the screen, he said, "gives me tranquility."

In workshops, Mr. Riker drew on the immigrants' memories, some deeply painful. A
group of garment workers re-enacted their border crossings; men talked about
their friends being killed in a civil war.  "He supported us," Mr. Monzon said
of Mr. Riker.

Mr. Riker and the laborers-turned- actors were already being recognized
yesterday on the streets of Corona. "I can't tell you how many years I've
listened to the people in the industry say it's an important film, or beautiful,
but no one would want to see it," Mr. Riker said.

It is Mr. Riker's use of actual working immigrants, rather than professional
actors, that seems to be evoking such a powerful response. "I saw it on TV,"
Fernando Mercado, a Mexican immigrant who lives in Brooklyn but comes to Corona
for its Mexican restaurants, told Mr. Riker in the Teatro Plaza, a
Spanish-language movie palace in Corona. "The people in it work, right? They're
nonprofessional actors. I want to see it."

Mr. Riker had previously tried to persuade the Teatro Plaza to hold a screening
there. "From the beginning I've believed this is the place the film should do
most of its business," he said of the theater, whose concession stand sells
jugos tropicales and chorizo con arepa.

The theater had said no, but by yesterday, potential ticket buyers were coming
in to ask when "La Ciudad" was coming.

Within a few minutes, Mr. Riker received calls, first from the theater's
manager, then from its booker, suddenly eager to screen the film.

In Peru, Mr. Monzon worked for the state telecommunications company. But when
terrorists began attacking state workers, he feared for his life. He reached an
agreement with his wife: he would go to America to work, and she would stay with
their four children.

He has worked for as little as seven dollars a day. He sends money home, but he
does not send news of his pain. "I don't put them through that," he said of his
family. "It's not good that they worry." At one moment in rehearsal, Mr. Monzon
told Mr. Riker that it was fine to instruct his nascent actors, but he needed to
let them express what was inside.  What came out of Mr. Monzon was an unscripted
scream, at the moment in the film when a fellow worker dies. "In that moment I
felt the sadness of my father dying in my arms," Mr. Monzon said, "the
desperation, not being able to do anything. That's the secret of that scream."

Silvia Goiz, 33, a seamstress from Puebla, Mexico, in the film plays a
seamstress whose bosses refuse to pay the wages she is owed and desperately
needs to send to her sick child in Mexico. "People see she looks exactly the way
they do," Mr. Riker said. "She is on the big screen. It makes them think they
are on the big screen."

Ms. Goiz said she had seen enough factory bosses yell at enough of her
co-workers so that, when a professional actress yelled at her in an early
audition, she cried.

Ms. Goiz, who lives in Corona with 13 relatives and works six days a week, said
curiosity drew her to Mr. Riker's auditions, after which she went through three
months of auditions and acting exercises before she was selected to be the lead
of "The Seamstress" section. "Others could express their ideas more
confidently," Mr. Riker said of Ms. Goiz. "But there was so much feeling in
her."

The actors were paid for shooting, though not rehearsals. Seeing herself on the
screen, Ms. Goiz said, brought sadness at the stories, but also happiness. "I
never thought I would be up there on the big screen," she said.

Her older sister, Teresa Goiz, who also works in a factory, said she cried and
cried watching the film.  "It's the reality of our lives," she said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside Teatro Plaza in Queens, Jose Bayona, left, yesterday
recognized David Riker, director of "La Ciudad," a film about immigrants, and
two workers who act in the movie, Silvia Goiz and Cesar Monzon. (Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants on the Team

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 113 words



To the Editor:

An Oct. 25 Sports article reports that neither the Immigration and
Naturalization Service nor Congress will expedite the citizenship papers of
Khalid Khannouchi, who set a world record in the marathon on Sunday, so that he
can try out to compete on the United States team in the 2000 Olympic Games.

From the early Olympics to the 1993 world track and field championships, when
Mark Plaatjes, a newly naturalized American citizen from South Africa, won the
marathon, United States teams have traditionally featured immigrants. To deny
Mr. Khannouchi a place on the team would break this tradition.

DANIEL M. SCHULGASSER
Newark, Oct. 26, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 28, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Now Investigate I.N.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 81 words



To the Editor:

Re Anthony Lewis's Oct. 26 column on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's efforts to deport aliens on the basis of secret evidence: Having read
several columns by Mr. Lewis regarding the now common obtuse cases involving the
I.N.S. and its Dickensian bureaucratic morass, is this now the time to make a
citizen's request of Amnesty International to investigate the United States
immigration agency?

JUDITH ANN FRASER
Sausalito, Calif., Oct. 26, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 8, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

As New York City Immigration Thrives, Diversity Broadens

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 929 words


New York City is ending the century as it began -- oxygenated by immigrants --
with the new arrivals coming from an increasingly diverse set of nations and
settling over a broader swath of the city than ever before, according to a study
by the Department of City Planning to be released today.

From 1990 through 1996, about 113,000 immigrants arrived in the city each year,
rivaling the numbers that flowed to the five boroughs through Ellis Island from
just a few countries in southern and Eastern Europe at the turn of the century.

By comparison, not only do the newest New Yorkers come from places spanning the
globe, but since national and ethnic quotas were eliminated in 1965, no one
nationality or even ethnic group has predominated.

The results are evident in the city's many polyglot neighborhoods, where
products of a dozen different countries are sold in stores on a single block,
and in the city's schools, which have had to accommodate children of 196
different nationalities over the last few years.

"The increasing diversity of the stream is characteristic of New York's
immigration and one of its strengths," said Joseph B. Rose, the director of the
Planning Department.

The sheer variety and numbers of immigrants coming to New York City have already
begun to change its ethnic and racial balance, so that no one group has an
absolute majority.

City planners now predict that by next year, the group that once held a clear
majority -- non-Hispanic whites -- will have declined to 35 percent of the total
population. At the same time, the Hispanic share of the population will be 29
percent, the non-Hispanic black share will be 26 percent and Asians will make up
10 percent of the population. In 1970, non-Hispanic whites accounted for 63
percent; Hispanics, 16 percent; non-Hispanic blacks, 19 percent; and Asians, 2
percent.

Another result of the sustained flow of immigrants has been to offset drops in
the city's population caused by deaths and migration.

"Without immigration, we would have had net population declines, and we would be
like some of the older cities, like Detroit, where they have had devastating
population losses," said Rae Rosen, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York. But, she added, the steady flow of new immigrants has also taxed
some city resources like the already overcrowded school system.

The report by the Planning Department focuses on newly available data about
immigrants who settled in New York City in 1995 and 1996. A more detailed
report, which covered the period between 1990 and 1994, was released three years
ago.

There were no dramatic shifts between the periods, although immigration did
increase slightly over the years and the relative weight of some groups shifted.
Caribbean and Latin American immigration slowed, for example, while the numbers
of Russians and people from the former Soviet republics coming in each year
surged.

But taken together, the two reports document significant changes in all five
boroughs.

Over the seven years, the greatest numbers of people came from the Dominican
Republic, the former Soviet Union and China, a change from the 1980's, when
Jamaica held the second-place spot.

The fastest-growing groups, according to the city planning report, were from
Ghana, Nigeria, Bangladesh and Egypt. Those countries, among others, benefited
from the introduction of a visa lottery system that was aimed at giving
opportunities to people from a wider range of countries.

Although their numbers are still small -- only 5,000 immigrants from Ghana
arrived in the first seven years of the decade -- the first arrivals from a
country generally become the seeds of future immigration as they bring family
members to join them.

Barely a neighborhood in the city has not felt the impact of this decade's
immigrants. Manhattan, for example, absorbed 14 percent of the new arrivals in
the first seven years, most of them from Israel, Japan, Canada and Brazil. And
nearly 12,000 immigrants, chiefly from China, the former Soviet Union, the
Philippines and India, have settled on Staten Island, which has attracted few
new immigrants in the past.

More than a third of all the immigrants during this period settled in Brooklyn.
Immigrants from former Soviet republics led the way, accounting for one in three
of the new Brooklyn residents, but substantial numbers of Dominicans, Chinese,
Jamaicans, Guyanese, Poles and Haitians also came.

The same trend emerged in Queens, which has long been a magnet for immigrants.
It received substantial numbers of every national group, with the largest influx
from the Dominican Republic, the former Soviet Union and China.

The tight housing market meant that immigrants sought housing all over the city.
Nearly one in three newly arrived Dominicans, instead of concentrating in the
traditional enclave in Washington Heights in Manhattan, settled in Queens or
Brooklyn.

Similarly, more than half of the new arrivals from China and Taiwan moved into
neighborhoods outside the city's three Chinatowns in Manhattan; Sunset Park,
Brooklyn; and Flushing, Queens.

Where the immigrants first settled, however, is not necessarily where they have
remained. The settlement patterns listed in the Planning Department report were
derived from information immigrants provided to the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service at the time they obtained permanent resident status.
A more complete picture of where immigrants come from, where they live and what
they do will be provided after the 2000 census.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Settling in the City" -- More than 230,000 immigrants
settled in New York City in 1995 and 1996, for an annual average of 115,700.
According to the city's Department of Planning, this is a nearly 3 percent
increase.

WHERE THEY SETTLED: Map of New York city shows number of new immigrants,
1995-96, by ZIP code.

WHERE THERE CAME FROM
Under 750 Top 20 source countries, annual average
1995-96.

Former Soviet Union -- 20,327
Dominican Rep. -- 19,587
China -- 11,871
Jamaica -- 5,591
Guyana -- 5,570
Bangladesh -- 3,674
India -- 3,174
Haiti -- 3,048
Ecuador -- 2,983
Trinidad and Tobago -- 2,774
Phillippines -- 2,673
Poland -- 2,669
Pakistan -- 2,337
Colombia -- 2,275
Ghana -- 1,633
Korea -- 1,574
Nigeria -- 1,374
Former Yugoslavia -- 1,219
Peru -- 1,113
Egypt -- 1,071

(Source: New York City Department of Planning)(pg. B1)

Graph/Maps: "Finding a Home Away From Home"
Brooklyn and Queens absorbed most of New York Cirty's new immigrant population
in 1995 and 1996. Chart/Map provides a look at where the new residents settled.
(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 19, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Cabby Bias Debate, Rifts Go Beyond Skin Color

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words


The Manhattan borough president, C. Virginia Fields, held a public hearing in
Harlem this week in an effort to promote what she called "constructive
communication" about the difficulties that black New Yorkers face in hailing a
yellow cab.

What transpired inside an overheated, jam-packed room in the Harlem State Office
Building was an exchange of raw, emotional volleys across a vast gulf that went
far beyond the bias of taxi drivers.

Repeatedly, black men and women took to the lectern and wondered aloud how
immigrants from the world over could regard them all as would-be fare beaters
and criminals.

"I'm trying to figure out how foreigners come to this country and have such
negative information before they get here," said Donald Covington, 42, who
recalled a time when a cabdriver sped off just as he was putting one leg into
the car. He said he chased the cab, with a mind to break its windows.

Repeatedly, drivers of many colors and many accents, some of them dodging
snickers about their long names and slippery English, wondered aloud why no one
understood their plight. The leader of one drivers' group, Farooq Bhatti, an
immigrant from Pakistan, pledged, "We will work with you people."

To which a woman in the back, an African-American visibly offended by the
phrase, spat back, "You people!"

The renewed attention on cabdrivers who refuse to pick up blacks on the streets
of New York City has unearthed far deeper antipathies between black Americans
and immigrants of color. In so doing, it has pointed to apparently new terrain
in race relations in a city where racial rifts are driven not just by color, but
by language and immigration as well. In an industry once dominated by white men,
two-thirds of the city's yellow-cab drivers today are from South Asia, according
to estimates by city transportation officials, and a great many others are from
Africa.

"It takes an issue that was once a classic confrontation between blacks and
working-class whites," said Philip Kasinitz, a sociologist at Hunter College who
studies immigration to New York City, "and makes it now a conflict between
African-Americans and immigrants of color, including a lot of black immigrants."

But if the faces are different, some scholars say the latest tensions between
new immigrants and American-born blacks are, in fact, a lot like what was
happening earlier in the century, when it was Jewish, Irish and Italian
immigrants struggling for acceptance. Then, as now, blacks were a convenient
target, said Roger Waldinger, the chairman of the sociology department at the
University of California at Los Angeles.

"If you're perceived as an outsider, one way to make yourself an insider is to
say 'I'm not like them,' " said Mr. Waldinger, the author of "Still the Promised
City? African-Americans and New Immigrants in Post-Industrial New York" (Harvard
University Press, 1996). "I'm sure there's some of that going on here. I'm sure
that's not the only thing going on."

In the two weeks since the actor Danny Glover drew new attention to the issue of
discrimination by cabdrivers, some unusual alliances have emerged. Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani has been commended by some African-Americans for having started a
crackdown against cabbies who refuse to pick up blacks; today, 150 police
officers and taxi inspectors will comb the streets for drivers who discriminate.
Among black New Yorkers, there are also damning critiques of the mayor's
crusade.

And among South Asian residents, there are cries of scapegoating. After all,
some South Asians say, the problem that black New Yorkers face with cabdrivers
predates this latest group of immigrant drivers. And second-generation South
Asians who grew up lionizing the black civil rights struggles bemoan being
accused of racism.

Bhairavi Desai, 27, an organizer for the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a
drivers' group, who was raised in Harrison, N.J., said that the accounts by
blacks of indignities at the hands of South Asian drivers have been
"educational, but also saddening."

Perhaps the most poignant testimonies at the hearing in Harlem came from some of
the cabdrivers themselves, who seem to be as aware of the racist stereotypes
they have inherited as they are of those broad brush strokes applied against
them.

Samba Mbaye, from Senegal, recalled telling a friend back home of his plans to
move to an apartment in Harlem. The friend wrote back, he said, predicting that
he would be killed. "That guy's never been to this country!" he cried. "Where
did he learn Harlem is bad?"

He then issued a simple appeal: "Who wants respect gives respect."

But respect seemed to be in short supply. Drivers whose names and accents
reflected their immigrant origins were occasionally heckled. There were jokes
about green cards, and at one point, Ms. Fields gently admonished the audience
and asked that they let everyone speak.

"We really need your cooperation," she said. "We really need your respect."

A driver from Haiti, Yves Jules, grew increasingly emotional as he spoke of how
cabbies had taken a beating in recent weeks. "You are us, and we are you," he
said. "Most of you -- I like to give you a taxi for one day and to experience
our problem."

As he left the lectern, a woman in the back said, to no one in particular, "Half
of them drive without driver's licenses."

Yesterday, Ms. Fields said that she would present several recommendations to the
Taxi and Limousine Commission. One is that the map of Manhattan affixed inside
every New York City taxicab be extended beyond 96th Street, so as not to suggest
that northern Manhattan is, as she put it, "a wasteland."

Ms. Fields said she would also suggest that the commission expand its diversity
training. Currently, in their 80 hours of required schooling, all prospective
drivers take an eight-hour class on diversity. Ms. Fields suggested that drivers
be tested on their knowledge of the city's diversity before earning their hack
licenses.

The chairwoman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, Diane McGrath-McKechnie,
said there were no plans to amend the diversity training for drivers. Of the 11
drivers who were picked up last Friday, on the first day of the city's new
enforcement initiative, 4 have pleaded guilty and agreed to an additional eight
hours of sensitivity training, she said.

Mohammad Kazem, a cabdriver who emigrated from Iran, remembered his own
bewildering education in American race relations. He was 20 when he arrived in
New York in 1972. He was a soccer player, and his head was full of black heroes.
Pele, the Brazilian soccer player, and Muhammad Ali, the boxer, topped the list.
"I was looking up to them when everyone here -- a lot of people -- were looking
down at them," he said.

When he started driving a taxi 14 years ago, what he heard among veteran drivers
stunned him. "When they're trying to give advice, among many of them, one is not
to pick up black people," Mr. Kazem said.

Today, he said, he seizes on every opportunity to talk to both sides -- at the
delis where drivers gather for breaks, at the airports where they wait for
customers, and with his black customers, when they feel like talking. "It's not
that drivers are racist," he insisted. "They've been educated to think black
people are dangerous."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Where Laborers Are Handy but Shunned

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: BREWSTER, N.Y.


DEPENDING on whom you talk to, Tony Hay is either the soul of a new suburban
xenophobia or the last bulwark against Brewster as barrio.

The tiny Village of Brewster is in the outer suburbs where minivans are
replacing tractors and immigrants come in handy to mow the lawn or build a stone
wall. Sixty miles north of New York City, Brewster has taken on a distinctive
Hispanic flavor. Taco Loco is one of Main Street's busiest restaurants, Manny's
Taxi is owned by Manny Illescas, an Ecuadorean immigrant, and El Diario is
available at Scally's Deli.

Like corners in Brooklyn and Queens, and the main drags of close-in suburbs like
Mount Kisco and Glen Cove, the sidewalks here and in other semirural towns are
now impromptu hiring halls where immigrants gather each morning waiting for
contractors to hire them for the day.

There's plenty of work as land turns into lots in Putnam County, one of the
fastest-growing counties in New York. But some of the fresh ground that the
immigrants are manicuring has proved acidic.

Mr. Hay owns "Brewster's No. 1 discount beer supermarket," which he named On the
Border back when the border on everyone's mind was the one between New York and
Connecticut. He has tapped a keg of his strongest stuff and he is pouring it
freely.

"There's a cultural difference between Americans and Latinos," he says. "We
don't stand on the street looking for work. The average person will wake up at 8
o'clock and go to work. They wake up and go stand on the street corner and look
for work. I call it visual pollution."

Mr. Hay is no trained cultural anthropologist, but neither is he simply a
prominent beer distributor. He's the elected chairman of the Legislature in
Putnam, a county that is 95 percent white.

In a proposed resolution, he asked federal immigration officials to address what
he believes is an illegal immigration problem so "it will no longer return to
plague our community." His vision is cataclysmic.

"The World Trade Center blew up, planes are blown out of the sky," he said. "I'm
not saying it's Latinos, but they're all immigrants. The West Nile virus, they
laugh at me, but we don't know where that came from. If Saddam Hussein shaved
his mustache and spoke Spanish, he could come here and stand on the streets of
Brewster. Muammar Qaddafi, he could come here."

No terrorism has hit Brewster. Nor has crime increased, said Sheriff Robert
Thoubboron. But he said Mr. Hay had a point. The sheriff said that when his
officers arrest illegal immigrants, overwhelmed immigration officials tell him
to let them go.

"Either change the law so it's not on the books and it's not a crime, or beef up
enforcement," he said.

TOM OPDYKE, who owns the Bagel Depot opposite the train station, said, "Until
Tony Hay made a statement, everybody else had their head in the sand." He said
women are afraid of being harassed and some immigrant job seekers urinate in
public. "This was always the country," he said. "Now we're a little like the
city."

And as in cities, there are opposing viewpoints, strong ones. "It's big-time
prejudice," said George Sclavounos, a refugee from earthquakes in Greece in the
1950's who owns the 3 Star Deli here. He said immigrants have revived a fading
Main Street, and added: "We're not willing to cut our grass or climb up on our
roofs to clean our gutters. We want them to do our chores, but we don't want
them living around us."

At a legislative meeting last week, Mr. Hay's opponents came armed with a "Say
No to Hate!" petition. Mr. Hay withdrew his resolution after immigration
officials agreed to meet with Brewster officials.

But the anger continued. One man said, "when they jump the border down in
Mexico, do they give them a map of Mount Kisco and Brewster?" A county employee
told Mr. Hay she found his words "very hateful." Sam Oliverio Jr., another
county legislator, said Mr. Hay's actions threaten "the constitutional rights
that I, as a former serviceman, fought for."

Finally, Lone Hawk, of White Plains and the Gwich'in Nation, rose to say the
debate grieved him. "This is our land," he said. "We lived in peace until the
white man came."

Mr. Hawk was generous enough not to ask everyone to leave.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 67 words


Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Thursday about the
recruiting frenzy for technical talent in Silicon Valley referred imprecisely to
the immigration status of Canadian and Mexican workers. Visas are indeed
required, though under the North American Free Trade Agreement, provisions are
less restrictive for Canadians and Mexicans in some jobs than for other foreign
workers.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 23, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Hair Salon Was Overly Creative, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 807 words


There's no law against lying about your hair color, and Jacques Dessange Inc.
has always been willing to oblige brunettes wanting to be blond, or vice versa,
at its chic hair salons.

But there is a law against lying on visa applications, and federal prosecutors
said yesterday that the French beauty care company did just that so that dozens
of its Paris-trained stylists and colorists could work illegally in New York and
elsewhere, as part of the company's plan to rapidly expand in the United States.

A federal indictment filed in Manhattan charged the company and two of its New
York-based lawyers with conspiracy to commit immigration fraud. The company and
the lawyers were also charged with 30 counts of fraud each.

The company's president, Bernard Sagon, said in a statement that the charges
were a "gross and unfair overreaction" by United States authorities. To classify
the incidents described in the indictment as criminal, he said, was "a terrible
distortion of the facts."

Speaking by phone from Paris last night, Mr. Sagon said, "We react with
confusion, frustration and concern." He said talks with the government had
broken down.

"It was impossible to negotiate," he said, "because we are completely innocent."

The indictment said that in 1994, the company, which then had just one salon in
the United States, at 505 Park Avenue, decided to carry out its expansion plans
and create a chain of high-end French salons, with a goal of opening 100 across
the United States.

The company's officials in New York believed that it was "critical to bring a
large number of experienced French hairstylists and colorists to the United
States" to attract customers and create a quality image, the indictment said.

The company promised the owners of its franchises "a steady supply of French
stylists and colorists," the indictment said.

But to quickly send a large number of the French workers to the United States,
the indictment charged, a company vice president in New York, who was not named,
and the two lawyers applied for a special visa that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service reserves only for high-level managers who are being
transferred by their company to the United States.

Ultimately, about 50 stylists and colorists who were otherwise ineligible for
the special visas were admitted into the United States to work in salons, the
indictment said.

In many cases, it said, their visa applications falsely stated that they were to
be paid salaries of $1,000 a week. In reality, the indictment charged, most of
the workers "were guaranteed only a substantially lower salary."

The company and the two lawyers charged in the case, Howard Deutsch and Libby
Salberg, will be arraigned on Dec. 2 in Federal District Court in Manhattan,
prosecutors said. None of the French workers were charged.

Mr. Deutsch's lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, said: "Howard has done nothing to
violate the law. The evidence in this case is going to show that he had no
motive to commit any crime, nor did he commit any crime."

He and Ms. Salberg's lawyer, Catherine L. Redlich, said their clients would
plead not guilty. Ms. Redlich declined to comment further.

If convicted, Jacques Dessange Inc. could face a fine of $500,000 on each count,
said the office of Mary Jo White, the United States attorney in Manhattan.

Mr. Sagon said the company had relied on its New York lawyers and was the victim
of "receiving bad legal advice." He said the company filed a legal malpractice
suit against the firm of Deutsch & Salberg last month in State Supreme Court in
Manhattan.

Mr. Sagon said the company, which operates 600 salons around the world, still
had only 5 in the United States, and he disputed the contention that the company
had sought a rapid expansion.

But he said the company did want to bring in its specially trained stylists,
saying they offered something unique. "Jacques Dessange is a French company with
a French style," Mr. Sagon said.

Reactions to the charges were mixed yesterday in the world of New York hair
salons.

The stylist Garren, of Garren New York at Henri Bendel, said he was not aware of
the allegations, but speaking generally, added that Jacques Dessange appeared to
have wanted to "create what they created in Paris and bring it to America."

"That's basically what they were trying to do," he said, "the whole package,
that women feel that they have stepped into the door of a Paris salon, and
experience what they would have experienced in Europe."

But Grace Figueroa, assistant to the president of Jean Louis David, a French
hair salon chain with 10 stores in New York, sniffed at the idea that the French
had unique hair techniques that could not be emulated by their American
counterparts.

"I highly doubt that the French have developed something special to them," she
added.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Jacques Dessange hair salon on Park Avenue is one of five in
the United States. Federal prosecutors accuse the company of lying on visa
applications to bring Paris-based stylists and colorists to America. (Ozier
Muhammad/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 25, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Young Man Who Traveled Far on Hopes of a Better Life

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 605 words


Like thousands of young men before him, Eduardo Daniel said goodbye to his
hometown -- this one in the poor and arid state of Puebla in southern Mexico --
and, with a satchel of clothes, went north for a new life in New York.

After he crossed the Mexican frontier illegally two years ago, friends said, Mr.
Daniel wound up in Brooklyn, where he worked at a series of menial jobs from
restaurant dishwasher to floor sweeper. In his latest job, he toiled for $8 an
hour at a construction site in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. His dream, friends said,
was to earn enough money to return to Mexico and build his own home.

Those plans, however, ended on Tuesday, when the unfinished building where Mr.
Daniel was working collapsed. Mr. Daniel, 22, was killed and nine other workers,
eight of them also Mexican immigrants, were seriously injured by a cascade of
wet concrete.

Last night, Mr. Daniel's cousin, Martha Ramirez, her husband, Miguel, and
friends from the same Mexican village, San Matias Cocoyotla -- all of whom share
a home in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn -- said they were trying to arrange shipment
of Mr. Daniel's body home for burial. Mr. Daniel's parents, Eduardo Daniel Sr.
and Teresa Gutierrez, have been informed of their son's death and have asked his
friends here to plan the return of the body.

To advocates who have long decried the working conditions of illegal immigrants,
news that a poor laborer had died was nothing new. Sister Peggy Walsh, who has
worked with immigrants in Williamsburg for 40 years, said that Mexicans were now
among the most vulnerable newcomers. Numbering about 50,000 in the 1990 census,
the Mexican community here has grown to more than 300,000, demographers
estimate. Many of them are like Mr. Daniel -- young men who intend to work here
for a few years and then return home.

"Even if they are married in Mexico they are living by themselves here," she
said. "They're living in a room that eventually houses six or seven men. It is
very lonely."

Ms. Ramirez said of Mr. Daniel, "He was humble people, a worker, someone who
came here so he could have a better life." She recalled Mr. Daniel as a jokester
who would clown around with her brothers, Gustavo and Miguel, who were injured
in the building collapse.

Living in New York, though, was mostly about working, she said. There was little
time for recreation, and it was often difficult for Mr. Daniel. "He was lonely
without his family," Ms. Ramirez said. "He would think of his parents and family
all the time."

Friends said Mr. Daniel found comfort in his plans, like many Mexicans who toil
in New York.

"He wanted to earn enough to go back and build a house," Ms. Ramirez said. "He
said he'd go back next year, in 2000. He wanted to go back and see his
grandmother, who has been sick."

Mr. Daniel's friends said he was full of youthful bravado and oblivious to any
dangers. He would never have thought twice about taking a job, even a risky one,
the friends said. At his home, he never spoke about work, let alone about any
concern he may have had about his safety.

"No one comes home and talks about work or their problems," said Miguel Ramirez.
"We go to work, not to worry whether this or that will hold up. We all come here
for a dream. We come here to get what we can. Some of us get it. Others don't."

Friends and relatives said Mr. Daniel would be buried in a cemetery outside of
his Mexican village and that they expected many of the town's 5,000 residents to
attend the funeral. The casket, they said, would be paraded through the dusty
streets, with mariachis leading the way, in the Mexican tradition.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words



THE AMERICAS

PANAMA: U.S. REVOKES EX-LEADER'S VISA -- Former President Ernesto Perez
Balladares, who is accused of participating in a ring that sold illegal United
States visas to Chinese immigrants, has had his tourist visa revoked, according
to the Panamanian newspaper La Prensa. In August Samantha Smith, the former head
of Panama's National Security Council, accused Mr. Perez Balldares of selling
some 140 visas for as much as $15,000 apiece. Mr. Perez Balladares, who left
office in September, has denied any involvement.   David Gonzalez (NYT)


MEXICO: DEPOSITS FOR U.S. CARS -- Mexico will begin on Wednesday to collect
deposits of up to $800 for United States-registered cars crossing the border.
Officials said the new system would avoid fraud and corruption, and tried to
reassure people residing in the United States that their money would be safe.
Under the program, any driver with American license plates will need to leave a
cash or credit-card deposit at the border when they enter Mexico. They will
recover their deposits when they leave.   (AP)

MEXICO: RECONCILIATION -- Eighteen days after the governing party's presidential
primary, President Ernesto Zedillo was the host at a reconciliation meeting
between the winner, Francisco Labastida Ochoa, and his closest rival, Roberto
Madrazo Pintado. The candidates had traded insults during the campaign, but they
embraced during the meeting. Mr. Madrazo said he would return to the
governorship of Tabasco, from which he had taken leave.   Sam Dillon (NYT)

EUROPE

ITALY: EX-PREMIER FACES TRIAL -- Silvio Berlusconi, a media tycoon who heads the
center-right opposition, was ordered to stand trial in Milan, his second
indictment on corruption charges this week. Since leaving office in 1994, he has
been convicted of bribing tax inspectors and false accounting. Now he is charged
with trying to bribe judges over a sale involving a holding company. Mr.
Berlusconi sued the judge who ordered him to stand trial, claiming he is biased.

   Alessandra Stanley (NYT)

BRITAIN: BACK IN OFFICE -- Michael Portillo, the former defense secretary who
lost his parliamentary seat and the chance to become Conservative party leader
in the Labor landslide of 1997, is back in the Commons, victor in a London
by-election. He pledged his loyalty to the current Tory head, William Hague,
whose troubled leadership has raised questions about his future.   Warren Hoge
(NYT)

GERMANY: BUDGET CUTS APPROVED -- The lower house of Parliament approved a budget
for 2000 that includes cuts in Germany's generous social welfare system. The
cuts have set off protests by pensioners, public
employees and others. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who heads a center-left
coalition, said the aim was to balance the budget by 2006 and slash the $780
billion debt run up while rebuilding the formerly communist East Germany.   (AP)


SPAIN: EX-OFFICIALS CHARGED -- Two former interior ministers, Jose Luis Corcuera
and Jose Barrionuevo, who served under the former Prime Minister Felipe
Gonzalez, face jail terms of 10 and 7 years respectively if convicted of
embezzling $8 million in government funds.   Al Goodman (NYT)

ASIA

AFGHANISTAN: DANGEROUS MUSEUM -- The world's most dangerous museum has been
defused, the United Nations office in Islamabad, Pakistan, reported. The museum
was set up in Zendajan, in Harat province, to educate Afghans about the hazards
of land mines, and contained 463 unexploded weapons, from aircraft bombs to
mortar shells. Peter LeSoeur, a technical adviser in charge of the Afghan
ordnance disposal team, said one accidental detonation in the museum, which
adjoined two schools, would have destroyed everything within a half mile.
Christopher S. Wren (NYT)

CHINA: 4 FOREIGNERS RELEASED -- Four foreigners who were detained as followers
of the banned Falun Gong spiritual movement were released. The police raided a
meeting in the southern city of Guangzhou on Thursday and held 15 followers,
including a Chinese-American, two Chinese-Australians and a Swedish student. The
Swede was sent back to the school she is attending in the northeastern city of
Dalian, and the other three were deported.   (Agence France-Presse)

PAKISTAN: EX-LEADER FACES COURT DELAY -- For the second time, the antiterrorism
court has allowed a delay in the bringing of formal charges against the ousted
prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, giving prosecutors until Dec. 4 to file official
papers. During a brief hearing, Mr. Sharif met his brother Shahbaz for the first
time since the Oct. 12 coup. The two embraced. "We are innocent," the former
prime minister told reporters. "Gen. Pervez Musharraf has made this a personal
vendetta against us." Mr. Sharif was referring to allegations that he and others
conspired to hijack the general's airliner and kill all those aboard.   Barry
Bearak (NYT)

AFRICA

MOROCCO: EXILES TO RETURN -- The family of Mehdi Ben Barka, the opposition
leader who disappeared in France in 1965, are to return to Morocco today after
decades of banishment, his son, Bachir Ben Barka, said on French television. The
family's return follows the death this year of King Hassan II, whose son
Muhammad VI has taken steps to allow prominent exiles to return. The elder Mr.
Ben Barka, an outspoken opponent of King Hassan II, disappeared after being
picked up by the French police on Oct. 29, 1965. His body was never found.
(Agence France-Presse)

ETHIOPIA: EX-DICTATOR SOUGHT -- Ethiopia called on South Africa to extradite the
former dictator, Mengistu Haile Mariam, to face charges of human rights
violations. Mr. Mengistu fled to Zimbabwe in 1991 when he was overthrown after
16 years in power, but recently sought treatment in South Africa for a heart
ailment.   Ian Fisher (NYT)

TANZANIA: AFRICA'S TALLEST PEAK -- Mount Kilimanjaro is 10 feet shorter than
previously thought, scientists said. Tanzanian and German scientists scaled the
mountain earlier this year and, with the aid of the Global Positioning System,
set the peak's height at 19,442.8 feet. Rising sea levels, compression of the
mountain over the years and previous errors account for the 10-foot difference,
they said. In May, American mountaineers measured Mount Everest's height at
29,035 feet -- 6.6 feet higher than officially recognized for 45 years.   (AP)


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 28, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Special Treatment

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 209 words



To the Sports Editor:

I believe that the writers of the article regarding the marathon runner Khalid
Khannouchi's quest to obtain American citizenship in time to compete in the 2000
Olympic Games ("Khannouchi's All-American Performance," The Times, Nov. 21)
misunderstand the process.

Khannouchi has to date applied for permanent residency, not citizenship. The
granting of permanent residency (the "green card") does not confer the automatic
right to become a citizen three years later. As the holder of a green card, and
the spouse of an American citizen, Khannouchi is eligible to apply for
citizenshp three years after the issuance of the card. Upon submission of the
naturalization papers, there is at least a 12-month wait for processing,
followed by the final interview, and then the swearing-in.

Consequently, even without the problems encountered as a result of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service officer's malfeasance, there was no hope
of Khannouchi's being naturalized in time to compete for the United States in
the Games.

Trying to speed up this process, which all prospective citizens necessarily
submit to, must surely be described as special treatment for the runner.

L. J. CALVERLEY
Newtown, Conn.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Future Unclear For Cuban Boy In Doomed Boat

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 28


The 5-year-old Cuban boy who survived two days adrift in the Atlantic on an
inner tube may find himself at the heart of an unusual international custody
case.

The Cuban government said today that the father of the boy, Elian Gonzalez,
wants his son returned to Cuba. At the same time, the powerful Cuban American
National Foundation, an exile group based in Miami, circulated a picture of
Elian under the heading, "Another Child Victim of Fidel Castro."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which released the boy into the
custody of an uncle in Miami, said his fate was uncertain.

Elian was among 13 people on a 17-foot aluminum boat that sank on Tuesday, two
days after it left Cuba for Florida. He and two adults survived and were found
by fishermen; his mother died in the accident.

The bodies of seven people on the boat were found in Florida coastal waters. The
Coast Guard called off the search for the other three on Saturday after
searching 5,000 square miles of ocean.

Cuba said today that it had asked the United States to return the boy, saying he
was taken illegally.

Cuba's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the boy's father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez Quintana, remained in Cuba and had asked that his son be handed back to
him.

The immigration service released the boy to relatives on Friday after he was
treated at a hospital for exposure. The agency said he was freed quickly because
the government did not want to cause him more trauma.

Elian's case may present an unusual challenge for the immigration agency and,
ultimately, state or federal courts, experts said.

"This is a unique one because he came with a mother who died at sea," said
Bernie Perlmutter, head of the University of Miami Law School's Children and
Youth Law Clinic. Generally, United States law dictates that a child should be
raised by a parent, Mr. Perlmutter said.

"On the other hand, if the child has a desire to stay and is old enough to
articulate that desire," he added, "it is conceivable that might outweigh the
right of the parent. But in this case we are talking about a child of tender
years."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Frees Man Jailed 3 Years On Secret Data

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words


Attorney General Janet Reno declined to block the release last night of an
Egyptian man who had been held for three and a half years in a New York jail on
secret evidence that the F.B.I. had said linked him to terrorists in the United
States and Egypt.

When Ms. Reno did not intervene in the case of Nasser K. Ahmed, he was allowed
to leave the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower Manhattan last night, and
was met by his wife, Salwa Al-Byadi, and their three children. In a brief
statement, Mr. Ahmed thanked his lawyers and lashed out at his accusers.

In a telephone interview afterward, he alleged that the government conspired
against him. "It's been three and half years now, and I still have no idea who
accused me or why they accused me." Page B12.

The attorney general's decision came 10 days after the I.N.S. commissioner,
Doris M. Meissner, took the unusual step of citing "national security
implications" as a basis for asking Ms. Reno to order that Mr. Ahmed not be
released on bond while his case was reviewed by the I.N.S.

The immigration service, using classified evidence, had sought to deport Mr.
Ahmed to Egypt after he overstayed his visa. Mr. Ahmed, 39, had been a legal
assistant in the trial of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian cleric convicted
of conspiring to blow up the United Nations and other New York landmarks. Mr.
Ahmed has admitted to being an admirer of Mr. Abdel Rahman, but has denied
involvement in terrorism.

One of Mr. Ahmed's lawyers, David D. Cole, said last night that with Ms. Reno's
decision, he was now optimistic that Mr. Ahmed would be granted political
asylum, which he has sought for more than three years.

"The fact that the attorney general rejected the immigration service's argument
that he is a threat to national security should dispose of this case," said Mr.
Cole, also a law professor at Georgetown University.

Ms. Reno had said she would decide whether to intervene in the case by 5 p.m.
yesterday. With no action by her as the deadline neared, the I.N.S. said that
"upon further review" it was withdrawing its request that Mr. Ahmed continue to
be held.

Mr. Ahmed's case is not yet over -- he is free on personal bond pending a final
ruling by the Board of Immigration Appeals on whether he should be granted
asylum -- but Ms. Reno's decision not to intervene is likely to be seen as
another blow to the use of secret evidence by the I.N.S. in deportation
proceedings.

The attorney general has the authority to review and overturn decisions of the
immigration courts, which are part of the Justice Department. Last summer, an
immigration judge, after reviewing the government's classified evidence against
Mr. Ahmed, concluded that he was not a threat to national security and ordered
that he be granted asylum.

The I.N.S. appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals, which recently ordered
Mr. Ahmed released on bond pending its review of his case. The I.N.S. then
appealed that decision to free Mr. Ahmed to Ms. Reno.

Last month, in a case involving a Palestinian immigrant, a federal district
judge in New Jersey ruled, for the first time in the United States, that it was
unconstitutional to detain an immigrant on the basis of secret evidence. Soon
after, the I.N.S. ended its efforts to hold Hany Kiareldeen, who had been in
jail for 19 months after being accused of terrorism.

Neither Ms. Reno nor Commissioner Meissner would respond to questions about the
case.

But Mr. Ahmed's lawyers and others who have criticized the use of secret
evidence, calling it a violation of due process, said they hoped that the
decision indicated a rethinking of the practice at the highest levels of the
government.

"I'm pleased that he's released," said Representative David E. Bonior of
Michigan, who has introduced legislation to ban the use of classified evidence
in deportation proceedings.  "But we still have about 20 others who are being
held, and it's a travesty of justice that this continues in our country without
people having the right to face their accusers."

Arab-American groups hailed the release of Mr. Ahmed last night.

Aly R. Abuzaakouk, executive director of the American Muslim Council in
Washington, said: "Three and a half years is a long time to wait. Should we
celebrate tonight, or should we decry the fact that in America, a man was behind
bars for so many years on the basis of secret evidence?"

Mr. Abuzaakouk charged that secret evidence was unreliable, unjust and
unconstitutional. He said, "The only thing that keeps secret evidence alive is
the politics of fear."

Mr. Ahmed, who was taken into custody in April 1996, had been held longer than
any others who were detained on classified evidence, his lawyers said. Some,
including Mr. Ahmed, have been held for long periods in solitary confinement.

Mr. Ahmed had sought asylum on the ground that he was likely to be persecuted
and tortured if he was deported to Egypt. As well as being an admirer of Mr.
Abdel Rahman, who has called for the overthrow of the Egyptian government, Mr.
Ahmed is accused by the I.N.S. of belonging to an Egyptian terrorist group of
which Mr. Abdel Rahman is said to be the spiritual leader.

Although parts of the case against Mr. Ahmed remain secret, a recently
declassified summary of the evidence shows that the immigration judge, Donn
Livingston, sharply criticized the government's case, calling it "double or
triple hearsay."

He also questioned the reliability of some government sources, and said one was
described as "a friendly foreign intelligence service."

Saying he had a "very real concern" that the Egyptian government might be the
source of secret evidence against Mr. Ahmed, Judge Livingston cited "the very
real danger that the Egyptian government" was seeking to silence Mr. Abdel
Rahman, one of its harshest critics, by persecuting Mr. Ahmed.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nasser K. Ahmed after his release from a federal detention
center. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. A1); From right, Nasser K.
Ahmed after his release from jail yesterday, his daughter, Nagwi, 5, and son
Ahmad, 10. He is seeking political asylum. (Frances Roberts for The New York
Times)(pg. B12)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Freedom Begins With Elation and Prayer

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


One of the first things that Nasser K. Ahmed did in his first hour of freedom
last night was to pray for five minutes at the Al-Bader mosque, about a
half-block from his apartment in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.

"It is a Muslim tradition," he explained. "You praise God when he delivers you
from trouble."

Mr. Ahmed, 39, was allowed to leave the Metropolitan Correctional Center in
Manhattan at 8:15 p.m. after three and a half years in federal detention while
the Immigration and Naturalization Service sought to deport him to Egypt using
secret evidence.

Mr. Ahmed was elated to be able to return home to his wife of 13 years, Salwa
Al-Byadi, 38, formerly a physician in Egypt, and their three children, but he
was still bitter at the United States government.

"Oh, boy, the kids are driving me crazy now, taking Polaroids of everybody," Mr.
Ahmed said in a telephone interview. "It's been three and half years now, and I
still have no idea who accused me or why they accused me. But this I know. What
the government did was similar to what happened in Waco, Tex. They tried to
destroy that religion, the Branch Davidians. There is no doubt that this, too,
is a government conspiracy."

Some of the evidence against Mr. Ahmed was released and successfully refuted by
his lawyers. Perhaps the most damaging allegation was that Mr. Ahmed visited
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric convicted in 1995 of
conspiring to plant bombs at the United Nations and other New York landmarks,
and that Mr. Ahmed carried one of the cleric's letters out of prison. When
published, the letter is said to have led to an attack by Muslim fundamentalists
against tourists in Egypt in 1996.

"But there were at least two other people at the prison three days before I
visited," said Mr. Ahmed, who denies any involvement in terrorism.

Mr. Ahmed acted as a paralegal for the sheik during his trial. "I definitely
admire and respect and love him," Mr. Ahmed said. "And he did not do what the
government said he did."

Mr. Ahmed, who worked as an electrical engineer before he was detained, doubts
that he could return to his job after so much time. "I may have to go back to
school," he said. "My future is the most difficult question to answer now."





http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Future of Elian Gonzalez

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 401 words


In the Florida Straits, where so many Cubans have lost their lives trying to
make their way across the last cold-war barrier to the United States, another
small, overloaded boat has sunk, apparently drowning a young woman and casting
her 5-year-old son adrift. For two days after the 17-foot boat went down, Elian
Gonzalez clung to an inner tube before fishermen on Thanksgiving morning found
him and two adults who had survived. His pluck kept him alive, and brought him
to the country his mother and stepfather may have died trying to reach. Their
bodies have not been found.

The question now is, where should Elian Gonzalez be? Authorities in Cuba, where
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, lives, allege that the boy was kidnapped by
his mother. On Sunday the father formally asked for his son's return. But the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that it had already
legally paroled Elian to relatives living in Miami. "His mother was bringing him
to freedom," the boy's uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, said, "and we don't want him to
go back to a Communist system."

If the Coast Guard had found the boy at sea, United States policy would have
directed that he be sent back to Cuba. But because the fishermen brought him to
land, he has the legal right to stay, and that right should not be hastily
abridged because of Elian's age.

The numbers of Cuban boat people are growing after a downturn in the mid-1990's.
A total of 2,254 arrived here this year, while 1,265 were stopped in open water.
Another boatload of Cubans drowned last December.

The effort to win new life here costs lives, and creates dilemmas to test the
wisdom of a Solomon. If the boy's father wishes, he can petition for custody of
Elian, and legal proceedings in Florida will decide who should raise him. The
I.N.S. could give the father permission to come to this country and testify.

Whatever happens, the American system must now accord Elian Gonzalez the same
care and protection that any child would receive in a custody case. That could
mean having a family court consider the child's wishes, once he has had time to
recover from the shock of losing his mother and also to determine the best home
environment for him.  His father has a right to press his claim, and American
authorities have an obligation to make an apolitical judgment that serves the
boy's needs rather than any political interest.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Government Enters Fight for Boy

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 29


The father of a 5-year-old Cuban boy who drifted in the Atlantic Ocean for two
days on an inner tube before he was rescued on Thanksgiving Day has enlisted the
aid of the Cuban government in seeking his child's custody.

According to reports from Havana, Elian Gonzalez's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
and Cuban government officials have lodged complaints with American diplomats in
Havana accusing Elian's mother of kidnapping the boy. The mother, who was
divorced from Mr. Gonzalez, was among 13 people who had packed themselves into a
17-foot aluminum boat in an effort to flee Cuba. She is believed to have been
killed along with nine others when the boat capsized on the 90-mile journey to
Florida.

While immigration lawyers say surviving parents are normally awarded custody,
this case has been complicated by the tensions between the United States and
Cuba. Immigration officials said that they had fulfilled their responsibilities
and that Elian would be eligible to apply to become a permanent resident after a
year and a day. The boy is staying in Miami with relatives of his father, and
immigration officials said that unless the families could work out their
differences the matter would be decided by a judge.

Relatives said Mr. Gonzalez, a doorman at a tourist hotel in the resort town of
Varadero, had agreed to let Elian stay in Miami. But in a Cuban news program
last night, Mr. Gonzalez was reported to have said he did not give permission
for his child to be taken away. "If the United States is such a country of human
rights, they should return my child," he said on the broadcast.

In a statement released Sunday, the Cuban Foreign Ministry said it had begun to
draft documents needed to obtain the child's return. The ministry blamed the
United States for what it called stupid immigration policies under the Cuban
Adjustment Act that grant asylum to refugees who set foot on American soil.

"It is on the government of the United States that the responsibility falls
entirely for these new and painful deaths of Cuban citizens," the statement
said. "Because of the unreasonable way in which that country promotes,
stimulates and rewards illegal immigration."

James Rubin, a State Department spokesman, rebutted the Cuban accusations today,
saying the American government did not condone illegal immigration from Cuba.

"It is reprehensible that anyone would suggest the U.S. is responsible in any
way for these tragic deaths," Mr. Rubin said. "We stay strong in our commitment
to encourage safe, legal and orderly migration and urge individuals in Cuba to
refrain from attempting to migrate illegally."

In an interview with The Associated Press, Mr. Gonzalez said he would be willing
to travel to the United States to claim his son. Spencer Eig, a lawyer
representing Elian, said he hoped the father would come to the United States,
although for other reasons.

"After what Elian has been through, the last thing he needs is more conflict,"
Mr. Eig said. "We are hoping the United States government takes a humanitarian
approach and allows the boy to stay as a Cuban refugee. I also think it would be
helpful if they make it possible for his father to visit him here. He would see
how wonderfully his son is adjusting to life."

Mr. Gonzalez would also see how his son had become a symbol beyond a mere
custody fight. While such battles have always had the potential for
contentiousness, this one has the added element of international squabbling and
exile politics.

Elian has become a poster boy for the Cuban American National Foundation, an
influential lobbying group. The foundation has printed 4,000 posters that
feature a picture of Elian under the caption: "Another Child Victim of Fidel
Castro."

"He is a heroic boy," Mr. Eig said. "He is perhaps the last hero in the 20th
century battle against totalitarianism."

David Abraham, a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami, said
the politically and emotionally charged themes swirling around the custody case
could obscure the basic issues.

"It is sad, because the Cuban American National Foundation is using this boy as
a poster child of immigration to demonstrate the tyranny of the Cuban regime,"
Mr. Abraham said. "They're saying it's forcing even 5-year-olds to leave the
country, but he is a personal victim of these tragedies. He lost a parent, and
now he's in a situation because his father is still in Cuba. These tragedies are
the result of the failure of both countries to regulate immigration normally."

The failure to do so, combined with Cuban unhappiness over the island's economic
and political climate, have also led to an increase in rafters trying to enter
the United States. A Coast Guard spokesman said 1,265 Cuban immigrants were
picked up this year, doubling last year's total.

Max Castro, a senior research associate at the North-South Center at the
University of Miami, said the refugee flow was spurred by a belief among Cubans
that they could expect little change from their government.

"The idea of rebelling against the government is not something they believe in
or can see," Mr. Castro said. "They do not see that as something imminent. So
what do they do? As perilous as it is, the softest wall in this equation is the
wall of the sea."

He added that both Cuba and the United States could take measures to allow for
easier immigration and improved economic opportunities for the Cuban people.

"All the players could do things to ease the situation," Mr. Castro said. "But
it is at an impasse and the people are getting crushed. What they look at as the
best option, at least some people, will lead inevitably to more tragedies like
this. But nobody wants to say 'Uncle.' "


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elian Gonzalez with Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a
Cuban-American politician, yesterday at the home of his relatives in Miami. (C.
M. Guerrero/El Nuevo Herald, via Associated Press); Juan Miguel Gonzalez, 31,
the father of 5-year-old Elian Gonzalez, wants the United States to return his
son to his home near Havana. (Jose Goitia/Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 2, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Boy's Rights

SECTION: Section A;  Page 34;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 143 words



To the Editor:

Re "The Future of Elian Gonzalez" (editorial, Nov. 30):

The parental rights of the father of Elian Gonzalez, a 5-year-old Cuban boy
found adrift in the Straits of Florida, should not be determined by litigation
in a Florida courtroom. The decision regarding paternal custody should be blind
to the national origin and political views of the father.

However much we may desire that this child have the benefit of United States
citizenship, we do not have the right to deny him an expeditious return to his
biological father because of ideological concerns or missteps by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Had this tragic story occurred outside the political framework of United
States-Cuban relations, surely the child would be reunited with his father by
now.

FREDERICK GARBRECHT
Philadelphia, Nov. 30, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 2, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Woes

SECTION: Section A;  Page 34;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 113 words



To the Editor:

The situation in Farmingville, N.Y. (front page, Nov. 28) is a textbook example
of how the current wave of mass immigration is setting Americans against
Americans, creating both winners and losers. The winners here are the landlords
and contractors. The losers are the local residents, who, when they complain
that the flood of newcomers is making their lives difficult, are condemned as
racists by the winners.

If the pattern holds, many Farmingville residents will end up joining the
millions of native-born Americans who have packed up and moved away from regions
of high immigration over the last decade.

JOHN BROCK
New York, Nov. 29, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 4, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

6 Iran Scholars Drop Meeting, Faulting I.N.S.

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3


Six Iranian scholars invited to a conference in Georgetown University have
canceled their participation, saying they were harassed and humiliated by
immigration officials on arriving at Kennedy International Airport, the
organizer of the event said today.

The organizer, John L. Esposito, director of the Center of Muslim-Christian
Understanding at the university, said the Iranians described being fingerprinted
and then ridiculed by officials who detained them at the airport for several
hours on Wednesday.

The scholars were granted visas under the People to People program sponsored by
the State Department as part of a Clinton administration effort to encourage a
dialogue between the two long-estranged countries. As part of the two-month
process to apply for visas, their backgrounds were researched by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, and the six, all men, were cleared, Mr. Esposito said.

One of the men said an immigration official had made derisive comments when the
group said they wanted to pray, Mr. Esposito said. When one man raised his hands
to signal that it was time to begin prayers, an official said, "Oh, that's what
you do when you want to commit suicide," an apparent reference to the theory
that a pilot on the EgyptAir flight that crashed recently had prayed and then
put the plane into a suicide plunge.

The Iranians were fingerprinted on arrival under rules that require citizens of
Iraq, Iran and Sudan to be fingerprinted to insure that they are not members of
a terrorist organization or have histories of terrorism, a State Department
official said.

Mr. Esposito said the scholars felt that they had been singled out because they
wore religious clothes and most had beards. The scholars said other Iranians on
the Turkish Airlines flight did not appear to be treated so roughly, Mr.
Esposito recounted.

A spokesman for the State Department, James P. Rubin, stressed today that the
Administration supported people-to-people exchanges, adding, "We are engaged in
active dialogue with the Department of Justice and the I.N.S. to try to insure
that we can make the procedures as minimally intrusive as possible."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 5, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SUNSET PARK;
Translating a Call for Help

BYLINE: By KATYA KAZAKINA

SECTION: Section 14; Page 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 415 words


Guo Tian Liang stood on a dark street corner in Sunset Park a few weeks ago
inspecting his empty leather wallet. The $40 it had contained moments earlier
was gone. So was his cell phone. So were the three men who had just robbed him
on his way home from work.

Mr. Liang, 39, a recent immigrant who works as a masseur in Manhattan, did not
know enough English to explain the details of the assault to officers of the
72nd Precinct. Instead, he went to the Brooklyn Chinese American Association, a
neighborhood organization that, among other things, assists crime victims with
translation. With its help, he filed a police report three days later.

Many of Mr. Liang's compatriots in Sunset Park are not so lucky. The
neighborhood, formerly an enclave for Scandinavians, has become home to New
York's third-largest Chinese community. In most cases, the language barrier and
cultural differences make it almost impossible for Chinese immigrants to
communicate with the police.

"More than 50 percent of Chinese people would not call the police unless it's a
murder or some other big trouble," said Leung Yuk Wong, who works at the
Brooklyn Chinese American Association. Many Chinese residents in Sunset Park
report muggings only if their documents are stolen.

Along with their cuisine, culture and language -- Eighth Avenue in Sunset Park
has been transformed into a miniature Chinatown -- Chinese immigrants brought
certain perceptions, among them the feeling that the police are not people to
whom they can turn in the event of a problem.

"Because most of the police officers in China are corrupt, people think it's the
same thing here," said Mr. Wong, who left China six years ago.

The police agree with this assessment. "When crimes are committed, they don't
have confidence to come out and report them," said Detective Anthony Spencer of
the 72nd Precinct. The problem is heightened by the small number of Chinese
police officers; the precinct has only two, while the local Chinese population
is estimated at between 40,000 and 70,000.

To bridge the linguistic gap and encourage Chinese residents to report more
incidents, community advocates and the police developed an Asian crime phone
line three years ago. Luis Kotung, who runs the program out of the 72nd Precinct
and oversees its 50 volunteers, said the line was set up so the police do not
only "listen to the side that speaks English." To date, he said, they have
received about 1,000 calls.   KATYA KAZAKINA


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Language and cultural barriers make many Chinese leery of the
police. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 8, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Brookhaven Passes Law Limiting Rentals

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY


The Brookhaven Town Council yesterday unanimously passed a law that will sharply
limit the number of people who can live in rental properties.

Proponents of the new law say it will end the overcrowding cited in several
recent fires that claimed the lives of a number of immigrants. Opponents charge
that it is an attempt to rid the Suffolk County town of the Mexican immigrants
who have been drawn there in recent years by the plentiful work.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 9, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Honors Nun for Aiding Refugees

BYLINE: By NED KILKELLY

SECTION: Section B; Page 28; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 591 words


Monday was a whirlwind day for Sister Jean Marshall, a Dominican nun from the
Bronx. She flew to Washington, had lunch at the State Department, then went to
the White House to receive the Eleanor Roosevelt Human Rights Award from
President Clinton.

Tuesday, it was back to normal. She juggled phone calls, scheduled meetings,
worked on several grants that are due next week and ate half a sandwich at her
desk at the St. Rita's Center for Immigrant and Refugee Services, which she
founded 16 years ago to help the Cambodian and Vietnamese immigrants then
flooding the borough.

"I was a teacher for 21 years, and found that people were picking food out of
the garbage," she said from her office on Tuesday. "I dropped everything and
decided to go into refugees service. I didn't know a thing. I had to learn
everything. Now we have people from eight different countries speaking eight
different languages."

What St. Rita's does, Sister Marshall said, is help recent immigrants and
refugees ease the transition from a life on the run, often in wartime, to life
in a new country that to them seems to offer nothing but promise.

They come to St. Rita's for English classes, legal and medical services,
employment counseling, preparation in becoming citizens and after-school and
youth programs.

President Clinton, in his remarks at the White House on Monday, said Sister
Marshall and St. Rita's has helped "thousands of refugees, from Vietnam to
Cambodia to Bosnia, to find jobs, learn English, live better lives."

Sister Marshall was one of five Americans on Monday to receive the Roosevelt
award, established last year by the president in honor of Eleanor Roosevelt's
commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948 by the
United Nations.

St. Rita's, which has 15 full-time and 12 part-time staff members and an annual
budget of $450,000, runs five offices: three in the Bronx, at Theodore Roosevelt
High School, Walton High School and the main site in the Fordham section; one in
Astoria, Queens, primarily for Bosnians; and one in the Brighton Beach section
of Brooklyn, which focuses on aiding Russians.

About 525 Kosovars who arrived in New York after the NATO bombing campaign
against Serbia have passed through St. Rita's since July, Sister Marshall said.

About 450, she estimates, remain in the Bronx, living, working, going to school.
While they required the same help as other immigrants, the Kosovars came with a
difference, Sister Marshall said.

"The Albanian Kosovars had no lead time, they came right from a war to our
shores," she said, adding that while many are well educated, "the frustration is
translating those skills to learning English" and finding jobs.

"That's going to take time, but they feel fortunate to be here. They never stop
talking about it. They are very anxious to work."

Tuesday, the excitement of meeting the president and first lady -- who promised
to visit St. Rita's, but didn't say when -- still fresh in her voice, Sister
Marshall returned Tuesday to the ever-present chore of raising money. "It's a
constant uphill battle to survive," she said about the center, which runs on a
mix of public and private grants. "We've been cut a lot of money this year."

Adding to the center's financial woes, Sister Marshall said, is the cutting of
federal money to assist refugees, which has trickled down to state and city
contributions.

Nonetheless, she expressed hope that Monday's award "would help spread the word
about what we're doing to help these people."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sister Jean Marshall, who founded a center in the Bronx that
provides social services for refugees, received the Eleanor Roosevelt Human
Rights Award from President Clinton on Monday at the White House. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 10, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Occupational School to Close After Losing State Tuition Aid

SECTION: Section B; Page 22; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 929 words


After serving low-income and immigrant students seeking occupational diplomas,
the 111-year-old Interboro Institute in Manhattan will shut its doors Friday of
next week because of a long-running dispute over whether it should receive state
tuition assistance.

The institute, which has been in business since 1888, can no longer pay its
bills. It is blaming the State Department of Education for turning off the
stream of money.

Interboro Institute, with almost a thousand students in its building on West
56th Street, provides entry-level career and occupational education and is
authorized by the state to confer the degree of Associate of Occupational
Science. The school trains students to be assistants in areas like accounting,
business management and paralegal studies.. Many of its students do not have
high school degrees and must first complete high school equivalency degrees.
Even students with high school degrees often require a program of heavy remedial
education.

Affected by the closure will be students like Antyem Mallokandov, who is
originally from Russia but now lives in Queens. He is enrolled in Interboro's
ophthalmic dispensing program, which teaches students to fill out prescriptions
for corrective eyewear.

"I spent two years at Tech," he said, referring to programs he took at New York
City Technical College "Now I have to go back there. I thought I was going to
finish, now I have to finish again."

Orande Russel, a student originally from Barbados who also lives in Queens, sat
looking at the floor and shaking his head over the imminent closing of the
school. "I was almost finished. Now I have to start at square one. It just
doesn't feel good and I don't know what to do."

Almost all of the students, some of whom are receiving welfare benefits, pay
their tuition of roughly $3,400 a year with money from state tuition assistance,
and federal assistance, known as Pell grants, aimed at low-income families. If
Interboro loses its certification to receive student aid checks, it says, it
cannot continue.

Many trade and career schools have been accused over the years of taking
government assistance and putting students through their programs who never
finish their degrees. Interboro says 15 percent of its students graduate with
two-year-degrees, a rate they say is roughly equivalent to other schools serving
low-income students.

"This is not some fly-by-night rip- off operation," said Professor Stanley
Hoffman who teaches english and composition. "Students who come here have gone
on to four-year colleges or gotten jobs."

Interboro's financial problems stretch back at least a decade. An audit of the
school by the State Comptroller's Office from 1989 to 1992 found that Interboro
violated laws covering the allocation of tuition assistance money and disallowed
$4.8 million the school had received. That amount was later reduced to $3.5
million, still money that would have to be paid back to the state.

According to the State Department of Education, there were three major areas of
violation. Some of Interboro's students did not live in New York as required.
Some students did not take minimum number of courses to be eligible for
full-time assistance. And some students had not taken tests from Interboro that
were required by the school's admission policy.

In 1996, Interboro began a five-year plan to pay back the state about $800,000 a
year plus interest. But in December 1998, the state decided that Interboro was
no longer economically viable and should not be eligible to receive state
tuition assistance money. It explained that because of Interboro's $1.2 million
debt, it was not likely to be eligible to receive Pell grants and so could not
go on.

"That took us by surprise," said Rupert A. Jemmott, executive vice president and
vice president for academic affairs. "We had no financial problems. We were
paying our bills. We were functioning. They withheld funds pending a
renegotiation of the payback. Had those funds not been withheld, we would have
been fine."

Officials at Interboro said they had been unfairly singled out. "I think there
are people in Albany who don't like me and don't like the kinds of students we
produce," said Bruce Kalisch, president of Interboro, who has been president
since 1987.

Alan Ray, a spokesman for the Department of Education, said the original audit
was done completely independently and "the facts are the facts." He dismissed
any idea of a vendetta against Mr. Kalisch or the school as "ludicrous."

Interboro has had strained relations before with the Department of Education,
whose officials twice tried to shut the school for academic reasons -- concerns
over the school's remedial programs and the number of students who had never
graduated high school. Those decisions were overturned at the commissioner
level.

With the school's closing now imminent, administrators and professors are
looking for new schools that will accept Interboro students. But Mr. Kalisch
thinks many students will not be accepted elsewhere. Teachers and administrators
have been working without pay since December first.

"There is enough blame to go around," said an optics teacher, Gloria Lynch. "I
just wish they gave us some money to finish with students already in the
pipeline. It's a heartbreaker for so many people."

As she spoke, Ms. Lynch flipped through mementos from students on her desk: a
small handmade rug, a hand-carved wooden heart, a letter from Bosnia titled "To
one of my favorite teachers."

"It's dismantling my whole life," Ms. Lynch said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

COPING;
Working Overtime to Vanquish Sweatshops

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

SECTION: Section 14;   Page 1;   Column 1;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 808 words


WHAT brought them together, Trinh Duong said as she cuddled her baby son,
Jeremy, was the feeling that people need to take control of their lives. She sat
in a cluttered office in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, with three of her comrades from
the National Mobilization Against Sweatshops, where they were trying to do
nothing less than create a new labor movement for the next century.

With one exception, the six founders of the group are Asian-American immigrants
or the children of Asian immigrants. Some grew up watching their parents work in
sweatshops. All are under 30, and they are idealistic and energized in a 60's
kind of way, a refreshing antidote to the money-mad, I.P.O.-frenzied youngsters
on Wall Street.

Their personal histories and political affinities have led them to believe that
too many people are stuck in dehumanizing jobs that don't pay a living wage.
Their campaign calls for a 40-hour week and decent pay for everyone, and their
goal is to link workers of all classes and colors under that idea. They've
traveled around the country since founding the group in 1996 and have members
and supporters in other cities. Recently, the group won a $50,000 prize from the
Fund for the City of New York, one of 32 awards given to New Yorkers who show
exceptional commitment to addressing social conditions.

Fresh from claiming the award, four of the founders gathered in their office at
the Brooklyn Workers Center. It is an independent center for Chinese workers, a
shabby, exuberant space of papers and political posters. Everyone talked at
once, about demonstrations, feminist ideology, who they were.

"We came to this country for freedom," said Ms. Duong, whose family came here
from Vietnam and settled in Augusta, Me. "My mother sold fur coats when we moved
to Reading, Pa., and when I was 4 years old she came home and said, 'My life is
over,' because the job was so terrible. For a lot of women who work, they're
forced to give up their dreams. You have to work like an animal to support your
family."

Virginia Yu, 27 and Betty Yu, 22, are sisters who grew up in Sunset Park. They
said they saw firsthand what working in sweatshops did to their parents, who
went for days without seeing their children because of long work hours, and
suffered nerve damage from overuse of their hands in sewing and making
buttonholes.

John Antush, 29, who is white and grew up in Edgemont in Westchester County in
an upper-middle-class neighborhood, said he joined the group because he sought
an alternative to the emptiness of the corporate values many of his peers
embraced. The other two founders, Marie Koo and Nelson Mar, are the children of
Chinese immigrants.

The young people said they been especially inspired by female sweatshop workers.
Women are most often the primary caretakers of children, and are often stuck in
the lowest-paying jobs. Many women, they said, work 12-hour days in factories
for just above minimum wage, without receiving the overtime pay to which they
are legally entitled. They often don't have enough time to go to the bathroom or
make telephone calls.

"My mother was working 15 hours days," Betty Yu said. "I didn't know my mother.
I didn't know my father. They were at work when I woke up and when I went to bed
at night. My mother sewed and my father was a button operator."

"Most of the the time I spent with my parents was in the factory," she said. "It
never occurred to me it was horrible. It was a way of life. You buy into the
idea that this is the price my parents paid for being immigrants in this
country."

Virginia Yu, who is a social worker, said she found her way to the labor
movement in part because she realized that no matter how hard she worked, she
would never make enough money to allow her parents to quit working in the
factories. Her mother, she said, has repetitive strain injury and nerve damage
in her upper back and neck.

The six founders of the group met in 1995 when they protested conditions at Jing
Fong, a restaurant in Chinatown that paid workers as little as 75 cents an hour.
Ms. Duong, Ms. Koo and Virginia Yu staged a hunger strike in front of the
restaurant. The owners eventually settled out of court for $1.1 million in back
wages and damages.

Since then, group members have embarked on similar campaigns. They helped
organize Chinese construction workers at the site of a New York University
dormitory. They fought against long hours and other conditions at the Silver
Palace Restaurant in Chinatown. They began a campaign called "Ain't I a Woman?"
after Latina and Chinese women working in sweatshops making designer clothing
began protesting abusive conditions.

The founders of the anti-sweatshop group are all college educated. They could
have chosen easier, more lucrative ways of life. But this, they said, is what
their hearts demand.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 17, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Local Jails Deal With Federal Dilemma on Deportation

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

DATELINE: ST. MARTINVILLE, La., Dec. 16


The angry Cubans holding hostages in the local jail could not be farther from
home than they are in this revered heart of French Acadiana, where countless
Cajun surnames end in X and Spanish is a distant third language.

Many people in this town of 8,000, about 110 miles west of New Orleans, had no
idea the federal government was holding Cuban prisoners in their midst, just a
few hundred yards from the famous Evangeline oak symbolizing the story
immortalized by Longfellow. As the standoff entered its fourth day, with no sign
the prisoners were willing to put down their handmade weapons and release the
warden and two deputies, some questioned why the parish, or county, had admitted
the Cubans at all.

"I didn't know all these Cubans were in there," said Bill Broussard, who works
at a heavy equipment dealership a few miles away and was part of the daily crowd
gaping at the St. Martin Parish jail today in the hope of seeing some action. "I
hope our town isn't paying good money to keep rioters in there."

But, in fact, it is St. Martin Parish, like more than 200 other counties around
Louisiana and the South, that benefits handsomely from housing detainees of the
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is a major reason they are
here.

The federal agency began dispersing Cuban detainees to local jails after the
1987 riots in Oakdale, La., and Atlanta, deciding it was dangerous to imprison
them in large concentrations. It cannot deport the prisoners, who have been
convicted of crimes and have completed their sentences, because the Castro
government will not accept them. So it is forced to pay high rates to counties
to house them. Here in St. Martinville, the county gets $45 a day for each of
its 72 Cuban detainees, compared with $22 for state prisoners.

Local officials admit they need the money, but the sheriff, Charles Fuselier,
said he also sympathized with the federal government.

"They may be more of a problem than normal prisoners, but the I.N.S. has to have
a place to put them," Mr. Fuselier said. "We do charge for it. I'm certainly not
going to hold prisoners for nothing. But if we don't hold them here, where are
you going to hold them?"

Sixty percent of the immigration agency's 17,000 prisoners are in local jails,
said Russ Bergeron, chief spokesman for the I.N.S. Of the 2,400 prisoners who
are Cuban, about 1,400 are in local jails, he said, with the more violent in
federal prisons. Most of the Cuban prisoners, including all of those here, came
in the Mariel boatlift of 1980, he said.

The agency could not hold all 17,000 prisoners if it wanted to, Mr. Bergeron
said, but scattering them around the country -- particularly frustrated ones
like the Cubans -- also has a tactical advantage.

"The fact that we have not had any large-scale disturbance similar to those in
1987 would indicate this concept does provide greater security for all the
parties involved," he said.

There have been small disturbances like this one, but because the numbers of
detainees are kept to a few dozen at each site, the chance of widespread damage
is remote.

In this case, the hostage-takers are armed with weapons of sharpened metal.
Negotiations continued throughout the day and night.

This evening, two of the hostages made a plea for their captors through the
jail's public address system, The Associated Press reported.

"We are trying to publicize the unfair practices that the United States has put
into action against the detainees and their families," Warden Todd Louvierre
said.

"The warden and I are O.K.," said Jolie Sonnier, a female guard. "Hopefully
they'll get us out of here soon. Give them a helicopter with fuel to get the
federal detainees out of here as soon as possible."

Officials at the prison would not comment on the statements, or whether they
thought the hostages had been forced to speak.

The four ringleaders of the uprising have extensive criminal backgrounds that
include assault on a police officer, rape and drug possession, to records
released today by the immigration service show.

Though each has finished his state sentence for his crimes, none of the four --
like the other 2,400 Cubans still in custody -- are allowed to be released
because the agency considers them threats to society. Normally, they would be
deported after finishing their sentences, like the 1,000 other prisoners the
government deports each week. But convicts from Cuba, Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia
cannot be returned to their home countries, where the United States has no
repatriation agreement.

Advocates for the Cuban prisoners say it is ridiculous that American prisoners
are released after they complete their sentences, whether or not they still pose
a threat to society, while noncitizens are forced to stay in custody until the
immigration agency decides they are safe.

"If you're not an immigrant, you can walk the streets no matter what your record
is," said Ruby Feria, a spokeswoman for a Miami prisoners' rights group, Mothers
for Freedom. "How long should they have put up with this kind of treatment? How
long can you tell them to be calm and collected?"

One of the inmates participating in the incident, Gonzalo Davila, came from Cuba
in 1981 and was convicted of theft in 1993, said his sister, Luz Maria Davila of
Miami. He served his five-year sentence, but he has been in detention for the
last year, including five months in St. Martinville.

"In his letters, he tells me he would rather be in Cuba, dead even," Ms. Davila
said. "He says being there is worse than being in Cuba. I just feel like he
shouldn't be there any longer. He served what he had to serve, and now he should
be set free. He hasn't killed anyone for them to have him stuck there with all
kinds of criminals."

The American Bar Association has also criticized the holding of prisoners after
they have served their sentences, but the immigration agency says it has no
choice -- it cannot take the responsibility of releasing a noncitizen to the
streets who might commit a serious crime, as required under a 1996 federal law.
Mr. Bergeron said the agency offered regular hearings to its prisoners trying to
prove that they had been rehabilitated, but few are able to meet that standard.

As a result, the prisoners are often turned over to local sheriffs, who are
required to meet certain conditions to house them: they must provide a
translator, a doctor, a law library and modern buildings. Many counties and
parishes have decided they do not want the hassle, and refuse to house federal
detainees. And international visitors are not always welcome in rural areas.

"We're usually at capacity on our own," said Laura Balthazar, chief deputy
sheriff in neighboring St. Landry Parish. "And besides, when you get an I.N.S.
prisoner, you don't even know what they're charged with. It's not worth it. One
time, we took in 13 females overnight that the I.N.S. was transferring, and I'm
still looking for my money."

Those counties that do accept federal detainees usually have excess jail space
and a need for cash.

"We've got 400 beds here, and those extra inmates fill the beds," said Michael
A. Blumberg, warden of the Citrus County Detention Facility in Lecanto, Fla., a
jail operated by a private firm, which has 29 federal detainees, mostly Cuban.
"However many people are in your pod, you're still burning electricity, that
kind of stuff, so it is helpful."

The county's agreement with the immigration service requires the detainees to be
moved out if county prisoners fill the jail, he said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: F.B.I. SWAT team members watched yesterday from a roof of the
jail where Cuban detainees held hostages. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 68 words


Because of an editing error, a picture caption yesterday about a naturalization
ceremony misstated the location of the site, the George Mason University law
school. It is in Arlington, Va., not Washington. The caption also referred to
the ceremony incorrectly. It was the last of the century for the Washington
district office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, not for the
agency over all.




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: QUEENS UP CLOSE;
With a Multiplicity of Voices, a Paper Beckons Newcomers

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Page 12; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 449 words


To read everything in the September issue of DiverseCity, you would have to be
literate in English, Chinese, Arabic, Spanish, French, Korean, Hindi and the
Nahuatl language of Mexico and Central America. And that is precisely the point.

"The idea is to build bridges between cultures," said Sushmita Mukherjee, 32,
the Indian-born editor of DiverseCity, a monthly newspaper distributed in
Queens. It was first published this year and produced on a shoestring budget in
the homes of its volunteer staff. The December issue, DiverseCity's fifth, is
being distributed this weekend to public libraries and businesses in Jackson
Heights, Elmhurst, Sunnyside, Corona and elsewhere in polyglot northwest Queens.
This month's theme: Immigrants in the new millennium.

In earlier issues, some features appeared only in English, others were
translated into one or two other languages, and some, like the Nahuatl poem
"TeZzauhZeoth," by Cristian Pena, remained tantalizingly inaccessible to most.
The newspaper's publisher, David Andersson, 37, a French immigrant, said he
would rather see everything appear in English as well as in other languages, but
only if he trusts the translator to capture the tone and message of the piece.

The 12-page paper, with a circulation of 5,000, is produced by the nonprofit
Humanist Center of Cultures in Queens, which promotes contact among different
ethnic and cultural groups in New York. DiverseCity's staff members are also
community organizers for the center, coordinating English conversation groups,
cultural nights and seminars on immigration law.

DiverseCity's more political pieces are unabashedly pro-immigration, advocating
the abolition of international border controls and the granting of local voting
rights to all New Yorker residents regardless of immigration status. Less
controversial articles include a guide to immigration sites on the Internet and
a report on a victory last summer by a Guyanese cricket team.

Bryan Pu-Folkes, a half-Burmese, half-Jamaican lawyer and an immigrant advocate,
noticed copies of the inaugural issue in a Jackson Heights bank. "The paper
definitely stood out to me," he said. "It speaks to commonalities we share as
human beings."

Ms. Mukherjee acknowledges that some people think her newspaper may be more
popular among educators and social-service professionals than to immigrants, who
are too busy making ends meet than to do much outside their group. She said,
however, that she receives 30 or so calls after each issue, many from immigrants
who have read the paper and liked it.

'We're not an organization that forces people to do something," she said. "We
present options."   SETH KUGEL


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: DiverseCity is distributed to libraries and businesses in
polyglot northwestern Queens.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Huntington Designates Spot for Day Workers

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KIGGEN MILLER

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 279 words


Days after the Town of Brookhaven passed a law restricting housing opportunities
for low-income residents, the Town of Huntington has designated a site for day
workers looking for employment. Despite the fact that many of the workers are
illegal immigrants from Central America, the town board voted 4 to 1 this month
in favor of allocating the first month's rent of $1,300 for a 1 1/2-acre plot on
Depot Road and Third Street to the Huntington Station Enrichment Center.

Delores Thompson, president and chief executive of the Enrichment Center, a
job-placement training center, said that hundreds of men were showing up every
morning on one street corner looking for landscaping or construction work. The
crowd was causing traffic problems and endangering pedestrians, she said.

"What are we supposed to do with the workers?" said Ms. Thompson. "We can't send
them back to their country, and they do have rights once they come here."

Not everyone agreed. "When you want the drug dealers off the street, do you then
set them up in a crack house? No, because it's illegal," said John Marcinka of
Huntington Station. "Now, because of the federal government's inaction, the
local government is breaking the law."

Similar controversy in Brookhaven Town involved criticism from community groups
and residents who say a designated shape-up site is aiding and abetting illegal
activity.

Patricia Reiss, a spokeswoman for the Town of Huntington, said they had to be
realistic about the situation. "There's a safety problem in the area, and some
of these workers need help," said Ms. Reiss. "The town supports the Enrichment
Center."
   ELIZABETH KIGGEN MILLER

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 21, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

6 Cubans Are Deported In Wake of Jail Standoff

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON with DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20


Six of seven Cuban inmates involved in a hostage standoff last week in Louisiana
were flown back to Cuba today over the protests of state prosecutors who say the
men should have been put on trial for kidnapping, Clinton administration
officials said.

The seventh remained in the United States as federal officials investigated
accusations that he had raped a female prisoner taken hostage in the standoff at
the Louisiana jail. He also was recently convicted of two other crimes.

The other Cuban inmates were taken in heavily guarded Immigration and
Naturalization Service vans to an airport in Alexandria, La., and placed aboard
a government jet for the flight to Cuba. They arrived in Havana about 6:20 this
evening, The Associated Press reported.

While the agreement drew criticism from Louisiana authorities as inviting
similar situations at other prisons, Clinton administration officials insisted
that the unusual accord with the government of Fidel Castro allowing the men to
be returned to Cuba after they freed the hostages did not represent a
significant advance in Cuban-American relations.

Nor, they said, was there any tie between this agreement and any possible
settlement of another immigration case, that of a 6-year-old Cuban boy who was
rescued from the Atlantic Ocean off Florida last month and who has become the
subject of an highly publicized international child-custody battle. The Castro
government has demanded the return of the boy, Elian Gonzalez, whose mother and
step-father drowned in their effort to reach the United States in a crowded
boat.

The immigration service has recently sent signals that it intends to send Elian
home to his father in Cuba over the objections of his Cuban-American relatives
and of powerful Cuban-American political leaders in Florida.

James Foley, a State Department spokesman, was asked at a news conference today
if there was any link between the two cases.

"Absolutely not," Mr. Foley replied.

He said the Cuban inmates deported today were "being returned to Cuba at their
request, and the government of Cuba has agreed to accept them. We believe this
resolution is in the best interests of the United States."

Other administration officials said they believed that Mr. Castro had agreed to
accept the inmates back in Cuba partly in hope of improving his image with the
American public.  "He can say he's the man who prevented this hostage drama from
turning into a tragedy," said an official, speaking on condition of anonymity.

The Cuban inmates involved in the hostage standoff last week had completed
prison sentences for crimes committed in the United States but were being held
indefinitely because their deportation -- the usual procedure for felons who are
not American citizens -- had been blocked by the Castro government.

All had arrived here in the 1980 Mariel boatlift, during which Mr. Castro sent
thousands of criminals to the United States.

The agreement reached on Saturday allowing the seven inmates to return to Cuba
outraged prosecutors in St. Martin Parish, where the prison is.

J. Phil Haney, the first assistant district attorney for the parish, called the
agreement an unwelcome surprise.

"They have not seen fit to talk to us about this," Mr. Haney said of the Clinton
administration. "We still haven't been officially notified that anyone is going
to Cuba, even though we made known our wishes to prosecute and maintain custody
of the people responsible."

As a result of the siege, he said, the seven Cubans should have been tried in
Louisiana on charges of aggravated kidnapping, which carries a mandatory life
sentence.

Mr. Haney said he was particularly angry at the thought that the prisoner who
remained behind, Roberto Villar-Gana, might eventually go free in Cuba.

Apart from the rape accusation, Mr. Villar-Gana was recently convicted in
Cameron, La., of the attempted murder of a police officer and of distributing
cocaine.

"We have made it clear to I.N.S. that Mr. Villar was not a Cuban detainee in the
sense that all of the others were," Mr. Haney said, using the initials for the
immigration service. "We were assured by the I.N.S. that he would not be handled
like the others."

Federal officials said they had little information about the rape accusation
against Mr. Villar-Gana, whose mother acted as an intermediary between the
hostage-takers and the Justice Department.

Several hostages taken by the Cubans were female inmates, and federal officials
said one had accused Mr. Villar-Gana of sexually assaulting her.

"Obviously, we have to investigate the rape charges before we even consider
sending him back," an official said.

It was Mr. Villar-Gana's mother, Mercedes Villar, who first disclosed the deal
last weekend. She told reporters that she had seen a written agreement
guaranteeing safe passage for her son and the other inmates to Cuba.

Mr. Haney of the prosecutor's office said that he welcomed the release of the
hostages taken during the six-day standoff but that it was wrong for the
government to promise the hostage-takers free passage out of the United States.

"I don't think there's ever a circumstance where you want to make this kind of
offer as part of negotiation, especially when they've taken hostages in a penal
institution," he said.

"It subjects every penal institution in the United States to the situation
where, if you bargain with someone, you know you'll get what you're asking for,"
Mr. Haney said. "It just invites these situations to take place."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheriff Charles S. Fuselier of St. Martinville, La., right,
showing reporters a hole that was cut in a wall of the St. Martin Parish jail to
free inmates in the six-day siege that ended on Saturday night. (Associated
Press)





                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 22, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Added Border Security Brings Delays

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Dec. 21


The light was fading fast at the United States-Canada border, and the line of
idling cars eager to cross the Peace Bridge into this city was perhaps twice,
maybe three times, the normal length. But that did not stop Inspector Brian
Murphy of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from doing a thorough check
on this frigid, windy afternoon, car after car, person after person.

Out came his flashlight, peering into the back seats. Up popped the trunk, so
Mr. Murphy could sift through mundane tools and Christmas gifts. On went the
questions, more probing than usual, about a driver's citizenship, destination,
residence, everything.

And so it went, not only at each of the half-dozen or so inspection stations
here, but also at dozens of border crossings around the country, turning what is
typically a cursory, routine matter into something more laborious and vigilant.

For months, federal officials have disseminated cautious warnings about the
chaos that could be wreaked by terrorists or computer problems at millennium's
end. But the arrest last week of a man who the authorities say tried to slip
into Washington State with a cache of bomb components might well have driven
home the notion of how susceptible the nation could be, prompting officials from
Buffalo to Seattle, Miami to California, to redouble their inspection efforts
this week.

The United States Customs Service added 300 employees to remote locations along
the Mexico and Canada borders to increase security.

And today, the Federal Aviation Administration announced that it would add
bomb-sniffing dogs and uniformed police officers at the nation's airports and
rely more heavily on devices that check airline passengers for trace amounts of
explosives.

In Burlington, Vt., bomb-sniffing dogs detected traces of what might be
explosives in the car of a couple who were detained on Sunday after trying to
enter the United States from Canada with a forged French passport. No explosives
were found in the car, the authorities said today.

The couple, Bouabide Chamchi, 20, an Algerian, and Lucia Garofalo, 35, of
Montreal, were charged with conspiring to use a false passport and other
immigration violations.

The man arrested last week, Ahmed Ressam, was stopped on Dec. 14 as he tried to
enter Port Angeles, Wash., on a ferry from Victoria, British Columbia. The
authorities said Mr. Ressam, who tried to flee, had nitroglycerin and other
combustible and potential bomb-making materials in the trunk of his car.

Officials declined to say how long the heightened security alert would last
beyond the holidays. But at numerous border points today, there was ample
evidence to suggest that the people on the front lines were taking these
warnings to heart.

"You're just looking out for something that doesn't seem normal, like a license
plate from a different state," said Mr. Murphy, the inspector at Peace Bridge,
who has been assessing faces and cars at border crossings for nine years. "You
want to know, 'Does their story make sense? Are they nervous in their
responses?' "

In the Pacific Northwest, motorists reported that while it was a breeze
traveling to Canada from the United States, the return trip was a chore, with
lines that were much longer than normal.

At the Peace Bridge, the busiest checkpoint along the Canadian border, delays of
5 minutes, typical during the holiday season, have stretched now to 15 minutes
and beyond, said Lenore M. Belzer, the port director of the immigration service
office in Buffalo.

There were more highway patrol officers at the nation's busiest crossing in San
Ysidro, Calif.; the same was true in Texas and New Mexico.

"There is absolutely a sense that there is a heightened risk and we are taking
it very seriously," said Gurdit Dhillon, director of field operations for the
Customs Management Center in El Paso, which supervises 800 miles of the nation's
2,000-mile border with Mexico. "We are looking at all of our remote ports and
moving people around, adding resources and authorizing overtime to meet the
threat."

Not everything went smoothly, particularly for those of Arab descent.

In Boston, Mourad Aribi -- an Algerian native who lives in Manchester, England,
and is married to a Maine native -- said he was detained for more than 20
minutes upon his arrival at Logan International Airport in Boston.

"It's racism," said Mr. Aribi, 26. "They see the color of your skin and they go
through each piece of luggage you have."

But at the Peace Bridge, where people normally shuttle seamlessly to eat and
shop on both sides of the border, most motorists were taking the delays in
stride, saying the inspectors were doing their best to be thorough without being
disruptive.

Bill Davies, of Thorold, Ontario, was driving a friend to the Buffalo airport,
something he does from time to time. When an inspector noticed several pieces of
luggage in the back of Mr. Davies's truck, the inspector asked Mr. Davies to
pull into the customs and immigration offices for further screening.

No problem, Mr. Davies said.

"I'd hate to be here if something happens," he said. "I don't mind."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lines of vehicles heading toward Buffalo exceeded normal length
yesterday at the Customs Service station at the Peace Bridge as inspectors took
extra precautions, going through trunks and asking detailed questions. (Reuters)



                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 24, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Terrorists Said to Hide In Canada's Melting Pot

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Dec. 23


All street and shop signs here, by Quebec provincial law, must be in French. But
walk a few blocks from the modest bachelor apartment at 1250 Fort Street where
Ahmed Ressam lived under the name of Benni Antoine Noris, and sometimes Mario
Roig, and the signs tell of a rich ethnic bouillabaisse.

Here is Boutique Ali, a shoe repair shop, next to Bombay Palace-Cuisine
Indienne, and then, in quick succession, Thai, Chinese, Italian, Russian and
Swiss restaurants, as well as two Middle Eastern groceries and "Pandit A. B.
Chowdhury, immigrant consultant for refugee claimant."

Since the arrest of Mr. Ressam, an Algerian, near Seattle last week and his
indictment Wednesday on charges of trying to smuggle enough bomb-making material
into the United States to flatten a building, that rich ethnic mix and the loose
immigration controls that have made it possible have come under close scrutiny
in Montreal and across Canada.

Officials here have been trying to explain, among other things, how Mr. Ressam
managed to remain in the country after his application for asylum was refused,
and even after he was arrested on charges of breaking into automobiles -- in the
spring of 1998, two months after a nationwide warrant for his deportation was
issued.

Mr. Ressam seems to have simply melted into the immigrant community in Montreal,
which includes more than 15,000 Algerians, obtaining driver's licenses under his
false names and even a Canadian passport last February, a year after the initial
deportation order, by using his French-sounding alias and a forged Roman
Catholic baptismal certificate. In Quebec, a baptismal certificate is sufficient
identification to receive a passport.

Mr. Ressam was not alone. Critics of the government charge that as many as
10,000 people a year who are seeking asylum simply vanish from official view,
some smuggling themselves across the porous border into the United States, many
apparently disappearing into the population here.

A spokesman for the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said
the United States has had similar problems with asylum seekers, especially those
who file for asylum after being charged with violating immigration law. A 1995
study by the I.N.S. found that 90 percent of those vanished while their
applications were pending.

According to a recent report by Canada's intelligence agency, the Canadian
Security Intelligence Service, the country's openness to immigrants has helped
make it "a haven for terrorists."

A senior intelligence official told the Toronto Globe and Mail that the agency
had begun watching Mr. Ressam shortly after he arrived in early 1994 with a fake
French passport and a tale of being falsely accused and tortured by Algeria's
military government, which is battling Islamic insurgents. But, he added, the
intelligence agency dropped the investigation.

"He has been known to us for some time," the official was quoted as saying in
today's issues. "We had to drop it recently because of lack of resources. We
just don't have the time and people to continue these investigations
indefinitely."

Montreal's Algerians came under closer scrutiny by the city's police last
October, when a team of French counterterrorism investigators arrived in Canada.
Montreal had experienced a rash of car break-ins around the financial district,
with cell phones and laptop computers being stolen and then peddled on the
streets.

The French were conducting an investigation based on the arrest of Fateh Kamel,
an Algerian Islamic militant, and they wanted to question two men they believed
to be his lieutenants -- Mr. Ressam and Karim Said Atmani, who the police now
say had been directing the Montreal theft ring. Mr. Ressam was not found.

Mr. Kamel, who had fought with Afghan rebels against the Soviets, was arrested
by the authorities in Jordan last spring and extradited to France.

According to the French, Mr. Kamel had been the leader of a band of
gangster-terrorists who carried out a series of armed robberies and shootouts
around Roubaix in northern France. He had also operated out of Montreal in the
1990's and may have married a Canadian woman, and was believed to have directed
a loose group of Islamic terrorists. Some of those terrorists were veterans of
fighting in Bosnia, which, like Afghanistan, attracted Arab Muslim volunteers to
what they regarded as a holy war.

"I think he was the leader of this group," a senior official of the French
police and judicial antiterrorism task force said in Paris. "We have material
evidence he conducted this group from Montreal. He moves around -- Bosnia,
Syria, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Jordan."

Mr. Atmani, the other man sought by the French, had been deported last year to
Bosnia because he carried a Bosnian passport when he arrived in Montreal as a
stowaway on a cargo ship. His whereabouts are unknown, although officials
suspect he may have slipped back into Canada.

Last week, the Montreal police arrested 11 men -- most of them Algerians -- who
they said had been stealing from parked cars in groups of two and three and
extorting money from other Algerians. The police said that part of the proceeds
was going to finance the Armed Islamic Group, an Algerian group that has carried
out massacres in villages there.

"These guys are financing organizations that train people to assassinate fathers
of families, pregnant women, old people and children," said Jean-Yves Mailloux,
the head of the Montreal police counterterrorism division.

As the investigation accelerated, the police found a second apartment where they
believe Mr. Kamel, Mr. Atmani, Mr. Ressam and two others spent several months
together in 1998. It is in Ville d'Anjou, just east of Montreal, near the
working-class neighborhood where Mr. Ressam had been preparing to open a small
grocery store with a license issued under his identity of Benni Noris.

Investigators also believe they have identified the second man who shared rooms
at a motel in Vancouver with Mr. Rassem before he made his ferry trip into the
United States.  He was said to be Abdul Majid Dahoumane, an Algerian who applied
for asylum here in 1995, was refused, and, like Mr. Rassem, was under a
deportation order.

Police and intelligence officials say that Canada's generous immigration
policies have meant that foreign terror groups can more easily establish and
maintain cells here.

Last year, the Canadian Security Intelligence Service reported that it had
active investigations into 50 terrorist groups and 350 individuals.

The agency's director, Ward Elcock, told the Canadian Senate's security and
intelligence committee last year that terrorists have been taking advantage of
the system for years and that almost every terrorist group in the world had a
foothold in Canada.

"Terrorist groups are present here whose origins lie in every significant
regional ethnic and nationalist conflict there is," he said. "The nature of our
society and the related policies concerning refugees and immigrants make us
particularly vulnerable to terrorist influence and activities."

The intelligence agency's Web site lists a wide variety of foreign groups
operating in Canada, including Hezbollah, Hamas, groups from Algeria and Iran,
the Tamil Tigers of Sri Lanka, the Irish Republican Army and "all the major
Sikh" separatists. It adds that more groups are arriving, including the Kurdish
Worker's Party, "trained assassins" from the Palestinian Force 17 and the
Iranian intelligence service.

Since 1992, Canada has deported only 11 people as terrorists. Before that, none.

In addition to Canada's general welcome of immigrants, Mr. Rassem was probably
helped by official Quebec policy of trying to bring more French-speaking
immigrants into the province. Many Algerians speak French as a legacy of French
colonial rule.

In 1999, 12,600 French-speaking immigrants were admitted. Next year the number
is expected to reach as high as 14,600.

"Quebec has attained its objective of increasing French-speaking immigration,"
the provincial immigration minister, Robert Perrault, said in a news release
last month.

The number of Algerian immigrants increased markedly after 1992, when the
Islamic Salvation Front started a bloody insurgency in Algeria after the
military canceled elections and seized power. In 1990, 493 refugees and
immigrants entered Canada from Algeria; last year the number grew to 1,914.
Since 1997, the government has stopped extraditing people to Algeria because of
the violence there.

Of 1,197 Algerians who applied for refugee status in 1998, 67 percent were
accepted, compared with 40 percent for all refugee groups that year.

Leon Benoit of the opposition Reform Party contended that Canadian authorities
cannot account for as many as 10,000 people who claimed refugee status at border
points last year. Of 24,000 who made claims, he said, about 10,000 were given
refugee status, and 4,000 to 5,000 more were sent away. The whereabouts of the
rest, he said, are unknown.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Police officers blocked a street in Montreal on Sunday after
finding a van belonging to Ahmed Ressam. Mr. Ressam has been charged with trying
to smuggle bomb-making material into the United States. (Associated Press);
Ahmed Ressam was one of 15,000 Algerians living in Montreal.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Frugal Traveler;
A Rare American Tourist In Croatia

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2672 words


THE Croatian immigration officer looked at my U.S. passport and frowned in
puzzlement. He leafed through page by page, holding it up to the light and
scrutinizing each visa stamp as if it were a rare butterfly.

In September on Brac, a mountainous rock island surrounded by Adriatic waters
off the coast near Split, in Croatia, I was the rarest of specimens: an American
tourist. In 1998, the Croatian tourism industry was just getting back on its
feet after the end of the Bosnian war in 1995. Then war broke out in Kosovo, and
though there was no fighting in Croatia, most foreign visitors gave the entire
region a wide berth.

Hoteliers on Croatia's Dalmatian Coast looked elsewhere for business, which is
how I came to be standing on line at immigration in the Brac airport with around
40 Slovenians in T-shirts and shorts, tennis rackets at the ready. We'd all
flown here on a Croatian Airways charter from Ljubljana, on a package sold
through Kompas Holidays, one of the largest travel agencies in Slovenia.

Package tours aren't my cup of tea. I usually travel on a tighter budget and I
prefer not to be tied down in advance to a hotel I've never seen. But I'd
lingered a bit too long in Slovenia, my second stop on a three-week visit to
three countries in the Adriatic region. It suddenly hit me that I had only a
week remaining before I had to be back in Venice for my return flight home.
Originally, I'd envisioned myself meandering by rail, bus and ferry from
Slovenia down the Croatian coast. But when I sat down with the timetables to
work out an itinerary, I could see that was not going to work, unless I wanted
to spend most of the next week on buses and boats instead of admiring Dalmatia's
lovely rugged beaches and well-preserved Roman ruins.

At Kompas Holidays, I inquired about round-trip air fare from the Slovenian
capital of Ljubljana to Split, the city on the Croatian coast that is well
connected by ferry to many interesting islands.

The agent quoted me a price of $190 for the round trip. Then she told me that
Kompas Holidays had a package tour that left every Saturday afternoon from May
through October. You fly directly to Brac Island, off the coast of Split, she
said. The price included air fare and hotel in the town of Bol, on Brac. "Bol is
near the best beach in Croatia, Zlatni rat." "Zlatni rat?" I repeated dubiously.
The agent pulled out a picture of a small triangle of land, bordered in a soft
pink beach surrounded by deep blue waters. "It means Golden Cape, in Croatian.
Very beautiful."

The agent's manner didn't seem shady in the least, but still I was skeptical.
How much would this package cost? "Air fare, single room at Hotel Bretanide,
breakfast and dinner, seven days and nights -- $218 total," she said. I
refigured the conversion rate from Slovenian tolar into dollars on my pocket
calculator, because I wasn't sure I'd heard her right -- $218 for an
all-inclusive week? That was only $30 more than the air ticket to nearby Split.
There had to be a catch. The hotel? The brochure showed pastel-colored rooms
with queen beds, turquoise swimming pools, white concrete buildings with
bougainvillea pouring over the balconies: the Bretanide looked inviting, like a
typical Caribbean-style beach hotel.  There were ferries to neighboring islands,
so I wouldn't be stuck on Brac. I pondered. The worst-case scenario was that
Brac would be awful or that the hotel would be dirty or dreary. In that case, I
could just move on after a night or two, and still come out ahead on the air
fare alone.

At the airport, the immigration man stamped my passport and waved me on. There
was a bus waiting outside to take us to the hotel, and I sat down next to the
woman who'd helped me explain to the official that yes, in spite of my passport,
I really was with the Slovene tourist group.

I'd noticed Anita on the plane; she and I were the only women traveling solo. A
producer of television commercials in Ljubljana, she had been as skeptical as I
was about the trip. "I figured it would be touristy," she said, "But I had a
friend who went on the tour last month, and who said it was beautiful."

At the Hotel Bretanide, which was clean and even nicer-looking than the
brochure, we checked in and made a date for a drink. The hotel complex was a
maze of three- and four-story buildings connected by zigzag paths and landscaped
with flowers and dwarf island pines. Finally, I found my room and turned the key
with trepidation, expecting to be hit with a Socialist-era smell of disinfectant
and musty concrete. But the room was spacious and lovely, and smelled of the
night island air, of pine needles, wild herbs and salty sea. There was a
queen-sized bed with a good mattress, sliding doors that opened to a little
balcony, a television with cable and a new bathroom with plenty of hot water. It
wasn't luxurious, but it was comfortable. I knew I would be happy here for a
week.

Anita was surprised and pleased with her accommodations, too. We toasted our
success, in the hotel bar, over thimbles full of a Croatian schnapps called
Travarica. It tasted just like the soft Brac island air, with hints of sea and
herbs and pine.

The island of Brac was larger than I thought, about 150 square miles. The
interior is mountainous, composed almost entirely of a hard, white rock that was
used as construction material for the Emperor Diocletian's Palace in Split, as
well as for the White House in the United States. Narrow, perilous roads twisted
through these high, steep mountains; the local buses went slowly and stopped at
every little village along the way.

Because renting a car was relatively expensive, about $50 a day, I didn't think
I would get to explore much of Brac beyond the vicinity of my hotel, which sat
back of a rocky cliff that descended sharply to the sea below. I curled up in a
little cove by the ocean, all by myself, occasionally jumping out to swim in the
crisp, clear water. Mornings were chilly, but by 10 A.M. the sun was hot --
perfect weather. The beach was wide, and made up of finely crushed stone rather
than sand.

On the second day of my stay, I walked about two-thirds of a mile from the
tourist beach area (Zlatni rat has several resorts besides the Bretanide) into
Bol, a Mediterranean-style fishing village with a busy harbor, a historic
Dominican monastery, souvenir shops, coffee bars and restaurants. I was looking
for espresso -- the hotel restaurant only served ersatz coffee at the breakfast
buffet -- and I bumped into Anita sitting at a sidewalk cafe, deep in
conversation with a leathery-tanned, white-haired Croatian man whom she
introduced as Mr. Ivan.

Mr. Ivan spoke no English, but he waved his arms and spoke excitedly to me in
Croatian, as if the sheer force of his enthusiasm would penetrate the language
barrier. (Fortunately, Anita managed to keep up a translation.) Mr. Ivan had
lots of questions: Was I really an American? Had my fellow countrymen figured
out that Croatia was safe for tourists? The reason behind his inquiries became
clear after he walked us up a steep hill to show us his "dream project"-- a
three-story white edifice of Brac stone, half-completed, with construction
debris all around and nary a workman in sight: The Hotel Ivan.

It should have been up and running by now, he told us, but then Kosovo happened,
the tourists disappeared, and his bank loan fell through. Mr. Ivan looked glum.
He took us inside the structure to one room that had been completed and was
outfitted with a refrigerator and a mattress on the floor: Home of Ivan.
Although it was only 9 a.m., he pulled a bottle of Travarica out of the fridge,
and insisted we toast. How could we refuse? After one round, he turned expansive
and invited us on a personal tour of "his" Brac.

Anita and I looked at each other, and she nodded to indicate she thought it was
O.K. And so we all piled into his old Peugeot and headed up the winding road
that led into the mountains from Bol. Up and up we went, passing farmers tending
sheep and goats, thickets of twisted pine and a vast rock quarry. Mr. Ivan
pointed out local sights, like Bobovisce, a beautiful village clinging
precariously to a mountainside. Finally, we arrived at the top of the highest
mountain of all, Vidova gora. There was a little cafe-bar on the mountaintop,
and Mr. Ivan ordered a round of beers.

We weren't the only ones on the mountaintop that morning. About 50 yards away
was a crew preparing to film a man who was about to hang-glide off the mountain.
It was a movie crew of Croatians and Californians, shooting a Hollywood feature
film starring a Croatian screen hearthrob, Goran Visnjic. Not all Americans, it
seemed, had been scared away from Croatia by the fighting in Kosovo. Anita
translated what was going on for Mr. Ivan and when she said the word
"Americans," he broke into a wide smile.

My "Ivan Tour" made me restless to explore nearby islands. The next morning I
went down to Bol harbor to see where I could go by sea. For $10, I hopped on a
35-foot wooden excursion boat, the Frane, and went to Hvar, the next island
over.

Rain was pouring as I disembarked at historic Hvar Town, with many stone
buildings from the 14th through 16th centuries and heavily influenced by the
Venetians. I made a quick tour of the central square with its impressive stone
church, then ducked up a side alley into a restaurant called Macondo. There I
had a simple dish of pasta with seafood sauce that turned out to be one of the
best meals of my trip. (The hotel food at the Bretanide was the one hitch in my
package deal, adequate but cafeteria-bland.)

The rain let up a bit after lunch, so I climbed up the many stairs to the fort
that overlooks the town and harbor. At 3 p.m., I returned to the Frane,
satisfied by a good day of sightseeing.

I still had four more days on my package, time enough to hop the ferry from Bol
to Split, on the Croatian mainland. It cost about $7, left at 7 a.m., took about
an hour and a half and returned in the late afternoon. A spectacular sunrise was
my reward for getting up to catch the boat, a high-speed catamaran.

We arrived in Split harbor just as the waterfront cafes were beginning to
bustle. Sitting with a cappuccino, watching the sleek white ferries of the
Croatian Jadrolinija line sail to and fro, I decided to stay the night in Split
-- my package tour was so cheap, I could surely afford to.

It didn't take me long to find the Hotel Bellevue, a somewhat faded 19th-century
building. The bed had starched, pressed white sheets, and the room had a wall of
French windows overlooking the plaza: at $53 a night, it was exactly what you
dream of finding in a European city.

With the local tourist board's excellent guidebook in hand -- $8 but worth it --
I explored Split's twisty, charming streets. Expecting that the famed ruins of
Diocletian's Palace, built in the late third and early fourth centuries, would
be a sort of museum or monument, I was delighted to find them a backdrop for
city life. Split natives casually drank coffee and jabbered on cell phones by
the former Roman emperor's mausoleum.

The building is now a Catholic cathedral; for $1.40 I bought a ticket that let
me climb to the top of its elaborately arched bell tower, where a spectacular
view of red-tiled rooftops and cool blue harbor awaited me. I came down and
enjoyed the street scene of young people dressed in sleek black fashions. I did
not see a single, solitary tourist.

I looked hard for something -- a bad mood, an edge of violence or trouble --
that might caution against a visit to the Croatian coast. My antenna picked up
nothing -- indeed, as beach resorts go, Zlatni rat was one of the lowest-key
places I've ever visited. Even the souvenir vendors didn't hustle in laid-back
Bol.

For now, Brac is the secret bargain-basement escape of Slovene tourists, and I
counted myself lucky to be among them. But I doubt it will be long before
Croatia returns to the travel agent's A list. And the next time I go to Bol, I
expect to stay at the Hotel Ivan.

The bottom line in Bol, Hvar and Split

The total cost of my week in Croatia, including round trip air fare from
Ljubljana to Brac Island, hotels, meals, ferries, buses and activities, was
$392. That averages out to $56 a day, but if you leave out a portion for the air
fare (I don't usually count it when making my per diem calculations) the daily
costs were far less, closer to $35.

The Package

Kompas Holidays, Ljubljanska, 4, 4260 Bled, (386-64) 741 515, fax (386-64) 741
518, one of the largest travel agents in Slovenia, sold me a package for $218
including air, hotel, meals and airport transfers.

I was "in the right place at the right time" to get this last-minute deal, an
agent there said. It was late in the season (the charters run from May to
October), and there were only a few seats left on the plane.

The package entitled me to a single room, plus breakfast and dinner, at the
247-room Hotel Bretanide, a pleasant, large, concrete resort hotel with swimming
pool within walking distance of Bol town and Zlatni rat beach. It is open from
May to mid-October. My room would have cost $44 a night in September, had I
booked it myself. Reservations for the local hotels can be made through Zlatni
rat Marketing, (385-21) 635 210, fax (385-21) 635 150.

There are several travel agents in Bol town who can get discounted rates on
hotels, and who can arrange accommodation in apartments or private houses. One,
Bol Tours, Vladimira Nazora 18, (385-21) 635 693, fax (385-21) 635 695, quoted
me a rate of $28 a day at the Bretanide. An apartment in town can cost even
less, with the price depending on location, size, and season (June through
August are the peak months in Brac).

Other Hotels

I stayed overnight in Split at the charming Hotel Bellevue, Josipa Jalacica 2,
21000, Split, (385-21) 585-701, fax (385-21) 362-383. My room had a wall of
French windows that overlooked a beautiful square. The single, without
breakfast, cost $53.

Eating

I had most of my meals at the Bretanide; dinner for the hundreds of guests was
served cafeteria-style, and on most evenings I was able to assemble a
reasonable, if unexciting, meal of meat cutlets or fish, boiled vegetables and
salad.

In Hvar, I had an excellent lunch at Macondo, a small cafe that spills out onto
a cobblestone sidewalk on a side street in Hvar town. My three-course meal
(appetizer of hummus, main course of spaghetti in tomato and olive sauce, cake
for dessert) cost $17 with wine. Macondo, generally open May to October, has no
address, since the streets in tiny Hvar town are unnamed. But there is a sign in
the main church square that points out the side street where it is.

Many of Bol's restaurants had already closed for the season when I was there in
late September. But Konobo Gust, a lively cafe on the first road back from the
waterfront promenade, was packed with locals and visitors. The portions of
salad, seafood risotto, and two different kinds of locally caught fish, were
enormous; a meal for two, with a liter of local wine, cost $43.

Split has many pizzerias; the pizza I devoured at Galija, Tonciceva 12, had a
thin crust and was covered with salty tuna and olives. Lunch, with wine, was
$4.50.

Sightseeing

Entry to the small but interesting City Museum of Split, Papaliceva 1, (385-21)
341 240, which is housed
in a Renaissance-era mansion, is $1.40.

In order to walk to the top of the bell tower of the Cathedral of Split
(Diocletian's mausoleum), one must buy a ticket for $1.40.

Local Transportation

Boats are the way to move among the Dalmatian islands. A high-speed catamaran
ferry leaves Bol at 7 a.m., bound for Split, and returns in the late afternoon.
The ferry is run by a company called Dalmacijaturist, and more information is
available at Bol Tours; round trip, $7.

Jadrolinija runs ferries between Split and the town of Supetar, on Brac. There
are several daily; $2 one way.   DAISANN McLANE


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An outdoor cafe in Split in a former courtyard of Diocletian's
Palace.; The ferry that travels from Bol to Split.; Hvar Town, on the island of
the same name. (Photographs by Daisann McLane) (pg. 6); The Hotel Bretanide near
the town of Bol on Brac. (Daisann McLane) (pg. 13)

Map of Croatia highlighting Brac (pg. 13)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

From a Babel of Tongues, a Neighborhood

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3220 words


On Saturdays, Walter Arana moves like one of the turbo-charged action heroes
from the movies he rents and sells in his store in Woodside, Queens. His hands
fly from the cash register to the computer to the videos stacked behind him and
then to the push-button clicker he keeps around his neck to buzz the door open
for the steady flow of customers.

The phone rings. "Si. Si. Wait a sec," barks Mr. Arana, a linguistic
quick-change artist in a neighborhood where people come from 49 countries and
speak 34 different languages. Then he pirouettes, aims the remote control and
silences the soccer game that has transfixed an Irish immigrant waiting at the
counter.

Nodding hello to two teenagers deliberating in Bengali by the horror films, Mr.
Arana registers them with the practiced eye of an urban anthropologist. He knows
they are from Bangladesh, just as he knows the names of British soccer players
and Dominican movie stars, because it is smart business to know.

"In a neighborhood like this one, it's good to know even the capital of their
country and ask them about it," he says, gently motioning for the two to show
him what they want, "because when they first come to the States, they feel no
one knows them."

Meet Walter Arana: Peruvian immigrant, local notable and artful avatar of the
diverse human tide that is transforming New York City -- from the neighborhood
up -- with its multiplicity of languages, religions and skills.

Here at the end of the century, one in three city residents is an immigrant and,
of those, nearly half are newly minted New Yorkers who arrived only in the last
15 years. Not since 1910, at the peak of this century's great wave of
immigration through Ellis Island, has the ratio of newcomers been as high.

Sheer numbers are only the beginning of the story. No other city has absorbed so
many different nationalities -- more than 100 -- since immigration laws were
changed in 1965 to open the door to people from Latin America, Asia, the Middle
East and Africa. And this diversity within diversity is changing the very
definition of the ethnic New York neighborhood.

Classic old ethnic neighborhoods that had successfully resisted change for half
a century, now belong to no one and to everyone. They are a clashing, colorful,
polyglot, multiethnic collection of microcommunities whose members sometimes
come together on neutral ground like Mr. Arana's video store, and sometimes lead
parallel lives.

In their volume and their variety, the immigrants have affected each pillar of
the neighborhood architecture.

Overburdened schools where bilingual education once was just academic theory now
struggle to absorb an influx of children who do not speak English. Where once
there were moribund churches and synagogues, immigrants are reinvigorating
religious institutions. And the local shops, where everyone once felt at home,
now must choose between serving an ethnic niche or the dissonant tastes of a
multinational clientele.

One hundred years ago, the newest New Yorkers were largely unskilled and
unlettered. They worked close to home in Lower Manhattan, with people much like
themselves, so that the sweatshop and the schools became enclaves, too. As the
subways and bridges extended to the thinly populated outer boroughs, ethnic
neighborhoods could pick themselves up lock, stock and barrel and move onto
unclaimed turf.

Those archetypal New York ethnic neighborhoods, the stuff of the city's
literature, its memoirs and its founding myths, were once urban villages of a
few square blocks where immigrants lost their accents and joined the American
mainstream, where everyone worshiped at the same few churches or synagogues,
learned the same lessons in school and exchanged gossip at the same corner drug
store.

If it was never quite as homogenous as some of its old-timers remember, these
neighborhoods did bespeak the influence of one dominant group. For much of this
century, if you were Irish-American in Woodside, Italian-American in Bensonhurst
or a Jew of Russian heritage in Brighton Beach, the neighborhood felt like your
turf.

Those who now arrive in New York find a built-out city with few manufacturing
jobs, where they must compete for the affordable housing they can find with
native-born New Yorkers and other immigrants with whom they share little but
their dreams.

Woodside under the microscope is one churning compact sliver of the city -- less
than one-fifth of a square mile bounded by Queens Boulevard, Woodside Avenue,
52nd and 64th Streets -- where the old notion of neighborhood is being
deconstructed and reassembled.

On the Block
A Sweet Smell As the Bars Close

Around 4 a.m., a sweet, musty smell drifts onto the street on a light cloud of
steam from the Man Mi Korean Bakery, beckoning the delivery trucks that will
soon deliver the mom-and-pop shop's mung bean rice cakes and sticky sang donuts
around the city.

Up and down a seven-block stretch of Roosevelt Avenue, it is closing time for
the Irish pubs. A man locks the door of the Mi Pais restaurant, pausing to stare
at the picture of the voluptuous singer -- "La Sexy de P.R." -- whose upcoming
show is advertised on a hand-lettered poster in the window.

Daylight brings a group of solemn girls in long blue robes and white head
scarves trooping toward the Razi Islamic School, once the home of Catholic
Charities and now adorned with Arabic phrases and painted tiles in feathery
designs of white, yellow and blue. The manicurists in the Thai Beauty Salon
prepare for their first Hispanic customers of the day as an Indian immigrant in
a baseball cap arranges Greek, Arabic, Spanish and Urdu newspapers on the
shelves in his convenience store. Across the street, the lights in the window of
the Yuan Fu Sing grocery store flicker on, illuminating the dust on the boxes of
Chinese Anti-Contusion Rheumatism Plaster and American beer.

By noon, all of these colors, spices and languages blend into one swirl of
activity. Livery-car drivers cram into Warteg Fortuna, a tiny restaurant with
eight stools, piles of Indonesian magazines and a pungent smell of curry and
chili rising from behind the counter. On the side streets, where doll-size
plastic statues of Jesus are nestled among the geraniums, the Irish-American
retirees who first settled the neighborhood emerge to sweep up the front steps
of their peaked two-family shingled homes.

All this diversity translates into a neighborhood with one of the city's highest
proportions of immigrants: more than half of its 9,000 residents were
foreign-born as of the 1990 census, and about half of those newcomers have lived
in the United States for 10 years or less. Since then, the flow of immigrants
into the neighborhood, and their diversity, has only increased, according to
immigration records, city housing surveys and school enrollment data.

Now, 70 percent of apartments are occupied by at least one foreign-born person.
One in five children in the local elementary school, Public School 11, arrived
in the country only in the last three years. Eight in 10 school-age children
live in a home where the family communicates in a language other than English.

There has not been such a concentration of newcomers in the neighborhood since
World War I, when up-and-coming Irish immigrants abandoned the tenements of
Lower Manhattan for the suburban charms of Woodside's garden apartments and
shaded streets of shingled homes.

Woodside soon came to be known as "Irishtown," a conceit it could preserve
during the years when the city was expanding and restrictive national laws
substantially slowed the flow of new immigrants. But starting in the
recessionary 1970's, as the remnants of the Ellis Island generations moved away,
the neighborhood became a magnet for a new wave of immigrants.

Now, no one group can claim the neighborhood as its turf. In today's Woodside,
people have different, perhaps more pragmatic, relationships to the
neighborhood.

They are people like Elvis Jain, a 28-year-old student from India who favors
pointed cowboy boots and recently dropped out of business school to open a
Filipino food store on Roosevelt Avenue two blocks from St. Sebastian's Roman
Catholic Church. For him, the neighborhood is a place to make money. His
marketing strategy was simple: "Filipino people are very religious, so they will
always be passing by here on their way to church," he said.

Here, too, are Wing and Yee Hom, immigrants from Hong Kong who bought a small
house in 1981 with savings from their restaurant in Chinatown. The neighborhood
offered good schools for their two children, but even now they do not feel a
sense of belonging. "Because I'm Chinese they are still not friendly," Mrs. Hom
said. "Sometimes I walk on the street, just a few houses below my own, and they
don't want to say hello."

Then there are residents like Patrick Finn, whose grandparents, Irish
immigrants, moved here in 1923. He can no longer name all the families on his
block, but the diversity has made the neighborhood more interesting. "It doesn't
matter to me who runs the stores as long as they laugh at my jokes," said Mr.
Finn, 46. "Even if they don't understand them."

In the Classroom
A Teacher Seeks Common Ground

Marlene Silverman welcomes a visitor to her classroom at P.S. 11 with a wry
introduction. "I'm the only American here," she says with a sweep of her arm to
take in the 22 sixth graders seated in closely packed clusters of 2 and 4 at
small metal desks.

In this small space, half of a normal classroom, are children who need to learn
English. They come from India, Korea, China, Egypt, Bosnia and an array of South
American countries, so many different countries that Mrs. Silverman is not sure
herself who is from where.

They are among 300 at the school, out of a total enrollment this year of nearly
1,300 in kindergarten through sixth grade, who have been placed in bilingual
classes or are assigned to teachers of English as a second language like Ms.
Silverman. The goal is to get them reading and writing well enough to be
transferred into regular classes within three years.

P.S. 11, the stolid brick heart of the neighborhood, has become one of the
city's most crowded schools, with as many as 46 children in a class, and one of
its most linguistically diverse.

In Ms. Silverman's classroom, a card with "clock" written on it is taped to the
clock. The door is labeled. So are the bookcase and the sink. Against this
backdrop of order, her students come and go, separated into language groups and
later recombined as a class.

In the morning, the Spanish-speaking children leave for special instruction in
their academic subjects with a Spanish-speaking teacher. In the afternoon, the
Korean and Chinese children are pulled out to study in Korean and Chinese. While
they are gone, other teachers rotate into the class to help those who speak
other languages, including Arabic, Urdu and Bengali.

Organizing their days requires the precision planning of a military campaign,
but one burdened by foot soldiers who do not always understand the orders and
thus progress at different speeds.

This morning's task is to draw a picture and write about the book the class was
supposed to have read and understood, in English, the day before. It is a
Chinese folk tale -- the school has decided that all classes will study China as
the multicultural project of the year -- about a stone cutter named Chan Lo who
wants to carve a fish from a perfect piece of jade.

In a far corner of the room, Sun Soo' Shin, a boy who arrived from Korea 10
months ago, has had enough of the assignment and has twisted around in his seat
to pull a different book from the shelf behind him to read on his own. "The
stone," he has written next to a quick sketch of Chan Lo and his jade, "is make
sound like chop-chop or ss-ss. Chan Lo hear the that sound in the stone."

But a group of children, flummoxed by the assignment, ignore the teacher and
consult with one another quietly in Chinese. Then, together, they kneel before
the book that is propped against the blackboard and all begin to meticulously
copy the picture of Chan Lo on the cover. Seemingly oblivious to the activity
around them, they never get to the task of writing about the story before the
bell rings, 45 minutes later, for lunch.

Behind them, an Indian immigrant named Priyank V. Shukla, dressed like all his
classmates in blue jeans and sneakers, has quickly finished a minimalist sketch
of a man standing by a square in which a fish floats serenely. He learned
English back home, he says, so he has progressed faster at school. While he
waits for his classmates to finish their drawings, he scrunches over his desk,
grasps his pencil tightly in his fist and writes a dozen lines about the story.

At Prayer
Joining a Church, Creating a Home

High above the rows of wooden pews, where the arched mauve-and-pink rococo
ceiling of St. Sebastian's Roman Catholic Church meets its pale green walls,
Cheeman Kim glances at the green-robed priest below to check his timing and then
leans toward the microphone.

"Please join us in 'Jerusalem My Happy Home' on page 226," he announces in slow,
heavily accented English, as the hundred or so worshipers at Sunday morning Mass
stand up with a rustling of hymnals and shuffling of feet.

Then he raises his arms, turns to the expectant faces of the 13 vocalists of his
all-Korean choir and nods briskly to his wife, Eunsook, to play the opening
chords on the organ. Their voices, strong and melodious, saturate the chapel,
and an expression of sweet joy suffuses Mr. Kim's face.

As it has for generations of immigrants, religion provides a neighborhood within
a neighborhood for people estranged by language and culture. The latest wave of
immigrants has returned the favor: it has rejuvenated established churches and
created new ones to reflect every conceivable national origin and permutation of
faith.

Above the groceries and phone parlors on one block of Roosevelt Avenue, signs
advertise the Choong Hyun Church, the Korean Methodist New York Agape Church and
the Spanish Unity Ministerio de Cristianismo Practico. The Woodside Baptist
Church, built in 1925, shares space with the Gereja Kristen Indonesia
congregation. A Central American evangelical church has moved into a warehouse
across the street from a body repair shop.

For some, the house of worship is a safe harbor where immigrants like themselves
find community in a bewildering world. For others, like the Kims, the church is
a stepping stone to belonging, the first American institution they dared
approach where they felt at ease.

"This is my home," Mr. Kim said emphatically, referring to the Woodside parish
where he has now rented a home and opened a music school. "This is my hometown."

The Kims, who immigrated from Seoul eight years ago, could have joined an
all-Korean Catholic church. But they chose the 104-year-old St. Sebastian's,
whose pastor is the latest of an unbroken line of Irish-Americans in the job,
even though it does not provide a Korean-language service.

One reason is their 16-year-old son, Paul, who still sings in his father's choir
but speaks fluent English and is quickly picking up American teenage cultural
accouterments like dyed and spiked hair. A church just for Korean immigrants --
and a neighborhood dominated by Korean immigrants -- might drive young people
like him away from the fold and the family.

"The second generation doesn't like it," Mr. Kim said, "and doesn't need it."

The elder Mr. Kim has begun to emerge from his immigrant shell, too. His
confidence bolstered by several years of dealing with St. Sebastian officials in
his halting English, he recently signed up as a community volunteer to patrol
the streets of Woodside. Twice a month, he sets a flashing blue light on the
roof of his car and drives around looking for trouble that the police should
know about.

"Mostly it is Korean people who get together," he said, "but I am trying
community groups. Because now I live and work in this location and I must be
part of it."

In the Stores
Movie Rentals Bind a Community

If a neighborhood is a place where everybody knows your name, then Walter Arana
has made this one his own.

He arrived from Lima, Peru, in 1979 at the age of 15, with barely enough English
to navigate the airport arrivals terminal. Now, after 14 years in the business
of renting videos in Woodside, he has adapted perfectly to his new environment.

Mr. Arana only needs to look around him to understand the risks in an immigrant
neighborhood like Woodside with its dizzying mix of languages, national origins
and tastes.

The Chinese immigrant who leased his store before him was a printer, but he
failed because he worked only in Chinese. Across the street was a
Spanish-language travel agency that gave way to a Filipino-run food store that
gave way to an Ecuadorian restaurant that rarely has any customers.

"It's very difficult to market in such a situation," said Mr. Arana, jangling
the two thin gold chains he wears around his wrist. "If you're selling clothing,
for example, the sizes and the colors depend on who's in the neighborhood. As a
product of this multicultural society, I learned as I went along."

What he learned is that each segment of the neighborhood has its quirks and
preferences. Knowing them has made him a popular man and his shop a haven of
neighborly comaraderie.

On a recent Saturday, a Mexican man climbed the stairs from the basement where
the adult videos are kept and glided to the counter holding a pink video box
containing a European-made pornographic film.

"He lives with a group of guys who are here without families," confided Mr.
Arana, as the man slipped into the fading afternoon sunshine on Roosevelt
Avenue. "The Central Americans," he added, revealing another bit of neighborhood
intelligence, "won't rent the American porno. Too much silicone."

For his Peruvian customers, he keeps on hand a selection of the popular
television variety show "Comicos Ambulantes," which friends tape for him back in
Lima. For some of his American-born customers who tell him they want to learn
Spanish, he stocks classic comedies with minimal dialogue. For children,
immigrant or not, he has English-language videos.

"The kids pick up the language real quick," he explained, "so even though they
might not understand everything, they are familiar with the dialogue."

For Irish immigrants in Woodside -- the old-timers who have lived there for
decades and the newcomers who took advantage of special visas for the Irish in
the early 1990's -- Mr. Arana orders any Irish film he can get. "They're as
sentimental as we are," he said. "They want to see their own people and the same
type of stories they heard when they were little."

Sometimes when Mr. Arana goes out at night for a drink or to watch a soccer game
in one of the local clubs, other customers will hail him like an old friend.

"Usually in this country, you've got to have millions of dollars before anyone
recognizes you," he says. "But since I've been in the neighborhood so long,
somebody always recognizes me. That's great, because otherwise you're just a
Social Security number."

Next: The new immigrants remake a suburb in New Jersey.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE NEWCOMERS/First of three articles: The World Comes to Woodside

GRAPHIC: Photos: The walk from school on Roosevelt Avenue in Woodside, Queens,
where many languages are spoken. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1);
Businesses thrive along Roosevelt Avenue in Woodside, Queens, by catering to the
diverse immigrant population. (Photographs by Jeffery A. Salter/The New York
Times)(pg. 32)

Chart/Table: The composition of immigrant populations in Woodside, Queens,
reflects similar diversity shifts in the rest of the city.
            TOTAL  FOREIGN  PERCENT OF  EUROPE
ASIA    SOUTH AND    OTHER
       POPULATION     BORN       TOTAL                 CENTRAL
                                                       AMERICA
1990        9,070    4,974         55%     29%    37        23     11
1970        9,190    3,222         35%     63%    13        13     11
1950        6,599    1,638         25%     94%                      6
1930        5,651    1,744         31%     93%                      7

(Source: Queens College Sociology Department)(pg. 1)

Chart: "The Changing Face of New York City"
The chart highlights what percentage of the population were/are foreign-born
citizens from 1930-1990, the neighborhood they live(d) in, and where they
immigrated from. (Source: Queens College Sociology Department)(pg. 32)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Modest Proposal

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 112 words



To the Editor:

Re "As More Are Deported, a '96 Law Faces Scrutiny" (front page, Dec. 21):

The efficiency of the Immigration and Naturalization Service brings much
needless pain to immigrants convicted of minor offenses, while other agents
cause needless pain to other immigrants who have to wait three years for their
green cards.

Until Congress solves the first problem, a humane solution would be to exchange
these groups of agents. The efficient enforcers would issue green cards rapidly,
and the inefficient green-card agents would use their incompetence not to find
the guilty immigrants in question.

OMRI M. BEHR
Edison, N.J., Dec. 21, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Middle Class Alters a Rural Enclave

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3271 words

DATELINE: BRIDGEWATER, N.J., Dec. 26


Sachin and Purvi Shah arrived with their infant daughter at Newark International
Airport on a crisp day in February as the newest of immigrants from Barooda,
India. But instead of heading to Flushing or Jackson Heights, they slid
comfortably into a Nissan Quest minivan steered by Mrs. Shah's brother, Kaushal
Desai, and rode west on Interstate 78, away from the shrinking Manhattan
skyline.

They drove past the older suburbs, beyond the Garden State Parkway, through a
blurry montage of wooded valleys and office parks, before reaching this affluent
township, some 40 miles from New York City.

"I thought New Jersey would be like Manhattan," Mr. Shah, a 31-year-old computer
programmer, recalled recently at the new house his family shares with the
Desais. "But as we were driving on 78, past all these fields, I asked Kaushal,
'Where are the buildings?' "

All told, it took an hour for the Shahs to achieve what earlier immigrants often
could not claim for decades, even generations: middle-class comfort and
prosperity in suburban America.

By leapfrogging to the most desirable suburbs, many Asian immigrants are
upending stereotypes about new immigrants' being poor and invisible, tethered to
ethnic neighborhoods, desperate to wriggle out of the city. Instead, these
newcomers are younger and more economically diverse, equipped with graduate
degrees and work visas, gifted in science and technology.

Bridgewater, a rambling township of 38,000 with a median household income of
$84,000, is no Monterey Park, Calif., where the population is two-thirds
Asian-American. Nor is it like Palisades Park, N.J., where Korean-American
businesses dominate the downtown. Rather, it is a subtler example of how even
the quietest bedroom communities are finding their rhythms jolted by the
greatest wave of immigration since the start of the century.

Nowhere has this been more evident than in the southwestern sections of
Bridgewater, where in the last decade farms and woods have given way to 3,000
houses in glistening subdivisions. As many as half the residents in some
neighborhoods are Asian, led by Indians, Chinese and Filipinos.

During rush hour, people born on the other side of the world line up in gleaming
sedans and sport utility vehicles at the intersection of Route 28 and Vanderveer
Road, destined for telecommunications, pharmaceutical and computer companies.

At dawn, Chinese grandparents practice qigong breathing exercises on the
sidewalks, then tinker with sprinklers as self-appointed lawn tenders. At dusk,
families nudge baby strollers past virgin $300,000 houses and converse in their
native dialects. There is a new, commodious Hindu temple here, and the local
library stocks books in Chinese, Gujarati and other languages.

This does not mean that Bridgewater, once a sleepy, monochromatic Republican
enclave, has turned into an oasis of multicultural harmony. The police have
recorded more bias incidents, including repeated fires set to a Sikh family's
mailbox. Some parents have grumbled about the academic successes of
Asian-American students. Old-timers complain about the residential and
commercial sprawl that has been stoked, in part, by the new immigrants.

Some natives even seem benumbed that whatever home-field advantage they toiled
for years to attain -- in school, at work, in life -- has been erased by
upstarts who do not fit the classic immigrant profile.

"The middle-class white enclave is being challenged, and they're afraid of
what's going to come in," said Paul Richardson, 40, who grew up in Bridgewater,
went away to college, then returned to raise his own children. "I just hope the
new people coming in will want to become a part of our culture."

Bridgewater Past
From Family Farm To Suburban Lane

Wearing a cherry-colored cap emblazoned with the letter "B," Robert Kiser, a
weathered man with fraying copper hair, was trudging through the red shale soil
of a treeless housing development under construction when he stopped to point.

Over there, by Route 28, was the endless front yard of his Civil War-era house,
where he and his two older brothers used to play football. Over there, closer to
the stream, was where schoolchildren once went on hayrides through his fruit
farm. But over here, he gestured, was a symbol of the present: a newly paved
street named Kiser Lane.

"It's a reminder of how people were uprooted," Mr. Kiser said with a sigh. "Some
day, our kids and grandkids can come back and say, 'See, there's our old name.'
"

Earlier this year, Mr. Kiser, 49, reluctantly sold his family's 15-acre farm to
make way for the 63 houses of the Orchard Meadows subdivision, becoming the
latest member of Bridgewater's old, devoted guard to yield, however achingly, to
a more developed, more diverse world.

The descendant of Prussian and Danish immigrants, Mr. Kiser grew up in the
1950's and 1960's, when Bridgewater still exuded a soothing, rural rhythm, one
first established by Dutch and English settlers in the mid-1700's. As an
entrepreneurial eighth grader in 1965, Mr. Kiser started Bob's Fruit Stand on
Route 28, selling peaches, pears and apples. He eventually became an engineer,
imitating his father and brothers, but kept the stand as a side business.

In those days, residents liked Bridgewater because it was far away, but not too
far: an hour's drive to the Jersey shore or the Poconos; an hour's drive to New
York or Philadelphia. The widest cultural divide was between those who said
stoop, lightning bug and sub (New York) and those who said porch, firefly and
hoagie (Philadelphia).

But like much of central New Jersey, Bridgewater began to change in the 1980's,
especially after the State Supreme Court, in an effort to promote affordable
housing, forced communities to change their zoning to allow clusters of smaller
lots. A giant mall, Bridgewater Commons, opened in 1988, becoming the de facto
downtown for a 32-square mile township that had never had one. Major
corporations like A T & T and Johnson & Johnson opened offices, attracted by the
confluence of six highways.

Many residents sold their family homesteads and moved deeper into the
countryside, leaving behind only their names: Bertran Drive, Sutton Court,
O'Keefe Road. New developments and cul-de-sacs sprouted up, particularly inside
a 1,000-acre triangle girdled by Route 28, Milltown Road and Vanderveer Road.

Alarmed by the changes around his farm, Mr. Kiser joined the Save Bridgewater
Organization, an anti-development group, in the early 1990's. But earlier this
year, Mr. Kiser, his wife, Pam, a 48-year-old teacher, and three teenage sons
decided to sell.

"Ultimately, we had to make a decision to make way," he said. "This is the
vision for Bridgewater. It has totally changed."

In April, they moved to a new house, only two miles away, still in Bridgewater.
Bob's Fruit Stand remains, even though its produce must now be hauled in from
out of town, not from across the street. The family remains active in local
affairs, particularly youth baseball -- the "B" on Mr. Kiser's cap stands for
Bridgewater Baseball.

By agreement with the developers, Mr. Kiser's boyhood home, a white Colonial
surrounded by magnolia, elm and maple trees, will remain and be rented out. So,
too, will the ranch house occupied by Mr. Kiser's 90-year-old aunt, Constance,
whose new address, in a bittersweet touch, will be 4 Kiser Lane.

"This area has undergone such a tremendous transformation in such a compressed
amount of time, and it's been a challenge dealing with that," he said. "It'll
probably hit home when they finish up, and we meet some of the neighbors."

Bridgewater Present
A Thousand Acres, 10,000 Neighbors

On a fall morning, the allegro pace at the Desai and Shah household reached a
peak, highlighted by Hindu prayers and the wolfed-down breakfasts of cereal and
masalapuri, an Indian snack.

Off went Gati Desai, bundling her two young children to school. Off went Mr.
Desai to meet with a computer consulting client in Newark. And down went Mr.
Shah to the basement, headquarters of Trinet Solutions, a small computer
consulting business the Desais founded three years ago.

Four bedrooms, three small children, two cars, one home-based business: this is
the arpeggio of life for the Shahs, who have settled into a comfortable if
hectic suburban groove, just 10 months removed from their native state of
Gujarat.

The two families regularly inspect crafts fairs and shop for vegetarian
groceries in Edison. They worship at either the Swaminaryan temple in Edison or
the year-old Sri Venkateswara temple in Bridgewater.

If anything, the Shahs view Bridgewater as a satellite not of New York City, but
of Edison, 20 minutes away, with its plethora of ethnic supermarkets and
services, primarily for Indian and Chinese immigrants. The Shahs treat New York
as a tourist destination. Rockefeller Center, the World Trade Center, the Statue
of Liberty? Been there. Jackson Heights? Haven't done that.

"Bridgewater is very peaceful, very clean, very nice," said Mrs. Shah, 28, after
attending a free English conversation class for immigrants at the public library
here. "We like it very much."

In India, Mr. Shah was a computer programmer, while Mrs. Shah was a
microbiologist. But they calculated that America would be better for their
careers, and for their daughter, Shaili, 3, especially because the Desais, like
many immigrants ensconced in suburbia, were willing to live indefinitely with
their newly arrived relatives.

So the Shahs became beneficiaries of changes in immigration law that have lifted
restrictions on Asians and other groups, particularly the highly educated and
skilled.

Immigrants are still generally settling in the city. But more are heading
straight to the suburbs, led by the Asians, according to a new study in the
journal Migration World by Ronald J. O. Flores, a sociologist at St. Lawrence
University, and A. Peter Lobo and Joseph J. Salvo, demographers with the New
York City planning department.

Between 1990 and 1996, 46 percent of Asian immigrants -- including 66 percent of
Indians -- settled directly in the suburbs, up from 37 percent the previous six
years, the study showed. In that time, Bridgewater absorbed about 1,000
immigrants -- 54 percent of whom were Asians, mostly professionals -- nearly
doubling the total between 1983 and 1989, Mr. Lobo said.

For many new immigrants, the suburbs are a symbol of a clean slate, a fresh
start. "The more I live here, the more I like it here," said Sharon Wang, 33, a
native of China's Hubei province who moved to Bridgewater four years ago with
her husband, a statistician, and two sons. "I feel like this is my country. I
was born to come here."

Ms. Wang, a librarian, lords over a house filled with plants, a reproduction of
Renoir's "Luncheon of the Boating Party" and a glistening Yamaha piano. She
invites Chinese neighbors over for dinners of dumplings, bean-thread noodles and
squash soup, and an occasional bout of karaoke. She sends her sons to the Huaxia
Chinese School, a private weekend school in Hillsborough, to learn Chinese. Her
mother, Chai Chunting, is among hundreds of grandparents who shuttle regularly
between Asia and Bridgewater.

Ms. Chai, 61, had braced herself at first: she could not speak English, could
not drive. But soon, she was playing cards and gossiping with neighbors from all
parts of China. She even traveled with other Chinese grandparents to Atlantic
City.

"This," Ms. Chai said on a stroll one night, "is like a small Chinese town."

The Schools
Where Cultures Mix and Clash

The stage was set, the audience rapt.

Sitting in the middle, sobbing, was a Japanese-American student, played with
flair by Chelsey Tanaka. She told her parents that she had been ridiculed by her
new classmates for wearing a kimono. Cherish your heritage, said Jessica Tang,
the student playing her mother. Ignore the bullies.

Ms. Tanaka's character marched into class the next day and swayed the other
students with her brio. "Tolerance means not hating people who are different
from you, but still respecting their differences," she said.

The juniors in Will Ferry's advanced placement history class were performing
their original skit this June day before a special audience: Scott Petrillo's
second-grade class at Bradley Gardens School.

School officials believe it is never too early to teach tolerance. And no
institution has been more affected by Bridgewater's churning population than the
schools, which have the potential to become a model United Nations -- or a
multicultural tinderbox.

The Asian population here has climbed to perhaps 10 percent from 1 percent in
1980. In the school district, which includes the tiny, middle-class borough of
Raritan, almost 10 percent of the students are not native speakers of English.
The 41 languages represented include 11 from the Indian subcontinent and 4 from
China and Taiwan, said Stephen L. Sokolow, the superintendent of schools.

At Bridgewater-Raritan High School, where one-quarter of the students are
minorities, the Asian population is 13.9 percent, up from 3.7 in 1988. At Van
Holten Elementary School in southwestern Bridgewater, the Asian population is
22.2 percent, up from 14.2 percent only two years ago.

And yet, so far, most students, whether they have lived here all their lives or
have just arrived from abroad, seem to be handling the changes smoothly.

Rob Kiser, Mr. Kiser's middle son, was president of the high school's freshman
class last year and said he has no problems with the new diversity. His
classmate Yousheng Tang, who lives close to the former Kiser Farm, is just four
years removed from a school in Shanghai, but has been trying hard to absorb
American pop culture.

At a shade under 6 feet in cleats, and 150 pounds, Yousheng was a reserve tight
end on the sophomore football team, one of two Asian-Americans on the Panthers.
"He likes it, so we support him," said Tom Tang, his father, a computer
programmer at A T & T.

If anything, it is the parents who are struggling with the notion of a
multicultural school system. Some Asian-Americans are excelling academically;
about half the seniors in the top 5 percent are Asian-American. And so are a
quarter to a third of the students in a program that separates the
highest-scoring elementary school students from the rest of their age group.

But some parents have criticized the program as being too competitive and
top-heavy with Asian-Americans. They have suggested it fosters elitism at an
early age.

The whispers have not escaped the immigrants' ears. "Sometimes, people say, 'You
Chinese guys are smart. You have well-paid jobs,' " said Sharon Wang, whose
older son is enrolled in the program. "You can feel it. It's some sour grapes."

Civic Life
Growth Concerns, Bias Complaints

On a muggy evening in July, 400 people packed a zoning board meeting, glowering
at slide after slide of blueprints, statistics and sketches. One by one,
citizens denounced a proposed shopping center on Route 28 called Millbridge
Village. There would be too much traffic, they said. Too much disruption.

But something was missing. "I think everyone notices, where are all the Chinese,
the Indians?" said Paul Richardson, a Bridgewater native. "You look at that
crowd, it looks like Bridgewater from 25 years ago. It's the old guard trying to
dig their heels in."

Overdevelopment is the hottest issue in suburbia, as evidenced by Millbridge
Village, which was ultimately rejected. But in Bridgewater, where taxes are
relatively low, unhappiness about development may be a more complicated issue
than in other places.

For older residents, the new developments provoke emotions from envy to
acceptance. Mr. Kiser, for one, said he did not begrudge the Asian immigrants
their success. But he does sense that the anti-development mood may mask a muted
dislike of the newcomers and their unfamiliar customs.

"I think some people are somewhat resentful of some of the foreign people coming
in and jumping ahead so quickly," he said.

To improve relations, Mayor James T. Dowden set up a committee this year
dedicated to fighting bias. Neighborhoods have organized block parties, while
businesses have trumpeted diversity programs.

But there have been more bias incidents recently, ranging from swastika
scrawlings to acts of mischief, according to the police. This spring, vandals
twice smeared the house of Mahal and Sandhya Mohan, natives of Madras, India,
with eggs and toilet paper, and twice set fire to the mailbox of their next-door
neighbors, the Singhs, members of a Sikh gurdwara, or temple, here.

Mr. Mohan, a vice president at A T & T, responded to the attacks by installing
floodlights and keeping cameras by his bed. He compared the experience to
cruising along, then suddenly going off a cliff. "One little incident can do
that," he said.

In another case, town officials, prodded by neighbors, have accused an Indian
family of illegally operating a temple in their home, complete with a
six-foot-high marble statue. A local judge sided with the township in July. The
family's appeal is pending.

Apart from these flare-ups, some longtime residents believe that few Chinese and
Indian residents care about Bridgewater's civic life. One exception is Michael
Hsing, an Internet manager from Taiwan who moved here in 1990.

Like two-thirds of the registered voters affiliated with a party, Mr. Hsing, 44,
is a Republican. He was the local party's 1999 campaign treasurer. But he was
dispirited when voters narrowly rejected a $22.9 million bond issue this month
to expand the high school, which is projected to swell from 1,900 to 2,800
students by 2009. So it is crucial, he said, for more Asian immigrants, citizens
or not, to participate in civic life.

"One day, when the community has an issue, people will say, 'Where were you last
time?' " he said. "Or even worse, they'll say, 'Who are you?' "

Bridgewater Future
Old and New Cope With Change

It was a late-summer afternoon, the light fading, as the steel-wool sky wrung
out sheets of rain. Inside his new house, Mr. Kiser sat in the kitchen,
cherishing some photographs of the old Kiser Farm -- and thinking about the ones
to come from the new Kiser Farm.

After much deliberation, Mr. Kiser and his brothers, Franklin and Bill, decided
to buy another farm, one of 103 acres, 18 miles to the west in Hunterdon County.

"You have to change with the changes," he said, noting that about half the
houses in Orchard Meadows had been bought by people of Asian descent. "There are
a lot of people with foreign backgrounds to make room for."

A few miles away, on a chilly but bright autumn afternoon, the Shahs and the
Desais assembled in a guest bedroom and knelt for 10 minutes on the
pewter-colored carpeting before a small shrine to three Hindu gods: Swaminarayan
the creator, Ganesh, the elephant god of goodness, and Hanuman, the monkey god
of religious piety.

In their daily candle-lit prayer, the four adults and three children sang and
clapped joyously, then ate almond offerings. "I'm not going to be totally
Americanized, but I feel very fortunate to be here," said Mr. Desai, who became
an American citizen in August. "In this country, you can do anything."

The Shahs are not sure if they will stay forever. But they are confident that
their daughter, Shaili, will benefit from America's technological wonders and
Bridgewater's tapestry of new immigrants.

"She can come in," Mr. Shah said, "right from the beginning."

Next: The new immigrants make inroads in New York City politics.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE NEWCOMERS: Second of three articles -- Suburbia Remade

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gati Desai leading a prayer service in a bedroom of the house
her family shares in Bridgewater, N.J. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg.
A1); Jessica Tang, left, and Chelsey Tanaka as mother and daughter in a play
about ethnic tolerance, performed for second graders at Bradley Gardens School
in Bridgewater. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); From left, Sharon Wang, Susan
Lin, a neighbor in Bridgewater, and Ms. Wang's mother, Chai Chunting, prepare a
meal of turkey and shrimp steamed with rice. (Dith Pran/The New York Times);
Yousheng Tang, four years out of a school in Shanghai, is a reserve tight end
with the Bridgewater-Raritan Panthers and one of two Asian-Americans on the high
school team. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); A procession last summer
around the new Sri Venkateswara Hindu temple in Bridgewater. Families can also
worship at the Swaminaryan temple in nearby Edison. (Dith Pran/The New York
Times)(pg. B9)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Diversity Slows Traditional Political Climb

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3450 words


As a teenager, Morshed Alam dodged enemy soldiers to deliver food to Bangladeshi
independence fighters. And as a student at Dhaka University in the mid-1970's,
he endured police beatings to organize pro-democracy demonstrations against the
newly formed nation's military regime.

So it is hardly surprising that Mr. Alam dived headlong into American politics
soon after immigrating to Queens 15 years ago. In 1996, he became the first
Bangladeshi on a New York City community school board. In 1998, he challenged an
entrenched Republican state senator. And when the county Democratic organization
opposed his candidacy, he built his own insurgent political club.

"Politics is the same everywhere in the world," said Mr. Alam, who lost the 1998
race but plans to run again next year. "Nobody wants to give up their power. But
times are changing."

Ambitious and impatient, sour on local Democrats but enthusiastic about
democracy, Mr. Alam is a prime example of a new breed of immigrant politicians
from Asia, the West Indies and Latin America who are beginning to take their
places at the city's table of power, just as Italian and East European Jewish
immigrants did 90 years ago.

Some, like Mr. Alam, are rebelling against established politicians. Others are
rebuilding dying political clubs. Still others are entering politics the
old-fashioned way by running for ground-floor offices, like a spot on the school
board, competing in races that often draw yawns from native-born politicians.

They are scoring small but significant successes. Dominicans control the
Democratic clubs of Washington Heights. Asian-Americans hold five elected
judicial positions and 15 seats on nine different school boards. And there are
now eight people of West Indian descent in the City Council and State
Legislature.

But the new immigrants have yet to reach the higher rungs of the city's
political ladder. No Asian-Americans, West Indians or Latin Americans in New
York City are Democratic county leaders, members of Congress or strong
contenders for citywide office. Oddly enough, the thing they are celebrated for,
their extraordinary diversity, has weakened their political strength.

Today's immigrants come from more countries and speak more languages than the
last great wave of European immigrants. They are more economically varied, with
highly educated and skilled people among their ranks. And more than their
predecessors, they are eschewing homogenous enclaves, scattering to
neighborhoods across the city.

Fractured and dispersed, they have proved more difficult to unite into political
movements. In New York, no group approaches the influence of Cuban immigrants in
Miami, Mexican immigrants in San Antonio or even Asian-Americans in San
Francisco, whose political power has been amplified by their more concentrated
numbers.

"There hasn't been a citywide candidate who can jell the immigrants, partly
because it is such a diverse community," said John Mollenkopf, a professor of
history at the City University of New York.

But the city's political landscape is changing in ways that could catapult more
immigrant politicians into office. In 2001, term limits will force 36 of the 51
City Council members from office. Presented with that historic opportunity,
political analysts predict, large numbers of immigrants will be registering
voters and building organizations -- trying to rouse communities many veteran
politicians once felt safe to ignore.

And the immigrants will be there for the rousing. Since 1996, record numbers
have applied for citizenship, spurred by Congress's decision to end welfare
benefits for certain noncitizens and by the advent of dual citizenship in
countries like the Dominican Republic and Colombia, which send large numbers of
immigrants to America.

Mr. Alam, a cheerful, rail-thin man of 42 who is an environmental chemist for
the city, is hoping to ride that wave to victory.

Last year, he challenged State Senator Frank Padavan, a 13-term Republican who
had made an issue of the cost of social services for immigrants. When the Queens
Democratic Party refused to support Mr. Alam, he recruited immigrants into his
own organization, the New American Democratic Club. With a shoestring budget and
little campaign experience, they knocked on doors, gave out literature and
helped him win 41 percent of the vote.

A recent meeting of the club showed it to be as kaleidoscopic as the city
itself. Among the 35 people eating chicken tikka and basmati rice at Mr. Alam's
house in Jamaica were school board members from Korea and Taiwan; an Indian
dentist and Pakistani professor; Roman Catholics from Colombia and Black Muslims
from Brooklyn.

Their accents were as varied as their faces. They wore business suits, saris and
flowing white robes. But they could clearly agree on one thing: it was time to
have a voice, perhaps many, in American politics.

"We have to show them we belong," Elizabeth Aivars, a Venezuelan immigrant, told
the group. "This is a political organization. We're not embarrassed to say
that."

Getting Noticed
Jews and Italians Show the Way

On a November morning in 1914, hundreds of Jewish immigrants gathered along East
Broadway in the chill before dawn, singing, dancing and hoping to catch a
glimpse of their hero: Meyer London, a Socialist Party leader who had just been
elected to Congress from the Lower East Side.

To those immigrants, Mr. London's election was a watershed. He was one of them,
a new American who had come from Russia as a youth, the son of a print shop
owner, a lawyer for garment workers. His election seemed to validate their
yearnings for political influence and economic security.

Two years later, the city's Italian immigrant community elected its first member
of Congress, Fiorello H. La Guardia. (Actually, La Guardia could claim a dual
heritage; his father was Italian, his mother, Jewish. And in 1933, he was able
to build a multi-ethnic, multiparty coalition to become mayor, the first
Italian-American to do so.)

To political analysts today, there is an important lesson to be gleaned from
London's and La Guardia's first elections: they came roughly three decades after
the first waves of East European Jews began arriving in New York City. By that
timetable, the Asian, Latin American and West Indian immigrants who began
flowing into New York in the mid-1960's are not far behind.

"By the Russian Jewish time clock, 1999 is equivalent to 1915," said Philip
Kasinitz, a Hunter College sociologist.

The Italians and Jews became politicized at different rates. Italians, like many
Hispanic immigrants today, were relatively slow to naturalize, in part because
many did not intend to make America their permanent home. Jews become citizens
faster, in large part because they had no intention of returning to Europe. They
also brought with them urban traditions of socialist politics and labor
organizing that caught on with immigrants in New York City's working-class
streets and sweatshops.

And while the Democratic Party was slow to recruit these Jewish and Italian
immigrants, it eventually embraced them, and they it. By the 1950's, the old
Democratic machine was dominated by Italians, particularly its last true boss,
Carmine G. DeSapio. And Jews became important forces not only in the mainstream
organization, but also in the reform clubs that produced Mayor Edward I. Koch.

In the 1960's, when strict immigration quotas were lifted, new waves of
immigrants from Asia, Latin America and the West Indies began pouring into the
city. And the very diversity of these immigrants has become a major hurdle not
confronted by the Jews and Italians before them.

In 1933, when La Guardia was elected mayor, Italians and Jews together
represented a third of New York's population. Today, Dominicans, the city's
largest immigrant group, are roughly 6 percent of the population; West Indians
as a group are about 8 percent. Chinese, the largest Asian group, are less than
4 percent. Unifying them will be a politician's nightmare.

The new immigrants face another challenge: the Democratic Party has been on a
steady downward trend. Reform politicians have weakened the party's control over
patronage, a fundamental recruiting tool. The modern welfare state has made the
clubs' rudimentary social services seem redundant. Paid consultants have taken
over the work of running campaigns, reducing the need for immigrant volunteers.

"We can't even fix a parking ticket," said James McManus, whose great-uncle
founded the McManus Midtown Democratic Association on West 44th Street more than
90 years ago. "It's no wonder people don't come around anymore."

But for all the obstacles, the new immigrants have had their triumphs. Just this
decade, the Dominicans have come to dominate politics in Washington Heights, one
of the most concentrated immigrant enclaves.

Dominicans virtually control the three local Democratic clubs and the local
school board. They have elected one of their own, Guillermo Linares, to the City
Council, and another, Adriano Espaillat, to the State Assembly. And when
Representative Charles B. Rangel retires, many local party officials predict,
the area is very likely to elect the first Dominican to Congress.

And in the Bronx, the last of the city's true political machines, the county
Democratic committee, which is dominated by Puerto Ricans, is trying to build
citywide immigrant support behind Borough President Fernando Ferrer, who is
considering running for mayor in 2001. He is a long shot, but his efforts may
lay the foundations for an immigrant candidate to seek citywide office in the
future. And perhaps, like La Guardia, that first successful citywide candidate
will have roots in more than one immigrant group.

"This is a group of people who are hungry, who are ready for ownership of a city
that has not always been kind to them," said Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, the
county chairman.

Breaking Out
Electoral Success As a West Indian

Who, many historians ask, will be the new immigrants' Meyer London?

One of the strongest candidates would seem to be a bespectacled, pixieish,
hard-charging mother from the island of Jamaica: City Councilwoman Una Clarke of
Brooklyn, who is aggressively raising money and courting support for a potential
challenge to Representative Major R. Owens, a nine-term Democrat, next year.

"They are pushing me to run," she says of her fellow West Indians, pretending
she hasn't tried to stoke such talk. "Their plot is to push me so far that I
cannot turn back."

In her drive for recognition, Mrs. Clarke, 64, clearly reflects the desires of
many of the city's 600,000 West Indians -- particularly in Flatbush and Crown
Heights -- to see their growing population translated into political power
beyond the City Council or State Legislature. But by taking on Mr. Owens, who is
African American, a Clarke campaign could also place her into conflict with
central Brooklyn's other major voter bloc.

In the past, politicians from the West Indies -- including Representative
Shirley Chisholm, an immigrant from Barbados who represented the 11th
Congressional District in the 1970's -- generally viewed themselves as
African-American leaders first and Caribbeans second. But for Mrs. Clarke, being
from the West Indies seems to come first.

Indeed, Mrs. Clarke, who must leave the Council in 2001 under term limits, has
built her career on issues related to the West Indies. In the Council, her
signal achievement was to legalize the unlicensed vans that are owned mainly by
West Indian immigrants. And recently, she led a delegation to Washington to
lobby for trade rules that would benefit West Indian banana growers.

She also aggressively courts immigrant voters, filling her weekends with visits
to West Indian festivals and interviews on local radio shows. A service in
Harlem commemorating the day of Bahamian independence was typical. Midway
through the event, the nation's consul general, Dr. Doswell Coakley, spotted
Mrs. Clarke in the second row -- an easy task, given her bright red pillbox hat.

"Una Clarke is term-limited and moving on to other things," Dr. Coakley told the
crowd as Mrs. Clarke covered her face with red-gloved hands in mock horror. "She
tells me she is Caribbean first, and that we keep her in the fore of our
thoughts. We shall."

Mrs. Clarke and her husband came to the United States in 1959 as students, had
two children and decided to stay. Politics seemed to come naturally. She first
got involved in Parent-Teacher Associations, then helped form an insurgent
Democratic club that included Mr. Owens. Later she became head of a community
group called the Caribbean Action Lobby.

And in 1991, after the city created a majority-West Indian Council district in
central Brooklyn, she defied the county's black-dominated Democratic
organization, which supported an American-born black candidate, and won the
seat.

"I never saw bias until I ran in 1991," Mrs. Clarke said recently. "When I
entered office, the street talk was, 'Why do these West Indians feel they have
to be in politics?' "

Now, her daughter, Yvette, 34, is considering running for her Council seat. More
than the mother, the daughter moves seamlessly between two worlds. "How do you
like my daughter?" Mrs. Clarke asked an acquaintance recently in the lilting
voice that marks her as a West Indian immigrant. "Is she an all-American girl?
I'm getting there myself. It's taken a long time, but I'll get there."

Working Together
Asian Immigrants Look to Coalitions

The gathering of the North Flushing Civic Association was much like the dozens
of civic association meetings held every month in Queens. A group of 60
middle-class homeowners, upset about a proposed Salvation Army church on 32nd
Avenue, fired testy questions about increased traffic and ruined vistas at
church officials.

But there was something different about this event: the man running it. He was
John Liu, a 32-year-old immigrant from Taiwan, the association's president and
one of just four Asian-Americans in the room. It is often that way for Mr. Liu,
who is trying to become the first Asian-American on the City Council.

While immigrant candidates in heavily concentrated immigrant communities like
Washington Heights or Flatbush can afford to focus on their fellow countrymen,
Asian-Americans in Queens cannot. Not only are Asian-Americans a minority in
most Queens communities; many do not vote. Even in Flushing, where
Asian-Americans are nearly half the population, they represent less than 20
percent of the registered Democrats. The rest either are not citizens or have
registered as independents or Republicans, making them ineligible for the
Democratic primaries that usually determine elections here.

Don Nakanishi, director of the Asian-American Studies Center at the University
of California at Los Angles, says that while Asian-Americans are quick to
naturalize, they are slow to register to vote. The reasons he gives include a
strong emphasis on work over other activities, and a fear of politics from
living in authoritarian Asian societies.

Mr. Liu, an actuary, learned those lessons the hard way. In 1997, he was one of
two Asian-American Democrats who challenged City Councilwoman Julia Harrison, a
Democrat who had sharply criticized Asian-American business owners in Flushing
on a variety of issues, including not posting signs in English. The two split
the Asian-American vote, making it easier for Mrs. Harrison to win re-election
with just 48 percent of the vote.

With Mrs. Harrison required to step down in 2001, Mr. Liu is working much harder
to gain support among non-Asians -- not an easy task when many longtime
residents bristle at the rapid growth of Flushing's Asian-American population.

So he fills his evenings and weekends with political events where he can meet
and greet the borough's Democratic cognoscenti and voters. In addition to his
civic association, he sits on the boards of the Queens Symphony and a handful of
Democratic clubs, including one linked to the most powerful official in his
Council district, Assemblyman Brian M. McLaughlin, whose support he hopes to
win.

A stocky, effervescent man with a boyish face and the kind of boundless energy a
good politician needs, Mr. Liu arrived in Flushing at the age of 5 when his
father, a bank executive, was transferred to New York. Back then, the family was
among the neighborhood's only Chinese.

"I didn't want to speak Chinese," he recalled in his unaccented English. "I
wanted to be white."

But at the State University of New York in Binghamton, he became active in the
Asian-American organization. Angry that the group was receiving far less
financing than others, he and friends campaigned to pack the student assembly
with Asian-Americans. They won, and the Asian Student Union got a $10,000 budget
increase.

Five years ago, he and his wife, a nuclear engineer, bought an 80-year-old
Colonial-style home just a few blocks from where he grew up. Sometimes he
recalls the racial slurs of his childhood as he walks door to door, trying to
drum up support for his incipient campaign.

"People say to me: 'I'm Italian. You are going to know what I need?' " he said.
"I say: 'You need regular garbage pickup. You need the schools to be good. And
you know what? That's what I want, too.' "

Joining Ranks
Hell's Kitchen Club Takes Latin Flavor

The McManus Midtown Democratic Association on West 44th Street has the musty,
other-era feel of someone's well-kept attic. Outside, a red-haired man sells
J.F.K. buttons. By the door hangs an oversize drawing of George Washington
Plunkitt, the salty Hell's Kitchen district leader whose blunt advocacy of
"honest graft" was Tammany Hall's turn-of-the-century motto. Old men sit
watching television.

But on a recent evening, there was a distinctly new New York feel to the club's
clientele. A family of Mexicans sat on folding chairs inside the door, awaiting
help with a housing matter. A few paces away, a club member filled out
immigration forms for a Colombian woman. And in the back, a Brazilian man leafed
through a sheaf of job openings at city agencies.

Carlos Manzano, the club president, looked on happily. "I did my homework," he
said, referring to the job listings he had compiled. "That's what Carmine
DeSapio told me. Do your homework."

In one sense, the 33-year-old Mr. Manzano, who builds and manages World Wide Web
pages for a living, is something of a political throwback, the last of a dying
breed. But in another, he may be the model for something new: immigrants trying
to revive the city's political clubs.

Mr. Manzano, who emigrated from Colombia in 1985, joined the club 11 years ago
as a student at Queens College, simply because he wanted to learn about
American-style politics. He was the club's second Hispanic member. But over the
next few years, he recruited other immigrants, largely by providing basic
services: citizenship classes, free legal services and assistance in navigating
the city bureaucracy.

It was not quite like the old days, when clubs could put a supporter's nephew on
the city payroll or get a friendly judge to go easy on a particular case. But
the club's Hispanic membership grew steadily to 600, about half of its total.

This Latinization drew grumbles from some of the older Irish and Italian
stalwarts. But the effort had the blessing of Mr. McManus, who had installed Mr.
Manzano as president and helped elect him a district leader. To him, Mr. Manzano
represents not just the future of his club, but of New York City politics.

"Nobody gave the Irish and Italians anything," Mr. McManus said, adding, "So
I've been waiting for someone like Carlos to come along and do the same thing
for poor and working-class Hispanics."

With that in mind, Mr. Manzano, whose ever-crisp attire and dignified bearing
seem as old-fashioned as his politics, ran last February for City Council in a
heavily white district that extends from West 74th Street into Greenwich
Village. Derided as "the machine candidate" by his opponents, he finished second
in a field of four.

Since then, he has received feelers from other Hispanic leaders about running as
a pan-Hispanic Council candidate in Queens.  More appealing to him is spending
nights at the club. As he prepared to close down at 10:30 on a recent evening, a
frail looking, elderly woman walked in and asked for a private meeting.

As they emerged from their talk a few minutes later, the woman began to toddle
off, then stopped and gave Mr. Manzano a kiss on the cheek. "You will take care
of that, right?" she asked. "Cause if you don't, who will?"


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE NEWCOMERS -- Last of three articles: Outsiders to Insiders

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Politics is the same everywhere in the world. Nobody wants to
give up their power. But times are changing." MORSHED ALAM -- Founder and
President, New American Democratic Club, Jamaica, Queens (Ozier Muhammad/The New
York Times); "I never saw bias until I ran in 1991. When I entered office, the
street talk was, 'Why do these West Indians feel they have to be in politics?' "
UNA CLARKE -- City Councilwoman (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times);
"People say to me: 'I'm Italian. You are going to know what I need?' I say, 'You
need regular garbage pickup. You need the schools to be good.' " JOHN LIU --
President, North Flushing Civic Association (Nancy Siesel/The New York
Times)(pg. B11)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Putting Refugees Behind Bars

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 158 words



To the Editor:

Your Dec. 24 news article "Terrorists Said to Hide in Canada's Melting Pot"
managed to give the impression that Quebec's multiculturalism was somehow
sinister, as if the very presence of immigrants from India, Thailand, China,
Italy, Russia, Switzerland and the Middle East within a few city blocks meant
that terrorists were bound to be found there as well.

Although every country has a right to protect itself from immigrants who come
with criminal or violent motives, a policy like the one the Immigration and
Naturalization Service follows, which often places those who are seeking asylum
in prison for long periods of time, cannot be justified.

Both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have objected to the United
States' policy that keeps thousands of asylum seekers behind bars though they
have committed no crime and are unlikely to be dangerous to anyone.

MYRNA KNEPLER
Chicago, Dec. 24, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 30, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The Boy, 6, From Cuba: So Missed

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1451 words

DATELINE: CARDENAS, Cuba, Dec. 27


Elian Gonzalez is everywhere and nowhere on the streets of his hometown. As if
summoning a phantom, his neighbors point to the narrow sidewalks where he used
to scamper about with his friends or to the rooftop where they often saw him
flying his kite. They cling to his memory almost as dearly as Elian himself held
on to the inner tube he was strapped to when a boat carrying him, his mother and
several other Cubans capsized as they tried to flee to Florida last month.

"I never had children, I am too old," said Diria Rosa Ojeda, 60, a neighbor.
"But the child I never had, I see in him."

For more than a month, the 6-year-old boy has been at the center of an
international tug of war and hearts that has roiled Cubans on both sides of the
Florida Straits as they await the decision of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which is to hold a hearing on the case on Jan. 21.

Since his mother and most of the other would-be refugees died on the journey,
Elian was taken in by his father's relatives in Miami, who want him to stay with
them for a chance at a better life. But his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, and
both sets of grandparents are very much alive here in Cardenas and want the
child returned, a demand that has been echoed by thousands of Cubans in rallies
throughout the island organized by the government.

As with other issues and people caught in the limbo of United States and Cuban
relations, the case has been enmeshed in exile intrigue and international
policy. Like the homages to Che Guevara and President Fidel Castro, a snapshot
of Elian, his hand touching his chin in a pensive moment, has become an icon
here, put on T-shirts, billboards and posters. In Cardenas, where the houses are
as worn and weary as the people inside, his neighbors hold a vigil that is more
personal than political.

"The people have no lives here," said Giralda Diaz, 70, a neighbor who stood in
a friend's doorway across the street from Mr. Gonzalez's house. "We do not work.
We spend the day waiting for a car to stop in front. People are sad. If you had
a child, you would feel it in your spirit. It is not humane."

Elian's parents had divorced, but neighbors said the parting was amicable.

They said the boy lacked for nothing because the parents, whom they described as
devoted to him, held tourism jobs, which gave them access to dollars and, more
important, life's elusive daily necessities.

More often than not, the neighbors saw Elian at his father's house, spending the
night when his mother had to work late or awaken early because of her maid's job
at a hotel in the nearby resort town of Varadero. The father would often take
him to a restaurant and resort complex where he worked, or treat him to outings
and toys.

"He was obsessed with that child," said Isabel Alarcon. "Everything he wanted,
he got."

So it was all the more shocking when they learned that Elian's mother had
spirited him away when she left Cuba. The neighbors can only believe that she
had fallen under the sway of her new husband, who organized the failed escape.
Among themselves, they talk about how the mother must have known that the boat
was not seaworthy.

"I do not know how that woman was crazy enough to follow that man," said Elsa
Diaz Vidal. "She took the boy because of him. She had no one over there to go
to. Then she died in that horrible sea."

As the oldest residents on the block, Hilario Sanchez Menendez, 88, and his
wife, Ramona, 80, feel a special kinship with the Gonzalez clan, remembering
when they used to cradle Juan Miguel in their arms. On days when they did not
pass by for a chat or a cup of coffee, Juan Miguel would pass by their home to
make sure everything was all right. Mr. Sanchez Menendez said that his mood
brightened recently when he was at the Gonzalez home when Elian called.

"When are you coming here?" he asked Elian." 'I will be there in a few days when
my vacation is over,' " he said the boy replied. "Then he started crying."

Tears are shed inside Mr. Gonzalez's home, too. The neighbors said they often
saw him sitting depressed in his living room, where pictures of Elian outnumber
those of Mr. Castro and Che. In the last few days, they have not seen him in the
neighborhood. The man they described as a hard worker for his son had become
barely able to summon the strength to go to work.

"When I moved here, he was born," Ms. Ojeda said of Mr. Gonzalez. "Now he is an
old man because of this. He is in a lot of pain. He is suffering. His co-workers
come by and say, 'Let's go to the hotel.' He feels bad, because the hotel is by
the sea. He sees that and is traumatized again."

The neighbors say they cannot understand why Elian's relatives in Miami are so
intent on keeping the boy, and they dismiss any suggestion that he could have a
better life there. At home, they said, despite the country's economic hardships,
he had free schooling and health care and the chance to be with the people he
has known all his life.

"What better opportunity does he have being raised among strangers?" Ms. Alarcon
said. "How many other children from other countries have to go back? Why not
Elian? Because he is Cuban? Be we poor or rich, whatever we are, we have the
right to have our child next to us."

So, too, do his grandparents on both sides. It was not that long ago that the
grandparents or the father would pick up Elian at the Marcelo Salado Primary
School, where his desk now sits empty as his classmates await his return. It is
a homecoming, Cuban officials have promised, that would be without any fanfare
or public celebrations.

"That would only affect him even more," said Maribel Casas Reyes, the school's
director. "We are struggling to have him in a happy situation, not to bruise his
emotions more. If we did that, it would be worse than what he experienced in the
United States."

The students, in T-shirts that proclaim "We Will Save Elian," sing songs and
recite poems for him each day, while others have drawn pictures that are on
exhibit at the town's museum, along with photographs of Elian in Miami under the
heading "The Child They Kidnapped."

In one classroom, a banner declaring "Happy Birthday Elian" still hangs, a
reminder of the day this month when Mr. Castro himself visited the school. To
commemorate the occasion, he signed a guest book with the inscription, "For
Elian's Liberty, Motherland or Death."

The slogan has been a familiar refrain at the many rallies held in recent weeks.
At one at the University of Havana, students recited poetry and read essays
about how Elian should return to the island where he has his family, his flag
and his comandante, and how the only things he would learn about in the United
States were drugs and violence.

Many praised Mr. Castro while denouncing American imperialism as well as the
gifts and attention bestowed on the boy by Miami's exile community.

The events calling for Elian's return have begun to annoy some Cubans, who agree
that the boy needs to be with his father but have nonetheless tired of turning
on their radios or televisions only to encounter yet another rally with
revolutionary songs or demonic caricatures of exile politicians.

Recent rallies have been smaller than the earlier ones that brought the city --
and workplaces -- to a standstill. The feeling in some quarters has been that
the government seized on the public's sympathy with the custody issue to bolster
political enthusiasm at home.

"People are fed up with this," said one Havana resident who declined to give her
name. "I think there has to be something deeper politically."

And the strong words uttered by the youngest demonstrators have led some critics
to accuse the Cuban government of politicizing the case just as much as the
exile community has.

"What would happen if a child stood outside and shouted 'Down with Fidel'?" said
another Havana resident. "They would detain his family because someone taught
him that. Here, they put 5- and 6-year-old children at rallies making political
statements about North American policy. They say that Miami is playing with the
child? Here they are playing with him too."

Beyond the talk of toys and politics remains a motherless child with a father
who wants him back. On his street in Cardenas, it is a constant refrain. No
plaything or great-uncle in Miami, they said, could ever replace his father.

"All you need is a little humanity," said Maria Alian Scott, a teenage neighbor.
"To see how that father suffers for his son while he is not returned to him. And
that boy has had the trauma of seeing his mother die in front of him. What
better psychiatrist than his father? What better hospital than his home?"


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maribel Casas Reyes, left, the director of Elian's school in
Cardenas, says he would be welcomed back without fanfare from Miami, where
relatives want to keep him, so as "not to bruise his emotions more." Three
neighbors of Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, discuss the boy's case,
expressing the hope for his speedy return. From left, Diria Rosa Ojeda, Giralda
Diaz and Ramona Sarget Perez. "People are sad," Ms. Diaz said. "If you had a
child, you would feel it in your spirit. It is not humane." (Photographs by
David Gonzalez/The New York Times)

Map of Cuba highlighting Cardenas: The people of Cardenas cling to the memory of
Elian Gonzalez.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 30, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Respect Canadian Rights

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 148 words



To the Editor:

Re "Terrorists Said to Hide in Canada's Melting Pot" (news article, Dec. 24):

Canada is not a melting pot; we encourage people of all cultures, races and
religions to come here and not melt into the background of some artificial
cultural identity. Moreover, in Canada we respect constitutional rights like
those in the United States Constitution, including the presumption of innocence
until proved guilty, freedom from unwarranted imprisonment, freedom of religion
and freedom to associate.

Yes, we need to be more vigilant with the criminal element among the immigrants
to Canada, no matter how they come here. But I am not prepared to see my rights,
or those of any of the immigrants to Canada, trampled on at the beck and call of
Americans who would not stand for the same from any other government.

NORM GREENFIELD
Calgary, Alberta, Dec. 24, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 31, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Brooklyn Man Is Charged With Aiding in Bomb Plot

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1672 words


Storming a shabby Brooklyn apartment block at dawn yesterday, a black-clad
anti-terrorist task force seized a man it alleged was an accomplice of Ahmed
Ressam, the Algerian charged with trying to smuggle powerful explosives and four
sophisticated timing devices across the border near Seattle two and a half weeks
ago.

The man arrested yesterday, identified as Abdel Ghani, a 31-year-old Algerian,
traveled to Seattle earlier this month to meet with Mr. Ressam as part of an
elaborate Islamic terrorist bomb plot, federal authorities said. But the
Algerians' role in the plan was foiled when Mr. Ressam, nervous, suddenly bolted
off a ferry at the border as a Customs Service agent looked in the trunk of his
car, the authorities said.

Mr. Ghani was arrested on a day that agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation fanned out to question, and in some cases detain, Algerian
immigrants in several cities. Federal agents acknowledged privately that they
hoped the sweep would serve as a warning or a deterrent to potential terrorists.
In Boston, federal officials arrested five men, one of whom fled from his
workplace, and officials chased him with guns drawn. But the men were charged
only with immigration violations, not with anything related to terrorism.

In Vermont, federal prosecutors said that a Canadian woman arrested while
crossing the border with another Algerian man was linked to Mr. Ressam. In
successfully arguing that the woman be kept in federal detention, prosecutors
said that Mr. Ressam and the Canadian, Lucia Garafolo, were friends of Said
Atmani, identified in court papers as a member of the Armed Islamic Group, "a
violent Algerian terrorist organization."

In Brooklyn, Mr. Ghani was arrested on federal charges of helping Mr. Ressam's
efforts to bring explosives into the country with the intention of setting off a
bomb, and with trying to conceal his assistance. At a news conference last
night, however, Lewis D. Schiliro, assistant director of the F.B.I. in charge of
the New York office, said officials were not aware of any threat to a specific
target in New York City or elsewhere. He also noted that no explosives had been
found in connection with the arrest of Mr. Ghani.

In interviews, federal law enforcement officials said they had concluded that
Mr. Ghani and Mr. Ressam were part of a broad plot. They speculated that because
Mr. Ressam was caught in mid-December, he could have been contemplating an
attack close to New Year's, but they acknowledged that they had no evidence
indicating that a specific attack had been planned.

Officials said that yesterday's arrest did not mean the ring was broken up. "The
most interesting thing is there are more," one official involved in the
investigation said. "We know there are more."

The question left unanswered was why the Armed Islamic Group would plan a strike
in the United States.  The criminal complaint filed in United States District
Court in Manhattan yesterday said that based on information from a confidential
source, federal agents had concluded that Mr. Ghani and another associate
believed that "Allah will shake up this world, that a new generation will punish
America, and that Islam's renaissance will rise from Algeria."

The criminal complaint was based on an affidavit submitted by Bradley S.
Morrison, an F.B.I. agent assigned to the Joint Terrorist Task Force of the
F.B.I. and the New York Police Department. In it, Agent Morrison states that
because the affidavit was intended only "for the limited purpose" of
establishing a reason to arrest Mr. Ghani, "it does not include all the facts
that have been learned during the course of the investigation."

But the complaint did offer a broad-brush image of what it said was an effort to
bring explosives into the country, much of which, Mr. Morrison's affidavit
suggests, was sloppily executed. It says Mr. Ghani left a trail of evidence,
from fraudulent credit card receipts to a torn plane ticket hastily dropped in a
trash bin, as federal agents observed him and listened in through wiretaps.

The plan was compartmentalized, according to the criminal complaint, so that in
case of an arrest, each person involved would know only the tasks of two others.
Mr. Ressam was to leave the car, with its cargo of bomb-making material, in a
parking lot, and someone else would drive it away, the complaint said. Then, it
said, he and Mr. Ghani were to go to Chicago and other places on a
"fund-raising" mission.

Mr. Ressam is believed to be part of a gangster-terrorist underworld group that
committed a series of armed robberies and shootouts with the police in northern
France and later set up a Canadian base in Montreal, according to French
anti-terrorism investigators. The French authorities say the underworld
organization grew out of the Armed Islamic Group, part of a bloody insurgency in
Algeria, and out of Arab forces who fought on the Muslim side during the war in
Bosnia.

Mr. Ghani is to be formally charged today with providing "material support and
resources" for Mr. Ressam's effort to carry out the bomb plot and concealing and
disguising his role, the complaint said.

In addition, he is facing charges of credit card and bank fraud in a series of
schemes involving counterfeit credit and bank cards and illicit bank withdrawals
under the false name Eduardo Rocha.

The United States attorney for the Southern District, Mary Jo White, said that,
if convicted, Mr. Ghani could face up to 10 years in prison on the charges of
concealing support of a terrorist group, and up to 5 years on the fraud charge.

At first, four men, including Mr. Ghani, were detained yesterday after the Joint
Terrorist Task Force raid, which was conducted shortly after 6 a.m. in the
Midwood section of Brooklyn. Two of the men were later released.

The third, Najmeddine Houaichi, a 35-year-old Algerian, was turned over to
immigration authorities on charges that he was in the country illegally.

The criminal complaint filed against Mr. Ghani suggested that while the bomb
plot might have been complex and sophisticated, its execution left something to
be desired.

Mr. Ressam, according to a confidential source cited in the complaint, was
nervous at the Washington State customs point because he did not speak English.

He ran off the ferry that had carried him in from Canada, chased by customs
agents, and was arrested after he tried, and failed, to get into a passing car
from the driver's side, federal authorities said. In the trunk of Mr. Ressam's
car, customs agents found four timing devices made from Casio watches and 9-volt
batteries, and 193 pounds of various explosive compounds, among them, officials
say, a material known as RDX (cyclotrimethylene trinitramine), widely used by
military demolitions experts.

The complaint also said that Mr. Ressam was carrying a scrap of paper bearing
the name "Ghani" and a telephone number in the 718 area code. The telephone
number was traced to 944 Newkirk Avenue in Brooklyn, a three-story gray brick
building with apartments on the two upper floors and shops -- a laundry, an
Afghan kebab restaurant and a supermarket -- on the street level.

The landlord of the building in the heavily Pakistani neighborhood, Dr. Iftikhar
Dim, said yesterday that two men named Najeem and Rashid who lived in one of the
top floor apartments asked him about three months ago if a friend of theirs
named Ghani could move into a vacant apartment. He did so, Dr. Dim said, but did
not sign a lease.

Having traced the phone, F.B.I. agents began staking out the building, watching
Mr. Ghani come and go. On Dec. 21, the complaint said, the agents watched as Mr.
Ghani threw away several documents in a trash bin by a nearby supermarket.

Rummaging in the bin, the agents found, torn in half, a Delta Air Lines ticket
for a Dec. 16 flight from Seattle to Kennedy International Airport. There was
also a Fleet Bank account statement in what the authorities said was Mr. Ghani's
false name of Eduardo Rocha that showed four cash machine withdrawals in Seattle
from Dec. 13 to Dec. 15, each for amounts between $300 and $400.

This led them to a hotel in the Seattle area, where they found that a man giving
the name Edward Rocha and the address 944 Newkirk Avenue, Brooklyn, had checked
in on Dec. 11 and out on Dec. 16. In addition, a surveillance camera on one of
the Seattle cash machines, had a picture that matched the F.B.I. surveillance
photo made of Mr. Ghani in Brooklyn, the complaint said.

Contingency plans to arrest Mr. Ghani had been in place for days, a law
enforcement official said. The raid was planned and directed from the F.B.I.
operations center at 26 Federal Plaza, which opened on Wednesday as part of the
bureau's Year 2000 preparations.

The raid sent dozens of police officers and federal agents clad in black combat
fatigues, helmets and bulletproof vests, armed with assault rifles and shotguns,
into the sleeping neighborhood. They sealed off an entire block and, shouting
wildly, raced up stairways and fire escapes, emerging with their captives,
witnesses said. Bomb-sniffing dogs were brought in, but no trace of explosives
was found, the authorities said.

In the Vermont case, United States Attorney Charles R. Tetzlaff told the court
that Ms. Garafolo, the Canadian woman arrested for crossing the border with an
Algerian illegal immigrant, Bouabide Chamchi, also appeared to have ties with
the same terrorist group.

In court papers, the prosecutor quoted information federal authorities had
received "from a foreign government" that linked her to Said Atmani, who had for
a time been Mr. Ressam's roommate in a Montreal apartment. French and Canadian
investigators say that Mr. Atmani had been running a ring of Algerian terrorists
in Montreal that stole cell phones and laptop computers from parked cars to
finance their activities. The Canadian government had deported Mr. Atmani to
Bosnia, which he had listed as his country of origin when he entered the country
illegally.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Abdel Ghani, a 31-year-old from Algeria, was arrested in
Brooklyn yesterday in part of an anti-terrorist sweep in several cities. (WPIX);
Law enforcement officials at the Brooklyn apartment building of a man they say
is an accomplice of an Algerian charged with trying to smuggle powerful
explosives into the country from Canada. (Associated Press)(pg. A17)

Chart: "Connecting the Arrests"
Leads stemming from arrests in Washington State and Vermont have led Federal
officials to arrest a third individual, Abdel Ghani, in Brooklyn. Those arrested
all appear to be linked to the Armed Islamic Group (G.I.A.), a fundamentalist
faction that has been blamed for bombings in France. Here are some of the links
among these individuals.

ABDEL GHANI
The Algerian citizen arrested yesterday in Brooklyn and charged with concealing
his material support for Ahmed Ressam. Officials found phone records linking the
two men. Mr. Ghani also allegedly spent Dec. 11-16 in Seattle awaiting Mr.
Ressam. The two were then to travel together to Chicago and other places.

AHMED RESSAM
Arrested Dec. 14 while trying to transport a liquid explosive from Canada to
Washington State.

SAID ATMANI
Former roommate of Mr. Ressam. He was extradited from Canada to Bosnia and is a
suspected member of the G.I.A.

LUCIA GAROFALO
Arrested Dec. 19 while crossing from Canada to Vermont. She and her husband had
been previously connected to Mr. Atmani.

BOUABIDE CHAMCHI
A 20-year-old Algerian arrested with Ms. Garofalo. A border check found his
French passport to be fake. (pg. A17)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Leo Berger, 78, a Force in U.S. Merchant Marine

BYLINE: By SHOLNN FREEMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 516 words


Leo Vladimir Berger, a Hungarian immigrant who spent much of his childhood in
New York orphanages before becoming one of the country's largest shipping
magnates, died on July 24 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. He was
78.

The cause was a heart attack, his lawyer, Harvey Schwartz, said.

Mr. Berger had been hospitalized for 10 weeks after breaking a hip in a fall at
his home in Bal Harbour. He was a donor to the hospital and had recently
dedicated a cardiac wing at the medical center.

With the help of Federal subsidies, Mr. Berger worked to revitalize America's
dying international merchant marine fleet, which had trouble competing with
foreign rivals. He began in 1967 with the purchase of an oil tanker for $1.5
million and over the years built up his privately held Apex Marine Corporation
of Lake Success, N.Y. At its high point in the mid 1980's, Apex Marine's fleet
numbered 24 ships and the company had an estimated $100 million a year in
revenue.

A nephew, Clifford W. Spelke, who bought Apex from Mr. Berger last year, said he
believed that every big carrier of dry goods flying an American flag today was
at one time owned or managed by his uncle.

Mr. Spelke said his uncle had a canny sense of when to buy ships and when to
dispose of them. Over the last several years, as the market soured, Mr. Berger
began selling ships. He sold two to the United States Navy and then helped
transform them into 1,100-bed Naval hospitals that serve American troops. The
ships are still in service.

Mr. Berger often testified before Congressional committees in behalf of the
United States Merchant Marine fleet. "He was very patriotic," Mr. Spelke said.

Mr. Berger was born in Hungary on Sept. 1, 1920. He came to the United States
with his parents and five brothers and sisters in 1928. His parents, who settled
in New York City, could not afford to take care of the children, and they spent
much of their youth in orphanages and foster care, Mr. Spelke said. Later in
life, Mr. Berger donated heavily to Jewish organizations, including Boys Town
Jerusalem.

Mr. Berger attended Cornell University on scholarship and earned a Bachelor of
Science in 1942. He then attended the United States Merchant Marine Academy, at
Kings Point, N.Y., graduating with his third mate's license in 1943. He sailed
as a cadet, third mate, second mate and chief mate during World War II and later
joined the Triton Shipping Company. He returned to Cornell, earning a law degree
in 1957, and formed Apex in 1967.

He was named the United States Merchant Marine Academy's alumnus of the Year in
1985 and last fall was inducted into its Hall of Distinguished Graduates. In
1948, during a vacation from his ship, he married Arvilla Sheheen.

His wife, of Bal Harbour, survives him, along with a daughter, Phyllis Sepe of
Miami, four grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. He is also survived by two
sisters, Eva Berger of Boca Raton, Fla., and Judith Spelke of Delray, Fla., and
three brothers, Martin of North Miami Beach, Fla., Frederick of New York, and
Victor of Delray, Fla.



http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Leo Vladimir Berger

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World: It's the American Way;
Europe Stares at a Future Built by Immigrants

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


EUROPEANS, it often seems, spent the last decade building resentments of
American fast food, pop culture, corporate callousness and military might --
when they were not importing or trying to emulate them. They ended the century
thinking they had staked out the parameters of Americanization and could now
concentrate on erecting barricades around their traditional larders, languages
and societies. But some demographers have a big surprise in store.

Before the new millennium is a few decades old, these demographers say, Europe
will be face to face with an American-style phenomenon more profoundly
unsettling to many of them than any superficial cultural symbol or business
intrusion.

The challenge, these experts say, is this: To survive economically and socially,
Europe may have to lower its bars to immigration and change its racial and
ethnic face through mass migration of labor from around the world. In other
words, it may find itself debating moves toward a social structure that looks
more like America's.

It has often been said that however much they share in democratic values,
Europeans and Americans still differ on one fundamental: In America, the whole
idea of citizenship is that anyone from anywhere can become naturalized. In
Europe, on the other hand, the idea of citizenship in most places is still
linked to ethnic heritage, or at least to language and culture. True, Americans
have restricted immigration and Europeans have invited foreign workers to take
jobs in their economies. But large-scale immigration and naturalization is still
an American ideal, while Europeans cling to a linguistic and racial basis for
citizenship.

In the coming decades, United Nations experts say, demographics indicate that
many European countries (and Japan) will have more older people and fewer babies
than ever before. This seems to foretell severely shrunken labor forces and
swollen ranks of pensioners. If Europeans want to keep their economies and
social services running, they will be tempted to look far afield for qualified
workers of all kinds -- not just the semiskilled or unskilled workers who have
traditionally been invited to fill gaps in their work forces.

Joseph Chamie, the director of the United Nations population division, says
there is a logical response: what he calls replacement migration. "These
countries in Europe will face the wall," he said. "They either bring in
migrants, or they are going to decline in size. The model that the United States
has -- and Canada and Australia -- is increasingly becoming attractive to some
of the thinkers in those countries."

United Nations experts preparing a report to be published this year say that
their early projections show that Italy would have to add about 9 million
immigrants by 2025 -- about 300,000 a year -- to keep its population at 1995
levels, Germany would need to import 14 million people -- 500,000 a year --
France 2 million and the European Union as a whole about 35 million. If the
Europeans wanted to keep their ratio of older people to active workers at the
1995 levels, the union would need 135 million immigrants by 2025.

Surplus labor, some of it very highly skilled, is waiting in the third world,
and the pressure for migration out of overpopulated countries will be growing as
the European societies shrink. A group of developing countries is calling for a
United Nations conference that would have the freer movement of labor on its
agenda. India, for example, has a labor force larger than that of the European
Union. A lot of its computer geniuses are already sought by Silicon Valley. Will
Europe soon have to compete for them? And will it let them migrate?

If migration is the answer, and the numbers are large enough, Europe may well
find itself under a challenge to make these and other immigrants full citizens
in every sense. Today, Germany tolerates Turkish "guest workers," as France
allows Algerian migrants, but in both cases these minorities have become
lightning rods for nationalist resentments.

As always when projections are made, there are dissenting voices. Michael
Teitelbaum, program director of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in New York and
the co-author with Jay Winter of "A Question of Numbers: High Migration, Low
Fertility and the Politics of National Identity" (Hill and Wang, 1998) points
out that some European countries are already quite culturally and racially
diverse. That aside, he says, he does not believe that large-scale migration is
unavoidable.

"I don't think there is anything inevitable about anything when it comes to
demography, and I am a demographer," he said. And, he said, European nations may
not see the American example as worth emulating.

"It depends on what your goals are," he said. "If your goals are to maximize
your gross domestic product then you probably don't want a labor force that is
slowly declining in numbers, even if their productivity is rising fast. If your
goal is not G.D.P. but G.D.P. per capita or the equitable distribution of G.D.P.
and a kind of equilibrium, a kind of agreeable quality of life in your society,
then you may not care as much."

Mr. Teitelbaum is saying, in effect, that the challenge may be what Mr. Chamie
predicts, but that Europeans may decide the cost of meeting it is too high. He
points to European feelings about American-style capitalism.

"There are many Europeans who hear Americans say how triumphant the American
economy is and how wonderful and prosperous it is and they look at it and say,
'Gee, we don't want to be like that,' " Mr. Teitelbaum said. " 'It's really two
societies with the kind of underclass that's getting worse and worse off, more
and more marginalized.' "

ALSO, he said, not everybody has the same definition of multiculturalism. "The
French think that what they call the Anglo-Saxon model is a multicultural model
of integration in which everybody speaks their own language and doesn't
necessarily learn the common language -- and they don't really become British or
Canadian or American. They simply live in those countries and the political
system sort of stitches together compromises between these groups."

"The French image is quite different, but not xenophobic at all," he said,
recalling the numbers of Poles, Russians and others who have settled over the
century. Their model, he said, is "that anybody of any race, national origin or
whatever can become French, but they've got to really become French -- French
defined in French terms." Germany, with an ethnically based view of citizenship
has had a different debate about immigration, he said.

Policies and programs to overcome hurdles like language barriers are scant in
much of Europe because cultural homogeneity has been deeply valued, citizenship
has often been defined ethnically or linguistically, and the naturalization
process that has made Americans out of millions of foreigners does not exist.
For example, while Britain may now be the most racially diverse and integrated
nation in Europe, restrictions on immigrants from outside the European Union
remain. Skinhead violence against non-Europeans has erupted from Scandinavia
into Central and Eastern Europe. In Denmark, a right-wing nationalist leader
proposed recently that all Muslims should be rounded up and put in camps.

"You have European governments that continue to deploy the most sophisticated
forms of immigration control," said Arthur C. Helton, an international lawyer
who is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Yet European
societies thirst ever more for new blood and labor, which will come from outside
of Europe."

How to manage that? Mr. Helton said the example of the United States is
instructive.  Immigration there "has not only inspired but enforced a set of
ways to manage conflict that Europeans are going to have to either borrow or
invent," he said. "There is a profound recognition by most Americans that this
is a country more about change than about status. Europeans had better get ready
for change."

IN Europe, protection of minorities is often seen as enough. "But people don't
want to be beneficiaries of minority rights arrangements," Mr. Helton said.  "So
there is a dilemma. Immigrants want to preserve their language and culture but
do not wish to be stigmatized as second-class citizens. That's a delicate
balance that often is missed, and it leads to intolerance, discrimination,
backlash, race riots and the lot."

Mr. Teitelbaum says that this is where political leadership comes in, and that
is as difficult to predict as anything else. With the combination of low
fertility and high immigration, he said, "you can have everything from
prosperous peace and comity to disastrous, disintegrative civil war."

"A lot," he said, "depends on the actions of political leaderships, to either
exploit fears or to try to deal with them."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Europe may need to change as populations age along with these
Italian bocci players. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Illegal
immigrants in Milan line up for a limited number of permits to stay and work.
(Reuters)(pg. 4)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Begins Return Of 411 Aboard Boat

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 2


Two days after a boat packed with more than 400 Haitians, Dominicans and Chinese
ran aground about a mile off the Florida coast, the United States Coast Guard
began shipping the would-be migrants home, officials said tonight.

Four of the 411 passengers, three of them pregnant women, were brought to shore
for medical reasons and are expected to be returned later, said Mike Gilhooly, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The others have been kept on Coast Guard cutters offshore and were being
prepared tonight for the returned to Haiti, where the voyage originated. Those
who expresses fear of persecution will be screened by I.N.S. on the return trip,
Mr. Gilhooly said.

Of the 411 passengers, 16 are Dominican, two are Chinese and the rest are
Haitian, Coast Guard officials said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Clerics, in Cuba, Back Return of Boy

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Jan. 3


National Council of Churches leaders met today with the family of Elian
Gonzalez, 6, the shipwreck survivor, in the custody dispute over the boy.

"We are more convinced than we ever were that this boy belongs with this family
in Cuba," said a council leader, Dr. Joan Brown Campbell, standing with the Rev.
Juan Miguel Gonzalez on his doorstep in Cardenas. Dr. Brown Campbell and another
council leader, the Rev. Oscar Bolioli, spent the morning with Elian's father
and grandparents in Cardenas, two hours east of Havana.

In a news conference, Elian's father said, "Once again, we are convinced the boy
will return but I have asked that through their mediation there may be an
opportunity to send me the boy as soon as possible."

Elian's closest family, all in Cuba, have appealed for his return since he was
rescued at sea on Nov. 25. The boy had been in a boat filled with illegal Cuban
migrants that had capsized. Elian's mother, divorced from the father, died along
with 10 others.

Tens of thousands of Cubans marched this afternoon past a monument to
Argentine-born guerrilla legend Ernesto Guevara, known as Che, in the latest of
daily protests organized by Cuba's governing Communist Party.

Students -- wearing "Save Elian!" T- shirts -- led the march in the city of
Santa Clara.

In Miami today, an attorney acting for the boy's Miami relatives sent a letter
urging Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner
to immediately schedule a hearing on a political asylum claim.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2000, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article on Tuesday about Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old boy rescued off
Florida on Nov. 25 while fleeing Cuba in a crowded boat, misstated the number of
people on the boat who died. (Similar errors occurred on Dec. 5, 9, 12, 13, 17,
18, 20, 23 and 31.) The Coast Guard says the number was 10, including Elian's
mother.




                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 62 words


Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about calls by
public health officials for tuberculosis screening programs in cities with large
immigrant populations misidentified the agency that employs Dr. Paula Fujiwara
as assistant commissioner for tuberculosis control. It is the New York City
Department of Health, not the New York State department.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

For Latino Laborers, Dual Lives;
Welcomed at Work, but Shunned at Home in Suburbs

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1827 words

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y., Jan. 4


Gladys and Pedro Rueda are treated respectfully in the palatial houses they
clean throughout northern Westchester and Fairfield Counties, with generous tips
during the holiday season, offers of stylish hand-me-downs and compliments for
their reliability and hard work.

But here in the Westchester County town where they've lived for 11 years,
started a business, learned halting English and taken leadership
responsibilities at church, a simple trip to the store can be an occasion for
humiliation, as it was recently when Mrs. Rueda went shopping for a cellular
telephone. "The man looked me up and down," she said of the store owner. "He
said: 'You need a lot of money. Do you have money?' Why was he asking those
questions?"

Mrs. Rueda, a Peruvian, knew the answer. She is a Hispanic immigrant, one of
about 140,000 in Westchester County who make the good life possible by doing the
jobs nobody else wants to do. And the differences between her life at work and
her life at home reflect one of the newest quandaries of suburbia: while
Hispanic immigrants have become an essential part of the economy in these
wealthy precincts, they have yet to be fully embraced by their neighbors and do
not blend in as they would in the melting pot of New York City.

There are some food banks, community centers and literacy programs to meet the
needs of the suburban immigrants. And some residents welcome the diversity as a
counterweight to the homogeneity of the largely white northern suburbs.

But the efforts to accommodate the immigrants have not kept pace with their
growth. In addition, there is very little affordable housing in northern
Westchester and few efforts to bridge the cultural gap between the poor
immigrants and the affluent whites who surround them. As a result, the cultural
and economic issues tend to play out conspicuously in the few mixed communities
like this town of 9,100 people, where the Hispanic population increased by 195
percent, to 1,180 from 401, between 1980 and 1990 and has continued to grow
since then. By contrast, neighboring towns like Katonah, Pound Ridge and Bedford
see the immigrants only as workers, not as residents.

"We want them to be invisible," said Luis H. Zayas, a professor of social work
at Fordham University and director of its Center for Hispanic Mental Health
Research. "We don't want to look at them except as laborers. During the day they
can be in our streets, but we don't want to see them at night or on Saturday."

Most problematic to many who live in Mount Kisco are the single men, mostly from
one Guatemalan province, who far outnumber immigrant women or families. Each
morning, they congregate near the railroad station waiting to be picked up for
jobs in landscaping or construction or on the stone masonry crews that fan out
through northern Westchester and Fairfield County.

At night, they congregate outdoors as they would in a Central American village.
On warm weekends, they set up Ping-Pong tables outside their modest dwellings.
To some of their neighbors, the mere presence of the immigrants can feel
threatening, even when their behavior is beyond reproach. And a minority are
drunk and surly, making suggestive remarks to women or urinating on the street.

"I live in Armonk and if that happened there it would scare people to death,"
said the Rev. Jack S. Miller, minister at the Presbyterian Church of Mount
Kisco, which has reached out to the immigrants with food, clothing and English
classes.

In Mount Kisco, the discrimination has become more subtle and less pervasive
than even in the mid-90's, when white residents wrote blatantly racist letters
to the local weekly newspaper. But the immigrants say they still get a wide
berth when they gather on street corners to socialize. The neighborhoods where
they live have seen gradual white flight. And advocates for the immigrants say
they often hear remarks like, "I bought a half-million-dollar house up here to
get away from people like that."

Mr. Miller wishes the immigrants were treated more kindly by the Mount Kisco
residents, including some of his own congregants, and also by town officials,
who have been sued repeatedly for discriminating against the day laborers and
have settled the cases. But, the minister said: "It's easier to be generous with
people and situations not close to us."

The difference in attitude depending on where one lives is personified by two
women, both retired school teachers, who volunteer at a food pantry in nearby
Katonah. The center, the only one of its kind in the area, serves mainly
Hispanics from Mount Kisco.

One of the volunteers, Ella Saunders, lives in Katonah, the other, who asked not
to be identified, in Mount Kisco. "She cares just as much as I do," Mrs.
Saunders said of her friend. "She has no animosity toward them. She just feels
uncomfortable in the streets. She says to me: 'You don't live here. Our town is
not what it used to be.' "

Some of the immigrant men living in Mount Kisco say their neighbors grow more
welcoming if they speak English, hold steady jobs and have spouses and children.
But Edgar Chacon, a Guatemalan who has progressed from a dishwasher to a
landscaper to a financial analyst at Citibank in 13 years -- and now has a wife
and children -- said acceptance was still based on appearance, not
accomplishment. "When I wear my name tag from work in the street, I'm treated
with respect," he said. "If I dress casual, they treat me like garbage."

It is impossible to say whether the disdain the Latino laborers perceive is the
result of racism, xenophobia or discomfort with unfamiliar people and their
habits.

Graciela Heyman, the director of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition, said, "It's
a class thing," because "the men are scuzzy, they're short and they're brown."
But the Rev. Douglas Phillips, a minister at the Presbyterian Church here,
argues that "anybody different is automatically suspect." He cites the outdoor
socializing: "Anglos don't do that, so we assume they're up to no good."

Both the church and the coalition hope to educate the laborers about the local
customs at a storefront community center being built on Route 117 south of
downtown, where there will be classes in English, culture, vocational skills and
citizenship. The center, supported by $100,000 in donations, 60 percent from two
local families, will have a lounge with a large-screen television and snacks so
the laborers have a place to congregate inside. And there will be a food pantry
and clothes giveaway.

But Mr. Miller, who spearheaded the project, is treading carefully, mindful that
the center could provoke community opposition. He chose a storefront in what he
described as a "Hispanic friendly" strip mall, a few doors down from a coin
laundry that is already an immigrant hangout. The zoning is retail and so the
center will sell coffee for a dime or sweatshirts for a quarter so as not to run
afoul of the town planning board.

Mr. Miller has not discussed the center with neighboring merchants, lest they
label it a "handout place" before they see it. And he is being quiet about plans
for a job bank, matching contractors and laborers, so there is no fear of
another pickup stop in a town that is unhappy about the one it already has.

"It's all so tender," he said. "So we are dancing around this stuff."

Some public policy experts argue that communities like Mount Kisco -- or
Brewster in Putnam County and Farmingdale on Long Island -- deserve help from
neighboring villages that reap the benefits of cheap labor, perhaps by modifying
zoning laws to permit affordable housing, by educating some of the
non-English-speaking children or by contributing to costly social services.

Anthony A. Cupaiuolo, a professor of public administration at Pace University,
who lives in nearby Bedford Village, suggests a task force of political, civic
and religious leaders. "I can't come up with a legal argument, but there is a
moral argument for a regional solution," he said, "and I don't see anybody
trying."

Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian and author of "Crabgrass
Frontier," a critique of suburbia, calls the concentration oflaborers in one
town "a basic unfairness." He knows this firsthand because he owns a home in
Chappaqua, where his wife is a school teacher. There his lawn is cared for by a
crew of Central Americans whom he does not know and rarely sees.

"Our lifestyle benefits from the sweat of people we don't want to legitimize or
honor," he said. "If everybody benefits, 50 of them should live in every town."

The increase in the Hispanic population in Westchester County has been
remarkable -- almost 90 percent during the 1980's, when the rest of the county's
population grew by just 1 percent. In the 1990 census, Hispanics represented 10
percent of the county's population, at 86,194. The county's planning department
projects that the 2000 census will show an increase to 16 percent and another
jump to 24 percent by 2020. Census figures generally do not include undocumented
immigrants and thus significantly understate the Hispanic population.

Religious institutions and school service clubs throughout northern Westchester
are the most reliable sources of support for the immigrants. Children preparing
for bar mitzvah at Temple Shaaray Tefilia in Bedford, for instance, volunteer at
the Katonah community center. And students at Horace Greeley High School in
Chappaqua teach English as a Second Language classes at Mount Kisco's
Presbyterian Church.

Eric Sigmon, a senior who heads the tutoring corps, said that he and the others
from Horace Greeley were motivated by a desire to "get out of the box" of their
upper middle class, suburban lives.

Still, the teenagers struggle to transcend vocabulary and grammar and make human
contact. "We come to help them, but there's still that distance," Eric said.
"Basic questions you'd ask someone you meet -- 'How old are you? How long have
you been here?' -- we tend not to ask."

A recent holiday party helped break the ice. Although some of the immigrants and
tutors clustered in separate corners, others nudged forward to hear Ronnie
Morales, nearly fluent in English just three years after leaving Guatemala, sing
a bilingual version of "Feliz Navidad."

Mr. Morales, accompanying himself on the guitar, followed with two
Spanish-language ballads about the terrifying flight of immigrants across the
border, their arduous work in America and their yearning to go home when it is
time to die. Several of the tutors wept.

But not Mr. Morales. He had much to celebrate: a steady job as a roofer,
language skills sufficient to attend the Presbyterian Church here instead of the
Spanish-language Fuente de Vida Eterna and enough money to buy a camcorder.

With it, Mr. Morales's uncle recorded his performance. He would send the tape
home to his parents and 10 siblings, who have not seen him since he came to
America.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Waiting at the Mount Kisco, N.Y., train station for jobs.
Hispanics say they feel unwelcome in what has become their home.; Edgar Lopez at
a housing development in Briarcliff Manor. His workday started when a contractor
picked him up at the Mount Kisco station. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New
York Times)(pg. B1); Ronnie Morales, a Guatemalan in Mount Kisco, singing for
Hispanic immigrants and their English tutors at the Presbyterian church.
Religious and school groups have become the most reliable sources of support for
Hispanics in northern Westchester as population growth outstrips social
services. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

Map: Hispanics from Mount Kisco work throughout Westchester. (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Appears to Be Moving Closer to Returning Boy to Cuba

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4


The Clinton administration, eager to end the troublesome tug of war over Elian
Gonzalez, may soon rule that his father has the right to have the 6-year-old boy
returned to him in Cuba, senior United States government officials said today.

The process by which Elian would be sent back to Cuba would begin with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's decision, probably this week, as to who
speaks for the boy, the officials said. The two contending parties are Elian's
father and the father's relatives in Miami, with whom the boy now lives.

"It's our desire to reach a decision on who speaks for the child on immigration
matters as soon as possible," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the
immigration service.

Some senior administration officials said, however, that while there had been no
final decision, it was likely that the outcome would favor the father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, who has already been interviewed in Cuba by American aides.

Elian was among 13 people who were trying to cross from Cuba to Florida on a
17-foot aluminum boat when it capsized six weeks ago. Ten of those on board were
killed, including his mother and stepfather, but Elian survived along with two
adults. Having clung to an inner tube for two days, he was rescued at sea on
Nov. 25.

His father's relatives in Miami want him to stay with them for what they
describe as a chance for a better life. But Mr. Gonzalez, who was divorced from
Elian's mother, and both sets of grandparents want him returned to their
hometown, Cardenas, a port city east of Havana.

Tens of thousands of Cubans have protested regularly in Havana to demand Elian's
return, while in Miami anti-Castro groups have embraced him, with visits from
local politicians bearing gifts and encouragement.

The relatives now caring for him have suggested that they might seek to have the
courts award them legal custody, a development that would certainly complicate
the government's efforts to resolve the case.

Spencer Eig, the lawyer who represents those relatives, has said he fears that
if Elian is sent back to Cuba, he will "go into the custody of Fidel Castro for
the purposes of being used as a trophy in parades all around the country as a
symbol of Castro's victory over the United States."

American officials have been quietly urging that Mr. Gonzalez come to the United
States to take Elian back with him. They believe that the sight of father and
son reunited could help defuse some of the political opposition to the transfer.

Cuban officials have said it should not be necessary for Mr. Gonzalez to travel
to Florida, although Reuters today quoted Ricardo Alarcon, president of the
Cuban National Assembly, as telling reporters in Havana that Mr. Gonzalez was
free to do so. Still, Mr. Alarcon said, he thought it inadvisable until the
American authorities have already ruled clearly in Mr. Gonzalez's favor.

The State Department signaled today that it was prepared to issue the necessary
documents to allow Mr. Gonzalez to come to collect Elian.

"The State Department is prepared to expedite a nonimmigrant visa for Mr.
Gonzalez if he decides he wants to travel to the United States to see his son,"
a senior department official said.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Decision on Elian Gonzalez

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words


The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service made a reasonable
decision yesterday in ruling that Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old boy who
survived an ill-fated migrant smuggling trip across the Florida Straits, should
be reunited with his father back in Cuba. The decision will inflame anti-Castro
Cubans in Miami, but Doris Meissner, the I.N.S. commissioner, made it clear that
the service had followed established policy in the case. Moreover, by setting a
Jan. 14 return date, the immigration service allowed Elian's American relatives
time to test the ruling in court.

Elian was one of 13 Cubans who were trying to cross from Cuba to Florida six
weeks ago on a 17-foot aluminum powerboat when it capsized. Ten of those on
board drowned, including his mother and stepfather. The boy clung to an inner
tube for two days and was plucked from the Atlantic on Thanksgiving Day and
brought ashore. He was immediately released into the custody of relatives in
Miami -- and just as quickly embraced as a pawn in the poisonous estrangement
between Fidel Castro's regime and its opponents in exile.

This page has argued from the start that Elian not be denied due process because
of his youth, and the I.N.S. appears to have moved carefully. Elian's
great-uncle and other American relatives were allowed to make their case that he
should have a life in Miami. The boy's divorced father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
was also interviewed and satisfied the agency that he had a close and involved
relationship with his son. The mother's parents also argued for a return to
Cuba. The I.N.S. decided that under their prevailing policies, Mr. Gonzalez met
the test that calls for custody reverting to the sole surviving parent in such
cases.

"This little boy, who has been through so much, belongs with his father,"
Commissioner Meissner said yesterday, adding that "the unique relationship
between parent and child and family reunification has long been a cornerstone of
both immigration law and I.N.S. practice." The White House quickly announced
support for the decision.

It is unclear how the political side of this affair will play out. Elian's
relatives in Miami have indicated they plan to appeal, as is their right. Some
of their more militant supporters in Miami, decrying the prospect that the boy
will be used as a "trophy" by Mr. Castro, have indicated they may try to disrupt
efforts to reunite Elian with his father. That would be treating the boy as a
trophy in a diplomatic struggle that predates his birth by decades.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. SAYS IT AGREES TO RETURN BOY, 6, TO FATHER IN CUBA

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5


Hoping to end an emotional diplomatic and political battle over a 6-year-old
Cuban boy who survived the capsizing of a refugee boat, the Clinton
administration decided today that the youngster should be sent back to his
father in Cuba.

"This little boy, who has been through so much, belongs with his father," said
Doris M. Meissner, the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

But officials said the decision had been made with full awareness that a ruling
that would keep the boy, Elian Gonzalez, in the United States could worsen
Washington's relations with Havana at a time when the administration is trying
to increase contacts with Cuba.

One official said it had been clear inside the administration for some time that
the immigration service was moving to side with the father, based on a principle
of ruling in favor of family reunification. The official said there was wide
agreement, therefore, that there was no need to interfere with the immigration
service process, since a decision to return the boy to Cuba would avoid new and
unwelcome antagonism with the Cuban government.

President Clinton said today that he supported the ruling, which he portrayed as
a thoroughly nonpolitical decision made solely by midlevel officials on the
facts and the law.

"I told you when we started this that I would do my best to keep this decision
out of politics," Mr. Clinton said. "We have done that and not been involved in
it."

But senior administration officials acknowledged that the issue involving Elian
and its ramifications for United States-Cuba relations had been discussed at the
highest levels of the government.

The notion that other administrations might have sought to have the issue
decided differently was reinforced today as the chairman of the Republican
National Committee and the two leading Republican candidates for president, Gov.
George W. Bush of Texas and Senator John McCain of Arizona, were quick to
denounce the ruling.

Elian, who was rescued on Nov. 25 while clinging to an inner tube in Florida
waters after fleeing Cuba with his mother and others in a boat that overturned,
has become the central object in a tug-of-war between his father in Cuba and
relatives in Miami. The fight has involved President Fidel Castro of Cuba and
anti-Castro Cubans in Florida.

Mrs. Meissner said Elian should be reunited with his father by Jan. 14.

The specific legal action she took today was ruling that the father, rather than
the Miami relatives, spoke for the boy in immigration matters. The father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, has made it clear that he wants Elian back.

Mrs. Meissner said the decision was made after immigration officials conducted
and reviewed two wide-ranging interviews in Cuba with the boy's father.

She said Mr. Gonzalez had provided vivid and extensive details of his
relationship with Elian that showed "the nature of the bond they share as father
and son." In addition, she said Mr. Gonzalez had provided family photographs and
medical and school records that showed he had continued to participate closely
in Elian's life after his divorce from the boy's mother.

Returning Elian to his father is "the right decision legally, it's the right
decision morally," Mrs. Meissner said. "Both U.S. and international law
recognize the unique relationship between parent and child and family
reunification has long been a cornerstone of both immigration law and I.N.S.
practice."

Although the decision clears the way for Elian to go back to Cuba, it remains
far from clear when or how that might happen.

The boy's relatives in Miami, who have resisted sending him back to Cuba, today
repeated their intentions to try to keep him in the United States as several
hundred anti-Castro Cuban-Americans demonstrated in Miami to protest the ruling.

Elian was among 13 people who tried to sail from Cuba to the Florida coast in a
17-foot aluminum boat, which capsized. The boy's mother and stepfather and eight
others drowned. The boy and two other survivors were picked up at sea after
spending two days clinging to an inner tube.

Mrs. Meissner, in her comments today, tried to persuade Elian's relatives in
Miami to accept her ruling. She urged people to "respect the bond between parent
and child and respect the laws of the United States."

Her exhortation appeared to have had little effect.

In Miami, three lawyers representing the relatives who are taking care of the
boy said they would ask Attorney General Janet Reno to overrule Mrs. Meissner.
If that failed, they said they would ask a federal court to overturn it.

They did not detail the legal grounds on which they would seek a court ruling,
but one of the lawyers, Roger Bernstein, called the immigration service's
decision unprecedented.

"Thousands of unaccompanied minors come to this country every year without their
parents from countries fleeing persecution," Mr. Bernstein said. "Each and every
one of them is entitled to a hearing when they express a credible fear of being
returned to their homeland. This is particularly true in cases where aliens are
fleeing from countries where human rights are systematically violated such as
Cuba."

An official at the Cuban Foreign Ministry in Havana, reached tonight by
telephone, said the government had no comment regarding the ruling. The Cuban
Interests Section in Washington said its spokesman, Luis Fernandez, would not
have any comment until Thursday.

In Miami, about 300 people gathered in front of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service building chanting "Viva Cuba Libre" to protest the
decision to return Elian. Another 200 protesters gathered outside the Miami home
where Elian has been staying.

Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Miami Republican who represents a large
Cuban-American district, told the crowd at the immigration service building that
the Clinton administration had decided the issue in favor of the father in order
to improve relations with Cuba.

Ms. Ros-Lehtinen also voiced a common complaint among Cuban-Americans: that the
decision to send Elian to Cuba had been based on interviews with the father that
could not be trusted because he is in Cuba and necessarily has to say what
President Castro wants him to say.

Mrs. Meissner, in her news conference today, said that immigration service
officials were convinced that the father, in his interviews, had been
"expressing his true wishes."

Officials have said that if Mr. Gonzales came to this country they thought the
sight of the father reunited with the son would help defuse some of the
opposition and that it would eliminate suspicion that Mr. Gonzales was being
coerced by the authorities in Havana.

Mr. Bush, campaigning in Iowa, said that he believed the immigration service had
made a mistake. Elian's father should come to the United States, he said, "and
he ought to get a taste of freedom in American and then ought to make a decision
about what's best for his boy."

Senator McCain, campaigning in New Hampshire, repeated his position that it was
wrong to send Elian back because his mother had died while trying to take him to
freedom.

Bill Bradley, a contender for the Democratic presidential nomination, said today
that he was not going to second-guess the immigration service. A spokesman for
Vice President Al Gore, Tom Rosshirt, said Mr. Gore would not comment on the
agency's decision because it could wind up in the courts.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Schoolmates of Elian Gonzalez in Cardenas, Cuba, listened
yesterday to the news that the boy would return. (Agence France-Presse)(pg.
A16); Elian Gonzalez, in the arms of his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, saying
goodbye to school administrators in Miami at the end of the day yesterday. The
U.S. government ruled that he should rejoin his father in Cuba. (Reuters)(pg.
A1)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Elian Decision Is Protested in Miami

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 5


As word filtered out that Elian Gonzalez would be returned to his father in
Cuba, hundreds of Cuban exiles protested in the streets here today, chanting,
"Let him stay!" and "Freedom!"

The emotional display followed the decision today by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to send back the 6-year-old boy, who was rescued in
Florida waters in November while trying to reach the United States. His mother,
stepfather and eight others were killed when the boat carrying them capsized.

While the immigration service cast its decision as a way to reunite the boy with
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, protesters saw Fidel Castro's long shadow
behind the plan.

"Once Fidel's got his arm around him, there's no way he can be acting honestly,"
said Gustavo Roca, one of the protesters outside the immigration service
building.

Georgina Cid-Cruz, one of Elian's cousins in Miami, recalled telephone
conversations with Mr. Gonzalez and said she was convinced that this was not
what he really wanted for his son. "When we talk to him, it's not really him,"
Ms. Cid-Cruz said. "He doesn't speak from his heart."

Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of the Democracy Movement, a Miami group that has
organized flotillas to protest Mr. Castro's rule of Cuba, urged Cuban-Americans
to come together in support of Elian's right to stay in the United States and
called on protesters to block roads and disrupt traffic.

"We are enraged," Mr. Sanchez said. "If we have to go to jail, we will."

At the house where the boy was staying with relatives in Miami's Little Havana
section, 200 protesters gathered to offer their support.

"This boy cannot become a trophy for Fidel," said Jorge Mas Santos, chairman of
the Cuban-American National Foundation. "This is a very emotional community at
this time. It's not just a matter of this child but of thousands of Cubans."

Elian's relatives here held a news conference this afternoon, questioning why
the boy was being sent back against their wishes. "Why aren't we given the
opportunity at this point to speak for him?" asked Marisleysis Gonzalez, Elian's
cousin.

On Monday, the boy's lawyers sent a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno and
Doris Meissner, commissioner of the immigration service, arguing that Mr.
Gonzalez was acting under pressure from Cuba's Communist government. They asked
that the boy be granted an interview for political asylum.

One of Elian's lawyers, Spencer Eig, said Washington officials told him that
they had determined that Mr. Gonzalez was not under political duress and that
only he could speak for the boy.

At a news conference in Washington, Mrs. Meissner said she did not doubt that
Mr. Gonzalez was expressing his true feelings.

"We have extensive details on the closeness of the relationship between the
father and the child," she said.  "We need to observe and uphold that."

But the lawyers said they would appeal the decision and seek a temporary
restraining order to prevent the immigration service from taking the boy.

Protesters said those who accompanied Elian on the trip to the United States
should not have lost their lives only for him to now lose his freedom. "The
sacrifice of a mother for the freedom of her child should be respected," read
one of the signs the protesters carried.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Perched on his mother's shoulder, Joel Fernandez, 5, joined
yesterday in a Miami protest of the ruling to send Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba.
(Associated Press); Elian Gonzalez on his way to school yesterday in Miami.
(Reuters)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

What Is Best for Elian Gonzalez?

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 129 words



To the Editor:

As a Cuban-American who knows firsthand how brutal the Castro dictatorship can
be, I was disturbed to read your statement that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service "made a reasonable decision" to send Elian Gonzalez back
to Cuba (editorial, Jan. 6).

You say the decision "will inflame anti-Castro Cubans in Miami." Any indignation
from the exile community is justified, because as a group we know what awaits
Elian if he is sent back.

The immigration agency's decision is not only immoral, but it also shows how the
White House is either afraid or sympathetic to the Castro regime. The
administration's gesture will not deliver the boy to his father but to a
repressive system.

MARIO LUIS RAMIREZ
Kew Gardens, Queens, Jan. 6, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 10, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Many Fronts In the War on TB

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 165 words



To the Editor:

A Jan. 3 front-page article aptly describes the growing tuberculosis problem in
the United States among the foreign-born and the need for strengthened
TB-control programs. But with the overall incidence of TB in the United States
steadily declining, we run the risk of letting our guard down and redirecting
resources away from TB-control programs.

To avert a public health disaster and to address TB effectively among immigrants
-- who are often difficult to treat because they are infected with
drug-resistant strains of the disease -- the government needs to devote greater
resources to screening and treatment.

The government also needs to increase its TB-control efforts to battle the
disease at its source -- in immigrants' homelands, where TB remains endemic and
takes the lives of a record number of people each year.

DANA M. DEATON
Washington, Jan. 4, 2000

The writer is project manager of the Project 55 Tuberculosis Initiative.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 10, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Influx of New Immigrants Found in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 9


The Internet boom is bringing sweeping demographic changes to Silicon Valley,
according to an annual report card for the region, which shows that the number
of nonwhite residents surpassed whites for the first time in 1999.

The influx of new immigrants, particularly Asians and Hispanic people, also is
increasing a "digital divide," said an annual report to be issued on Monday by
Joint Venture Silicon Valley, a coalition of corporate and civic groups.

People who describe themselves as white now comprise 49 percent of the
population of the counties of San Mateo and Santa Clara, Silicon Valley's main
geographic area. Among the region's school-age population, whites are an even
smaller minority, said the report, which is prepared each year by researchers at
Collaborative Economics, a consulting firm here.

The two counties' school-age population is now 39 percent white, 31 percent
Hispanic, 26 percent Asian and Pacific Islander, 4 percent African-American and
0.2 percent American Indian, the report found.

The changes reflect both traditional immigration patterns and a new wave of
high-skilled, highly entrepreneurial immigrants moving to Silicon Valley, while
at the same time maintaining close ties with their homelands, said AnnaLee
Saxenian, a social scientist on the advisory committee for the report.

"The best and the brightest in the world all want to be here," said Ms.
Saxenian, who is a senior fellow at the Institute for Economic Policy Research
at Stanford University.

The Joint Venture index, which has been issued each year since 1994 as a broad
assessment of the valley's economy and social and environment, also showed that
while the region's boom is continuing, job growth slowed in 1999.

The valley added just 1.7 percent, or 21,200, new jobs, despite an increase of
nearly 90 percent in venture capital, to $6.1 billion. That was down from a
recent high of 5.2 percent in 1997, when the region added more than 60,000
workers.

The declining growth rate suggests a shift away from traditional manufacturing
sectors like microelectronics, semiconductors, computers and military-aerospace
manufacturing, said Douglas Henton, president of Collaborative Economics.

"There has been a continuing restructuring away from hardware and toward
software," he said, noting that the average size of a Silicon Valley software
company is now 27 people, smaller than the mainstay semiconductor companies that
employ thousands.

More than half of the new high technology job growth in the valley last year was
in software and related services while both semiconductors and defense/aerospace
employment declined, the report found.

Competition for programmers, driven by Internet start-up companies, accelerated,
with the average annual wage for the software industry at $95,800 in 1998, the
most recent year for which data is available.

The high salaries of skilled workers, however, contrasts sharply with the
largest employment sector of the region's economy -- local and visitor services,
which include retail and restaurant workers and had an annual average wage of
$22,900.

Moreover, adjusted household income for the most affluent 20 percent of Santa
Clara County residents rose about $40,000 from 1996 to 1998, to just below
$140,000 a year. But for the least affluent 20 percent, the 1998 level of
$36,700 remains below the average income level earned by the bottom 20 percent
of households in the early 1990's, when adjusted for inflation.

"Although the valley is doing well," Mr. Henton said, "it has got to do a much
better job in working to prepare everyone for the digital economy."

Despite the income disparity, the valley has continued to outpace the financial
standing of the rest of the nation. During the 1990's, for example, real per
capita income for Santa Clara County rose 32 percent, compared with 13 percent
for the nation.

The changes described in this year's report come at a time when the valley is
having its longest boom ever, which traces to 1992 and was highlighted by a
record 77 initial public stock offerings by companies in the region during 1999.

The slowing job growth did bring some good environmental news. Despite
continuing traffic woes, the valley had fewer days when the region's air quality
exceeded federal ozone standards. Air pollution exceeded federal standards on 12
days in 1999, down from 21 days in 1998.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "Changing Demographics"
In Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties, the area known as Silicon Valley, people
who identify themselves as white are now a minority of the population.

Graph plots and projects white and non-white populations from 1995 to 2006.

In 1999, whites were estimated to be an even smaller proportion among children
ages 4 to 18.

White -- 38.6%
Hispanic* -- 31.3%
Asian and Pacific Islander -- 25.8%
Black -- 4.0%
American Indian -- 0.2%
*May be of any race
(Source: Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network; California Dept. of Finance)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 11, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Elian, His Father and His Mother's Last Wish

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words



To the Editor:

Re "In 2 Countries, 6-Year-Old Cuban Is Political Symbol" (news article, Jan.
9): The Cuban-American demonstrators are misguided in their efforts to keep
Elian Gonzalez in this country.

If the tragic circumstances of his mother's drowning in the crossing from Cuba
to Florida had been reversed and the boy's father had perished, the child would
have been swiftly returned to his mother, no questions asked. But not unlike the
divorce courts in the United States, the father's role is greatly reduced when a
determination regarding parenting is made.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service acted properly in seeking to return
Elian to his father, but if it had responded with greater dispatch, perhaps the
grandstanding by some politicians could have been avoided.

GIL GHITELMAN
Weston, Conn., Jan. 9, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

I.N.S. Extends Boy's Stay in Miami as Judge's Links to Case Are Questioned

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 11


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it would extend the
Friday deadline it had set for returning Elian Gonzalez to his father in Cuba.

The statement came a day after a family court judge in Miami awarded temporary
custody of 6-year-old Elian to his great-uncle here. The boy was found clinging
to an inner tube in late November after his mother and 10 others drowned off
Florida trying to flee Cuba.

Although contending that it -- and not the state court that issued the custody
ruling on Monday -- had jurisdiction in the case, the immigration service said
it would not enforce its Jan. 14 deadline and would probably allow the boy to
remain in this country until the hearing on March 6.

"Since everything is under review," said Maria Cardona, an immigration service
spokeswoman, "we'll most likely extend that."

At the same time today, a new controversy erupted in the politically charged
case over documents showing that the family court judge, Rosa I. Rodriguez, had
failed to disclose to the court a prior business relationship with a man who
serves as a spokesman for Elian's relatives.

Judge Rodriguez's campaign spending reports filed with the Miami-Dade Elections
Department show that she paid the spokesman, Armando Gutierrez, his wife,
Maritza, and their consulting firms $60,946 in her campaign in 1998.

In failing to disclose the relationship at the hearing, Judge Rodriguez, of
Miami-Dade County Circuit Court, violated the Florida Code of Judicial Conduct,
said Anthony V. Alfieri, director of the Center for Ethics and Public Service at
the University of Miami.

But Celena Rios, director of family court operations for the 11th Judicial
Circuit of Florida, said that while Judge Rodriguez's conduct was "troubling,"
under the code "there is no obligation that a judge disclose the participation
of any individual in a past campaign who is not an attorney and is not a party
in a pending legal matter before her."

Ms. Gutierrez called the campaign services and her husband's services on behalf
of Elian's Miami relatives "apples and oranges."

While Elian has remained in his relatives' Little Havana neighborhood where he
has started school, he has become the focal point of the large Cuban-American
population's loathing for the 41-year-old rule of President Fidel Castro, its
failure to dislodge him and its usually emphatic support of family ties,
including a father's claim on his motherless child.

The immigration service has come under growing and widening rebuke for delays in
its decision to return the boy to his father and continuing delays in enforcing
the return.

In its defense, the agency says it has been proceeding in Elian's best interest.
Russ Bergeron, an agency spokesman, said, "We felt it was necessary to allow a
reasonable period of time so the family would have time to reach some agreement
and so the logistical issues of reuniting him with his father could be
addressed."

Mr. Bergeron said the agency also wanted to allow all sides to seek relief
through the courts.

In New York, 11 people were charged with disorderly conduct today for blocking
the entrance to the Federal Building in Lower Manhattan, which houses the
offices of the immigration service. They were among about 50 protesters,
including former Attorney General Ramsey Clark, who called for the return of
Elian to Cuba.

Now the disclosures about Judge Rodriguez's campaign ties to an emphatic
supporter of allowing Elian permanent residency in the United States have
stirred the pot further.

For helping Judge Rodriguez's election, her first, Mr. Gutierrez's consulting
firm, Gutierrez & Associates, received two payments totaling $7,500, according
to the elections department. Ms. Gutierrez's firm, Creative Ideas and
Advertising Inc., received four payments totaling $53,446 for advertising and
other media services. Both rejected any implications of a conflict.

"I helped her with her campaign," Mr. Gutierrez said. "But I help over 100
judges with their campaigns. That's what I do."

Ms. Gutierrez said she and her husband had seen the judge only once, nine months
ago, since working on her election.

"We worked with her to get elected," Ms. Gutierrez said, "but that is totally
irrelevant. It's apples and oranges. It has nothing to do with this child."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2000, Thursday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the immigration case
involving Elian Gonzalez misattributed a comment about the failure of a family
court judge to disclose a prior business relationship with a spokesman for the
boy's relatives. It was Anthony V. Alfieri, director of the Center for Ethics
and Public Service at the University of Miami, who said the judge's action --
granting temporary custody to Elian's great-uncle in Miami -- was troubling. (It
was not Celena Rios, director of family court operations for the Eleventh
Judicial Circuit of Florida.)




                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant's Legal Enterprise;
In Suing Employer, Maid Fights Diplomatic Immunity

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1638 words


As a maid for a high-ranking diplomat from Bahrain, Shamela Begum says she was
kept a virtual prisoner in a high-rise apartment on Manhattan's East Side. For
almost nine months, she was forbidden to go out alone, she says, and forced to
work seven-day workweeks for meager wages that she never got to see herself.

So about four months ago, Ms. Begum, a mother of three from Bangladesh,
illiterate and in many ways ill-prepared for the modern world, made a bold
escape. She was on a rare trip outdoors with her employer's wife when, by
chance, she heard a sidewalk fruit vendor speaking her native Bengali. As soon
as the diplomat and his wife had left town later that day, she slipped out of
the apartment, summoned a little boy to show her how the elevator worked and
found her way back to the vendor, to whom she poured out her tale. Within days,
she managed to get out for good.

Then, mustering more courage, Ms. Begum took a typically American route to
justice: she sued.

Ms. Begum, however, faces a hurdle other ill-paid laborers seeking redress do
not face: because her former employer is a diplomat, he is potentially beyond
the reach of the American courts.

In a rare effort to hold an official of a foreign government accountable to the
laws of the United States, Ms. Begum has accused the diplomat who employed her,
Mohammed Saleh, and his wife, Khatun, of flagrant state and federal labor law
violations. Filed last month in Federal District Court in Manhattan and seeking
unspecified damages, the suit also accuses the Salehs of a civil charge of false
imprisonment. The most serious charge accuses the couple of keeping Ms. Begum in
indentured servitude.

Ms. Begum's lawyers say they are seeking to push the legal envelope. Although
diplomats serving in a foreign country are required to abide by the host
country's laws, they are immune from legal action, both civil and criminal,
according to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.

"Our position," said Ms. Begum's lawyer, Chaumtoli Huq of the Asian-American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund in Manhattan, "is that hiring an employee to
clean your house and watch your children is not related to consular functions
and should not be immune from federal and state law."

To date, Ms. Begum's accusations are just that; no witness can corroborate her
version of events.

Mr. Saleh is second secretary at the Bahraini Mission to the United Nations, in
effect the No. 3 official there. He did not return repeated telephone calls
seeking comment. Several calls placed recently to other officials at the
Bahraini Mission in New York and to the Bahraini Embassy in Washington were also
not returned.

Last week, a lawyer for the defendants, David Wohabe, hung up the phone when
asked to comment. The defendants have until Jan. 24 to respond to the charges in
court.

But the lawsuit has already produced results. In Washington, State Department
officials, aware of Ms. Begum's claims, said they were preparing a detailed new
memorandum spelling out the obligations of United Nations diplomats toward their
domestic workers. The department is also drawing up a brochure meant to inform
those domestic workers of their rights in this country, officials said.

Ms. Begum's bewildering journey -- as described in interviews and court
documents -- began a little more than a year ago in Dhaka, the Bangladeshi
capital. The wife of a vegetable vendor, she had never worked outside her home.
She had only seen how friends and neighbors went abroad, found work and returned
with money to build a house or set up a business of their own.

In November 1998, after contacting an employment broker, Ms. Begum, who is in
her mid-30's, decided to make the trek herself. Unable to read or write, she
pressed her thumbprint on an employment contract that promised a job as a
domestic worker in the desert monarchy of Bahrain.

"I thought maybe I can improve myself if I go abroad," she said in rapid-fire
Bengali the other day. "I thought my kids will say, 'My mother sacrificed so I
could do something.' "

In Bahrain came the first surprise. Her employer, she said, told her that she
would soon be working for his brother in New York. State Department records show
that on Dec. 2, 1998, Ms. Begum went to the United States Embassy in Manama, the
Bahraini capital, where she was given a visa allowing her to work as a live-in
maid for Mr. Saleh. According to an employment contract reviewed by embassy
officials, Ms. Begum was to earn minimum wage -- $5.15 an hour -- and to be
provided free room and board, State Department officials said.

The gross domestic product of Bangladesh, one of the world's poorest countries,
is about one-tenth that of Bahrain, an oil-rich hereditary monarchy in the
Middle East that has a shortage of laborers.

Ms. Begum arrived in New York on Dec. 13, 1998. That day, Ms. Begum contends,
the Salehs took away her passport. Her salary, roughly $100 a month, was sent
directly to her husband in Dhaka, she says, adding that she did not get paid for
her last two months on the job. Indeed, she says, she had not seen any type of
American currency until recently.

When her employers left town, she contends, they left little or no food.  On one
occasion, she says, Mrs. Saleh struck her with a glass. Ms. Begum, who speaks
only Bengali, communicated with her employers in a mix of broken Arabic and
Bengali. For many months, her family did not know where she was.

Worst of all, Ms. Begum said, she was allowed to leave the apartment only three
times, accompanied by the Salehs for short walks in the neighborhood. On most
days, she stared out the windows of their apartment near the United Nations
building. And she wept.

"Who could I tell? I just cried," she said. "I didn't even feel the wind, see
the trees. They wouldn't let me see another human being."

There are nearly 800 migrant domestic workers with special visas allowing them
to work for United Nations officials in New York, State Department officials
said. Many other workers, government officials say, are brought here illegally.

Martha Honey of the Institute for Policy Studies, a research organization in
Washington that has taken up the cause of domestic workers employed by officials
at foreign embassies and international agencies, said it was not uncommon for
maids to have their passports taken away, to be barred from contacting friends
and to earn salaries of $100 to $400 a month.

In recent years, a handful of lawsuits have been filed, seeking back wages and
damages, she said. A few have been settled out of court; others have been thrown
out because diplomatic immunity was upheld.

Ms. Begum said it was impossible to escape her predicament. She knew no one in
New York. She could not read street signs. She had no money. What she had
instead was a mounting $1,400 debt for her passage out of Bangladesh -- a
daunting sum in that country, where the per capita income is less than $300.

On her third and last outing with Mrs. Saleh, to a supermarket one day last
August, she overheard a conversation in Bengali among some sidewalk fruit
vendors. Mrs. Saleh, she recalled, pressed her not to dawdle. " 'Quick, quick,'
" Ms. Begum recalls her saying. " 'America bad. America bad.' "

Nonetheless, when the Salehs left town later that day, she left the apartment
alone for the first time.

Working the elevator was the first hurdle. She had never been on one by herself
before, and so she stood there as the door repeatedly closed and opened on the
same floor. A boy finally helped her get downstairs.

Ms. Begum retraced her steps to the fruit vendor and told him her tale. The
vendor contacted Thikana, a Bengali-language weekly newspaper published in
Queens. A reporter for the paper contacted a South Asian workers' rights group
called Andolan -- the Bengali word for "movement."

On Aug. 30, a member of Andolan, Nahar Alam, showed up at the Salehs's
apartment. At Ms. Alam's request, officers from the 17th Precinct took a
complaint alleging false imprisonment.

Because the Salehs had diplomatic immunity, they were not arrested, a police
spokesman said, though the Police Department made no determination as to whether
the case, based on its merits, could be prosecuted.

State Department officials said recently that they would have sought a waiver of
immunity from the government of Bahrain had the police referred the case for
prosecution.

"The State Department's position is to react to cases where prosecutors want to
proceed but need a waiver to do so," said Robert Moller, minister counselor for
the department's Office of Host Country Affairs.

Ms. Begum left the Salehs's apartment for good the day the police came. Now in
the country illegally, she has yet to gain control of her destiny, though her
circumstances are markedly better. With help from Andolan, she found a job as a
live-in maid for a family in Pennsylvania, earning $1,100 a month. It is a
luxurious amount by Bangladeshi standards. And while conditions are hardly
perfect -- she gets a three-day weekend once a month, for instance -- she can
feel her earnings in her own hands. Finally, she says, she feels as if she is
working. For now, she does not want to give that up.

"It doesn't suit me, being here, being away from my children," she said,
wrapping a polyester scarf around her head and shivering in the crisp winter
wind the other day. "It's just for the money I'm here. Just for the money."

How long she will remain in the United States is unclear. She hopes to return
with enough money to set up a small business for her two sons, ages 10 and 15,
to run when they are older. She has married off her daughter, now 17 and
uneducated like herself. Under no circumstances, she says, will she let her come
to the United States to work.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shamela Begum came from Bangladesh to be a maid, but says that
for almost nine months she was kept as a virtual prisoner in a high-rise
apartment by her employer, a diplomat. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York
Times)(pg. B1)

Map shows path of Shamela Begum's Journey to New York.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

BOXING;
For Tyson, A Setback For Bout In Britain

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 11


Immigration officials in Britain announced today that the boxer Mike Tyson could
be refused entry to the country for a bout later this month because of his
criminal record.

Tyson is scheduled to fight Julius Francis, the heavyweight champion of Britain,
on Jan. 29 in Manchester. But immigration officials said that Tyson's coming
here would violate rules prohibiting entry into Britain of anyone convicted of
an offense carrying a sentence of 12 months or more.

Tyson was sentenced to six years in 1992 for raping Desiree Washington in
Indianapolis. He served half the sentence. This past spring, he also served
three and a half months of a one-year sentence after his no-contest plea to
misdemeanor assault charges stemming from a minor traffic accident in
Gaithersburg, Md., in 1998.

The Home Office, the British cabinet agency that controls immigration, said
Tyson had no right of appeal of the restriction but that his backers would be
given the chance to argue the case to let the boxer in.

They will have to prove "strong compassionate reasons" about why the rules
governing normal foreign citizens with criminal records should be waived, a Home
Office spokesman said. Britain is a country with a tradition of strict
immigration policies, and several politicians here were outspoken in their
support of the restrictions facing Tyson.

The spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "As I understand it, the room
for discretion is very, very limited. These are the rules. They will have to be
followed."

Glenda Jackson, the Academy Award-winning actress who is a member of Parliament
and a mayoral candidate in London, said she would take action if the rules were
relaxed for Tyson.

"The offenses for which he served were very serious," she said. "I see
absolutely no reason an exception should be made in his case."

Trevor Phillips, a broadcaster and candidate for deputy mayor here, said members
of his family know Washington, and that it would "stick in my craw" if the boxer
were allowed into the country.

"There's nothing to stop him boxing in America, but the bottom line is that he
molests women," Phillips, a prominent member of Britain's black community, said.

The fight's promoter, Frank Warren, pledged to get Tyson in England for the
bout. He also criticized the timing of the immigration officials' position.

"I'm disgusted that no one had the courtesy to pick up the phone and tell me
about this problem," Warren said. "It's not as if we put this fight on last
week; we did this back in the first week in December."

Tyson was scheduled to fly to England on Sunday.

Warren said that almost all the 22,000 tickets for the fight at the MEN arena
were sold and that hotels in Manchester were already heavily booked in
conjunction with the fight.

Usually, American boxers would not need either a visa or a work permit to come
into Britain for a fight.

"I have never had a problem like this before," Warren said. "We have done
everything as we have done for any boxer. We have gone through the normal
formalities of bringing a boxer into the country."

But the spokesman for the Home Office said that no one involved in the boxing
match had taken any steps before today to get in touch with the agency.

Frank Maloney, the manager for Francis (21-7), complained that officials barring
Tyson's entry into Britain "would be denying a young British fighter the
opportunity of a lifetime, which he's worked very hard for."

Francis is reportedly getting $528,000 for the fight while Tyson is expected to
get $12 million.

Maloney said Tyson had served his time and "he should be allowed to get on with
his life now." Warren said Tyson should be allowed to come here, train for the
match, fight and depart.

"He's not here to do anything else," Warren said, "and he's not going to be a
danger to anyone apart from the man he's going to fight in the ring."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Paths of the Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words



To the Editor:

Re "A Legacy of Leo Rosten" (letter, Jan. 11):

Are we still to believe -- as Madeline Rosten Lee suggests -- that a
great-grandchild's christening truly represents the culmination of the ideals
and aspirations of the American Jewish immigrant experience?

I had thought that all Americans -- both Jews and non-Jews -- had left behind
the old notion that conversion to Christianity signified the achievement of some
high mark on the road to Americanization.

One hopes that the new Hyman Kaplans of the immigrant world are not made to feel
that their integration into the American mainstream is in any way conditioned on
the acceptance of Christianity and a rejection of their own inheritance.
DAVID WOLITZ
New Haven, Jan. 11, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Excerpts From Reno's Letter on Cuban Boy

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12


Following are excerpts from the letter of Attorney General Janet Reno to the
lawyers for the Florida relatives of a Cuban boy found clinging to an inner tube
on Nov. 25 after his mother and 10 others drowned in their flight from Cuba:

I have reviewed your letter of Jan. 5 concerning the case of Elian Gonzalez, as
well as the issues that Mr. Bernstein raised when he and others met with me on
the evening of Jan. 7, including the fact that you have filed a custody action
on behalf of Lazaro Gonzalez in the Miami-Dade County Circuit Court. I
understand that court has granted a temporary protective order to Lazaro
Gonzalez. While I am always open to considering new information that might
arise, I am not currently aware of any basis for reversing Commissioner
Meissner's decision that Juan Gonzalez -- Elian's father -- has the sole
authority to speak for his son on immigration matters. . . .

The question of who may speak for a 6-year-old child in applying for admission
or asylum is a matter of federal immigration law. Nothing in the temporary
protective order changes the government's determination that Juan Gonzalez can
withdraw applications for admission and asylum relating to Elian and that he has
done so. In the department's judgment, the Florida court's order has no force or
effect insofar as I.N.S.'s administration of the immigration laws is concerned.
. . .

Mr. Bernstein said that the I.N.S. itself had originally announced that state
courts could resolve Elian's status in the United States. . . . In the first few
days after Elian's arrival in the United States, when it was suggested that
I.N.S.'s placement of Elian in the care of his great-uncle amounted to a grant
of custody, I.N.S. indicated that it could not grant custody and that such a
request would have to be put before the state courts. As the case evolved, it
became clear that Elian's father, who was still in Cuba, was asserting a
parental relationship with Elian and had adequately expressed his wish, under
the immigration laws, for Elian's petition for admission to this country to be
withdrawn. In these circumstances, I.N.S. was obliged to determine whether the
father was the appropriate person to speak for Elian on immigration issues. That
question, as I have said, remains one of federal, not state, law. The
commissioner's resolution of that question -- as well as of other immigration
matters -- may be challenged, if at all, only in federal court. We are prepared
to litigate in that forum. Accordingly, Commissioner Meissner has determined
that the Jan. 14 date should be extended. . . . This little boy has been through
so much, and it is therefore imperative that all of us do what we can to resolve
his case as soon as possible.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 14, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Spitzer Files Suit Against Supermarket

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 13


Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer today sued the Food Emporium stores and a
group of delivery companies, charging that African immigrants who deliver
groceries for shoppers at an Upper West Side supermarket are paid less than the
minimum wage.

The suit focuses on Food Emporium and its parent company, the Great Atlantic and
Pacific Tea Company, which also owns the A. & P. and Waldbaum's chains. The
company asserts that it is not legally responsible for the deliverymen's working
conditions, because they are not employed by the company, but by the delivery
services, which are also named as defendants in the suit.

The suit names Hudson Delivery Service, Chelsea Trucking and S & S Services,
which the attorney general's office says are all one company, owned by Scott
Weinstein and Steven Pilavin.

A spokesman for the two men, Gerald McKelvey, said that Hudson and Chelsea are
separate companies, owned by Mr. Weinstein and Mr. Pilavin, respectively, and
that S & S is a related company that is not involved in the Food Emporium
deliveries.

Today, Mr. Weinstein and Mr. Pilavin issued a joint statement saying that the
deliverymen "are all making well above the minimum wage." The statement adds,
"We look forward to answering these charges in the court of law where we believe
that we will be vindicated."

The suit focuses on a single Food Emporium store, at 68th Street and Broadway,
but officials in the attorney general's office say it is likely to be expanded
to other stores, and perhaps to other chains.

Mr. Spitzer's suit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, contends that the
deliverymen work long hours, earning barely $1 an hour in wages, plus tips.
State law requires a minimum wage of $4.25 an hour, or $3.20 when tips are
customarily earned. He also argues that the men should be considered employees
of the store, as well as of the delivery company.

Mr. Weinstein and Mr. Pilavin contend that the deliverymen, who are paid $1.25
per delivery rather than an hourly wage, are not their employees, but are
independent contractors. Mr. McKelvey said they make, on average, $7 to $8 an
hour.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 16, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Correspondence/Jail-House Translator;
Seeking Asylum, Some Immigrants Find A Fate Worse Than Criminal

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words


I WAS, frankly, unprepared for jail in this country.

While living in Asia, I often encountered people -- particularly Chinese -- who
had endured Kafkaesque months or years in prison without ever committing a
crime. Their futures were decided not by legal principle but by luck, and
American presidential candidates this election season have denounced the
arbitrary and often brutal nature of the Chinese system.

After my years abroad, I returned to the United States and spent the last few
months of 1999 writing a book in my hometown in Yamhill County, Ore., a place as
bedrock America as can be, a place that I revere as God's Country and that is
the antipodes of China. Except, it turns out, for the jails that house
immigrants.

I was pressed into service by county officials as an interpreter for a
half-dozen Chinese immigrants who were languishing in jail, awaiting the outcome
of their asylum applications. They are among the 17,000 foreigners held by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in prisons and jails around the country.

A couple of days later I walked through a series of clanging steel doors into
the women's section of the Yamhill County jail. Among the mostly American
prisoners, five Chinese women stood out as they walked in a circle around the
room, trying to get some exercise.

For months -- in some cases nearly a year -- they had been stuck in jail, not
knowing the status of their cases or what would happen to them, not able to ask
questions or seek help. According to inmates and jail officials, when two of the
Chinese women were ordered to switch bunks and did not understand, guards
knocked them to the ground and handcuffed them, bloodying one. Those two women's
fear, humiliation and wretchedness increased when they were placed on a
punishment regimen for the next four weeks, effectively penalizing them for not
understanding English.

When the women heard me speak their language, when they were finally able to
explain their nightmare, they began to cry. They told how they had come from
various villages in Fujian Province, the area on the coast that is home to many
of the Chinese who come to America. Two were teenage sisters, and the rest were
in their 20's. They were smart, enterprising and brave, as one would expect of
young people who had mortgaged their possessions and taken considerable risks to
forge a new life in a land whose language and customs they could not understand.

All had arrived at Portland International Airport and requested asylum. Instead
of finding freedom, they were hustled into different jails. Although they had
broken no law, they were often treated worse than criminals, who were at least
allowed the use of the exercise yard each day. The Chinese were never allowed
outside. Supporters in groups like Amnesty International initially were not
permitted to give them materials in Chinese, although that was reversed after a
county commissioner intervened.

The only stroke of luck these women had was that Jim Bunn, a Republican, lost
his re-election bid for Congress and ended up working as a humble jail guard. He
took an interest in them, bought Chinese-English dictionaries so that they could
communicate and became their guardian angel. "I just kept thinking, 'What if I
were in China and in jail?' " he said. "So I wanted to see if I could make
things a bit easier for them."

The I.N.S. is often criticized for the way it treats foreigners, sometimes
denying them the dignity and safeguards Americans demand when they are jailed
overseas. But while the Chinese women had terrible things to say about the
I.N.S., they said they were also mistreated by the guards, who looked down on
them because they were foreigners and could not communicate.

Still, the women's fundamental concern was not so much their daily treatment as
the way they had been locked up without the right to make their case effectively
or without any knowledge of what was happening to them.

The well-meaning jail officials for whom I was interpreting asked specific
questions about what the Chinese wanted, such as their preferred meal for
Christmas. The women shrugged, conferred and decided. "We'd like rice," they
said.

What these women cared about most was not better food, outside exercise or even
English lessons, they said, but some insight into how their fate would be
resolved. "We can get by whatever you feed us," one woman said fervently. "Just
tell us, does anybody know about us? Or have we been forgotten?"

Because the women had met only briefly with interpreters, poor ones at that,
they said they felt they had been unable to recount their histories thoroughly.
Most of them believed they had been lost in a bureaucratic I.N.S. limbo rather
like the Chinese criminal justice system.

And maybe they are right.

Under the immigration agency's rules, some of them will be granted asylum and
end up American citizens, and the others will spend a year or more in jail and
be deported. The children of the former may end up American Ph.D.'s, and the
children of the latter will probably end up as Chinese factory workers. The
difference between the two groups is largely whim and luck.

It is clear to anyone who talks to Chinese peasants in places like Fujian why
they come to America: for the same reason my ancestors did, to live a better
life. Most Chinese, however, are smart enough to insist that they are fleeing
China's restrictive birth policy. A Congressionally mandated law provides that
as many as 1,000 people yearly can gain asylum to avoid persecution on that
basis. Some of the refugees may be telling the truth when they say they have
violated the policy and face forced sterilization or fines, but there is no way
of verifying their stories. The upshot is that immigration judges tend to reward
the best-coached, smoothest liars rather than the most deserving applicants.

I put the women in touch with people at Linfield College in nearby McMinnville,
and the few Chinese living in the area. Life began to look up for them as they
got English lessons, Chinese Bibles and magazines, as well as arrangements to
call relatives in China. Then last month, the I.N.S. abruptly took the women
away in the middle of the night to other jails, scattering them and telling no
one where they had been taken.

One of the women wrote her English teacher, saying her new jailers in The
Dalles, Ore., had taken away her Chinese-English Bible, which also helped in her
study of English. She also said she is given two envelopes each week, each with
33 cents postage, but could not combine them to get a single envelope with the
60-cents postage needed to write her family in China. "This is not good place to
been," she wrote in her newly acquired English. "I'm sad and scared and broken
heart. Why they did it for me?"

SOME who made friends with these women thought immigration officials
deliberately moved them so they would no longer have any local supporters to
monitor their treatment. If that were true, then it mimicked the times in China
when I tried to help people and ended up getting them in trouble with their
government.

I asked Bill Strassberger, an amiable I.N.S. spokesman, about all this, and he
said that the agency would not have moved them to isolate them. The agency tried
to remind local jails that these immigrants are not criminals and should be
treated with dignity. "I'll be honest with you," he said. "We haven't been
totally successful in that."

Now I have moved on, to New York, and I doubt I will see any of these women
again. Those who are released and become Americans will eventually see a warmer
side of America, but I wonder about those who are sent back to China. What will
they say about human rights in this country?

I realize that these women and others like them are fundamentally economic
immigrants who in most cases have lied about the reasons they came. Perhaps they
should be sent back. Yet I have hectored so many Chinese officials about the
importance of a justice system that treats people with compassion that I still
feel deeply let down by the fate of these women, especially in a place in the
heartland whose essential goodness I cannot question. It would have been nice if
Americans could have adhered to the standards to which they hold China.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 16, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Latino Immigrant Experience

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 14; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 429 words


The spring season of the New Jersey Film Festival, sponsored by the Rutgers Film
Co-op and the New Jersey Media Arts Center, opens Friday with the New Jersey
premiere of "La Ciudad" (The City), a debut film written and directed by David
Riker. With a cast largely of Latino immigrants, the film portrays the fictional
lives of immigrants in New York City.

The festival runs through April 29 and features more than 58 screenings. Two
filmmakers are to make guest appearances: Mr. Riker will introduce "La Ciudad"
on Friday and Paul Morrisey, who collaborated on films with Andy Warhol, is to
introduce "Chelsea Girls" on March 3.

All programs begin at 7 p.m. and take place at one of the following locations:
Borders Books and Music, Mid-State Mall, Route 18 South, East Brunswick; Room
024, Loree Hall, Rutgers Univerisity, Nichol Avenue and George Street, Douglass
College Campus, New Brunswick, or Room 123, Scott Hall, Rutgers University,
College Avenue and Hamilton Street, College Avenue Campus, New Brunswick.
Unless otherwise noted, there is no admission charge to programs at Borders. At
Scott 123 and Loree 024 the admission is $5 ($4 for members). Information: (732)
932-8482 or www.rci.rutgers.edu/nigrin.

"LA CIUDAD" Friday, Saturday and next Sunday at Scott 123.

"MY TWENTIETH CENTURY" Jan. 27 at Loree 024.

"BLACK CAT, WHITE CAT" Jan. 28, 29 and 30 at Loree 024.

"REAR WINDOW" Feb. 3 at Loree 024.

"BOYS DON'T CRY" Feb. 4, 5 and 6 at Scott 123.

"DREAMS THAT MONEY CAN BUY" Feb. 10 at Loree 024.

"MY BEST FRIEND" and "AGUIRRE, THE WRATH OF GOD" Feb. 11 and 12 at Scott 123.
Tickets: $8; $6 for members.

12TH ANNUAL UNITED STATES SUPER 8 FILM AND VIDEO FESTIVAL Feb. 18, 19 and 20 at
Scott 123. Tickets: $8; $6 for members.
el2
"ROSETTA" Feb. 25, 26 and 27 at Scott 123.

"RED HOLLYWOOD" March 2 at Loree 024.

"CHELSEA GIRLS" March 3 at Scott 123. Tickets: $10; $8 for members.

"SAME OLD SONG (ON CONNAIT LA CHANSON)" March 4 and 5 at Scott 123.

"PSYCHO" March 23 at Loree 024.

"AMERICAN MOVIE" March 24, 25 and 26 at Scott 123.

"LAS HURDES LAND WITHOUT BREAD " March 29 at Borders.

"DON'T LOOK BACK" March 30 at Loree 024.

"TOPSY-TURVEY" March 31, April 1 and 2 at Scott 123.

"42 UP" April 7 and 8 at Scott 123.

"EARTH" April 14 and 15 at Scott 123.

"ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER" April 21, 22 and 23 at Scott 123.

KENNETH ANGER RETROSPECTIVE featuring "INAUGURATION OF THE PLEASURE DOME" April
26 at Borders.

"STALKER" April 28 and 29 at Scott 123.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Silvia Goiz in the "Seamstress" episode of "La Ciudad." (Victor
Sira)

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 19, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and Kafka

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words



To the Editor:

Re "Seeking Asylum, Some Immigrants Find a Fate Worse Than Criminal" (Week in
Review, Jan. 16):

Your article describes the plight of Chinese women who are incarcerated and
deprived of the most basic rights, a situation that is shameful and horrifying
in the best of times.

Today, while Congress is considering legislation to give citizenship to one
small child, Elian Gonzalez, the contrast with the situation of these women and
the thousands of others who are imprisoned for many months for seeking asylum is
the height of hypocrisy.

There is something very wrong with a justice system that punishes those who seek
a better life as if it were a criminal act and with elected officials who do not
put a stop to this practice.

LISA AVEDON
Santa Fe, N.M., Jan. 16, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Plans Grand Makeover for Ellis Island

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 20


New Jersey officials sketched a $300 million vision today for the redevelopment
of Ellis Island, most of which has been concealed behind overgrown weeds and
chain-link fences from the millions who visit every year.

They hope the plan will turn the long-neglected island in New York Harbor into a
setting for meetings, including local corporate conferences and global peace
talks, with new museums devoted to America's immigrant heritage and the study of
public health.

As a more urgent -- and realistic -- first step, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman
said that $8.6 million had been secured from state, federal and private sources
to stabilize dozens of decrepit buildings around the island, especially on its
tumbledown southern half, what is known as the sad side, where immigrants too
sick to be allowed entry were housed in hospital wards until they recovered, or
died. The total needed for this step is $10.9 million, she said.

"As New Jerseyans, we take great pride in our history," the governor said today
at a news conference. "But we must also take care of our history so that future
generations can share our pride and visit these landmarks of our national
journey. We owe it to our future to preserve our past."

The announcements today marked a dramatic and, by governmental standards, rapid
turnabout in the status of Ellis Island, which after decades of neglect by the
federal government was labeled one of the country's most endangered historic
places in 1997 by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

In 1998, the Supreme Court ended a long border dispute between New York and New
Jersey by awarding Trenton sovereignty over most of the island's 27.5 acres.

New York's share includes the main immigrant museum and Great Hall, although the
border passes through parts of buildings and grounds.

Although the island remained under federal control -- the National Park Service
owns and operates it -- Governor Whitman immediately asserted herself in
determining its future. An 18-member committee she appointed quickly ruled out a
commercial project, cheering those who had feared that the island would be used
for hotels or a theme park.

Preservationists greeted today's news with enthusiasm. "I think New Jersey has
been a wonderful thing to happen to Ellis Island," said Peg Breen, president of
the New York Landmarks Conservancy. She added, "They understand the importance
of the heritage of Ellis Island and have respected it with these
recommendations."

Ms. Breen noted that New Jersey prison inmates began pulling up weeds and
carting away garbage from the overgrown parts of the island last April, saving
hundreds of thousands of dollars in contracting and hauling fees. "With all due
respect to New York," she added, "New York never did any of this."

In its final report to the governor today, the committee recommended three main
uses for the island.

A Center for Immigrant Contributions and Ethnic Learning would research and
mount exhibitions celebrating the immigrant experience, encompassing not only
those Americans who passed through Ellis Island, but also those who arrived in
slave ships from Africa and the Caribbean, and more recent immigrants from
around the world.

One objective of the center would be to illuminate "the nation's seemingly
contradictory practices of ethnic exclusion, discrimination, pluralism,
assimilation and tolerance," the report says.

Though the report states that the center would avoid "overly focusing on
specific immigrant or ethnic groups," Finn Casperson, the committee's chairman,
said many ethnic groups could be expected to help in either lobbying for money
or contributing it, among them the descendants of Irish, German, Scandinavian,
African and Asian immigrants.

The second use, a Public Health Learning Center, would build upon the island's
history as the birthplace of the United States Public Health Service. Dr. C.
Everett Koop, the former surgeon general, is leading an effort to build a public
health museum in Washington, and Representative Robert Franks, a Republican from
New Providence, N.J., has introduced legislation that would create a satellite
of that museum on Ellis Island.

Third, an International Conference Center would be the first in the United
States on a publicly owned, nationally recognized site, according to the report.
The committee went so far as to suggest that the island's proximity to New York
City and its "insulated and tranquil" atmosphere could place it in the elite
company of Versailles and Geneva as a suitable setting for peace talks or global
economic meetings.

The center would be publicly developed, but financed largely with private money,
Mr. Casperson said. New Jersey's many pharmaceutical companies, "who are
renowned for their conferences," could be expected both to pay for its
construction and to make use of the center, he added. Hotels could be built on
available land in Jersey City.

Nevertheless, Mr. Casperson, a prominent Republican contributor who is a former
chief executive of the Beneficial Corporation, said much of the $300 million it
would take to fully rebuild Ellis Island would have to come from Washington. "I
strongly believe, and maybe I'm naive, but this happened on the federal
government's watch," he said. "They were the ones who let the buildings go."

The financing announced today was paltry by comparison, but of no small
importance, officials said. Governor Whitman said she would include $1 million
in her proposed budget, which is due soon, to preserve the baggage and dormitory
building, the largest on Ellis Island and the one in the gravest danger of
collapse. The National Park Service will provide another $1 million.

Of the $6.6 million needed to stabilize the hospital buildings, Congress has
contributed $2 million and Trenton $2.3 million, and the rest is still being
sought. A $2.3 million project to save the pedestrian passageway is fully
financed, officials said, half from the federal government and half from a
private donor they would not yet identify.

"Time is of the essence," Mr. Casperson said. "The buildings are falling apart.
They need to be restored. We have momentum, but we must act now. We cannot
afford to put it off for another decade."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Restoring Ellis Island"

Officials said most of the $10.9 million needed to stabilize the 30 buildings on
New Jersey's part of Ellis Island had been secured from state, federal and
private sources.

Hospital Complex
$6.6 million

Ferry Building
(pedestrian passageway)
$2.3 million

Baggage and Dormitory Building
$2.0 million

(Source: Governor's Advisory Committee on the Preservation and Use of Ellis
Island South side)(pg. B6)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL;
Turner Supports Rocker

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 20


The owner of the Atlanta Braves is no stranger to controversy when it comes to
public statements. Thus, Ted Turner thinks pitcher John Rocker deserves another
chance to atone for his disparaging remarks about immigrants, members of
minority groups and homosexuals.

"I think he was off his rocker when he said those things," Turner said Wednesday
on CNN's "Moneyline," the owner's first public comments on the Rocker situation.

Turner pointed out that the left-handed reliever has apologized.

"I don't think we ought to hold it against him forever," Turner said. "He didn't
commit a crime."

The Braves have been under pressure from some quarters to discipline Rocker, 25,
who told Sports Illustrated last month that he would never play for a New York
team because he didn't want to ride a subway train "next to some queer with
AIDS."

He also said: "I'm not a very big fan of foreigners. How the hell did they get
in this country?"

Rocker also called a black teammate a "fat monkey."

Turner, whose nickname is Mouth of the South, has managed to insult Christians,
blacks and women, and once compared the media magnate Rupert Murdoch to Hitler.

The owner agreed with the approach of Bud Selig, baseball's commissioner, who
two weeks ago ordered Rocker to undergo psychological tests. Selig has not
announced a decision on whether he would suspend or fine Rocker.

Turner also said he thinks Rocker's talent heightened reaction to what he said.

"If he couldn't get people out, I don't think it would have been as much of a
problem," Turner said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

After Busy Weekend, Grandmothers Rest Before Returning to Cuba

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 23


The grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez, having made their case for sending their
6-year-old grandson back to his father in Cuba, rested today before returning
home on Monday.

Elian's mother and 10 others drowned last November while trying to reach
Florida, and the boy, who survived by clinging to an inner tube, is living with
relatives in Miami at the center of what has become an international custody
battle.

The grandmothers, Raquel Rodriguez and Mariela Quintana, arrived in New York on
Friday and said they would not go to Miami to see Elian. They met with Attorney
General Janet Reno on Saturday and today attended a service at the Riverside
Church.

"I do not believe they are doing anything else today," said Randy Naylor, a
spokesman for the National Council of Churches, the group that sponsored the
visit. "They are exhausted."

Mr. Naylor also said the grandmothers' "purpose was to come to meet with the
attorney general and to see about getting their grandson home." He added:
"That's what they are doing."

Mr. Naylor said the grandmothers had not received a reply to the letter they
gave to the attorney general on Saturday.

Ms. Reno backed a ruling this month by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that Elian should be sent back to Cuba.

But Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said Congress would
go ahead on Monday with an effort to grant the boy United States citizenship,
using expedited procedures that could allow the required legislation to be
passed by the end of the week.

"All that bill would have the effect of doing is just to say that he has
citizenship and therefore how he is dealt with would be a custody issue rather
than an immigration issue," Mr. Lott said on the NBC program "One on One."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Elian Gonzalez and Congress

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 428 words


As the case of Elian Gonzalez enters its third month with no end in sight, it is
becoming more and more evident why the fate of this 6-year-old Cuban boy belongs
in a federal court rather than in the streets of Miami or Havana -- or in the
halls of Congress. Congressional moves this week to have Elian declared an
American citizen have added a new level of exploitation to this unseemly saga.

Two members of Congress from Florida, Senator Connie Mack and Representative
Bill McCollum, have introduced bills to grant the boy citizenship or permanent
residency. Their avowed purpose is to remove jurisdiction over his status from
the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, where it properly belongs,
and hand it over to a Florida family court as a child-custody dispute. This is
an unacceptable misuse of a citizenship process to manipulate the venue of a
court case.

It is especially troubling when the object of the dispute is 6 years old. There
is in fact no basis in law for a custody dispute. To this day no one has
presented evidence suggesting that Elian's divorced father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, is an unfit parent. After Elian was rescued at sea following an
accident that killed his mother, Mr. Gonzalez was interviewed extensively by
I.N.S. officials in Havana, and satisfied them that he had a close and involved
relationship with his son. In a country like Cuba, no one can truly know if a
man is speaking freely. But his credibility has been strengthened this past week
by Elian's two grandmothers, who have traveled to the United States in hopes of
retrieving Elian and returning home with him. Both grandmothers have spoken of
their love for Elian and there is no evidence of coercion.

Holding Elian in this country only plays into Fidel Castro's hands. Mr. Castro's
opponents in Miami and their backers in Washington are subverting uncontested
family ties in the interest of an all-consuming political agenda. They assume
that the nature of one's government is the only criterion in the quality of his
life. In so doing they emulate the totalitarian ideal that they correctly abhor.

President Clinton was right yesterday when he reiterated that Elian's case
should play out in court.  As a matter of law, the I.N.S. has authority to
determine this boy's lawful guardian, and the agency has justly found that his
father has the right to decide that his son should be returned to Cuba.  Elian's
relatives in Miami have appealed in federal Court, and that -- not Congress in
an election year -- is where this case should be resolved.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island, Restored Bit by Bit

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words



To the Editor:

It was heartening to learn that redevelopment plans for Ellis Island include a
Center for Immigrant Contributions and Ethnic Learning, where the experiences of
recent immigrants will be included (news article, Jan. 21). Further restoration
of Ellis Island might show that our country's treatment of immigrants and
refugees has deteriorated in the last 100 years.

It is to be hoped that in this new millennium we will learn from Ellis Island
that we must treat refugees with the care and respect they deserve. We must
learn to see them as national assets far more precious than historical
properties.

(Rev.) THOMAS L. SHERIDAN
Jersey City, Jan. 21, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Deals U.S. a Setback in Elian Case

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 27


A federal judge today rebuffed the Clinton administration's latest effort to
clear the way for 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez's prompt return to his father in
Cuba.

The judge, William M. Hoeveler, gave relatives who are holding the boy here
nearly a month, until Feb. 24, to prepare a response to the Justice Department's
argument that the relatives have no legal right to act in the child's behalf. A
Justice Department lawyer had asked for a ruling by next Friday.

In opposing the Miami relatives' requests, the department also included
documents contending that the relatives had offered Elian's divorced father,
Juan Miguel Gonzalez, a job, a car and millions of dollars to leave Cuba and
settle in Miami with his son.

Mr. Gonzalez told investigators from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
that his Miami relatives "even offered me money to leave Elian" with them in
Miami, according to the documents. "That's when I hung up the telephone," he
told the I.N.S. investigators.

But the Miami relatives, who denied Mr. Gonzalez's contentions, were elated by
the ruling of Judge Hoeveler of the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Florida. "We feel very good about the judge's decision,"
said Spencer Eig, a lawyer for Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great-uncle, who with
his wife and daughter, are fighting for custody of the boy.

"In his wisdom," Mr. Eig said, "he ignored the request made by the government.
We want Elian to get a full and fair day in court."

Judge Hoeveler's ruling marked one more setback for the Justice Department and
the immigration service. Initially, the government intended to repatriate the
child on Jan. 14. Elian was rescued from the sea two months ago after his mother
drowned fleeing Cuba.

As the court fight continued here there were signs that Republicans in
Washington were backing off their support for making the boy an American
citizen.

On some issues, "politicians just have to step aside," said Speaker J. Dennis
Hastert, Republican of Illinois.

After a meeting of Republican House members, Mr. Hastert would only say "there's
a difference of opinion" among party members about how to proceed. Mr. Hastert
has supported the legislation but declined to predict its fate.

In the Senate, there was strong Democratic opposition to the citizenship bill,
and Republicans were divided. Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska and a
member of the Foreign Relations Committee, waged a strong battle to keep the
measure off the floor.

Late Thursday, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, a
leading Congressional proponent of returning Elian to Cuba, claimed the Capitol
Hill efforts this week by the grandmothers had helped to build Congressional
opposition to the citizenship bill.

Some lawmakers were lining up behind a less controversial bill that would confer
permanent residency on Elian rather than full citizenship.

The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, a supporter
of the bill who once pledged to rush it to the Senate floor this week, is now
undecided about a timetable, his spokesman, John Czwartacki, said today.

In another turn in the saga, the Dominican nun who brought Elian together with
his grandmothers at her Miami Beach home on Wednesday said today that she had
changed her mind as a result of the meeting and believed that the boy should not
be returned to his father.

In an interview from her car before flying to Washington and meetings on Friday
with Attorney General Janet Reno and Florida's senators, Connie Mack, a
Republican, and Bob Graham, a Democrat, the nun, Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin, said
she was surprised by the shift in her views. Sister Jeanne is the president of
Barry University in Miami Beach.

"Prior to yesterday," Sister Jeanne said, "I thought that the law was simple and
that a decision could be made straight away" to let the father have custody.

But in the grandmothers' preparations for the meeting, their fearful demeanor
and Sister Jeanne's sense that the Castro government was intruding behind the
scenes, she said, "I began to experience something that worried me."

"It had to do with manipulation and a lack of freedom in the presence of fear,"
she said. "I became concerned that this child could not flourish in that kind of
environment."

In the preparations for the meeting, at which the Lazaro Gonzalez family was
permitted to wait in separate rooms, Sister Jeanne said the women or their
negotiators wanted pictures of her house showing that in assigning everyone to
rooms, the two sides would not see one another. "I felt they were controlled,"
she said.

For the grandmothers, too, the meeting was unsettling in another way. After
returning to Washington to lobby for custody of the boy, they said they had
barely recognized him.

"He's changed completely," said Mariela Quintana, mother of Elian's mother,
Elizabet Broton Gonzalez, told reporters.

In the fashion of teenagers, Elian showed up at the meeting on Wednesday wearing
a gold chain. He has been taught to wear baseball caps, backwards, and to use
beepers and cell phones. He plays Nintendo games and watches video movies.

The National Council of Churches, which has been coordinating the grandmothers'
six-day quest and has provided a plane for them, said today that it was turning
them over to the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, which performs some of
the functions of an embassy.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 29, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Lawyers Get A Lecture From Judge In Boy's Case

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN with LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 28


The federal judge hearing the appeal by relatives of Elian Gonzalez to raise him
in Miami, away from his father in Cuba, told their legal team today to stop all
its "hoopla" and "excesses" in rallying public opinion.

The judge, William M. Hoeveler, moved up the date for them to respond to the
Justice Department's contention that no court has authority to override its
decision to repatriate the child. Saying the lawyers did not need a month to
prepare their response, he moved their deadline to Feb. 14 after having set it
at Feb. 24 only Thursday. He also set a hearing for Feb. 22.

Elian, 6, who lost his mother at sea more than two months ago as she fled Cuba
with him to Florida, is fast becoming an international celebrity, with lawyers
and public relations agents trotting him out daily.

But after hearing the lawyers' televised comments saluting the near-month they
had been given to respond, Judge Hoeveler called the special hearing today,
telling the lead lawyer, Spencer Eig, "I'm concerned about all of the hoopla,
all of the demonstrations, all of the excesses that have taken place."

"This case," he said, "will be tried on the law and the facts without all the
additional fanfare, and I hope we all understand that."

On Thursday, Mr. Eig had ridiculed the Justice Department's "chutzpah" for the
nearly two-inch-thick file it submitted to the court, the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Florida.

When he asked the judge today to advise him on responding to the news media,
Judge Hoeveler said, "I don't want you to comment about what they're doing,
about what you're doing, about how bad the government is."

In Washington, as prospects for making Elian an American citizen bogged down,
the Roman Catholic nun who brought the boy together with his Cuban grandmothers
on Wednesday -- and who now believes the boy should stay in Miami -- privately
appealed today to Attorney General Janet Reno, a longtime friend, to change her
mind. Although the meeting proved fruitless, Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin said she
impressed upon the attorney general that the boy had already deeply bonded with
his Miami relatives.

"Had he gone back to Cuba the first week or second week, the position I feel
would be different," Sister Jeanne, president of Barry University in Miami
Beach, said after her meeting with Ms. Reno.

But Ms. Reno, in a statement issued after the meeting, said she still saw no
legal reason to alter a ruling by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
that Elian should be returned to his father.

On Capitol Hill, Sister Jeanne's change of heart, and her visit to their
offices, re-energized lawmakers who are pushing to make Elian a citizen. Sister
Jeanne has visited Cuba and supports lifting the economic embargo against the
island, an unpopular position in Miami, so her words are seen to carry extra
weight in Florida.

"Sister Jeanne has a tremendous reputation in Miami, Dade County and South
Florida as being a lady of principle," said Senator Connie Mack, the Florida
Republican who introduced the citizenship bill in the Senate.

But Senator Mack, who said he hopes to move forward with the bill late next
week, acknowledged that it faces a rocky road. Several Democrats have threatened
to block it, and even Senate Republicans, who initially seemed to embrace the
idea, are divided.

Lobbying to the point of exhaustion, Elian's grandmothers have made several
trips to Capitol Hill to try to thwart the legislation. They met with several
more lawmakers today but were expected to return to Cuba this weekend.

In the House, the legislation's prospects appear no better. Representative J.
Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, sent the bill to the Judiciary
Committee, and the chairman of the panel, Representative Henry J. Hyde,
Republican of Illinois, decided today to set it aside until the courts make a
decision.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Dueling Marches on Cuban Boy Get Different Responses

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 29


About 200 women, mostly Cuban-American, dressed in black and white, with white
ribbons attached to their shirts and carrying white roses, stopped traffic today
in the heart of downtown Miami as they marched and prayed in memory of Elizabet
Brotons, who drowned while fleeing Cuba in November with her 6-year-old son,
Elian Gonzalez.

Eighty blocks north, along a poorer stretch of Biscayne Boulevard, nearly as
many men and women demonstrated beside the Miami offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to urge the Clinton administration to wrest the boy from
the great-uncle who is keeping him here and to return him promptly to his father
in Cuba.

Though the sizes of the demonstrations were similar, little else was. The
marchers seeking the boy's repatriation were held behind barricades by about 50
police officers, to keep them off Biscayne Boulevard and largely out of sight
beside a shopping center.

Downtown, a half-dozen police cars blocked traffic to permit the marchers
seeking to keep Elian in Florida to proceed unimpeded and relied on the women
themselves to control their troops. No crowd-control officers were in sight.

The Miami-Dade Police Department, asked about its different handling of the two
marches, said today that no one was available this weekend to comment.

Maria Cristina Ruiz, an advertising executive who organized and led the Mothers'
March for Human Rights downtown, said the rally was not a political
demonstration fanning the Cuban exile community's 41-year feud with the
government of Fidel Castro but one "in honor of Elian's mother and any mother
who has lost her children."

"This is very American," Ms. Ruiz said over the blaring horns of the disrupted
traffic in front of the Miami Intercontinental Hotel, a Biscayne Boulevard
landmark. "This is a women's march."

But anti-Castro posters peppered the air above the marchers, along with
portraits of Ms. Brotons, who was divorced from the boy's father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez. A child in a stroller carried a sign reading, "Love is great. Freedom
is greater."

Lately, in demonstrations like these, the image of Elian as a refugee from
tyranny has been evolving into a miraculous creature of God, described as having
survived three days in the ocean because dolphins encircled him to protect him
from sharks. Mothers and children held posters depicting Elian cradling a
ceramic baby Jesus. "Elian knows Christ but is being denied," the words on it
said.

Far up Biscayne Boulevard, demonstrators favoring the boy's return to his father
assembled by the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization, which is
also known as Pastors for Peace, wore lapel buttons with portraits of Elian. The
picketers' mission was wholly different.

Their target is neither Mr. Castro nor Lazaro Gonzalez, the boy's great-uncle in
whose house the boy is living here, but Attorney General Janet Reno and the
Clinton administration. For more than a month, the administration has declined
to enforce the immigration service's repatriation order so Lazaro Gonzalez and
the Cuban exile community can make a case in the courts to take custody of him
here.

"The guilt is in Washington," one sign said. Marchers chanted: "The I.N.S. needs
to know. Send Elian home! Janet Reno needs to know. Send Elian home!" A poster
read, "Rip child from father? This is family values?"

On the picket line, Richard Becker of San Francisco, western region coordinator
for the International Action Center, a liberal organization founded by former
Attorney General Ramsey Clark, said he believed most Americans shared his view
that the government should both end the embargo on trade with Cuba and give
custody of the boy to his father there.

"It's very difficult for the majority voice of this country to be heard in this
community," Mr. Becker said. "There's a minority here, Cuban-American, that uses
tension and intimidation against those who want to see an end of the hostility
and the blockade against Cuba. Those voices dominate despite the fact that they
are extreme right wing."

Another protester, Andres Gomez, a Cuban-American who is national coordinator of
a local anti-embargo group, said: "We want a normalization of relationships. We
have been working for that for 20 years."

"Elian," said a poster, "is a metaphor for the madness of the embargo."

In another protest, organized by the Miami-based Democracy Movement, which wants
Elian to stay in Miami, more than 50 boats cruised around Biscayne Bay later in
the afternoon as passengers waved Cuban and American flags and held signs
reading "Elian we will fight for your rights."

"We ask America to search for the truth," Ramon Saul Sanchez, one of the
organizers, said. "We are oppressed and we want to be free."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters gathered yesterday outside the Immigration and
Naturalization office in Miami to urge that Elian Gonzalez be returned to Cuba.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 1, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Why I Changed My Mind About Elian

BYLINE: By Jeanne O'Laughlin;  Jeanne O'Laughlin, a Dominican nun, is president
of Barry University.

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: MIAMI SHORES , Fla.


When I agreed to provide a neutral meeting place at the Barry University
president's house for 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez and his grandmothers, I expected
to witness a meaningful visit. But I had no idea that what I saw would be so
powerful that it would change my mind, persuading me that Elian should not be
returned -- at least for now -- to his father in Cuba.

Both the American relatives who have been taking care of Elian since he was
rescued from the sea in November and the Cuban government representatives who
were speaking for the grandmothers exacted multiple demands -- often petty and
pointless -- about the ground rules for the meeting. There were attempts to
control what parts of the house the different relatives would be in -- even who
would climb how many steps of the stairs to meet whom, and who might be on the
premises.

The Cuban demands had one unforeseen effect: the delay of the grandmothers at
the airport allowed Elian to spend an extra hour at the house before they
arrived. I had a chance to see, firsthand, the strong bond between Elian and the
Miami cousin who has taken care of him since his mother died in the same attempt
to escape Cuba by boat that set him adrift.

His cousin is only a year younger than his mother was, and as he glanced at her
for reassurance before the meeting and greeted her ecstatically afterward, it
became clear to me that he has transferred his maternal love to her.

As I watched the grandmothers' Cuban escort keep close telephone contact with
Havana during and after the visit, I came to feel that the Cuban government was
attempting to exert control over these events. Even more troubling, I saw signs
of anxiety in both the Miami relatives and the grandmothers: trembling, furtive
looks, ice-cold hands.

I saw fear in Elian, too, and I became a wiser woman at that moment, wincing at
my own naivete. I considered what it would mean for this boy suddenly to be
ripped away from his surrogate mother, how this second trauma might scar him
permanently. I saw and felt, at that moment, how wrong it would be to return
Elian hastily to Cuba.

Elian has not yet even begun to grieve the catastrophic loss of his mother. We
have to remember, too, what her wishes were: that she had weighed the cost of
taking him away from his father and had chosen to come here.

It troubles me that Elian's father has not come to the United States. I realize
how he must love Elian. What, if not fear, could keep a person from making a
30-minute trip to reclaim his son? And what might Elian's father fear, if not
the authoritarian Cuban government itself? Could we send the boy back to a
climate that may be full of fear without at least a fair hearing in a family
court?

I realize that moral truth does not always mirror the law, and that Attorney
General Janet Reno is bound by the laws she upholds. I also know that she shares
my deep concern for this little boy.

We must resolve as a people to uphold that concern. We must turn off all the
cameras and find a legal path -- perhaps it is Florida Senator Connie Mack's
bill to make Elian an American citizen, which I support -- so that Elian's
future can be decided by a court that rules on matters of child custody.

If family members can speak to trained court personnel, free of fear and
reprisal from a totalitarian regime, perhaps they can plan a future for the
child that will include both his Cuban family and his American family. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service cannot provide the right setting for this
decision-making.

The case becomes more complicated with each passing week because of the growing
bond between Elian and his Miami family. This boy has been in the torment of the
seas and is now in the torment of a political maelstrom.

As he was being whisked away from my house, many saw in Elian's tiny dark eyes
the collective anguish of the Cuban soul. I just saw a frightened little boy who
deserves a chance.

Yes, his relationship with his father should be renewed, but he also continues
to need the love of his Miami family, and to live free of fear. The final
challenge of finding the best way for Elian to heal and be nurtured should lie
with a court that has experience in seeking the best interests of children.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 1, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Citizenship Incubator for Immigrant Latinos

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1222 words

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON PARK, Calif., Jan. 28


At one time, Pacific Boulevard was where the residents of this hip-pocket city
in southeast of downtown Los Angeles came to realize their fondest middle-class
desires. The boulevard was the apotheosis of the postwar California dream, an
all-white working-class Beverly Hills with swank department stores, auto
dealerships and first-run cinemas.

Jack Zagha recently sat in the home-furnishings store his family has run on
Pacific Boulevard for nearly 50 years and recalled those days as so distant as
to be almost an illusion, all but blotted out by memories of how white flight
and indoor shopping malls later turned the once-vital street into a cliche of
urban despair. Then he interrupted his reverie to exchange a few words in
Spanish with a busy sales clerk and marvel at the new California dream taking
shape around the racks of towels, curtains and bedspreads.

Today, thick crowds again stroll past his store, the Home Shop, but they rarely
get past the maze of $2 and $5 tables clustered near the doors. The steady flow
of sales is transacted almost entirely in cash. Conversations are in Spanish,
still carrying the accents of the regions in Mexico from which most of
Huntington Park's new residents emigrated.

"We're still in business, but just about everything else has changed," Mr. Zagha
said. "Times aren't bad."

If there is a vantage from which to observe the concluding chapters of Los
Angeles's transformation into the country's largest Hispanic-dominated
metropolis, Huntington Park may be it. It provides a glimpse into the region's
rapid ethnic makeover not because it is a reflection of the city as it will be,
but because it is the gateway to that future.

Indeed, Huntington Park is not a perfect mirror of the Los Angeles region;
incomes are generally lower and it is far more homogeneous -- it is close to 100
percent Hispanic -- than the diverse, increasingly affluent neighborhoods in the
surrounding areas. But it plays a central role in the region because it is one
of several neighborhoods where Mexican immigrants often come first, one of the
places where they begin their pursuit of the dream that brought many here, a
middle-class way of life. Huntington Park has become a sort of citizenship
incubator.

And the impact is being felt. As of 1998, Los Angeles County had 9.6 million
residents, of which 44 percent were Hispanic and 33.5 percent non-Hispanic
white. Government experts predict that in 2010 the Hispanic population will make
up slightly more than half of the expected population of 10.6 million.

"What you learn from looking at a place like Huntington Park, and I'm not sure
people appreciate this, is how upwardly mobile most Latinos are," said Jack
Kyser, the chief economist at the Los Angeles County Economic Development
Corporation, a nonprofit organization. "This city is where the newcomers learn
how to do that. It is a stepping stone into the future of Los Angeles, and
that's not something you would have expected if you looked at the city a couple
of decades ago."

Jose Legaspi, a major real estate broker and developer in this part of Los
Angeles, added: "This is a point of entry for the Latino population in Los
Angeles, not a destination. This is where the education begins for a lot of
people. Huntington Park has been where people aspiring to the middle class get a
leg up."

Decades ago, Huntington Park thrived because it was the terminus of an electric
streetcar line -- since shut down -- and had a wide downtown boulevard that
attracted shoppers from all over the region. It was where people, many of them
white immigrants from the Midwest, spent weekend afternoons.

It was, however, a residential oasis amid one of the most heavily industrialized
areas of Los Angeles County. Just to the west was the Watts section of Los
Angeles, which was traditionally a large, and largely poor black community
resting, literally, on the other side of a double set of railroad tracks that
for years defined the borders of ethnic peace.

Then 30 to 40 years ago Huntington Park went into a steep decline, a victim of
industrial cutbacks, white families' nervously fleeing the proximity to a
suddenly restive black community and the devastation on the boulevard caused by
the emergence of indoor shopping malls. When the car dealerships left, the
city's tax base went into a tailspin.

Tom Jackson, a resident for more than 40 years and a City Council member for 31
years, said that many white families left reluctantly but that when they did
were often more inclined to find Hispanic home buyers, rather than black ones.
"You're talking about 30,000 people who just pulled up and left," Mr. Jackson
said. "It was a racism thing."

Huntington Park's subsequent phoenix-like rise has taken off with the soaring
numbers of immigrants from Mexico. The city, which covers a little more than
three square miles, saw its population swell to more than 70,000 people today
from about 30,000 people two decades ago. It is perhaps 98 percent Latino. (Even
nearby Watts is now dominated by Latinos, not blacks.)

The median age, which had risen to more than 60 in the 1970's, is now about 24,
the city estimates. Reflecting its working-class status, the city's median
household income is about $28,000 a year, below the county's average of $40,300.
Its main elementary school and middle school each has more than 4,000 students.
Pacific Boulevard It has become a cut-rate retail bazaar of shoe stores, dress
shops, travel agencies, taquerias and dental clinics.

"The boulevard is back again, even better than it used to be," said Frank
MacLean, the president of the local merchants association.

Elena Martin, who said she had been a resident for six years, was strolling with
her three young children on Pacific Boulevard recently, looking at the
ostrich-skin cowboy boots she said her husband coveted, but probably would not
buy. She said she had little interest in malls, in part because she has to rely
on public transit and in part because she did not feel at home at them.

Jacob Givertz, who has owned a clothing store, Buy Rite, on the boulevard since
1974, agreed that the immigrants had provided a solid new retail base. "I don't
think the malls are competition for me," he said. "This boulevard reminds them
of the way things were in the old country."

Rosario Marin, the city's mayor, said: "The people who move here are often new
arrivals, but they really want to make it. Truthfully, they don't want to stay
here. It's their first stop."

Still, Mayor Marin conceded, the city's transformation has also created enormous
challenges.

Ms. Marin estimated that perhaps 40 percent of the population consisted of
people who had lived in the country less than 10 years and that perhaps 20
percent were here illegally. That means that few vote, and many shield
themselves from the authorities.

The number of new immigrants has also created enormous challenges for the city's
schools. Ms. Marin said roughly 60 percent of the parents of the children in the
city's schools read English at a level of third grade or lower.

"We've become a safe harbor for new immigrants, a place where they can come and
feel at home right away," she said. "When it's time to move on, they move on,
but I hope they remember Huntington Park and what they got from this place."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Conversations are now often in Spanish along a thriving Pacific
Boulevard in Huntington Park, Calif. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 1, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Wants Only What's Best for Elian

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 223 words



To the Editor:

The most important determination in the Elian Gonzalez case is what is in the
child's best interest (editorial, Jan. 26). A Dec. 1 Immigration and
Naturalization Service news release stated that it has "no role in the family
custody decision process" and that officials in Florida "have confirmed that the
issue of legal custody must be decided by its state court." Three days later,
the State Department said Elian's case should be treated as an immigration
matter. This flip-flop subjects the boy to the whims of I.N.S. officials and
representatives of a Communist dictatorship.

Granting citizenship to Elian Gonzalez, as our bills would do, does not dictate
where the boy should live; rather, it removes the decision-making authority from
a government agency and makes it a custody matter subject to a fair court
hearing. A court is the only forum where all family members' interests can be
heard to determine what is best for Elian. As you note, in Cuba, no one can know
if a man is speaking freely. Indeed, we cannot be sure that the closed-door
meetings between Elian's father and I.N.S. officials in Havana occurred free of
coercion.

CONNIE MACK
BILL MC COLLUM
Washington, Jan. 31, 2000

The writers, Republicans of Florida, are a United States senator and
representative, respectively.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 2, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Will Reconsider Ties If Haider Joins Coalition

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1


White House officials said today that the United States would consider joining
the European Union in diplomatically isolating Austria now that the Freedom
Party, which espouses an anti-immigrant platform, and the People's Party have
agreed to form a coalition government.

David Leavy, spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States
would weigh a range of options -- including curtailing diplomatic relations --
if the Austrian president accepts the Freedom Party, led by Jorg Haider, as part
of the government.

"If this should occur, then we'll have to make judgments about what our next
steps should be based on our own natinal interests," Mr. Leavy said. "This is an
issue we're following very closely."

Mr. Haider's party came in second in elections held in October, with 27 percent
of the vote. Mr. Haider has called for a curtailment of immigration to Austria
-- "over-foreignization," in his words. He also advocates a halt to the
expansion of the European Union as a way to keep more Eastern Europeans from
entering Austria.

Most controversial, Mr. Haider has made comments, for which he subsequently
apologized, that were viewed by critics as playing down the crimes of the Nazis.

"We have made clear that we have real serious concerns about some of the
positions taken by the Freedom Party," Mr. Leavy said.

The European Union, in an unprecedented move on Monday that caught Austrian
leaders off guard, warned that its other 14 members were prepared to isolate
Austria to make clear its opposition to the Freedom Party's views.

James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said last week that United
States officials had made clear in meetings with Mr. Haider "our strong
opposition to any statements or any actions that might be interpreted as
expressing sympathy for the former Nazi regime or as explaining away in any way,
shape or form the terrible tragedy of the Holocaust."

An official at the Austrian Embassy in Washington would not comment today.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 4, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

RIGHTISTS TO JOIN AUSTRIA'S CABINET

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1388 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 3


Austria's president announced today that he would swear in a new government on
Friday that includes Jorg Haider's anti-immigrant Freedom Party, setting the
country on a collision course with the European Union, which regards Mr.
Haider's party as xenophobic and extremist.

President Thomas Klestil announced the decision after a final day of hesitation
that was marked by objections to two proposed Freedom Party members as cabinet
ministers.

Mr. Klestil's decision bowed to the logic of Austrian democracy in that the
Freedom Party and the mainstream conservative People's Party led by Wolfgang
Schussel won enough seats in elections in October to govern. But it also gave
the stature of government office to a rightist party that has not hesitated to
employ bigotry and racist vitriol.

Despite a last-minute declaration by the coalition promising to work "for an
Austria in which xenophobia, anti-Semitism and racism have no place," reaction
was swift. The other 14 governments of the European Union confirmed that they
would downgrade diplomatic relations with Vienna and isolate the nation, as they
had threatened on Monday.

Israel said it would recall its ambassador as soon as the swearing-in is
completed. France and Portugal announced that they would impose sanctions on
Friday. And in Washington, a State Department spokesman, James Foley, reiterated
warnings that the United States would review its relationship with Austria as
soon as Mr. Haider's party joined the government.

In the new government, Mr. Schussel will be chancellor. The sensitive ministries
of justice and defense will go to the Freedom Party, but Mr. Haider himself will
not be in the government. He has made clear that he prefers to remain out of
national office until he is strong enough to become chancellor. His party got
the chance to join a coalition cabinet after talks between Mr. Schussel and the
Social Democrats collapsed.

In the election in October, the Social Democrats emerged as the strongest party,
but Mr. Haider's Freedom Party came in second for the first time. The right-wing
coalition has 104 seats in the 183-member Parliament.

The European stand is based on the view that Mr. Haider's politics, including
isolated and subsequently regretted expressions of sympathy for aspects of
Hitler's rule, make him incompatible with the values of the European Union, and
on the pragmatic concern that other extreme-right parties may benefit.

In effect, Mr. Haider's arrival in power has set up a highly charged test of the
respective powers of nations and the embryonic government of the European Union.
How the test is resolved will weigh heavily on Europe's unity and Europe's
future, issues that in turn affect the United States directly.

"It is too simplistic to say that we must keep Austria in Europe at all costs,"
Belgium's foreign minister, Louis Michel, said today in a statement indicating
the passions Mr. Haider's rise have ignited. "I think Europe can very well do
without Austria. We don't need it."

Today, dressed in an uncharacteristically sober dark suit and tie, Mr. Haider,
50, appeared in a vast hall of the gilt-dripping Hofburg Palace and sat beneath
the European Union's blue-and-gold flag as he signed the declaration committing
Austria to "respect, tolerance and understanding for all human beings
irrespective of their origin."

The declaration, drafted in part by President Klestil, amounted to a bizarre
list of democratic commitments and mea culpas for the prospective government of
a modern European state to be signing. But it reflected the degree of alarm that
Mr. Haider's entry into government has provoked in European nations governed
mainly by the center-left.

"Austria accepts her responsibility arising out the tragic history of the 20th
century and the horrendous crimes of the National Socialist regime," it said,
referring to the Nazis alongside whom many Austrians fought.

Mr. Haider, the son of a virulently Nazi family and owner of an estate that once
belonged to a Jewish family that fled, had expressed admiration for the Waffen
SS and for Hitler's labor policies, before retracting the remarks.

Today's declaration continued: "Nationalism, dictatorship and intolerance
brought war, xenophobia, bondage, racism and mass murder. The singularity of the
crimes of the Holocaust, which are without precedent in history, are an
exhortation to permanent alertness against all forms of dictatorship and
totalitarianism."

Mr. Schussel described the text as a "pre-emptive political strike" intended to
reassure the world about Austria's commitment to human rights. "This declaration
is very important because it deals with the fears of many friends at home and
abroad," he said.

Mr. Schussel, who was foreign minister in the outgoing coalition of Social
Democratic and People's parties, has portrayed himself as the guarantor of the
presentability of the chameleonic Mr. Haider. But the statement, for all its
evident worthiness, could not conjure away the fact that Mr. Haider ran an
election campaign last year that included posters suggesting that most black
people in Austria are drug dealers.

The governor of the southern province of Carinthia, Mr. Haider has been a
consistent opponent of immigration.

Between 1988 and 1998, an estimated 405,000 immigrants entered Austria, a
country of 8 million people. Many came from the wartorn Balkans, newly free
countries in Central Europe and Turkey. As a result, some neighborhoods in
Vienna changed radically, creating unease.

In many respects, Austria's immigration policy, at least with respect to Balkan
refugees, has been more open than that of most of its European critics. But the
sudden arrival of many foreigners bolstered Mr. Haider's political message among
Austrians afraid of losing jobs or put off by schools in which most children are
foreign.

A brief statement from Mr. Klestil's office, issued after a second meeting today
with Mr. Haider and Mr. Schussel, said: "President Thomas Klestil informed
Wolfgang Schussel that he should appear tomorrow, Friday, Feb. 4, 2000, at 12
o'clock with his government team in the president's official chambers to be
sworn in." It went on to say that two proposed Freedom Party members of the
government -- Thomas Prinzhorn and Hilmar Kabas -- had been rejected as minister
of innovation and defense respectively.

In language typical of the regular excesses of Mr. Haider's movement, Mr.
Prinzhorn recently threatened to give Mr. Klestil "a bloody head" if he did not
approve the right-wing coalition. That tone was also apparent in Mr. Haider's
recent description of the French president, Jacques Chirac, as a "megalomaniac."

As the Freedom Party leader in Vienna, Mr. Kabas was immediately responsible for
the xenophobic election posters that clearly sought to play on fears and
misgivings over immigration in changing neighborhoods of the capital.

Mr. Kabas was replaced as defense minister by Herbert Scheibner, the 36-year-old
spokesman for defense in the Freedom Party. The highly sensitive justice
ministry, which has some power to direct the thrust of prosecutors' activities,
went to another Freedom Party member, Michael Kruger.

Karl Heinz Grasser, a Freedom Party member and spokesman for the Canadian
automotive parts supplier Magna International, will become finance minister. He
will have the delicate task of working closely with European Union partners, who
seem likely to shun him, on matters relating to Europe's shared currency, the
euro.

Benita Ferrero-Waldner, a member of the People's Party and state secretary at
the Foreign Ministry in the outgoing government, was promoted to foreign
minister. She will clearly seek to mollify the European Union, but it was not
immediately clear how Austria could circumvent its looming isolation.

The 14 European governments that issued the statement committing themselves to
punitive measures against Austria have said they will avoid bilateral meetings
with Austrian ministers. But the governments stopped short of barring them from
European Union meetings for the simple reason that nothing has happened in
Austria that could legally justify such a step.

The text of the declaration signed by Wolfgang Schussel and Jorg Haider is
available from The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Thomas Klestil of Austria shaking hands yesterday with
Jorg Haider, head of the Freedom Party, as Wolfgang Schussel looked on. Mr.
Schussel is to become chancellor in the two-party coalition government. (Pool
Photo by Harald Schneider)(pg. A10)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 4, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Austrians Defend Austria, but Views on Haider Party Range Wide

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1225 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 3


O.K., tell the truth, a young reveler at Jorg Haider's birthday celebration on
an Alpine ski slope was prodded recently -- isn't all your Freedom Party's talk
about the economic threat posed by immigrants really just a cover story for not
liking dark-skinned people?

"No," Martin Pohl answered, fixing his questioner with a straight, if slightly
beery gaze.  "We Austrians are not like that."

"It's not," he added firmly, "as bad here as in America. I have seen
'Mississippi Burning.' "

That, in its way, encapsulates the view of many Austrians in Mr. Haider's camp
-- and many who dislike him -- about the threats from the European Union, Israel
and the United States to isolate Austria diplomatically if Mr.  Haider joins the
government. Look to your own houses before dictating to us, they say. Some
leaders, they suggest, have mounted the dung heaps of corruption scandals and
neo-Nazi incidents in their own countries and suddenly shouted that they have
the moral high ground.

To be sure, there are others who feel just the opposite.

"I, as an Austrian, I enjoy this," said Georg Hofmann-Ostenhof, a columnist for
Profil magazine.  "Why shouldn't the E.U. say we don't want an extremist in your
government? It's not good manners to have racists in government. We don't do
that."

Interviews in the Alps, where Mr. Haider comes from, and in the streets of
liberal Vienna, where hostility to him is strongest, produce a range of musings
-- not just about the diplomatic crisis, but also about Mr. Haider's
unpredictable personality and Austria's complex self-image as the one-time seat
of a vast empire later reduced to a Nazi state and now to an Alpine chalet on
Western Europe's frontier.

Mr. Haider often says what some other Austrians feel but dare not say.
Sometimes, it is complaints normal to a democracy: The government is full of
tired old men who divide the spoils. The economy would be stronger if they dared
privatize. Civil servants are lazy and rude.

In Carinthia, as a lawyer who inherited wealth, Mr. Haider is seen as above
corruption, pro-business and a leader who made the civil servants smile on time.

Sometimes, what he says is unpleasant but true: Immigrants are responsible for a
disproportionate amount of the small crime rate. Some cheat on the generous
welfare system.

Sometimes it is wacky: immigrants use state-paid fertility treatment to
out-breed Austrians.

And sometimes, it is over the line: The Waffen SS deserves the same respect as
any military unit.

Mr. Haider's style has been called "defamation followed by halfhearted excuse,"
and he used it again last week, calling the Belgian government corrupt
protectors of pedophiles and implying that France's president, Jacques Chirac,
was a doddering failure. Senior politicians say such language cannot be used in
international relations.

Alexander van der Bellen, leader of the Green Party, called him a "persistent
offender."

Some Haider backers enjoy his forthrightness; some worry.

"He's a good man, but when he opens his mouth, it's a catastrophe," said Willy
Klima, 53, a Vienna cabbie.

Manfred Spahn, 32, a casino floor manager, said: "I admit I did think of voting
for Haider as a protest, because he exposed corruption. But I have an aunt who
died recently at 93. She lived through two world wars, and she compared Haider
to Hitler and said it might be possible to happen again, so she decided to vote
for the reds, even though she'd voted black all her life. I listened to what she
said."

In Austrian politics, the Social Democrats are known as the reds; black is the
color of the conservative People's Party, which has signed an agreement on a
coalition government with Mr. Haidar's party.

Michael Chik, 19, who was to join an evening anti-Haider demonstration, is part
of the tiny Chinese minority, born here of parents who immigrated to open a
restaurant.  "I know some people in the Freedom Party, and they are quite
racist," he said. "And it's the members who make the party."

He said he had been teased as a child. "They did this," he said, pushing his
eyes up into slits. "But it's the Turkish people who get beaten up and face
discrimination."

Others who are, by Austrian law, "foreigners," say they do not feel threatened.

"I'm not a supporter, not at all, but Haider's not against anyone like me who's
been here 30 years and does his work properly," said Milan Lakobria, 50, an
electrician originally from Yugoslavia. "He's against those who don't work."

Mr. Lakobria is still not a citizen, nor are most of his children born here. But
they could be if they wanted, he said, "and anyway, it's better here than in my
country."

Anna Krailler, 75, a retired cashier walking her small white dog through a
middle-income Vienna shopping center, made no secret of her feelings. "Yes, I am
for Haider," she said. "It's time that all those foreigners who steal cars were
out."

"Over there," she said, pointing to a residential district, "there are blocks
with only one or two Austrians. You get no peace, there are so many children
running around. In summer, the foreigners take over the parks. And it's not only
them.  My generation helped rebuild Austria, and I don't get enough pension to
live on. I think things will be better under Haider."

Asked about the diplomatic isolation, she said: "Well, the German criticism
wasn't so bad. The worst was the Jews. They're afraid. I don't know why -- no
Austrian would ever harm a Jew.  And their ambassador should just go home. How
are we supposed to react? Suddenly everyone's against us, but no one has the
right to condemn Austria."

But Elisabeth Sickl, a minor official of Mr. Haider's party in Carinthia who is
likely to be the social minister in the new government, denied that xenophobia
and racism are characteristic of Haider supporters. "Humanism is my aim," she
said. "I feel treated very unjustly. We are no Nazis."

A theme coming up repeatedly was fear of the "jetzt erst recht" backlash. The
phrase is literally "now first right," but is translated as "now more than
ever," meaning that if you push an Austrian, he will get his back up and do
exactly what you wanted him not to do.

"We're afraid of new elections, because Haider will get more votes," said
Susanne Fromwald, 31, a social worker who spent the night sleeping on a sidewalk
in an all-night demonstration against the proposed government. "People here who
don't like people from other countries telling us who to vote for will vote for
Haider." She said she preferred European "concern" to isolation, but her
companions liked the stronger course.

But Simon Wiesenthal, the Nazi-hunter based in Vienna, opposes isolation,
fearing that the tiny country's lifeline -- tourism and trade -- will shut down.
He prefers new elections, even knowing that they could strengthen Mr. Haider.

"Nobody can say he's a Nazi," Mr. Wiesenthal said, "but when Jews call me and
say, 'We're not against Haider because he never said something against the
Jews,' I ask: 'Is that the best you can say about him?' "

But many Austrians, regardless of their political sympathies, said the European
Union had gone too far by condemning Austria before Mr. Haider spent a day in
office.

"If Haider is a problem -- O.K., I can cry," said Mr. Klima, the ebullient taxi
driver. "But every man should have a chance."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Policemen held back a protester outside the presidential office
in Vienna yesterday as two rightist parties were signing a coalition pact.
(Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 5, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Why Austria Faces Anger

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 4


The two weeks of diplomatic whipping that Austria has absorbed over the
inclusion of Jorg Haider's anti-immigrant Freedom Party in its new government
has been quite extraordinary.

Today, that coalition government took office at a tense ceremony, as protesters
clashed with riot policemen outside, and the diplomatic breach widened.
Washington quickly recalled its ambassador "for consultations," and European
governments began downgrading their relations with Austria.  Page A6.

Yet Italy had a neo-Fascist party in its government in 1994, and Europe did not
threaten to blackball its diplomats, nor did the Belgian foreign minister say it
would be immoral to ski in the Italian Alps.

And many European countries -- to say nothing of the Eastern European ones
lining up to join -- have had Communists in government who have made excuses for
Stalin or other dictators. Plenty have cozy diplomatic relations with dictators
from Cuba to Libya to Iraq.

But then again, a rupture with Austria has happened before: When the nation
elected Kurt Waldheim president in 1986 after it was disclosed that he had
served with Hitler's army in the Balkans in World War II, the country was put
under virtual diplomatic boycott.

Mr. Waldheim, a previous two-term secretary general of the United Nations, was
barred from entering the United States in May 1987, a ban that remains in
effect. He made few state visits during his six-year term as president, and
Austria, which was then negotiating to join the European Union, received almost
no official American or West European visitors of note except for Pope John Paul
II.

The warning on Monday that 14 members of the European Union could isolate the
15th arrived with virtually no public debate. The foreign ministers met in
secret -- exactly how many is not clear, since at least one, from Denmark, told
a newspaper that he was informed so late that there was not even time to
disagree.

The reaction from Mr. Haider, attacking Belgium as corrupt and France's
president as confused and incompetent, was hardly diplomatic. But the
counterattacks from seasoned European diplomats -- who repeated their
accusations that Mr. Haider was a racist, a xenophobe and a Nazi sympathizer --
were also blunt.

Going beyond his remark about the immorality of skiing in the Austrian Alps if
Mr. Haider was in power, the Belgian foreign minister even said Europe could do
without Austria.

Interestingly, European diplomats would not even take the word of Wolfgang
Schussel, Mr. Haider's coalition partner, that Mr. Haider is not as bad as they
think. Mr. Schussel, who has been Austria's foreign minister for four years,
presumably knows them all, but the usual collegial courtesies were not extended.

And before President Thomas Klestil would sanction the coalition between Mr.
Schussel's People's Party and Mr. Haider's Freedom Party, he made them sign an
extraordinary declaration that he seemed to have drawn up overnight.

It was a long, somewhat rambling pledge called "Responsibility for Austria -- A
Future in the Heart of Europe," promising adherence to the spiritual and moral
values of Europe, recognizing charters on peace and monetary union, accepting
responsibility for Nazism, and even suggesting that compensation might be paid
to forced laborers.

In effect, Mr. Schussel and Mr. Haider signed away their right to pass any
national legislation that disagrees with the thinking of the European Union --
except that, since the document does not mention any court that could enforce
it, they do not have to keep their word. It was done for show.

Opinions on how Austria ended up in such a weak position vary depending on whom
one asks.

For many, the answer is simple: Hitler was an Austrian, and everyone in Europe
has at least a grandparent who remembers the Nazis. "After all," said Sylvie
Rais, a Frenchwoman who said she has been arguing all week with her Iranian-born
husband about Europe's moral position, "Austria is le ventre de la bete,"
literally, the womb of the beast.

The French newspapers have been unabashed about casting the Nazi shadow over the
current Austrian political deal. The cover of today's Liberation, the liberal
French daily, was a sepia-tinted photo of Mr. Schussel and Mr. Haider under the
headline "The Brown Waltz" -- a blending of Vienna's classic dance and
brown-shirted storm troopers.

That only confirms the fears of Elfi Dobusch, 56, who brought Mr. Haider some
chocolate for his 50th birthday last week, and said other Europeans were upset
about his rise "because our historical past isn't pure -- but people should
forget that."

Ask politicians, and one hears that it was pure power politics. Many believe, as
has been reported in Europe, that Mr. Klestil, a senior Austrian diplomat during
the Waldheim crisis, and former Chancellor Viktor Klima, a Social Democrat whose
party came in first in the elections in October but was squeezed out of power by
the new coalition, called friends around Europe and asked them to chime in with
condemnations of Mr. Haider. As luck would have it, many of those leaders are
center-leftists who were at a Holocaust conference in Stockholm, so the stage
could hardly have been better set.

Also, many European countries have right-wing movements, and this would signal
them that they too could be crushed. In France, whose conservative president,
Jacques Chirac, was in the forefront of the overwhelmingly leftist attacks on
Mr. Haider, Jean-Marie Le Pen's openly racist National Front won 15 percent of
the vote in 1995.

Among analysts of European affairs, the answers get more complex, and divide on
whether the speaker feels Mr. Haider should have been kept out of government at
all costs or should be accepted out of respect for democracy, and then watched
carefully.

"There are now fundamental accepted values, and a line is crossed when someone
who's expressed sympathy for the Third Reich is allowed in," said John Palmer of
the European Policy Center, a Brussels-based research institute. In 1996, the
European Union passed the Amsterdam treaty on democracy and human rights with
provisions for expelling members.

It was drafted in anticipation of new Eastern European members; if Romania, for
instance, relapsed into dictatorship, it could be kicked out. It was never
intended as a bludgeon for democracies like Austria, but now European leaders
are asserting the right to judge just what is a democrat.

Another camp argues that Austria got what it got because the rest of the
European Union just does not like it very much.

Austria has never been a team player. It joined the European Union only in 1995,
after the isolation of the Waldheim era and the European unity fostered by the
fall of the Berlin Wall enabled it to pull away from the neutrality it had to
promise to get Soviet troops to withdraw in 1955, thus ending 10 years of Allied
occupation. Like fellow union member Sweden, Austria still clings to that
neutrality when it comes to NATO.

"It has always been half-hearted on defense policy," said Charles Grant of the
Center for European Reform, another research institute. Unlike Sweden, Austria
is in a sensitive strategic area. It has joined NATO's so-called Partnership for
Peace, but has not applied for alliance membership; last spring, it refused to
let NATO planes fly over to bomb nearby Yugoslavia.

And Austria has few supporters with European heft, Mr. Grant argued. "France has
always been hostile, and a little bit contemptuous of Austria," he said.
Germany, still sensitive about annexing Austria under the Nazis in 1938, was not
a big brother, but had "the same difficult relationship that Britain does with
Ireland."

Of course, the opportunity to condemn Nazism is not one that vote-seeking
European politicians like to miss. And it is considerably easier to threaten a
country like Austria, with 8 million people and an admittedly ambivalent
relationship to its Nazi past, than a country of 77 million people who spend
German marks and who have atoned much longer and more openly for Nazi crimes.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 807 words



INTERNATIONAL   3-16

Police and Protesters Clash in Vienna
Clashes in Vienna between police and demonstrators left more than 50 people
injured after a coalition government including members of the anti-immigration
Freedom Party was sworn in.   12


Report of Russian Attacks
Human Rights Watch said that after interviewing refugees from Chechnya's capital
it has documented 22 cases in which Grozny residents were shot and killed by
occupying Russian troops and were investigating at least 14 more.   12

Kosovo Clashes Continue
Police clashed with Kosovo Albanians for a second day in a divided town, pushing
back angry crowds from the bridge that divides the city. Two Albanians and eight
soldiers were reported wounded.   13

I.R.A. Sounds Defiant
The I.R.A. issued a statement saying that the crisis over whether it will disarm
"can be resolved," but "not on British or Unionist terms." The statement was a
response the claim by Britain's Northern Ireland Minister last week that the
failure to begin disarming was "betrayal."   (Agence France-Presse)

Iran Holding Cartoonist
An Iranian cartoonist was detained after two newspaper cartoons deemed offensive
to a hard-line cleric sparked demonstrations against the liberal press.
(Reuters)

Greek Premier to Visit Turkey
Reflecting a thaw in their relations, Turkey said that Greek Prime Minister
Costas Simitis had accepted an invitation for a visit, which would the first for
a Greek premier since the 1950's. No date was set.   (Reuters)

NATIONAL   18-27

McCain Is Riding a Wave Of Early Populist Support
Senator John McCain of Arizona has created a seat-of-the-pants populist
candidacy that has turned the Republican Party establishment on its head. And
even the candidate admits surprise at the popularity of his message.   1

Steve Forbes will press on with his Republican presidential campaign at least
until the March 7 primaries, despite pressure to quit. So far the publisher has
spent $28.7 million on his campaign and won 55,880 votes.   26

Ex-Official Keeps Clearance
John M. Deutch, the former director of central intelligence, has kept a security
clearance at the Pentagon, even though his clearances were revoked by the C.I.A.
because he kept classified information on his computers at home.   19

Jet Failures Are Rare
Mechanical failures, like the one that led to crash of Alaska Airlines Flight
261, are rare in this age of aviation progress, experts say.   18

Restoring Art to Owners
The North Carolina Museum of Art plans to return a 16th-century painting that
was stolen by the Nazis during World War II to its rightful owners, two sisters
in Austria.   22

Computerized Interviews
Dozens of retailers, including Target, Hollywood Video and Macy's, are replacing
paper applications and in-person interviews with computer kiosks in the initial
screening of applicants. Some critics are concerned about privacy issues, and
they ask whether a computer program can really judge a person.   1

NEW YORK/REGION   29-36

Hillary Clinton Ready To Press Her Campaign
In her first extended interview devoted to her Senate candidacy, Hillary Rodham
Clinton said she is now prepared to press an aggressive campaign against Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani in the race for United States Senate. She drew distinctions
on issues ranging from school vouchers to tax cuts.   1

CUNY Applicants Thwarted
Hundreds of students -- both freshmen and transfers -- who otherwise met the
admissions criteria at four senior colleges of the City University of New York
were barred from registering at these colleges in recent weeks because they
failed the university's English or mathematics placement tests.   29

Columbia Student Found Dead
A sophomore lacrosse player at Columbia University was found dead in her
dormitory room. Her boyfriend, a suspect in her death, died after throwing
himself in front of a subway train a few hours later.   1

Three Die in House Fire
A Queens couple and their 5-year-old grandson were killed in an attempt to
rescue them from a fire in their home, fire officials said.   31

NEEDIEST CASES   30

OBITUARIES   38-39

Carl Albert
The Oklahoman who rose from the poverty of the coal country to become Speaker of
the House of Representatives was 91. The "Little Giant from Little Dixie," as he
was known, supported the national Democratic leadership, sometimes putting him
at odds with his constituents.   38

Anna Holbrook Clark
A secretary for Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia who transcended her job to become
an influential policy adviser during a turbulent period at City Hall, she was
95.   39

Chess   36

Weather   36

Cong.Vote   34

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Facing Wider Issues In Its Actions Over Austria

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


President Clinton's top foreign policy adviser says Washington's decision this
week to impose diplomatic sanctions against Austria is driven partly by a desire
to send a message that the United States will not stand by idly if other
anti-immigrant, far-right parties try to join other coalition governments in
Europe.

"There is a concern about whether the extreme hateful right could emerge in
Europe," Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, said in an interview
on Friday evening. "There are extreme small parties that exist in some
countries," he added, clearly referring to Germany and France though carefully
not mentioning them by name. The United States, he said, had to make it clear
that "democracy is about more than elections, it is also about shared values."

This was the first time that a senior American official had publicly voiced
fears that the inclusion of the anti-immigrant Freedom Party in the new Austrian
government could inspire similar groups elsewhere in Europe. In private, some
American officials have expressed particular concern about Germany, fearing that
the troubles of the scandal-ridden Christian Democrats could create a political
vacuum that far-right parties might try to exploit.

Mr. Berger peppered his remarks with praise for the swiftness with which the
European Union acted to downgrade diplomatic relations with Austria, a formal
step the United States has so far not joined. Instead, it has temporarily
recalled the American ambassador, Kathryn Walt-Hall, for "consultations," and on
Friday barred the Austrian defense attache from a relatively routine meeting of
American and European officials here. "It's the Europeans themselves who have
set the pace on this," he said.

President Clinton, Mr. Berger said, was deeply involved in the decision to
condemn the Austrian action, but he has yet to talk to Austria's leaders, a step
left to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. "We had to send a signal, to
say, like the Europeans, that there will not be business as usual," he said.

Yet the American response, Mr. Berger acknowledged, was being carefully measured
in hopes of not inciting a greater nationalist backlash in Austria.

"We have to walk a fine line here between expressing our concern and not
fueling" Austrian passions, he said.

It is far from clear that strategy is working. Chancellor Wolfgang Schussel
defended the inclusion of the Freedom Party, led by Jorg Haider, in the new
government and said he "sharply" rejected what he called "unjustified
accusations" from Europe and the United States.

"I must defend myself against unacceptable comparisons," said Mr. Schussel, who
heads the Austrian People's Party. "There is no new Hitler on the rise in
Austria."

Washington's reaction, in fact, broke from the Clinton administration's usual
playbook. Except in rare instances, the inclusion of extremist minority parties
or politicians in democratic foreign governments is termed an "internal affair"
in the State Department's lexicon, a matter to be left to the voters of the
nation involved. And in recent years Washington has stood silent while Japanese
cabinet officials have expressed sympathy with the invasion of China and Korea
during World War II, for example, and while far-left governments have come to
power in Europe.

But Mr. Berger made clear that he saw the events in Austria as qualitatively
different, and he seemed unimpressed by a declaration issued by the new
government that it would commit itself to "understanding all human beings
irrespective of their origin."

Mr. Haider seemed to backtrack on that statement almost as soon as he signed it,
saying it was an "affront" that Austria had to sign such statements.

Despite the verbal barrage unleashed here this week against Austria, however,
the Clinton administration still seems unwilling to take actions that would
truly hurt Austria or that could speed the fall of the coalition government.

For example, it does not appear to be examining any economic sanctions, although
the vocal criticism of the new government could discourage new American or
European investment in the country. And it is unclear how Europe could
economically punish a nation with which it will soon share a currency -- a
diplomatic complication with no real precedent.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Vienna Riots Leave 50 Hurt As Protests Rise

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 5


Clashes overnight between the police and demonstrators left more than 50 people
injured in Vienna today after a coalition government including members of the
anti-immigration Freedom Party was sworn in.

The turmoil, unusual in a habitually sedate city, reflected the intense feelings
stirred by the arrival in power of the party that Jorg Haider has steered from a
fringe group to a serious political force in the last 15 years.

More than 40 police officers, 11 demonstrators and several bystanders were
injured, none of them seriously, and dozens of police vehicles were damaged, the
police said. Ten people were arrested, but all of them were subsequently
released.

The government, composed of the center-right People's Party and the Freedom
Party, immediately set about trying to calm the international storm provoked by
what is widely viewed as the unacceptable legitimization of Mr. Haider, a man
who has praised aspects of Hitler's rule but more recently dismissed the Nazi
regime as barbaric.

"I must defend myself against unacceptable comparisons," Wolfgang Schussel, the
new chancellor and a member of the People's Party said. "There is no new Hitler
on the rise in Austria."

His remark went to the heart of an international outcry over Mr. Haider that has
seen Austria's 14 European Union partners downgrade diplomatic relations and the
United States recall its ambassador "for consultations."

Mr. Schussel, who embraced a coalition with the Freedom Party after protracted
talks with the Social Democrats broke down, acknowledged that in the short term
Austria was certain to face difficulties, but said he hoped that "in the medium
term it may be possible to achieve a significant normalization."

The European Union, whose 14 other members have moved with unusual rapidity and
severity in their measures against Austria, has halted bilateral political
contacts with Austria, downgraded relations with Austria's ambassadors, who will
be received only at "technical level," and said it would not support Austrian
candidates for positions at international organizations.

The Austrian president, Thomas Klestil, who swore in the government on Friday,
appealed to the European Union to ease its measures against Austria. A statement
from the presidency said that Mr. Klestil had contacted Antonio Guterres, the
Portuguese prime minister and current president of the European Union, to
request "an exception" allowing bilateral contacts.

But it is not clear how the European Union could retreat from the steps it has
taken as long as the Freedom Party remains in government.

Opinion polls suggest that Mr. Haider's party, which now has up to 33 percent
support, has benefited from a widespread feeling that the country is being
unfairly punished.

In an interview with an Austrian news agency, Mr. Haider, 50, adopted the
confident and unguarded tone that has appealed to many Austrians, tired of three
decades of government by a Social Democratic Party that followed an old practice
of dividing up spoils among party faithful.

"These European Union measures are nothing to get hysterical about," Mr. Haider
said, adding that other European ministers would have to get used to talking to
the government members from his party because decisions in the 15-member bloc
are taken by unanimity.

The European Union has not made any move to prevent ministers of the new
government from attending European Union meetings because it has no legal basis
to do so, and Mr. Haider appeared to be suggesting that Austria could respond to
the sanctions by blocking European Union decision-making.

But the People's Party quickly declared that no such action was contemplated.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Violence flared during demonstrations late on Friday in Vienna
after the swearing-in of a new governing coalition. More than 40 police
officers, 11 protesters and several bystanders were injured, none seriously.
(Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY: A special report.;
Brooklyn Boom In Elderly Care Is Laid to Fraud

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY and KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2852 words


The clients would come in shifts, morning, noon and night. Mostly older Russian
immigrants, they would step down from ambulettes and into one of two Parkshore
adult day care centers in Brooklyn to use the beauty parlors, watch
Russian-language television and dine on food specifically chosen to attract
them: herring, gefilte fish and borscht.

The high-salt cuisine was just one clue, investigators now say, that Parkshore
was running an elaborate fraud. It collected tens of millions of dollars in
state Medicaid payments on the pretense that it was providing medical services
to its clients, they say, when in fact it was operating little more than
glorified centers for the elderly.

Two months ago, Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer charged Parkshore's owner,
Lawrence Friedman, with bilking the state of $62 million in the largest case of
Medicaid fraud in state history. And the commissioner of the state's Department
of Health, which licenses and monitors adult day care operations, asserts that
the department is moving aggressively to close loopholes in the statewide
program to prevent another case like Parkshore from happening.

But current and former agency officials say the Health Department shares some
blame: for permitting Parkshore to grow so large that it accounted for about
one-quarter of the state's adult day care billings. The growth came at a time
when the agency's own staff members were raising concerns about whether the
statewide medical program for the elderly was growing too fast and without
adequate monitoring.

Indeed, the agency allowed Mr. Friedman's number of clients to grow to 900 from
50, and his annual billings to skyrocket to $47 million from $4 million in just
three years. At the same time, internal Health Department reports were calling
for a moratorium on expanding the program because the state -- New York City in
particular -- was already saturated with adult day care centers.

The attorney general's Medicaid Fraud Control Unit has now broadened its
investigation to include a number of other day care operations in Brooklyn.
Current and former state employees who have been questioned by investigators say
the inquiry is also focusing on allegations that the Health Department
improperly expedited Mr. Friedman's applications, and that a senior official
purged documents from the agency's Parkshore file before turning it over to the
attorney general.

In addition, Joseph Chiseri, the Health Department's deputy commissioner for
administration -- who was considered within the agency to be a key Pataki
administration contact -- has been placed on indefinite paid leave, the agency
said, but it declined to say why. A state official familiar with the
investigation said that the state's inspector general was investigating, in
part, Mr. Chiseri's role in expediting Parkshore's periodic applications for
expansion.

Lawyers for Mr. Friedman say that Parkshore complied fully with state
regulations that the Health Department now concedes are confusing, and
diligently attended to the medical and therapeutic needs of hundreds of Russian
Jews, many of whom they describe in court papers as "victims of anti-Semitism
and other horrors." The herring served at Parkshore, for instance, was intended
to provide familiar comfort, they say, and was often desalted.

In maintaining Mr. Friedman's innocence, the lawyers cite the affidavits of 400
Parkshore clients and the Health Department's longstanding support. The agency
conducted annual visits to Parkshore's operations, they say, repeatedly granted
its requests to expand operations and approved the payment of millions of
dollars in Medicaid reimbursement.

"The Health Department repeatedly gave its seal of approval, and for good
reason," said Randy M. Mastro, one of Mr. Friedman's lawyers. "Parkshore runs a
first-class operation that provides high-quality health care and services to a
needy population."

Across the country, outpatient day care programs like Parkshore have become
increasingly popular as an alternative to nursing homes. But with that growth,
investigators say, comes fraud. In 1998, the federal inspector general of the
Department of Health and Human Services reported that 90 percent of the
country's community mental health centers were improperly billing for acute
outpatient care while providing social activities like movies and bingo to
relatively healthy patients -- a comparable scheme, they say, to one that
siphoned billions of dollars from Medicare.

"Like any new benefit that comes along, it's a spigot that's been turned on in
the system," said Bill Mahon, executive director of the National Health Care
Anti-Fraud Association, a group of law enforcement officials and private health
insurers that is based in Washington. "All you have to do is bring them in the
door and start billing, even if you let them watch a movie or play cards all
day."

In a written response to questions posed by The New York Times, the Health
Department said that the reports calling for a moratorium were written by
"low-level staff," and it defended its role in Parkshore's expansion. "With an
aging and increasing immigrant population needing health care services in the
area," it said, "the department moved to meet the needs of the community."

In an interview, the health commissioner, Antonia C. Novello, said her
department was committed to rooting out fraud. Of Mr. Friedman, she said, "I
would like to throw him where I never see him."

She also suggested that politics lurked behind the attorney general's sudden
interest in the inner workings of the Pataki administration's health agency.
Governor Pataki is a Republican; Mr. Spitzer is a Democrat. The investigation,
though, actually began in 1998 under Dennis C. Vacco, Mr. Spitzer's Republican
predecessor.

Officials at the attorney general's office declined to comment.

Adult day care programs first surfaced in the late 1970's as a cost-efficient
way to keep older, frail people as independent as possible. Operated by the
owners of nursing homes, these programs were intended to offer medical
rehabilitation, not just the bingo and dancing offered by social day care
programs.

Subsequent regulations allowed nursing home operators to open day care centers
off site, and to bill Medicaid an attractive 65 percent of the daily nursing
home rate. Those changes, along with a growing number of elderly people, helped
to create a profitable industry that caught the eye of Lawrence Friedman.

Mr. Friedman, 52, is a prominent figure in nursing home circles and in Canarsie,
Brooklyn, where he and his wife, Hindy, have run the Parkshore nursing home for
many years. Several years ago, Mrs. Friedman and a Parkshore employee pleaded
guilty to misdemeanor charges that they had sought to increase profit by
discharging Medicaid patients in favor of privately paying patients, although
their nursing home continued to operate.

In letters written in support of Mr. Friedman after his indictment, Brooklyn
politicians and community leaders -- from City Councilman Noach Dear to
Representative Anthony D. Weiner -- described him as respected and charitable to
a fault. Rabbi Jacob Spitzer, a prominent health care advocate in Brooklyn, said
recently that Mr. Friedman "is known as one of the most charitable people" in
south Brooklyn's Orthodox Jewish community.

In July 1996, Parkshore opened an adult day care center with room for 50
clients, but it expanded rapidly. Over the next 13 months, approvals from the
Health Department allowed Parkshore to more than quadruple its services. It
doubled its number of clients, began having two shifts a day, and stayed open on
weekends.

The Health Department also approved Parkshore's request to be reimbursed for
transporting its clients by ambulette, which the attorney general says was often
unnecessary and an integral part of what he says was the fraud. The extra
billing raised the amount that Parkshore collected to $139 from $98 for each
visit.

Meanwhile, some state health officials were warning of an explosion in the
number of adult day care centers. They issued a policy report in June 1997 that
expressed concern about a "frenzied rate" of applications for expansion. The
only New York borough with any need for more day care slots, it said, was Staten
Island.

The report questioned whether many clients were appropriate for medical
programs, and cited operations so large that the quality of service had become
questionable -- apparently a reference to Parkshore. "With the number of staff
it takes to support such large programs," the report said, "it must be more like
a convention-hall atmosphere, rather than a dignified" medical program.

Its authors called for a moratorium until further study could be done. When
asked whether a moratorium had been declared, the Health Department said, "In
1998, the department decided that it would no longer approve additional slots in
the adult day care program."

But records show that the department continued to approve slots for Parkshore,
allowing it to grow. In 1998, Parkshore received more than $25 million in
Medicaid reimbursements; the state's second-largest adult day care center
received $6.5 million that year.

According to investigators, Parkshore created the demand for its services by
attracting generally healthy Russian immigrants from Brighton Beach with various
enticements. Clients were given gold watches for joining, the investigators say,
and for a while were offered $50 for every friend who enrolled.

Mr. Mastro, Mr. Friedman's lawyer, would not discuss the allegations of $50
payments, and he said the watches cost only $9.98. Besides, he said, adult day
care centers commonly hand out watches as gifts.

"Absolutely not," said Christine Fitzpatrick, the director of the Adult Day
Health Care Council, a nonprofit organization representing 137 centers in the
state.

To find even more clients, Parkshore hired Integrated Health Care Services, a
marketing company with an office above a Russian cafe on Brighton Beach Avenue.
This company, which is now a focus of the attorney general's inquiry and whose
officers did not return calls seeking comment, recruited clients among Russian
immigrants, using an array of enticements, a lawyer familiar with the
investigation said.

The marketing and come-ons worked. By the end of 1997, Parkshore was a
revolving-door day care center, the only operation of its kind in the state to
run three shifts a day. The first activity would begin at 7 a.m. and the last
would not end until 10 p.m.

The center's employees later told investigators that as Parkshore expanded, its
services deteriorated to the point of offering little more than social
activities. Clients would arrive by ambulette "regardless of whether they needed
assisted transportation" and head to the dining room for a meal, court papers
say. They would spend the rest of their four-hour session watching television,
playing games or visiting the beauty parlor.

"Although virtually no medical care was available on weekends," an investigator
said in an affidavit, "Lawrence Friedman brought in entertainment and began to
serve special foods such as herring, borscht and gefilte fish to entice the
Russians to attend."

Lenore Friedman, the director of a nearby Brooklyn center for the elderly who is
not related to Lawrence Friedman, told investigators that her social-based
program attracted many of the same clients, and they used public transportation
or walked to her center. Except for a few differences, she said, her program was
essentially the same as Parkshore's. But while she was receiving $12 a visit
from the city, Parkshore was collecting $139 a visit from the state.

Court papers filed by Mr. Friedman's lawyers paint an entirely different
portrait of Parkshore: as a place where clients are referred by physicians,
carefully assessed and then provided with appropriate medical and therapeutic
services. Sessions begin with 20 minutes of exercise, followed by meals that are
adjusted by dietitians to meet individual needs. Clients then proceed to their
individual activities or treatment.

In one of the hundreds of affidavits of Parkshore clients filed in court,
Perstina Musiya, a 75-year-old Russian immigrant with a brain tumor, explained
how the center's staff had given her legitimate and needed medical care:
physical therapy, a more appropriate diet and companionship. Without Parkshore,
she wrote, "life will have no meaning."

Why two state agencies -- the Health Department and the attorney general's
office -- would have contradictory assessments of the same program is unclear.
But internal Health Department records, as well as interviews with current and
former officials, suggest that the doors of senior health officials were always
open to Mr. Friedman and that officials felt pressured to approve his requests
with haste.

Agency documents show, for example, that the department gave Mr. Friedman formal
approval for expanding to three shifts a day 10 months after Parkshore informed
officials that it was already running the three shifts.

Officials for the Adult Day Health Care Council, the statewide industry group,
say that the expansion of shifts always required state approval. But the Health
Department said that before new regulations -- instituted after Mr. Friedman's
indictment -- the agency was merely "notified of changes in shifts through
written correspondence" from day care centers.

In the course of securing approval for their continued expansion -- and fighting
the occasional rejection of their requests -- Parkshore representatives made
several visits to Albany to meet with Health Department officials. On March 18,
1998, Mr. Friedman and his administrator, Marilyn Reiter, visited the office of
Mr. Chiseri, the deputy commissioner for administration. Under the agency's
structure of responsibility, health officials say, Mr. Chiseri would oversee
personnel and therefore have no role in the application process.

It is unclear what the meeting was about; Ms. Reiter could not be reached for
comment, and Mr. Chiseri declined to comment.  Mr. Friedman would not agree to
be interviewed. What is known is that within two weeks, the Health Department
approved Mr. Friedman's request to expand his center's capacity to 200 clients
from 100, and had received yet another Parkshore request: to open a second day
care center in Brooklyn.

In April 1998, the attorney general's office notified the Health Department that
Parkshore's operations were under scrutiny, an investigation triggered by
reports that clients were bragging about gold watches and cash payments. The
Health Department, however, said that such notifications were commonplace and
that the attorney general's office did not ask the agency at that time to
restrict Parkshore's growth.

And so it did not. In fact, internal correspondence suggests that senior health
officials were trying to push through Mr. Friedman's applications for further
expansion, despite the warnings of midlevel employees.

In July of that year, for example, the Health Department was considering Mr.
Friedman's application to open a second center, this one for 150 clients a
shift. Robert Stackrow, who was then director of the Project Management Unit for
the Health Department, said in a note to a colleague that he saw no point in
modifying the request to 100 clients, since Mr. Friedman's staff -- including
his administrator, Ms. Reiter -- had successfully appealed previous efforts to
slow Parkshore's expansion.

"What's the point of denying her the other 50?" Mr. Stackrow wrote. "She'll
appeal to whoever she has to appeal to and get what she wants. She always does."

A week later, Mr. Stackrow received a request for an update on the Parkshore
application from his supervisor, Charles Murphy. "I think we put it on priority
status a week or so ago," Mr. Murphy wrote. That prompted Mr. Stackrow to dash
off a note to a subordinate: "I need to have your review on the above referenced
project ASAP IF NOT SOONER. It's VERY HIGH PRIORITY."

Neither Mr. Stackrow nor Mr. Murphy returned calls seeking comment.

In November 1998, the Health Department notified Parkshore that its request to
open a second center had been approved: three shifts a day, 100 clients a shift,
doors open from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., seven days a week.

As Parkshore grew, however, so did the scope of the criminal investigation. Last
March, a grand jury in Brooklyn began to hear testimony: of medical records
falsified to make clients appear sicker; of lucrative ambulette service provided
unnecessarily to clients; of services not provided; of clients who were not
eligible -- that is, too healthy -- to be enrolled in a medical-based program.

Last November, the Health Department notified Mr. Friedman by letter that
Parkshore had once again passed the agency's inspection, and was in compliance
with state and federal requirements. The letter added: "Congratulations on your
outstanding performance!"

The next month, Mr. Friedman was arrested and charged in a 21-count indictment.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ambulettes lined up outside the Sunrise Adult Health Care
Center, owned by Parkshore, on Avenue J in Brooklyn. Parkshore, accused in the
state's largest case of Medicaid fraud, accounted for about one-quarter of the
adult day care billings in the state. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times);
Lawrence Friedman, Parkshore's owner, is accused in a $62 million fraud scheme.
(pg. B6)

Chart: "A Boom in Billing"
Medicaid billings by the Parkshore adult day care center exploded over three
years, but the owner now faces charges of fraud.

Parkshore's share of all state billing:
1997: 3.95%
1998: 16.96%
1999*: 23.47%

Top billers among adult day care centers (in millions of dollars)
Parkshore
'97: $4.28
'98: 25.11
'99*: 36.82

The Home for Aged Blind
'97: 6.14
'98: 6.45
'99*: 6.04

Nesconset Nursing Center
'97: 6.29
'98: 5.92
'99*: 5.39

Beth Abraham Health Services
'97: 5.41
'98: 6.58
'99*: 4.26
*Figures through September.
(Source: New York State Department of Health)(pg. B6)


TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 9, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

A Bumpy Path For Miami Kin Of Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 8


For more than two months the Florida family of Elian Gonzalez has been a staple
of the nightly news. There is Elian, the 6-year-old refugee, swinging a baseball
bat in front of the little stucco house in a working-class neighborhood of
Little Havana. There he is kicking a soccer ball with his great-uncle Lazaro
Gonzalez and hugging Marisleysis, his cousin.

But not surprisingly, a closer look provides a far more complex portrait of an
immigrant family suddenly caught up in an international spectacle of a dispute
over the custody of Elian, who survived a crossing from Cuba in which his mother
and 10 other people drowned. It is a striving, hard-working, close-knit family
that neighbors say is unassuming, helpful and easy to get along with.

The two-bedroom, one-bath home of Lazaro Gonzalez, 49, his wife, Angela, and
their daughter, Marisleysis, 21, is the gathering place for an extended family
that itself is divided over Elian's future. And it is the focal point of a
public relations struggle between Miami's Cuban-Americans and the Cuban
government of Fidel Castro.

But this extended family is also one that has run afoul of the law in ways that
could affect their bid to gain permanent custody of Elian, whose father in Cuba
wants him returned, experts in custody law say.

Lazaro Gonzalez, an automobile mechanic who moved here from Cardenas, Cuba, 15
years ago, has four convictions for driving under the influence of alcohol
during the 1990's, according to the Florida Department of Highway Safety and
Motor Vehicles. His license was revoked or suspended for a total of three years.
He completed an alcohol treatment course after his most recent conviction, in
July 1997.

Mr. Gonzalez's brother Delfin Gonzalez, 63, a fisherman who usually lives in
Marathon in the Florida Keys but who is a staunch supporter of Lazaro's custody
claim and has been staying here with the family, has four convictions for
driving under the influence over the last decade, most recently in May 1997. Two
of the cases involved accidents with property damage or personal injury. Delfin
Gonzalez had his license revoked for a total of two years.

Two other relatives who have been periodic visitors at the home have also had
run-ins with the law, the weekly New Times newspaper here first reported.

Jose Cid, 32, one of Lazaro and Delphin's nephews and a son of their sister
here, Georgina Cid, went to jail last month to begin a 13-year sentence for
grand theft, forgery and violating probation, according to the Miami-Dade
Department of Corrections. His twin brother, Luis Cid, goes on trial on Feb. 18
on charges relating to a robbery last September in Little Havana.

While legal problems like those of the Gonzalezes are not uncommon, lawyers say
the drunken-driving convictions, especially, create problems for Lazaro
Gonzalez's claims for custody and give the government a new argument in
defending its decision last month to return the boy to Cuba.

"This does have an impact on the fitness of these adults to raise this child,
unquestionably," said Bernard Perlmutter, a professor and expert in family law
at the University of Miami.

Martin Guggenheim, a professor of law at New York University and a specialist in
child and family law, said, "Increasingly in recent years, courts have been
interested in any and all information that bears upon parental fitness.

"The child might be in the car and subject to an accident caused by drunk
driving," Mr. Guggenheim said, "or the parent could end up injured, dead or in
prison because of drunk driving."

No close Gonzalez relatives in Miami could be reached for comment.  Armando
Gutierrez, a prominent Cuban-American political consultant here and the
relatives' publicist and spokesman, said he had not heard of the driving records
until today.

The driving convictions, said Spencer Eig, the relatives' lead lawyer, are less
troubling than comments by one of Elian's grandmothers, who told Cuban
television that she bit Elian's tongue when she visited him here last month to
goad him to talk and unzipped his pants.

Lazaro and Angela Gonzalez live in a neighborhood of fortresses and locks.
Chain-link fencing cuts across the front of most yards, with padlocked gates
across the front walks and the driveways. Many houses have wrought-iron gates to
protect the front door, and wrought-iron grills on the windows.

To varying degrees most households are reaping the benefits of the nation's
prosperity. The most prosperous have central air conditioning, red ceramic tiles
on their roofs, replacing asphalt tiles, and tall, spiked iron fences.

The Gonzalez home, a 48-year-old, gray-white stucco house, is more modest than
most. Except for Elian's outdoor toys, all donated, nothing is new. It is
assessed for tax purposes at $67,298. Marisleysis shares her bedroom with Elian.
Real estate agents said the rent would be be$500 to $1,000 a month.

Only Lazaro, Angela, Elian and and Marisleysis are living their now, although
Delfin often visits. William, Lazaro and Angela Gonzalez's 27-year-old son,
moved out about three years ago, after marrying the granddaughter of Guillermina
Ferrer, the Gonzalezes' next-door neighbor.

One member of the clan, Manuel Gonzalez, a brother of Lazaro, is not welcome in
the house because he has supported Elian's repatriation.

Angela Gonzalez rises before dawn each day to work in a factory sewing clothes
and devotes the rest of her day to domestic activity inside the home. Lazaro
Gonzalez works irregularly. Now and then he comes out to tinker with a red 1988
Thunderbird, registered in his wife's name, that was bought four years ago.

Marisleysis is a loan officer at the main branch of Ocean Bank here, along with
a cousin, Georgina Cid Cruz. Georgina is the sister of the Cid twins.

Mrs. Ferrer has lived next door for as long as the Gonzalezes have been there.
She said she watched William and her granddaughter Jacqueline's 6-month-old son
while the parents worked.

"Angela is a very quiet woman," Mrs. Ferrer said. "Even before all this started,
you never even heard her talk. You never even knew when she was around."

"I've never heard of anyone in that family getting into any kind of trouble or
anything," she added.

Maria Castillo, across the street, said, "They're always there to help you. That
family gets along fine and is very close."

Neighbors said that for entertainment, the Gonzalezes tended to stay home with
relatives, rather than go out.

Across this neighborhood, and across Little Havana, there are few signs of the
epic war of words and lawsuits that have stirred Congress, the Clinton
administration, Cuba and the Cuban-American leadership.

The media vans and the demonstrators, largely anti-Castro immigrants from
outside the neighborhood, have the Gonzalezes to themselves. Just one household
near Elian's, a block away, has taken any note of ther fight still raging in
court. "Back To No Future," a sign on the door reads.

But the case for holding Elian has taken another sharp turn. It is harder to
argue for holding him in America, Mr. Perlmutter of the University of Miami
said, in view of family's troubles with the law.

The family here is attempting to argue that it can offer Elian a better life
than his father can, while the real issue is whether the father, Juan Miguel, is
fit to raise his son, he said.

With the disclosure of the drunken-driving convictions, Mr. Perlmutter said, the
Miami family's case is harder to make. Except for innuendo and unsubstantiated
rumor, he said, no one has challenged the father's fitness to raise a child.

"He should win hands down," he said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2000, Thursday

CORRECTION:

A front-page picture caption yesterday about the Florida family of Elian
Gonzalez, the Cuban boy at the center of a custody dispute, misspelled the given
name of a great-uncle in some editions. He is Delfin Gonzalez, not Deflin.

The related article misstated the number of times Elian's great-uncles Lazaro
Gonzalez and Delfin Gonzalez were convicted of driving under the influence of
alcohol. It was twice apiece, not four times.




GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Cid, left, a nephew of Lazaro Gonzalez, played with Elian
in Miami late last year. In January he began a 13-year prison sentence. (Bill
Cooke); Lazaro Gonzalez, left, and his brother Delfin with 6-year-old Elian
Gonzalez at the Gonzalez home in the Little Havana section of Miami. (Associated
Press); Elian Gonzalez sleeping, held by his cousin, Marisleysis Gonzalez.
(Associated Press)(pg. A19)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Elian, a Freer Cuba

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 161 words



To the Editor:

Orestes Lorenzo ("In Cuba, Family Isn't Everything," Op-Ed, Feb. 5) says that
although Elian Gonzalez's family is in Cuba, he would enjoy relatively greater
freedom here and therefore should remain. If enjoying more freedom in the United
States were grounds for allowing undocumented immigrants to remain here,
virtually no one would ever be sent home. We would soon be inundated.

To say, as Mr. Lorenzo does, that if Elian is returned to Cuba, he will never be
able to choose his own books or otherwise exercise freedom of choice and
expression is to see the world as static, when it is changing. Cuba is also
slowly changing. Perhaps that is why human rights activists like Elizardo
Sanchez repeated to me recently in Havana what they had already said publicly:
that Elian should come home.

WAYNE S. SMITH
Fort Washington, Md., Feb. 7, 2000

The writer was chief of the United States Interests Section in Havana, 1979-82.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Bologna Journal;
Coming to a Deli Near You: A Long-Taboo Sausage

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

DATELINE: BOLOGNA, Italy, Feb. 9


In the 1971 film "La Mortadella," Sophia Loren played a feisty would-be
immigrant who is arrested by United States Customs officials in New York for
refusing to surrender a 20-pound mortadella, the traditional pork sausage of
Bologna. A cult classic in Italy, the satire was aimed at what the director,
Mario Monicelli, called the "authoritarian rigidity" of American society.

After an outbreak of African swine fever in Italy in 1967, Italian pork products
were banned in the United States for decades. Mortadella, however, has finally
been freed. The United States Department of Agriculture announced in the Federal
Register last month that as of today, it would lift certain restrictions on
bringing pork and pork products into the United States.

In Italy, the mortadella ban had been greeted with incredulous outrage, and its
lifting three decades later is a keenly felt triumph -- even more so than the
one last weekend, when the Prada yacht Luna Rossa beat America One to become the
first Italian sailboat to qualify for the America's Cup match since 1992. To
mortadella makers in Bologna, in particular, the about-face by the United States
represents moral vindication after years of injustice.

"It was more than unfair -- the American ban seemed crazy, absurd," said Gianni
Ballotti, 45, a floor manager at the Alcisa pork factory in Bologna, where a
picture of Pope John Paul II blessing an 80-pound mortadella at the Vatican in
1995 hangs near the entrance. "We send mortadella to countries all over the
world, but not to the United States?"

The loosening of American regulations is partly a testimony to Italian
persuasion (and that of their American lobbyists). But it is also the result of
a striking role reversal in world trade. Thirty years ago, the United States
stood as a citadel of rigorous veterinary and health regulations that kept many
foreign imports humbly at bay. Now, the United States, under attack all over the
world for exporting genetically modified food and hormone-treated beef, is
pleading for understanding -- and open markets -- from an intransigent European
Union.

The decision to allow imports of mortadella, a delicacy that costs more than
twice as much as the American processed meat sold as bologna, will not greatly
affect American pork producers. (In 1999, Americans consumed 332 million pounds
of domestic bologna.) But American officials, who recently signed a Veterinary
Equivalency Agreement with European counterparts that recognizes foreign
sanitation procedures, hope their magnanimity on mortadella will help advance
talks in more contentious areas, like hormone-treated beef.

"We would like to see decisions made in Europe on the import of meat and meat
products that are based solely on science, rather than politics or
protectionism," said Elizabeth Berry, agricultural counselor at the American
Embassy in Rome.

To some Italians, the American eagerness to rely on science and, more precisely,
a mutual recognition of domestic research and testing, is based as much on
expediency as reason.  "The U.S. has always hidden consumer protectionism behind
the mask of sanitary demands," said Rino Brini, 80, president of the Alcisa pork
factory, which he co-founded in 1946. "This is about trade wars."

Mr. Brini keeps on his wall a framed photograph of an Alcisa mortadella posed
against the backdrop of Arizona's Monument Valley; he had smuggled the sausage
into the United States in 1987. Those small acts of defiance are common enough
that the Armed Forces Network regularly runs warnings to Americans overseas not
to bring home Cuban cigars or Italian mortadella, which like most meat products
will continue to be seized from individual travelers.

Mortadella makers look upon American-made bologna the way French Champagne
producers view Ripple wine -- with disgusted pity. "I couldn't even try it," Mr.
Brini said. "It looks so sad."

Pliny wrote that the Emperor Augustus liked mortadella. Written recipes for
mortadella, which is made from ground shoulder of pork dotted with bits of lard,
date back to the 16th century in Bologna. Mortadella can trace its roots in
America at least as far back as the early 1700's, when a French Dominican
missionary, Jean Baptiste Labat, wrote to friends that he had sampled bologna
sausages in the New World, noting that, "nevertheless, they tasted better in
their country of origin."

John F. Mariani, author of The Dictionary of American Food and Drink) states
that the first time the word "bologna" was used in print in the United States
was in 1850. Pamela Goyan Kittler, a California cultural nutritionist, said the
first samples must have been introduced by Italian immigrants, but added, 'It
was probably the German immigrant sausage makers, especially Oscar Mayer in the
early 1900's, who developed the technology to produce sliced packaged meats, who
really popularized bologna nationwide."

The reversal of the current mortadella ban was made possible by the Veterinary
Equivalency Agreement, which the United States began negotiating soon after the
European Union imposed its first ban on hormone-treated beef in 1989. It was
also helped by a 1997 decision by the United States government that permits
individual regions of a country to export their products if those regions have
been found to be free of animal diseases. Until now, all Italian pork products
were banned because Sardinia still showed traces of African swine fever.
Bologna, and the rest of mainland Italy, however, has been free of it for
decades.

"As long as no products from Sardinia are used, then mortadella can be
imported," said Masoud A. Malik, a senior veterinarian for the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service. He personally witnessed manufacturers in Bologna
testing to ensure that their mortadella was dry-heated to the required 69
degrees Celsius required by the United States. As a Muslim, however, he does not
eat pork, and could not sample the mortadella, which Italian producers
considered a shame.

But the path to mortadella's legalization was also paved in part by the effort
to free Parma hams, which were finally allowed into the United States in 1989
after an intense lobbying campaign. David Biltchik, a consultant in Washington,
worked with Italian producers, scientists, diplomats and American officials to
devise tests that would convince the Agriculture Department that Parma hams,
which are cured for 400 days, posed no threat to American lives. But pressure
was also put on the White House.

Fred Fielding, a former Reagan White House official turned consultant, was
called in 1987 to help coax his friends at the Agriculture Department. "It was a
very passionate issue for the Italians," he recalled.  "They provided quite a
contrast with American bureaucrats, who just didn't feel the same emotions about
ham."

In Bologna, however, such feelings still ride high. "I am so happy," said Franca
Gandolfi, shopping at Bologna's main outdoor market. "This means when we go to
New York City, we will finally be able to eat something good."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a butcher shop in Bologna, mortadella is traditional fare.
But the pork sausage has long been banned from the United States, along with
other Italian pork products, because of an outbreak of swine fever in 1967.
(Franco Tanel/D-Day, for The New York Times)

Map of Italy showing Bologna. The American turnabout has brougt joy to Bologna.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 11, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Government Reconsiders Custody of Cuban Boy

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10


The Justice Department is reviewing whether alcohol-related driving violations
or other actions by the relatives of a 6-year-old Cuban boy in Miami warrant
moving the child to a different temporary custodian.

"That matter is under review," Deputy Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said
today when asked about the violations. "We will look at that, try to make some
kind of factual determination and then decide what steps, if any, need to be
taken."

The department is also considering a request from the father of the boy, Elian
Gonzalez, to have temporary custody shifted from Elian's great-uncle Lazaro
Gonzalez to another great-uncle in Miami, Manolo Gonzalez.

The father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who lives in Cuba and is seeking to have his
son returned, objected to reporters' access to Elian that Lazaro Gonzalez's
family has permitted and to the treatment of Elian by psychologists selected by
the family.

A Justice official said the department had the authority to transfer temporary
custody to someone other than Lazaro Gonzalez.

Elian was placed in his care after being found clinging to an inner tube in the
Atlantic last Thanksgiving.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service ruled in favor of the father's
request that the boy be returned to him in Cuba, but the decision was delayed
while the Miami relatives press a federal court case to keep him in this
country.

Mr. Holder said the immigration service had acted appropriately but added, "Now
that we have this new information, we'll have to look at it, and see, like I
said, what steps if any are appropriate."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 13, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants Chasing a Dream, Citizenship Doesn't Come Easy

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1957 words


AMID flag waving and cheers, 350 new citizens at the County Courthouse here last
month declared their allegiance to the United States, their numbers but not
their enthusiasm diminished in recent years.

Like 59-year-old Giovanni Abbate, formerly of Sorrento, Italy, and 20-year-old
Kamyna Myeka Robinson, who emigrated from Jamaica, many of those who took the
oath of citizenship last month, spent years working their way through paperwork
and government regulations to achieve their goals.

One group of 176 citizens was sworn in on Jan. 12; a second group of 174 was
naturalized on Jan. 26, fulfilling long-held dreams to vote in the United
States, become eligible for federal jobs and share the privileges and
responsibilities of American citizenship. Swearings-in usually occur once or
twice a month.

For all of last year, however, there were only 1,728 new citizens in
Westchester, compared with 1,951 in 1998,2,079 in 1997 and 3,462 in 1996. For
many, the wait for citizenship has been as long as four or more years, the
result of a bottleneck caused by bureaucratic mix-ups and fingerprinting errors
made by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, County Clerk Leonard N.
Spano said. After a green card is obtained and an application for citizenship is
filed, the usual wait is less than a year.

"I kept having to go back and back, over and over again for fingerprinting,"
said Carl John Hegarty, 34, who emigrated from Dublin 10 years ago. "Then the
I.N.S. lost my paperwork. It was a mess, but in the end it was worth it."

The problems have since been resolved, the County Clerk said, with the number of
new citizens expected to reach higher levels in coming months.

As has been the trend in the last decade, most of the new citizens in 1999 were
from the Caribbean and Central America -- with the largest number, 396, coming
from Jamaica. Another 120 came from the Dominican Republic, 26 came from
Trinidad and Tobago and 22 from El Salvador.

The following are excerpts from interviews with 10 people sworn in at the two
most recent ceremonies by Mr. Spano, who -- as clerk of the State Supreme Court
and the County Court -- is vested with the responsibility to administer the oath
of allegiance to the United States to all candidates for citizenship.

'Too Cold Here'

At the age of 5, Kamyna Myeka Robinson arrived in the United States from Montego
Bay, Jamaica, with her father and a brother and a sister. It had been two years
since the children had seen their mother, who like many new immigrants, was the
first in the family to emigrate and who worked as a household maid to save
enough money so the others could come as well. Ms. Robinson, now an office
receptionist, recalled that 15 years ago when she walked out of Kennedy
International Airport for the first time, it was a cold, wet and to her,
depressing September day. "All I could think of was that I wanted to go back
home to beautiful Montego Bay," she said. "And although I still complain that
it's too cold here, I'm happy now." She said her formerly middle-class family
"suffered a big culture shock having to start from the bottom all over again in
the U.S." In school the teachers did not understand the child's Jamaican patois,
and her American classmates were unfriendly. Although the early years were
difficult, Ms. Robinson is preparing to study merchandising at the Fashion
Institute of Technology next fall, observing that as a citizen, she will be
eligible for many scholarships.

Ms. Robinson said all of her family members applied for citizenship at the same
time several years ago and hoped to be sworn in together. Although the eldest
daughter is now a citizen, the others in the family continue to wait.

Now, a Chance to Vote

Now that he is finally a citizen, Giovanni Abbate will have an opportunity
officially to go on record and say who he thinks should be president of the
United States. As a new citizen, it is a responsibility he regards seriously --
unlike some citizens who were born here and take voting for for granted.

"I will vote for who I think will do good for the country," said Mr. Abbate, who
dressed in his best suit and tie to honor the occasion of his naturalization. "I
have a lot to figure out, because I consider the presidency to be very
important."

When he arrived in the United States in 1967, Mr. Abbate worked in the
construction industry, logged long hours and saved his money for the future. He
met his wife, Carmella, also an Italian immigrant, in Westchester, and she too
has become a naturalized citizen. The couple have five children and three
grandchildren.

A New Life After Mexico

When he was a small boy and living in Mexico City, Rafael Barajas remembers
always being hungry. "My family was very poor," he said, "and I carried bags for
the ladies at the supermarket to buy food and shoes."

At 33, he is working as a handyman at Beach Point Club in Mamaroneck and happy
to be thriving, he said. After arriving in the United States 12 years ago, he
took jobs in the construction industry and was so tired from digging all day and
stanching the flow of blood from his raw hands at night that he said he thought,
"What am I doing here?"

"My father said: 'Come back if you want to. We have enough beans and rice,' "
Mr. Barajas recalled. "But my cousin who lived here reminded me that nothing is
easy in life, and I decided that he was right."

Mr. Barajas studied English two nights a week at a high school and finally got a
better job. Now that he is a citizen, he said, his next step is to vote "and
help decide what kind of government is right."

After that, he will try to bring his girlfriend, who works for a bank in Mexico
City, to Mamaroneck, so they can marry and raise a family.

'Life Is Still Hard'

Unsure of her command of the English language, Maria Julia Ramos, who became a
new American citizen on Jan. 26, spoke through her 23-year-old daughter, Silvana
Ramos.

"My parents gave up their life and started a new one for us," the young Ms.
Ramos explained, saying that her father, Julio Ramos, a taxi driver in
Maldonado, Uruguay, left his homeland first and sent for Maria Julia and the
children after establishing himself in Ossining.

Today, Mr. Ramos works as a handyman, and Mrs. Ramos is a domestic worker.
Lourdes, another daughter, is married and has a child. Julio, a son, is
attending a trade school, and Silvana is a bartender.

"Life is still hard for them," Ms. Ramos said, "but my parents own their home
now, and in most ways, their life is better."

From Army to Police

For Carl John Hegarty, 33, of Yonkers citizenship signals an opportunity to
accept a job offer from the New York Police Department -- a new step that he
welcomes after the hurdles leading up to his naturalization.

The difficulties began when he arrived at Kennedy International Airport from
Dublin in 1990, and no one showed up to welcome him. "If there had been a plane
going back, I would have taken it," he said.

Mr. Hegarty served as a sergeant in the Army in the Gulf War and put in five
years of active duty and five years in the reserves, but he could not re-enlist
because he was not a citizen. And without citizenship, he has not been able to
accept a job as a police officer. In the last several years, his application for
citizenship has hit many dead ends, and with the economy thriving in Ireland, he
said he thought more than once of returning to Dublin.

But when he made it through the snow-covered roads to the County Courthouse on
Jan. 26, at least some of the frustrations of the past melted away, he said, as
he took his place among the assembled group. "In many ways it was a relief, but
it was also very anticlimactic," he added.

'Worth It in the End'

Like many of the others who were naturalized last month in Westchester, Amani
Marji, 31, who was born in Amman, Jordan, said the process of becoming a citizen
was a matter of long waits and many frustrations, although it was "worth it in
the end."

Mrs. Marji of Dobbs Ferry and is an office worker for the county clerk and has
lived in Westchester for 10 years. She is married to John Marji, an
American-born plumber of Jordanian descent. Because she joined a large and
established Jordanian community from Yonkers when she first arrived -- a large
crowd of relatives greeted her at Kennedy with flowers and hugs -- she said she
did not experience the isolation and feelings of rejection that many immigrants
do.

The family has worked hard to assimilate, she said. And even though they speak
Arabic at home and often cook Jordanian meals -- "so that our three children
know their heritage," she said -- everyone in Mrs. Marji's large and extended
family communicates in English at school and work. Her father works for Liberty
Bus Lines in an office, and two of her uncles work at the Yonkers Water
Treatment Plant. "We are doing well here," she said.

Last in the Family

At 80, Sogmen Petrosian, originally of Erevan, Armenia, is among the oldest of
Westchester's new citizens. Escaping a chaotic political situation at home, she
came to the United States nine years ago with her son, Karapet Petrosian, her
daughter-in-law, Sironush, and two grandchildren.

Knowing only a few words of English -- "You can't do very much without knowing
the language," Mr. Petrosian said -- the grandmother is the last among her
immediate family in Yonkers to become and American citizen. "But she is happy
here," said her son, who drives a delivery truck and is a caretaker for an
Armenian Church in New York City.

"In America it pays to work hard," Mr. Petrosian said. "We have our own home. My
daughter graduated college. My son has a good job. This is a free country and
nobody bothers you. So everything is O.K."

New Citizen From China

Fleeing political unrest in his homeland, Weidon Xia, 39, came from Chengdu,
China, in the early 1980's to study civil engineering at the graduate school of
the University of California at Berkeley.

Three years ago he accepted a job with the New York Power Authority and moved
with his wife, Shing, a fellow college student from China, and their two
children to Mount Kisco.

Although his mother, father and sisters are still in China, Mr. Xia said he has
chosen not to return. At first it was concern over the 1989 riots in Tiananmen
Square that stopped him. Now he wants to stay because the family has achieved a
good standard of living here. In addition to renting an apartment in Mount
Kisco, Mr. Xia owns a house in Syracuse.

"I have a good job, a good family, and other than the price of a home in
Westchester being very high, we have a very nice life here," he said.

Mrs. Xia has also applied for her citizenship, but she is still waiting for her
papers to be processed.

Sending Money Home

Jose Camacho, 35, a former resident of Moca in the Dominican Republic, was also
among the new citizens sworn in on Jan. 26. Once a waiter at the Tarrytown
Hilton, he had to stop working after he was hit by a car last year and became
disabled. Until recently, he has been able to send money home to family members.

Mr. Camacho, who lives in Ossining and has been studying English at night at the
local high school, said he looks forward to returning to work as soon as his
injuries heal -- "and making money for a bright future."

Among the large group of immigrants from the Dominican Republic coming to
Westchester -- there were 2,876 from 1990 to 1999 -- Mr. Camacho said he is
rarely homesick for his homeland. His sister, Anny, and his brother, Juan
Antonio, also live in Westchester and have become citizens, although his
companion, Elisa Severino, who immigrated with Mr. Camacho in 1990, has not yet
done so.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of Westchester residents became naturalized American
citizens at a recent swearing-in ceremony at the County Courthouse in White
Plains, left. From left above: Rafael Barajas, Armani Marji and Jose Comacho,
with his companion, Elisa Severino. (Photographs by Susan B. Markisz, far left,
and Chris Maynard for The New York Times; James McCue/Office of County Clerk)

Chart: "WESTCHESTER COUNTY IMMIGRATION"
A total of 1,728 new citizens from 100 countries were naturalized in Westchester
County in 1999. Here are the top 10 countries they came from.

Jamaica: 396
Dominican Republic: 120
India: 100
Mexico: 79
Ecuador: 74
Italy: 69
Ireland: 65
Colombia: 55
Haiti: 45
Philippines: 41

(Source: Westchester County Clerk)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

URBAN TACTICS;
One-Stop Legal Service For Immigrants

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words


THE phone in his home in Port-au-Prince kept ringing. The voices told the
31-year-old Haitian man that they would kill his father and rape his wife and
his mother. A few days later, in September 1998, he bought an airplane ticket to
the United States.

In Haiti, the man's human rights group had worked with people who had suffered
under the military regime that overthrew President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in
1991. He had spoken with countrymen who had had their eyes gouged out, limbs
hacked off.

But, fearing for his life, he arrived in New York last September, where he slept
on friends' couches and asked them how he could get asylum. Finally, a Haitian
assistance group referred him to the Immigrant Refugee Rights Clinic at the City
University of New York School of Law.

"When I first came here, I was at a low point in my life," the man said, asking
that his name not be used for fear of reprisals against his family back in
Haiti. "But after working with this team, I could see how they lifted my
spirits."

The City University center, in Flushing, Queens, is one of four relatively new
legal clinics in the city in which law students counsel a mostly immigrant and
refugee clientele. In each clinic, about a dozen second- or third-year students
work on cases under the supervision of a professor. Most of the cases are
referred by immigrant advocacy groups, which deal with issues like workplace
disputes and welfare benefits.

In the Haitian refugee's case, for example, two third-year law students filed an
application for asylum to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
supplementary documents alone weighed 10 pounds. When the man was granted asylum
on Dec. 21, a professor broke open a bottle of Champagne for the students and
their client, who was delighted but reminded everyone that despite his
individual victory, his "countrymen are still suffering."

Begun in 1993, the City University center is the oldest of the clinics. This
year, 13 law students have taken on 99 cases. About half of those are bundled in
a class action lawsuit in which mostly Latin American plaintiffs are suing
federal agencies to expand eligibility for applicants for resident status. Most
of the clinic's clients, who come from countries ranging from Belize to Liberia
to Ukraine, are refugees applying for asylum. The clinic also represents
battered women who are applying for citizenship.

"There are so few of us, and the needs are so great," said Sharon Hom, the
supervising professor. "We're not even a drop in the bucket. But we're making a
difference in the lives of the individuals."

So far the students, who prepare the asylum applications and represent the
clients at hearings, have had few language problems, Ms. Hom said. Collectively,
they speak seven foreign languages. Other clinics also have multilingual
students, but still occasionally need to hire a translator.

The Safe Harbor Project, founded in 1996 at Brooklyn Law School, also tackles
asylum and battered women's cases. Most clients are referred by the Lawyers'
Committee for Human Rights, a national nonprofit group. Many are African,
although a recent successful case involved a Tibetan refugee.

"I used to do criminal defense work, and what's at stake here feels even worse,"
said Stacy Caplow, the supervising professor. "We hear stories of horror that
you and I can't imagine."

By contrast, the Welfare Rights Clinic at Fordham University School of Law
contends with the vagaries of social service rules. The clinic fights for public
assistance money for its clients, said Michael Martin, the supervising
professor, and also offers guidance on education, employment and tenant
organizing. About 90 percent of the clients are immigrants, most from the
Dominican Republic.

The clinic was founded in 1995 with a joint state grant to Fordham and to the
Northern Manhattan Improvement Corporation, a community service group in
Washington Heights. The Fordham clinic serves as an in-house law firm at the
group's office, where the law students work twice a week.

There, the students often encounter clients whose welfare payments are in
jeopardy because of mixups related to the state's 1997 welfare-to-work laws, Mr.
Martin said.

For example, a mail carrier might have failed to deliver a job appointment
letter to the client, Mr. Martin said, or the client might not have shown up for
the job because of a language problem. Students defend these people in
administrative hearings.

"I had no idea just how hard it could be if you're just coming to this country
with very little or no resources, and you're relying on welfare benefits," said
Robert Finkelstein, a third-year student at the clinic. "I can't imagine going
through that myself."

The newest law center for immigrants opened in 1998 at New York University.
Called the Immigrant Rights Clinic, it handles workplace disputes as well as
deportation cases involving legal residents convicted of crimes. In contrast to
many clinics, the N.Y.U. students devote about half their time to drafting
legislation and promoting immigrant interests to the news media.

For example, the students drafted a bill last year to soften the impact of a new
city clampdown on cabbies, who are often immigrants. After reviewing the bill,
the City Council passed some pro-driver reforms, including scrapping a system
under which cabbies received multiple tickets for the same violation.

"It seems that by organizing on workplace issues, you might one day see a
profound redistribution of wealth and power in this country that could be
paramount," said Michael Wishnie, the supervising professor on workplace issues.

As for deportation, the federal government passed two laws in 1996 that expanded
the range of crimes that could lead to expulsion and made it harder to obtain a
hearing before an immigration judge. In the aftermath of the law, the clinic has
represented people facing deportation because of misdemeanors like marijuana
possession or the splicing of phone cables, said Nancy Morawetz, the supervising
professor.

When Ms. Morawetz talks about those issues, she uses words echoed by workers at
all the clinics, despite their different agendas.

"I believe it's a tremendous injustice what's happening," she said, "and it's a
place where I felt we could make a difference."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sharon Hom, supervising professor at the Immigrant Refugee
Rights Clinic, and Edward Bahdi, an intern, listen to a Haitian man. (Richard
Lee for The New York Times)

Chart: "WELCOME -- Huddled Masses"
New York is the country's leading port of entry for immigrants, with many also
electing to stay in the city. Here are the most recent numbers from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Total immigrant arrivals, 1997

1. New York City: 92,768
2. Los Angeles: 51,586
3. El Paso: 49,007
4. Miami: 28,141
5. San Francisco: 25,936
6. Chicagoz: 21,195
7. Newarkz: 13,184
8. Washington, D.C.: 9,225
9. Other: 89,677

10 most common countries of origin of immigrants arriving in New York in 1997

1. Dominican Republic: 10,695
2. India: 8,908
3. China: 6,613
4. Pakistan: 4,822
5. Jamaica: 4,711
6. Bangladesh: 4,573
7. Guyana: 3,936
8. Haiti: 3,305
9. Ghana: 2,551
10. Ecuador: 2,451

(Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 22, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Custody Case Of Cuban Boy Changes Hands

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 21


A hearing scheduled for Tuesday to determine whether a federal court has
jurisdiction in the Elian Gonzalez custody case was expected to be postponed,
because the judge handling it was admitted to a hospital on Sunday.

The case will be temporarily turned over to Judge Edward B. Davis of Federal
District Court here, and at a court session on Tuesday he is likely to focus on
reassigning the case by a random computer selection and scheduling further
hearings, officials in his chambers said today.

Judge William M. Hoeveler had planned to hear arguments on Tuesday to decide
whether the court could intervene in the case of 6-year-old Elian, who was found
clinging to an inner tube in the Atlantic in November.

The child is at the center of an international fight between his father in Cuba,
Juan Miguel Gonzalez, and relatives in Miami. Last month, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service ordered the return of the boy to his father, but
relatives took the case to court to block the order.

"We're not exactly sure what will happen tomorrow," said Roger Bernstein, a
lawyer for the Miami relatives, including Lazaro Gonzalez, a great-uncle who is
caring for Elian. "But we've been told that we should be prepared to argue
tomorrow so we will be."

In another development today, Manuel Gonzalez, another of Elian's great-uncles,
told reporters that he was also seeking temporary custody of the boy. His
lawyer, Jeffery Leving, said Mr. Gonzalez had filed a petition to intervene in
federal court on Friday.

"The boy's father is the only person who is allowed to speak for Elian, and he
has asked that Elian stay with Manuel until he can be returned to Cuba," Mr.
Leving said. "I think the court should honor and respect that."

Mr. Gonzalez, who has maintained a low profile throughout the custody battle, is
in disagreement with the other Miami relatives, including his brother Lazaro.

After briefly meeting with Lazaro this afternoon and speaking to reporters,
Manuel Gonzalez complained of chest pains and was taken to a hospital. A
hospital spokesman said he was in stable condition.

Judge Hoeveler, 77, was admitted to a hospital in a Miami suburb on Sunday
morning, after being unable to move his right arm and leg and having slurred
speech. He was reported in stable condition today

Judge Hoeveler's illness is likely to mean that the case will be assigned for
the third time. At first, a court computer had assigned Judge James Lawrence
King the case, but Judge King recused himself because of possible conflicts of
interest.

The case was then turned over to Judge Hoeveler, who is well known around the
Miami community for presiding over the trial of the Panamanian dictator Manuel
Antonio Noriega.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba Refuses To Withdraw A Diplomat

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22


Cuba will not withdraw the diplomat linked to an espionage investigation,
despite an order from the United States that he leave the country, Cuban
officials said.

The diplomat, identified as Jose Imperatori, had been linked to an American
immigration official, Mariano M. Faget, who was arrested on Thursday and charged
with espionage. Mr. Faget was arrested, the authorities said, after he gave a
Cuban-born New York businessman false information that American officials had
fed him about a Cuban intelligence agent's plan to defect to the United States.

Mr. Faget is a senior official in the Miami office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

A spokesman for the Cuban Special Interests section, Luis Fernandez, confirmed
that the Cuban government would not withdraw the official. Mr. Fernandez said
the diplomat would remain to testify and prove the espionage accusation false.

Mr. Fernandez said that Mr. Imperatori and another Cuban official, Luis Molina,
had met with Mr. Faget in Miami on separate occasions. He said the two had
spoken to Mr. Faget on immigration issues and on Mr. Faget's desire to visit
Cuba someday. Mr. Fernandez said that Mr. Imperatori had never tried to recruit
Mr. Faget or to get sensitive information from him.

"The contacts with this man were public and completely open," Mr. Fernandez
said.

James P. Rubin, the spokesman for the State Department, said the expelled Cuban
diplomat had been "declared persona non grata," and must depart the country by
1:30 p.m. on Saturday.

"It would be highly unusual for a state to refuse to remove a diplomat under
these circumstances," Mr. Rubin said. "Under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations, Cuba must either recall the diplomat in question or terminate his
functions."

Should the diplomat not leave the country, Mr. Rubin said, he would lose
diplomatic privileges and immunities and become subject to the laws of the
United States.

The United States and Cuba do not have formal diplomatic relations; they are
represented in each other's country by an interests section, under the flag of
Switzerland.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 24, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrants Lose Savings and Hopes in a Citizenship Swindle

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words


It was a familiar swindle, but it worked, as it often does, like a charm: A
fly-by-night operation promises to smooth the way to citizenship -- for a fee.
Then the schemers pull up stakes, and the once-hopeful immigrant is left poorer
and afraid of being deported.

This time, the victims were Chinese living in Brooklyn and Manhattan. As many as
1,000 paid up to $750 each to a Brooklyn company that guaranteed that they would
become naturalized United States citizens.

While there is no shortage of immigration fraud cases, this could be one of the
biggest. "In terms of the number of people affected," said Jules Polonetsky, the
city's commissioner of consumer affairs, "this is the largest case I've heard
about." The state attorney general's office and the Brooklyn district attorney
are also investigating.

The immigration con game is not new, and it also often depends on the complicity
of the victim, who may be suspicious of the transaction yet takes the chance to
win citizenship or working papers. There is no evidence that these schemes are
more prevalent in Chinese communities, but, according to immigration experts,
recent arrivals from China feel unusual pressures to seek citizenship, and so
are particularly vulnerable to swindlers who say they can help them.

Several hundred of these immigrants complained last month of being duped by
First U.S. Citizens Service Center, which had offices in Chinatown in Manhattan
and in Sunset Park in Brooklyn and advertised in newspapers and on radio
stations catering to the Chinese community. Mr. Polonetsky said the offices have
shut down.

In return for fees of $500 to $750, First U.S. Citizens Service Center promised
the immigrants, most of them elderly, that they would sail through the
naturalization process, according to the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association,
a social service agency that reported the complaints to the city's Department of
Consumer Affairs.

Immigrants have always been easy prey for the unscrupulous. In the 19th century,
swindlers would descend on newcomers even before they got off the boat. Partly
to cut down on these crimes, the Castle Garden immigration station was
established at the southern tip of Manhattan in 1855.

As immigration laws tightened, many swindlers, usually of the same ethnic group
as their victims, began exploiting fears of deportation by offering help in
obtaining visas and green cards in exchange for exorbitant fees.

Of all immigrant groups, the Chinese are among the most likely to seek
citizenship, which enables them to bring relatives over and gives them an extra
layer of protection if they wish to visit their homeland, said Xiao-huang Yin, a
history professor at Occidental College in Los Angeles.

Like other Asian immigrants, the Chinese were not allowed to become United
States citizens until 1943. For older people, Dr. Yin said, the involvement of
Asians in the campaign fund-raising scandals and the investigation of a
Taiwan-born nuclear weapons scientist on spying charges have evoked fears that
the door may close once again.

"There's always something there to remind Chinese people that they may again
become targets of anti-immigrant sentiment," he said, "and that if they do not
seize the opportunity to become citizens, that right might be taken away."

Stanley Mark, the program director of the Asian-American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, said many Chinese immigrants, especially those in the low-paying
garment industry, desperately want to become citizens to qualify for welfare
benefits when they retire.

Although immigration fraud cases can be tough to prosecute, there have been some
recent successes. A South African national, Curtis Van Stuyvesant, who
prosecutors say bilked 300 people of $350,000, is serving a prison sentence of
20 to 61 years after being convicted by a Manhattan jury in July of grand
larceny and unauthorized practice of law. In another case, William John Newman
of Sunnyside, Queens, pleaded guilty in January to posing as an immigration
lawyer.

And last month, a Jamaican immigrant, Clover Richards, of Hempstead, was
arrested by Nassau County authorities and accused of taking more than $75,000 to
arrange green cards for at least 19 immigrants.

Prosecutors who deal with immigration fraud often find themselves bedeviled
because the victims are frequently terrified of coming forward, the crooks may
be hard to track down, documents are likely to be missing, and it may be
impossible to recover the stolen money. Then, too, some of the victims may have
knowingly violated the law and fear deportation.

Paul Mak, the president and chief executive of the Brooklyn Chinese-American
Association, said that most of the people who complained to him about First U.S.
Citizens Service Center had not suspected that anything was improper. The
immigrants were referred to doctors who would certify that they were disabled,
enabling them to avoid interviews with the federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service that would reveal their poor English skills. Under the
law, an immigrant must demonstrate the ability to read, write and speak English
and a knowledge of the basic history and form of government of the United
States.

Immigration officials said the agency did occasionally waive the tests for
people with disabilities and permit some elderly immigrants who are longtime
United States residents to use an interpreter.

Kam Chai Wu Tse, 57, a garment factory worker, has been in America for only a
decade and does not qualify to be examined in her own language. But in a recent
interview, she said through a translator that employees of First U.S. Citizens
told her that they were not concerned about her English skills.

Ms. Wu Tse said the company sent her to a doctor who examined her eyes but
performed no other tests. Yet in a signed immigration agency document, a doctor,
Chizheng Zhong, stated that she suffered from several ailments, including
rheumatoid arthritis, hypertension, hearing and visual impairment and
"forgetfulness."

Telephone calls for Dr. Zhong at the number given on the document were not
returned.

Pei Lam Pan, 68, who immigrated from Taisan, China, a decade ago, can no longer
work in a garment factory, she said, because her back aches and her eyes are
weak. But without citizenship, she cannot qualify for welfare benefits. She and
her husband, Zhong Gun Pan, paid First U.S. Citizens $1,000 in November to help
them become citizens, but they assume that the money is now lost.

"We had a hard time saving that kind of money," Mrs. Pan said.

Another immigrant, Yong Kum Luo, 68, a retired laborer who used to perform odd
jobs at a factory, said he filed a citizenship application in 1996. Last year, a
friend told him about First U.S. Citizens, saying, "If I pay $500, everything is
going to be O.K."

He is still waiting. "If I'm not a citizen," Mr. Luo said dejectedly, "I'm
nothing."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pei Lam Pan, top left, and her husband, Zhong Gun Pan, top
right, said they paid First U.S. Citizens $1,000. Kam Chai Wu Tse, at left, was
told not to worry about her English. Yong Kum Luo, above, said he paid $500.
(Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 27, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Helping Hispanic Clients Adjust to a New Life

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 5; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK


IMAGINE being the new kid on the block. Then imagine that you are not a kid --
and that no one on the block speaks your language.

Most of the thousands of Hispanic immigrants in the county face that situation
daily. Inhibited by limited English, uncertain about how to fill out everything
from apartment leases and school registration to medical forms and managing a
bank account, simply getting through daily chores can be daunting.

And it is a situation that Martha Lopez not only identifies with but also wants
to improve. Although her first day at Mamaroneck High School here was more than
a quarter of a century ago, Mrs. Lopez, who works for the nonprofit
Washingtonville Housing Alliance, can still recall her confusion and sense of
helplessness.

"On the first day of school, I was registered for the ninth grade," said Mrs.
Lopez, who immigrated to the United States from Mexico when she was a teenager.

"My mother and I didn't know anything about homeroom. I didn't speak English, so
I spent the first day just following around groups of students."

To help recent immigrants adjust to American life, Mrs. Lopez, along with Olga
Ochoa, started a volunteer organization, the Hispanic Resource Center, five
months ago for Hispanics immigrants in the Larchmont and Mamaroneck area. The
center, which serves clients Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., is
meant to be a referral agency.

"It's to help people integrate into the community," said Mrs. Lopez, who, with
Ms. Ochoa, recently received the Larchmont-Mamaroneck Human Rights Commission
Martin Luther King Award for their efforts in developing the Hispanic Resource
Center. "For example, we would tell people where to go for English classes, or
how to sign up for insurance or health care.

"There are many programs already out there. We are the bridge to what exists.
Our office is the place people can come to and talk to us about what their needs
are. We're strictly a referral agency."

Since many recent immigrants may be shy about approaching authority figures,
whether in school or a social services agency, Mrs. Lopez has been promoting her
organization among Hispanics.

"We're going to churches, to Hispanic stores, to the schools -- anywhere we can
to let people know we exist," Mrs. Lopez said. "Even though we're only able to
be open four hours a week, people will call me at home and on weekends. They
call me if they don't have heat. We let them know what their rights are."

There are, of course, other groups in the county that aim to help Hispanic
immigrants, including the Port Chester-based Westchester Hispanic Coalition,
which assists immigrants with social services and immigration issues.

What the Hispanic Resource Center provides, beyond the referrals and practical
information, Mrs. Lopez said, is the personal connection that so many of her
clients seem to need as a refuge from the pervasive loneliness they feel.

"What I experienced, and what almost every immigrant experiences, is that
isolation that they feel in a new country and new culture," Mrs. Lopez said.

"You still see the isolation of Hispanic immigrants," she continued. "They come
with a hope of a better life and share a dream of making a better life, but they
have to deal with the isolation and the pain of leaving everything they know
behind."   MERRI ROSENBERG

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 29, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

High Infant Mortality Rates In Brooklyn Mystify Experts

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1722 words


In central Brooklyn -- where storefronts are boarded, housing projects stand in
defiant opposition to the boom times, and the hospitals are more or less broke
-- babies are dying at rates that the city as a whole has not seen in nearly two
decades. And they die, in some cases, at a rate double what the federal
government has set as the infant mortality goal for the nation.

Often, they die months before they were meant to be born, their bodies a tangle
of minute bones and skin, weighed in grams rather than pounds. Some never see
their mother's faces; they are gone right after birth. Others leave the hospital
with a shopping bag of drugs and a mother overwhelmed by her own myriad
problems, and do not make it to their first birthday.

While the infant mortality rate in New York City has fallen steadily in the last
decade, it has fallen much more slowly in neighborhoods like Bedford-Stuyvesant
and Brownsville, neighborhoods with considerable populations of new immigrants.

In New York City in 1998, babies less than a year old died at a rate of 6.8 per
1,000, which is slightly better than the national average, 7.2.
Bedford-Stuyvesant, however, has one of the highest rates in the country, 14 per
1,000, a 20 percent increase over 1997. The last time the average rate of infant
mortality was that high in New York City over all was 1983.

That the number is on the rise at all is startling. It stands against the
national trend even in cities with severe social problems, like Washington,
where the rate is 12.5 per 1,000.

In Brownsville, the story is much the same; the rate slides up and down each
year, averaging about 10 deaths per 1,000 babies in the last five years. While
the disparity between children of black and white mothers has always been stark,
there is evidence that the gap is closing elsewhere in the city. The infant
mortality rate in the Tremont section of the Bronx, for example, is 8.1, a 54
percent decrease from 1988.

The figures have so concerned the city's health commissioner, Dr. Neal L. Cohen,
that he has made reducing infant mortality one of his top priorities for this
year.

There seems to be no clear answer to why the same neighborhoods stand out year
after year, and why some would buck the downward trends. Experts seem to agree
that even when the resources exist -- prenatal care at low cost, hospitals
willing to deliver babies, government-subsidized infant formula and food -- it
is still profoundly difficult to get many pregnant women through the doors.

"It is a perplexing question," said Dr. Katherine La Guardia, who runs the
ambulatory obstetrics and gynecology clinic at Brookdale University Hospital and
Medical Center in Brownsville. "A huge amount of effort has gone into improving
prenatal care, but we still don't know how one reaches the most unreachable."

Those are the mothers who are addicted to drugs, who are H.I.V. positive,
unemployed or living in New York as illegal immigrants. Women who fit those
descriptions often avoid going to see doctors before they give birth out of
fear, experts said, that their babies will be taken from them or that they will
be deported.

Others are discouraged by family members, who do not believe in prenatal care or
are suspicious of the entire medical system.

"The question is, how do we make women less afraid to get care," Dr. La Guardia
said.

Other mothers want prenatal care but cannot get it because they live too far
from a health clinic or hospital, or have small children and no one at home to
care for them while they make the trek to the doctor.

There are also anomalies that cannot be readily explained. For instance,
neighborhoods with a high concentration of immigrants from the Caribbean seem to
report the highest infant mortality figures. "What is interesting about Bedford
is that 42.1 percent of the women are foreign-born," said Dr. Tanya Pagan
Paggio, an associate professor of medicine at the City University of New York.

"This is important because when you look at other places in the city where there
is a high level of foreign-born, infant mortality rates are closer to 6
percent," Dr. Paggio said. "In Bedford, there are a lot of Caribbean people. And
we know that Jamaican women have a 9.4 per 1,000 rate, Haitian women have about
11 per 1,000 and rates among women from Trinidad and Tobago are also high. You
have to wonder if these women have access to services they need."

Robin Bennett is desperate not to let her baby become another sad statistic. At
23, she is pregnant with her fourth child, a baby with a heart condition. One
son is in foster care, and the other lives with her mother. Her daughter, who is
18 months old, lives with Ms. Bennett in a government-subsidized apartment for
crime victims in Bedford-Stuyvesant.

Her problems are as complicated as they are numerous: her apartment is full of
bugs that bite her baby, she said, adding that one of her children was a result
of a rape. Her mother, who has AIDS, is her main line of support.

"Sometimes I cry at night because I wonder if the stress in my life gave this
baby her hole in her heart," Ms. Bennett said. She finds herself gravitating to
Brooklyn Perinatal Network, an organization that tries to keep babies like Ms.
Bennett's from dying by shepherding women into prenatal care, advocating for
them on housing issues and giving other social support.

In fact, a lack of access to housing, nutritious food and adult support may
contribute to infant mortality as much as poor medical care, many experts say.

"Prenatal care has probably been overstated," said Dawn Misra, an associate
professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health and an expert on infant
mortality. "If you look at a program like Healthy Start, you see it is a broader
initiative with resources like food, social support and other things like
smoking cessation clinics, which is important because smoking may lead to
low-birth-weight babies, and low birth weight is the leading cause of infant
mortality."

When Bedford-Stuyvesant lost a majority of its financing in 1997 for Healthy
Start, a federal program intended to help poor women have healthy babies, the
infant mortality rate shot up, said Ngosi Moses, who runs the Brooklyn Perinatal
Network.

"When resources became scarce, those rates rose," Ms. Ngosi said. "This shows
you when money is put into the community, good things happen, and when the money
is pulled out, they go out."

The $6.8 million that was spread over 22 programs in the early 1990's now has to
cover 94 programs.

Brownsville is a neighborhood that a decade of economic expansion seems to have
left untouched, where Healthy Start does not even exist and where a Starbucks is
not coming. Rows of private homes are boarded up, big gray housing projects
towering bleakly nearby. Stores are scarce, save for a few of the dollar-bin
variety. There are overpriced delis and a smattering of Caribbean food stands.

Young women walk briskly though the streets, perhaps to avoid the corners where
young men often congregate. The number of people, especially women, who are
infected with the AIDS virus is "astonishing," Dr. La Guardia said.

In most hospitals in the city, it is almost a given that a mother will leave the
maternity ward with a healthy baby in her arms. In Brownsville, it is often just
short of a victory.

Dr. La Guardia and her boss, Dr. Martin Gimovsky, who heads the obstetrics
department at Brookdale, spend their days trying to unravel the complicated
histories and medical problems of the poor women who come through its clinics
and labor and delivery floor each day. Many have never had a day of prenatal
care, or are woefully misguided about childbirth.

On a recent Wednesday afternoon, during Dr. Gimovsky's clinic for women with
high-risk pregnancies, dozens of women crammed into a waiting room. Almost all
of them had had children before, including the recently homeless woman with AIDS
who did not know her due date and had had virtually no prenatal care.

"You've gained weight," the resident said reassuringly.

"Well, I'm living somewhere now, so I am much more relaxed," said the woman, who
would not give her name.

Cynthia Martinez, who has three children and is pregnant with a fourth, still
calls her first baby, the one who was stillborn, by her name, Cynthia Michelle.
"She is 10 now," she said. The baby stopped moving at 7 months, and by the time
Ms. Martinez delivered her, the doctors told her she was dead.

Distraught, Ms. Martinez said that she grabbed the baby of the woman she shared
a room with when it was brought in for a feeding and refused to let her go. "I
just kept saying, 'You can't take this baby from me," Ms. Martinez, 24, said. "I
guess I thought she was mine. My mother told me that God had taken one from me
but would give me more."

Few patients at Brookdale, one of the city's most financially strained
hospitals, pay the full price of their care, if they pay at all. Many are
covered by the Prenatal Care Assistance Program, a state-financed program for
poor pregnant women.

"We work with the patients no one wants," said Dr. Gimovsky, a plump and
congenial doctor, who jokes easily with the teenage girls who fill the cramped
clinic space. He recruited Dr. La Guardia by likening her work to that of the
Peace Corps. "You don't make any money at this," he said cheerfully, "but this
is what I want to do with my life."

Although the infant mortality rates in Brownsville are historically lower than
in Bedford-Stuyvesant, the March of Dimes earmarked the neighborhood for a
$152,000 program to try to get more services to women. It is also pushing
legislators in Albany to raise the maximum income women may earn and still
qualify for the state's prenatal care program.

Dr. La Guardia has been at Brookdale for only a few months. Unlike Dr. Gimovsky,
she is businesslike, almost stern, and deeply weary over the hospital's dire
fiscal situation.

"I am still in shock," she said. Money would permit the hiring of more doctors
and nurses. Ultrasound machines, standard equipment in any Manhattan obstetrics
office, are scarce. A portable ultrasound, the latest in technology, is unheard
of.

"Clearly, there are more dollars that need to be funneled into this area," Dr.
La Guardia said. "You wonder if there is any hope."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2000, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article on Feb. 29 about high infant mortality rates in central Brooklyn
misstated the surname of an associate professor of medicine at the City
University of New York who is an expert in infant mortality. She is Tanya Pagan
Raggio, not Paggio.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Although the infant mortality rate has fallen in New York City
as a whole, it remains high in some neighborhoods. The Brookdale obstetrics
clinic provides primary care for many women in Brownsville. (Nicole
Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B6)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 29, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
I.N.S. Agents Sue Police Over Los Angeles Run-In

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 28


Two undercover federal immigration agents sued the Los Angeles Police Department
today, claiming that officers roughed them up for no reason while they were
working.

The agents, Shawn Butler and Ezequiel Garcia, both with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, say their constitutional rights were violated when 10
unidentified police officers threatened and abused them while they were looking
for people peddling fake green cards.

The agents say they repeatedly showed the police their I.N.S. badges during the
Jan. 11 incident. The police never explained why they searched and detained the
agents, said a lawyer for the agents, Howard R. Price.

Mr. Butler is black and Mr. Garcia is Hispanic, and Mr. Price said most or all
of the police officers involved were white.

Lt. Sharyn Buck, a police spokeswoman, declined to comment.




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

From Far-Off Shores to Long Island

BYLINE: By BARBARA DELATINER

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: STONY BROOK


IN the beginning, there were the Native Americans: the Algonquin tribes like the
Matinecocks, the Shinnecocks and the Montauks. Then in the 17th century came the
English and the Dutch, with their African slaves, in the first of what was to
become succeeding waves of immigrants to Long Island.

When, how and why they came, where they settled and what they added to the
melting pot is the subject of "New Neighbors: Migrations and the Changing Face
of Long Island," an exhibition at the Museums at Stony Brook. Two years in the
making, with art, photographs, oral histories, maps and personal artifacts, the
show explores the cultural, economic and political effect each group of
newcomers has had on the existing populations.

By "going back historically to look at the changes on Long Island," said Joshua
Ruff, the exhibition's curator, "we can help contemporary Long Islanders
understand the roots and the results of that diversity."

This understanding could eliminate some misconceptions, he said. "Most people
tend to think that suburbanization dates back to Levittown," Mr. Ruff said,
admitting he had believed that when he started the project. "But the growth of
new suburban enclaves and villages really started in the mid to late 19th
century when the population actually did start to rise, growing very quickly in
the World War II period and then after the war and following the Hart-Celler
Immigration Act of 1965."

This law, which liberalized the nation's immigration policy, Mr. Ruff said, had
a major impact, both in numbers and in the nature of the immigration. It brought
people directly to the Island, just as the Italian railroad and sand-mine
workers, the Polish, German and Irish farmers and Jewish watchmakers had come in
the 19th century, instead of by way of New York City.

The story is told both chronologically, divided into periods before 1880, 1880
to 1940 and more recently, and thematically, dealing with such subjects as
"Fears, Stereotypes and Discrimination" and "Searching for the American Dream."

More than 100 items are featured, drawn from the Museums at Stony Brook's vaults
or on loan from historical societies and libraries, museums like the museum on
Ellis Island and private sources.

For the more contemporary aspects of the story, Mr. Ruff had to rely heavily on
families that had kept photos and papers documenting their ancestors' arrival on
the Island.

"I suddenly realized that the historical societies and museums, including ours,
had very few, if any, modern items," he said. "And we should be collecting
things that detail and document new populations arriving. But we've stopped
roughly around 1940 and if we don't begin again there will be little around
about the 20th and 21st centuries."

There are Native American clay pots from Montauk; a cane dating to 1639 that
belonged to Edward Howell of Southampton; an 1824 sampler made by a member of
the Elliott family of Sag Harbor; photos, circa 1890, of Italian-Americans at
work on the Long Island Rail Road and sandmines in Roslyn; a Ukrainian wedding
headpiece used at the turn-of-the-century in Riverhead, and broadsides put out
in 1890 by the Long Island Rail Road inviting people to "Buy Homes on Long
Island" with the "most healthful . . . climate on the coast."

There are also the medical license, circa 1950, of the Island's first Hispanic
physician; deeds excluding blacks, Asians and Jews from buying property; a World
War I poster in Yiddish urging Jewish immigrants to save food; photos and news
accounts of the first black police sergeant in Babylon who settled in Amityville
in 1950 after unsuccessfully trying to buy a house in Levittown; an ornate
Indian baby cradle belonging to a family in Kings Park, and an oral history
account of a political refugee's escape from El Salvador to Brentwood in 1981.

Among the more unusual items is a late 17th-century Dutch print labeled "Nieu
Amsterdam," said Mr. Ruff, 27, who lives in Kings Park. "I found it at the New
York Public Library, but I also found the same exact print labeled 'the West
Indies.' I guess, the Dutch looked at both colonies the same way."

One of the more fascinating stories he came across, Mr. Ruff said, dealt with a
village in Suffolk that a developer, Thomas Wellwood, founded in the 1870's. "He
called it 'Breslau' in an attempt to attract the Germans who like the Irish
farmers of the day were beginning to settle in the area. The name was changed to
Lindenhurst in 1892, not, as legend has it, because the residents wanted to
escape their German heritage, but because they had become disenchanted with the
developer and wanted to break away from him completely."

Mr. Ruff had only one regret: "that I couldn't include more in the show, but I'm
very limited in terms of space."

"Although," he said, "I guess I would have liked to have gotten A. L. Henry's
painting, 'The Last of the Montauks' from an upstate museum. With others moving
in, the Island's Native Americans became more and more invisible."

The exhibition features an interactive world map. "We're asking visitors to sign
the book to tell us where their ancestors came from," Mr. Ruff said. "And then
every week we'll update the map, adding pins for new places and new totals."

Eventually, Mr. Ruff said, he hopes the exhibition will help "start a dialogue
as people, looking more historically at the phenomenon of migration, realize
that it's a continuous process with ongoing phases. There are similarities in
the way people respond to newcomers throughout these migrations. Furthermore,
these changes taking place on the Island are clearly happening in other places
as well."

"New Neighbors: Migrations and the Changing Face of Long Island" runs through
July 4 at the History Museum of the Museums of Stony Brook on Route 25A. It can
be seen from 10 a.m. to 5 Wednesdays through Saturdays and noon to 5 p.m.
Sundays, and will be accompanied by special programming like "Merengue!," a
concert by Luis Cordero and Los Amigos de la Amarque of dance music with roots
in African and Spanish music, at 2 p.m. next Sunday. (631) 751-0066.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of "Dancing at the Polish American Fair" in Riverhead.
(Audrey Gottlieb)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 6, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Custody Case Like Elian's Gets a Much Faster Ruling

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 5


On the distant edges of the storm that has whipped around Elian Gonzalez,
another, similar child custody case here has been quietly and quickly decided,
at least compared with the Elian situation.

In both cases, the mothers of the children left a foreign country for sanctuary
in the United States without, allegedly, the fathers' knowledge. And in both
cases the fathers have demanded their sons' return.

One, 2-year-old Khalil Shanti, of Jordan, has been ordered home. The other,
6-year-old Elian, of Cuba, remains here.

The difference, say experts on immigration and Miami politics, is one of flags,
passions and power.

"We hate Castro, and we don't hate King Abdullah," said David Abraham, a
professor of immigration law at the University of Miami.

Elian was found floating off the beaches of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on an inner
tube on Thanksgiving Day. His mother drowned, along with 10 other people, trying
to come to the United States.

Khalil came to the United States from Amman, Jordan, because his mother said
that his father had abused her, and she wanted her son to grow up in this
country.

"A living mother's case should be stronger than a deceased mother's case," Mr.
Abraham said. "It is that plain and simple. The Gonzalez case was only put into
question because of the reluctance of the federal government to deal with Cuba
as it deals with Jordan or any other country.

"This has opened the door to endless mischief in the Gonzalez case," he said,
"and the delay will hurt Elian."

Efforts by Elian's father to take him back to the island -- backed by Mr. Castro
and opposed by the politically powerful Cuban American National Foundation in
Miami -- set off parades, traffic jams and slowdowns, court hearings, a federal
lawsuit and political meddling on both sides of the Florida Straits.

More than three months later, after many news conferences and the construction
of a tent city for reporters and photographers just outside the boy's house,
Elian is still here.

In the case of Khalil Shanti, his future has apparently been decided by one
barely publicized family court hearing and eight hours of testimony.

Few people in Miami fly the Jordanian flag from their car's radio antenna, and
no one here, it seems, is willing to lie down in front of traffic to prevent
Khalil's return to Amman.

"Cubans have a different status in this country than everybody else," said
Richard Marx, a lawyer representing Maria Eugenia Pereira, Khalil's mother.

In both cases, there arose a question of jurisdiction.

In a custody hearing in Miami on Tuesday, Circuit Judge Henry Harnage said the
question of Khalil's custody was not within the jurisdiction of any American
court.

His custody must be decided in Jordan, where the child was born and spent most
of his life, Judge Harnage ruled, and then he ordered the child returned to
Jordan within 10 days.

Ms. Pereira said she worried that in Jordan, a male-dominated society, she would
have little chance of keeping her son.

"I am very afraid," she said.

She has filed a motion to stay the judge's order while her lawyers appeal. But
at least, said the child's father, Ibrahim Shanti, there has been a clear,
simple decision.

On Wednesday, the day after Khalil's case was decided in a Miami courtroom,
Elian's cousin, Marisleysis Gonzalez, wept before the Senate Judiciary Committee
in Washington, pleading with the members of the committee to find a way to keep
Elian in Miami, where he has lived with his relatives since he was rescued from
the sea.

Meanwhile, a hearing on a federal lawsuit intended to block the boy's return to
Cuba is scheduled for Thursday in United States District Court in Miami.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has argued that it should decide the
issue, and in January ruled that Elian should rejoin his father in Cuba.
According to the I.N.S., only Elian's father can speak for him.

But here, where Cuban Americans dominate the political landscape, everyone from
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican United States Representative for Miami, to
leaders of the city's many anti-Castro groups, have swung their weight behind
the effort to keep the boy here. Presidential candidates, who have always
courted the Cuban vote here, have insisted that the boy should stay.

The Khalil case is different in some other ways. Both parents are American
citizens, as is the boy. Mr. Shanti, a clothing retailer, met his wife, Ms.
Pereira, who is from Puerto Rico, when he was in college at Barry University in
Miami in 1993.

He went back to Jordan to work in the family business and she stayed to go to
school at the University of Miami. They married in 1995 in Miami and returned to
Jordan to live.

She told the judge that her husband had hit her and mistreated her and that in
July she brought the child here for a visit and decided to stay.

Mr. Shanti, who said he had never abused his wife in any way, came to Miami in
December to fight for his child, and their lawyers presented their arguments in
the family court hearing last week.

"She got out of Jordan because it wasn't safe for her or her child," said Mr.
Marx, Ms. Pereira's lawyer.

Mr. Shanti's lawyer, Elizabeth Baker, said the mother tried to paint her client
as something he was not.

"He's a 20th-century dad," Ms. Baker said. "He was a very involved father who
did everything to help his wife out. He changed diapers, fed him, played with
him, helped watch over him."

Mr. Shanti said he was afraid his wife would try to do with his son what others
have done with Elian. She marched this week in front of the courthouse carrying
a protest sign, and was joined by 10 friends and supporters.

She went to Representative Ros-Lehtinen for help, and got it. The congresswoman
said the community should come out in support of her battle to keep her child.

But there is little chance of a public outcry one way or another in an American
city where many people consider themselves Cubans first, and no other issue
carries such heat.

"There is no ongoing cold war with Jordan," Mr. Abraham said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 9, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

PLUS: BASEBALL -- COLORADO;
Astacio Won't Be Deported for Now

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 166 words


Although he still faces a trial for domestic violence, Pedro Astacio is expected
to be on the mound for the Colorado Rockies when they open the season in Atlanta
on April 3.

An Arapahoe County judge in Littleton, Colo., yesterday allowed Astacio to
withdraw his guilty plea to third-degree assault, temporarily suspending
deportation proceedings against the pitcher, a native of the Dominican Republic.

Astacio, a 17-game winner last season, was ordered to attend a trial scheduled
to start July 5, which falls in the middle of a 10-day Colorado road trip
leading up to the All-Star Game break.

He had received a two-year deferred sentence after pleading guilty to
third-degree assault for hitting his pregnant estranged wife, Ana, last August.
Under federal law, immigrants convicted of domestic violence -- felony or
misdemeanor -- are subject to deportation, and the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service had begun the process to return Astacio to the Dominican
Republic.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 10, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Judge Fails to Rule On Fate of Cuban Youngster

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 9


In a federal hearing that could be the first step in determining the future of
Elian Gonzalez, lawyers for relatives of the 6-year-old boy argued today that he
had been denied the due process granted to all other aliens who come to this
country seeking asylum.

Lawyers for the government countered that Elian was too young to read or
understand an application for asylum and that his father in Cuba, who demands
the boy's return, had the legal right to speak for his son.

That is how such cases are traditionally decided, in this country and around the
world, based on common sense, Edwin S. Kneedler, the deputy United States
solicitor general, said this morning in a hearing on a lawsuit filed by Elian's
relatives in Miami, who seek an asylum hearing by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for the boy.

Judge K. Michael Moore of Federal District Court here, who is also considering
whether his court, and not just the immigration service, has jurisdiction in the
custody case, did not rule on anything today, and would not say when he would
rule.

It was an anti-climactic end to three hours of courtroom wrangling about who has
the legal right to speak for the boy. The judge must decide whether to dismiss
the relatives' lawsuit outright and leave the case in the hands of the
immigration service, removing a major obstacle to the boy's return to Cuba, or
order the immigration service, which has already denied Elian an asylum hearing,
to grant him one.

But that, said lawyers for the government, would ignore a principle in American
and international law: that it is the parent who represents the interests of the
child.

"Elian Gonzalez has a legal representative, and that representative is his
father," Mr. Kneedler said. "The surviving parent is the sole legal
representative."

Speaking about Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, a doorman in the resort
city of Varadero, Cuba, Mr. Kneedler added that "this is a universal, expected
norm" and that to ignore it in Elian's case could put American children in
jeopardy around the world.

With such a precedent, relatives in countries unfriendly to the United States
could keep visiting American children from leaving , ignoring the parent's
rights to their child.

"Parents speak for their children," Mr. Kneedler said.

But lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives argued that there was no age limit in
immigration laws for someone seeking asylum, and that Elian, who was found
floating on an inner tube off South Florida on Thanksgiving Day, had formally
requested asylum.

He has signed a request for asylum, "and he understands it," said Barbara Lagoa,
a lawyer for the boy's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

Elian, whose mother, Elizabet Brotons, drowned along with 10 other Cubans in
their effort to reach the United States, has said that he wants to remain in
Miami, and understands that a request for asylum would allow that, said lawyers
and relatives here in Miami.

Ms. Lagoa, one of eight lawyers gathered around the plaintiff's table, used
immigration law as a hammer to pound out her argument for an asylum hearing.

"Any alien may apply for asylum, without exception," Ms. Lagoa said. "The
statute applies to any alien, and a child's right to seek asylum is well
established. The statute is as inclusive as Congress could have made it."

Judge Moore pressed Mr. Kneedler on the way the immigration service has handled
the case, asking him why, if Juan Gonzalez is the only one who can speak for the
boy's legal rights, did the agency turn Elian over to Lazaro Gonzalez in the
first place.

"You didn't put him in the custody of the father," Judge Moore said.

Mr. Kneedler said Elian was already traumatized by his ordeal -- he had drifted
in the Atlantic for two days, terrified and dehydrated -- and it just made sense
to parole the boy into the care of relatives who showed up at the hospital in
Hollywood.

"It was a fast-moving situation, and it was a perfectly human response" to place
the child in the care of family, Mr. Kneedler said.

The family's lawyers asked that if the father was in legal control of his son's
immigration status, why was he not here in court, fighting for him.

Juan Gonzalez, who has the backing of President Fidel Castro of Cuba, has said
he would not plead for his son in what he called a corrupt American court.

In Havana, the father told the Cuban news agency Prensa Latina that he was
confident that Elian would soon be coming home. "In spite of everything, I am
sure the boy will come back," Mr. Gonzalez said.

Many people here had expected the judge to rule simply that his court had no
jurisdiction, which would have almost certainly led to the boy's return to Cuba,
without an asylum hearing.

But Judge Moore, who ran the hearing on a tight time schedule, seemed
sympathetic to the plaintiffs while directing hard questions at the government's
lawyers.

"The judge asked the same questions I had," said Jose Garcia Pedrosa, a lawyer
for the family. "I think it was a productive hearing."

As the two sides argued inside the beautiful old federal courtroom in downtown
Miami, about 50 supporters of the family's lawsuit sang and waved Cuban flags
and signs just outside. In Miami's exile community, many people believe it is
Mr. Castro who really wants the boy returned, and that the boy's father is a
puppet.

"He's under the thumb of the regime," said Linda Osberg-Braun, a lawyer for the
family.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 10, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Power

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words



To the Editor:

Re "Guess Who's Embracing Immigrants Now" (Week in Review, March 5):

Opinion polls have consistently shown that most Americans want less immigration.
But this may not matter anymore. The increase in immigration in recent decades
has created powerful new ethnic voting blocs. As the newcomers become more
powerful, native-born Americans are correspondingly disempowered.

It has reached the point where immigration advocates -- who used to rely heavily
on moral arguments -- now feel strong enough to use political threats against
those who stand in the way of what they want (which includes, of course, more
immigrants). We need to break this vicious circle now by reducing immigration,
before we lose control of the process completely.

JOHN BROCK
New York, March 6, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Scaling the Barriers of Literacy and Language

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1839 words


It is the second week of school, and Kathleen Sampson has been presenting the
same lesson for several days: "Amina is from Somalia. Somalia is in Africa. Da
Quan is a boy. Da Quan is from China. China is in Asia." She builds sentences
using facts about the students in the classroom, repeating them over and over.

This is not first grade, but ninth grade at Liberty High School in Manhattan,
with immigrants 14 to 17 years old. Unlike the high-performing immigrants who
remain a staple of the American education system, these teenagers arrive from
all corners of the earth with one thing in common: little or no education. Long
neglected, they may have come from cultures that educate boys but not girls,
their schooling may have been interrupted by war or the need to work, or their
education may simply have been woefully inadequate.

Regular programs in English as a second language often fail to help these
students, many of whom cannot read or write in the languages of their homelands.

Immigrant youths with limited literacy have been coming to the United States for
centuries, of course. But as they seek their places in an information-based
economy with steeply rising academic standards, their plight is now viewed in a
very different light. For the first time, cities are collecting data on their
numbers, researching their needs and creating programs to teach them first-grade
material in a high school context.

"The issue was there all along," said Pamela Dungy, a program manager in the
Fresno Unified School District in California, where 22 percent of its nearly
10,000 foreign-born students had less than three years of education before
enrollment. "But now we realize they are really different groups and that we
have got to treat them differently."

These students can be a delicate issue, as Herman Badillo, chairman of the City
University of New York, found out last fall. In talking about poorly educated
students from the Dominican Republic and Mexico in New York schools, he
described them as "pure Indians -- Incas and Mayans who are about, you know,
five feet tall with straight hair," and he added that Mexico and Central America
had never had "a tradition of education." Hispanic politicians accused him of an
ethnic slur. Mr. Badillo, who was born in Puerto Rico, apologized.

Mr. Badillo's point was largely lost in the furor. Across the nation, students
who are illiterate in their native languages are turning up in classrooms.

Some estimates suggest that as many as 10 to 20 percent of all immigrant
students in America arrive with gaps in their schooling. A study for the United
States Department of Education in 1992 estimated that 20 percent of the students
with limited English in high school and 12 percent of those in middle school had
missed two or more years of school before they arrived in America. New York
State estimates that immigrants with little or no schooling account for 12
percent of the students with limited English in the state.

New York City has more immigrant students than any other city in the United
States, and the number has risen sharply in recent decades. Only now, however,
is the city working on its first count of those with limited literacy.

In a classroom on West 18th Street, one of those students, Amina Simba, a
dark-eyed 16-year-old in a decorous lace-edged head scarf favored by Muslim
women, strains for the teacher's attention.

"Miss, Miss," she calls, waving her hand urgently.

Her eagerness belies the brief but arduous educational journey she has taken to
get there. Before arriving in New York three years ago from war-shattered
Somalia and a Kenyan refugee camp, she had never been to school. In upstate New
York, where she first lived, she was dropped into the eighth grade, where she
learned little English and failed to master the A B C's. Now at Liberty High in
Manhattan, she is finally coming to terms with English and the alphabet,
addition and multiplication, continents and countries.

Amina was placed in the middle level of the literacy program when she arrived in
September: her reading and writing were weak, but she could answer simple
questions in English, like, "What is your name?" "Where are you from?" "Who do
you live with?"

After several months, Amina was still struggling, so she was moved to the
beginning literacy class with Ms. Sampson, where she is thriving. In her class,
there are also students from Panama, Haiti, Yemen, China, Vietnam and Sierra
Leone. Other literacy classes at the school include students from Pakistan, the
Dominican Republic, Mali and the former Yugoslavia. Of the school's 500
students, about one-fifth are in its literacy programs.

Liberty was not set up to run literacy programs, but to offer a one-year
transition for immigrant students. But in the early 90's, teachers at Liberty
recognized that a growing number of their students could not keep up because
their previous education was weak or nonexistent. Today Liberty runs three
literacy programs: one in English, and bilingual programs in Spanish and
Chinese.

Although the only grade offered at Liberty is the ninth, nearly two-thirds of
its students are 17 or older and one-fifth are 19 or older. Not only do older
students have more trouble learning new languages than younger children, but
they have less time to make up what they have missed. In addition, those who are
illiterate in their native language find it harder to learn another language.

Burt Posner, director of high school bilingual education for the New York City
Board of Education, said schools tried to incorporate these students into their
regular programs for those who need to learn English as a second language, "but
it didn't work."

"They had no clue," he said. "They couldn't read Spanish or Chinese. We had to
create a separate track because the kids couldn't keep up."

Mr. Posner said 15 to 20 high schools, including Liberty, now have programs for
these students, but in other schools, these immigrants are still mixed with
other students.

"If there are not enough students to form a class," he said, "or there isn't a
teacher who knows how to teach them, you've got a real mess."

Ginger Dokie, a Liberian immigrant who views education as crucial, knows what
Mr. Posner means. She said that when her daughter, Kou, who had no education in
her war-torn homeland, enrolled in a local middle school in upper Manhattan, she
made no progress. Mrs. Dokie demanded more, calling the school and the Board of
Education. Eventually, Kou, now 15, ended up at Liberty with her two older
brothers.

"They say this is the land of opportunity," Mrs. Dokie said. "But they forget to
tell you that opportunity comes only with education. On the farm in Liberia,
whether you have education or not doesn't matter. Here, it is not good to be a
dummy, especially in New York. If you can't read, you're going nowhere. I don't
want my children to be lost."

Even students who say they had 10 years of school before coming to the United
States sometimes show very limited reading and writing skills in their native
languages.

"If a kid has gone to school for four years in Long Island or Westchester, you'd
assume there are certain things he can do," Ms. Sampson said. "But when one of
our students says, 'I went to school for four years,' it doesn't mean the same
thing because he may not have had the same rigor or consistency."

Mahmood Ghaleb, a gregarious 14-year-old who aspires to be an airline pilot or a
police officer, said the school he attended for three years in Yemen had one
grade and broken windows, and was nothing like school here. "Here I learn lot of
things," he said. "In Yemen I learn nothing."

In many ways, Ms. Sampson's classroom at Liberty is like any other high school
classroom, with computers on the sides, maps of the world up front and backpacks
stowed under the desks.

But there are alphabet letters above the chalkboard -- uppercase and lowercase
-- each with illustrations: lions, rabbits, zebras.

Ms. Sampson begins with the basics, including how to write the letters of the
alphabet, what they sound like, how to make simple words, when to use capital
letters. She and others reject using primers made for kindergarten or first
grade, believing that these are uninteresting to their older students. Instead,
the teachers often build their lessons around the students themselves.

In the third week of class, Ms. Sampson unfolded an oversize New York City
subway map and talked to the students about the boroughs where they live (the
Bronx, Brooklyn and Manhattan), how to pronounce them, and what trains they take
to school.

Even in gym, language is emphasized. One morning, students from the literacy
program sat in orderly rows on the floor and labeled a skeleton's bones: heels,
shins, jaws, elbows. In later classes, they will learn about equipment and
exercises.

"We realized that when our students left us, they were flunking gym in their new
schools because they didn't understand the instructions," said Bruce Schnur, the
principal of Liberty. "Stand up. Sit down. What a whistle means."

In three or four semesters, some students make rapid progress, mastering some
spoken and written English and beginning to use standard textbooks for students
their age.

When the students get to the third step in the literacy program, taught by Katie
Farrell, the focus is on preparing them to move out of Liberty and survive, like
fledglings being pushed out of the nest.

"The goal is to help them make the transition to regular high school, where they
will have to deal with big fat American textbooks and with teachers who are not
going to cut them a lot of slack for being non-native English speakers and not
highly literate," Ms. Farrell said.

She feeds them coping skills to help them through the long, dense chapters of
the world history textbook they are starting: how to preview a chapter, how to
think about questions they might want to answer, how to figure out the meanings
of unfamiliar words from the context.

The literacy program recently developed relationships with the high schools that
take its students. But the new emphasis on the tough state Regents exams is
making some schools less receptive; they fear that such students may not be able
to pass these required tests and graduate.

It is difficult to find data on what happens to immigrant students when they
start out so far behind, and Liberty has not tracked its students in any
systematic way. The teachers know that some students drop out after a year or
two. Others have enough of a start and enough grit to graduate. And there are
the occasional tales of students who make it to -- and through -- college, like
the Ethiopian boy who swam a river to escape the fighting and was captured
before he made his way to New York. But they do not expect miracles.

"What we want for them is to be good enough to stand as good a chance as anyone
else," Ms. Sampson said. "If we don't give them a chance, we are closing doors
in their face."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2000, Thursday

CORRECTION:

A picture caption on Sunday about literacy programs for immigrant youths who
cannot read or write in even their native languages misstated the name of a
ninth-grade girl in a literacy class at Liberty High School in Manhattan. She is
Ma Bich Ngoc, not Ma Bich Ngqc.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ancelmo McBean, 16, from Panama, examining a subway map with
Kathleen Sampson in her beginning literacy class at Liberty High School. Ms.
Sampson avoids using primers intended for much younger children. (Rebecca Cooney
for The New York Times)(pg. 48); Amina Simba, left, Ma Bich Ngqc and Liu Weng
Fang in a high school literacy class in Manhattan. (Rebecca Cooney for The New
York Times)(pg. 1)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 14, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Haitians Rush Beach; Some Elude Capture

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 56 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., March 13


As many as 30 Haitian immigrants came ashore today in a small boat and ran from
the police when they hit the beach, the authorities said.

Most were picked up by officers who quickly searched the nearby Hugh Taylor
Birch State Park and surrounding neighborhoods, Capt. Dave Geyer of the police
said. About 10 eluded capture.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 16, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 45 words


A picture caption on Sunday about literacy programs for immigrant youths who
cannot read or write in even their native languages misstated the name of a
ninth-grade girl in a literacy class at Liberty High School in Manhattan. She is
Ma Bich Ngoc, not Ma Bich Ngqc.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Foreigners in Japan

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words



To the Editor:

Re "Still Wary of Outsiders, Japan Expects Immigration Boom" (front page, March
14):

Your article struck a chord because in 1996, as a participant in the Japan
Exchange Teaching Program, I went to Japan for two years. I was there not only
to teach English in secondary schools, but also to help encourage "kokusaika,"
or internationalization.

Along with the good memories, I have less wonderful ones of people moving away
when I sat beside them on public transport, and of being referred to as the
"gaijin" (foreigner) by people who knew my name.

Although it has been more than 10 years since the inauguration of the Japan
Exchange Teaching Program, many of my colleagues will agree that "kokusaika"
remains an ideal, not a reality.

ILONKA R. OSZVALD
Arlington, Va., March 15, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 22, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

The Conclusion Of the Ruling On Asylum

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 334 words


Following is the conclusion of the ruling yesterday by Judge K. Michael Moore of
Federal District Court in Miami in which he dismissed a plea for an asylum
hearing for Elian Gonzalez:

In the final analysis, a well-intended lawsuit filed on behalf of and for the
benefit of Elian Gonzalez ran headlong into an equally well-intended attorney
general, sworn to uphold the letter and spirit of the immigration law, and
determined to see that a father's wishes to be reunited with his 6-year-old son
be given primacy in law and fact.

At age 6, Elian's recorded past is a profile of survival and courage in the face
of adversity and the loss of his mother at sea. His future will undoubtedly
unfold in due time, and it will surely remain a matter of interest to those who
oppose his father's wishes.

Even this well-intended litigation has the capacity to bring about unintended
harm. In light of the attorney general's clearly articulated views on the matter
of whether Elian Gonzalez should return home, as well as the reality that each
passing day is another day lost between Juan Gonzalez and his son, the court can
only hope that those on each side of this litigation place the interests of
Elian Gonzalez above all others.

From the outset, plaintiff's counsel have urged that this lawsuit does not seek
asylum, but rather seeks to vindicate a procedural right to apply for asylum.
The determination to grant asylum is a matter within the discretion of the
attorney general. She has decided the issue of who may speak for plaintiff, and
her decision, by statute and in the exercise of congressionally delegated
discretion, is controlling as a matter of law. A judicial review of the exercise
of that discretion by the undersigned has found no abuse that would warrant a
contrary conclusion.

Based upon the foregoing, it is hereby ordered and adjudged that the motion to
dismiss or alternative motion for summary judgment is granted. Accordingly, the
above-captioned action is dismissed.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 25, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Arbitration Is Rejected In Battle for Cuban Boy

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 24


The Florida relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez proposed today the
appointment of an independent arbitrator to determine whether sending the boy
back to Cuba or allowing him to stay here was in his best interest. Federal
officials rejected the idea.

The proposal came after the government demanded on Thursday that the family take
swift steps to return the boy to his father in Cuba, following a federal judge's
ruling this week affirming the government's decision to send Elian back.

In response, lawyers for the Florida relatives said an arbitration process could
begin April 3 and be completed within two weeks.

Doris Meissner, the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, rejected
the idea, saying, "Our goal here is to reunite Elian with his father and to do
that as quickly, as promptly and as orderly as possible."

Elian was found clinging to an inner tube off Florida on Nov. 25. His mother and
10 other people drowned when their boat capsized while trying to reach the
United States.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: STATEN ISLAND UP CLOSE;
Officials Decide to Release Man Who Killed 2 With Sword

BYLINE: By JIM O'GRADY

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 452 words


Juan Gonzalez, who killed two people and wounded nine with a sword in a July
1986 attack on the Staten Island Ferry, has been granted unsupervised leave from
his residence at the Bronx Psychiatric Center.

At the same time Mr. Gonzalez, who illegally immigrated from Cuba in 1977, is
facing a deportation hearing, perhaps as early as next month. But his chances of
being sent abroad are slim.

Shortly after the 1986 attack, Mr. Gonzalez, 54, received a diagnosis of
psychotic paranoid disorder, and a civil court judge deemed him not to be
responsible for his crimes. The court also ordered that he be detained and
treated in a psychiatric hospital.

Between 1991 and 1997, while at the Bronx Psychiatric Center, Mr. Gonzalez
contested his confinement at a series of four civil court hearings. Though some
of his doctors testified that Mr. Gonzalez's condition had been improved by
medication and treatment, each time a judge denied his request to take
unescorted weekly furloughs.

Then Mr. Gonzalez invoked his right to a jury trial on the confinement issue,
which was held in the Bronx in May 1998. The jury granted his unlimited release,
but the trial judge stayed the verdict and ordered another trial.

About one year ago, before that trial was held, the court granted Mr. Gonzalez a
weekly two-hour furlough. Marlene Markoe-Boyd, a spokeswoman for the Staten
Island District Attorney's office, which had opposed Mr. Gonzalez's requests for
furloughs and a full release, said he had abided by the rules of his furlough
during the last year.

That record and the jury's decision in the first trial, she said, convinced her
office that he might well win full release at a second trial.

As a result, she said, on March 9 the district attorney's office and Mr.
Gonzalez reached an agreement, to be in effect for five years. Under it, Mr.
Gonzalez would live and work at the center, where he would continue to receive
care. Ms. Markoe-Boyd said he was not allowed to ride the Staten Island Ferry,
but otherwise could come and go as he pleased while abiding by an evening
curfew.

Steve Harkavy, deputy director of the state office of Mental Hygiene Legal
Service, which represents Mr. Gonzalez, said his client had changed profoundly
since his crime.

"When he committed the act, he was very delusional," Mr. Harkavy said. "But when
he regained his sanity, he was horrified at what he had done."

As to the deportation, Alan Atkinson, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said that even if the service decided to deport him,
Cuba probably would not take him back.

"Cuba does not have any kind of treaty with us as far as returning nationals,"
he said.   JIM O'GRADY


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Gonzalez, arrested in 1986 after killing 2 people on the
ferry. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK LANDMARKS;
The Lower East Side Seeks Honor for Humble Tenements

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 508 words


Landmark designations typically reflect history's grandest aspirations: Grand
Central Terminal, the Chrysler Building and Trinity Church are but a few
examples.

But now several groups are seeking to bestow the honorific on the Lower East
Side, an area better known for tenements that housed waves of working-class
immigrants.

The proposed historic district would include the narrow corridor between Allen
and Essex Streets from East Houston to Canal Streets. The district would also
extend five blocks along East Broadway and include parts of Seward Park and its
adjoining library. In total, it would encompass 31 blocks comprising more than
500 buildings, the oldest of which date back to around 1827.

The district already includes several official landmarks, including the Orthodox
Eldridge Street Synagogue, built in 1887. But most of the structures are
nondescript tenements from the late 19th and early 20th centuries, often built
without private toilets.

The Lower East Side Business Improvement District, which submitted the proposal,
says the designation is a way to honor the area's rich history and boost its
economy.

"So many groups got their start here," said Andrew Flamm, the organization's
executive director. "It was their first stronghold on American soil. Whether
it's Park Avenue or this area, it is important to recognize that history."

Protestant families first developed the neighborhood in the 1820's, followed by
German and Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe. By the early 1900's, the area
was considered the world's largest Jewish community. The district began to
diversify in the 1920's as tides of Italians, Sephardic Jews and others settled
into the tenements and took over the shops.

Renee Epps, vice president of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, said that the
area has continued to attract new immigrants, and today included recent arrivals
from China, Malaysia, Russia, Puerto Rico and India.

Some community groups, however, expressed concern that the historic status could
cause problems for current immigrants.

"Would it hinder the area or benefit growth?" asked Huey-Min Chuang, director of
business outreach for the Chinatown Manpower Project. "I'm in favor of
historical value, but I'm more interested in how it will help the area grow."

In response, Mr. Flamm pointed out that his group was not seeking designation as
a city landmark, which would require approval for building changes, but rather
recognition under the National and State Registers of Historic Places. It is
"another means for us to promote this whole area," he said.

The proposal has the support of State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and
several groups interested in New York history. Others, including Community Board
3 and Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed, remain undecided.

"Now that the area is becoming prosperous, many of the old stores are getting
kicked out," Ms. Freed said. "This could guarantee more of the same. In one
sense, you are keeping the facade but changing the tenants."   DENNY LEE


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Most of the buildings in the proposed historic district are
tenements, like this one at Grand and Ludlow Streets. (Barbara Alper for The New
York Times)

Chart: "LOWER EAST SIDE"
Blocks: 31
Buildings: 508 (445 of them considered historically significant)

Highlights: Several national landmarks, including the Henry Street Settlement
(265 Henry Street), the Eldridge Street Synagogue (12 Eldridge Street), and the
Jewish Daily Forward building (173-175 East Broadway). The area's oldest
building is a Federal-style rowhouse at 183-187 East Broadway, erected around
1827.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 29, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Immigrants in U.S. Face a Wrenching Choice

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1777 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 28


The choice lies in Esta Pierre's mind like a sliver of glass.

Ms. Pierre used a doctored passport to leave Haiti and enter the United States
on Jan. 8, 1993, after her boyfriend was dragged from their house in
Port-au-Prince by agents of the Haitian dictatorship. He disappeared, probably
one of the thousands killed there in the early 1990's, she said.

In Florida, she built a solid life on shaky ground. She scrubbed hotel room
toilets and bathed people in nursing homes to earn a living. She married a
Haitian immigrant and made payments on a little house in southwest Florida. They
had two children, Jean, now 6, and Gaelle, 21 months.

"I have never been a problem," she said last week in the office of her
immigration lawyer, using the hem of her dress to mop up the tears that flowed
down her face. She has been told she cannot be an American, like her children.
To keep them, she has to take them to a place she still sees in nightmares. If
she were Cuban or Nicaraguan, though, she could have received amnesty.

Ms. Pierre has received a deportation order from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and could be sent back at any time, her Miami lawyer
said. Her husband, who also entered the country on a fake passport, has also
been ordered back. But their children, born here, are citizens by birthright,
and cannot be deported. So, Ms. Pierre, like thousands of other Haitian mothers
and fathers in this country, must someday choose.

Does she remove her children from school and doctors and the clean, safe life
she has been able to shape here in Florida, and take them to the poorest nation
in the Western Hemisphere, a place of mass graves and open sewage and a
blood-stained history of political repression?

Or does she leave them, to save them?

"I'm going crazy," Ms. Pierre said.

As the whole country and much of the world focuses on one Cuban boy, Elian
Gonzalez, and an international custody battle that has drawn attention from
Attorney General Janet Reno and President Clinton, some 3,000 Haitians in the
United States face the prospect of leaving their children if they are deported,
convinced the children would have a better life here, even as virtual orphans,
than in Haiti, said experts on Caribbean immigration.

"These people are stuck," said Elwin Griffith, a law professor and the director
of the Caribbean Law Institute at Florida State University. "And they can't do a
thing about it." Immigration laws do not recognize children who are United
States citizens as the overriding argument against the deportation of their
parents, he said.

In 1997, Congress granted amnesty to Cubans and Nicaraguans who came to the
United States before December 1995, even if they had entered the country
illegally, said Cheryl Little, the executive director of the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center. While they, too, faced political turmoil at home, Haitians were
excluded from that legislation.

A year later, when Congress passed a similar law for Haitians, it included
tighter restrictions and failed to include protections for those who arrived
with a fake passport, as if that was more criminal than crawling over a fence at
a border crossing or floating on a raft, immigration lawyers said.

In Miami last week, a federal judge gave 12 days of attention to the question of
parental rights in the Elian case, and ultimately concluded that the boy's
father in Cuba had already been separated from his son for too long.

Two days later, Justice Department officials introduced a new set of regulations
that relaxed some requirements for applications for citizenship, but did not
alter its stand on people like Ms. Pierre, people who entered on phony passports
and have no qualifying relative -- a spouse or parent -- who already has
citizenship or a residency card.

"As it obsesses on the plight of one boy, the government is about to destroy the
families of thousands of American boys and girls," said Steve Forester, a lawyer
in Miami who has been agitating for 20 years to change what advocates see as a
double standard for Haitian refugees.

Haitians are not the only immigrants who face this dilemma. But the proximity of
the United States to their homeland, and cruelty of the circumstances there make
their situation more common.

There are an estimated 10,000 Haitians in the United States like Ms. Pierre,
people who face deportation. About 3,000 of those have one or more children who
were born here, immigration experts said.

"Being a parent of a United States citizen is not sufficient for a waiver when
the individual has entered the United States with fraudulent documents," said
Dan Kane, a spokesman for the immigration service. "I.N.S. cannot exercise
authority that Congress has not given it."

David Abraham, a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami, said
the parents and children are placed in an impossible situation, but warned that
giving legal residency to the parents could set a bad precedent. Any illegal
immigrant who wanted a green card could just have a child, he said.

But immigration experts say that for decades, Haitians have been met with uneven
application of laws that that can benefit immigrants from countries whose
governments have been at odds with the United States.

The immigration service, which has deported more than 900 Haitians in the last
two years, is planning no en masse return of Haitians. In fact, immigration
lawyers said, because of huge backlogs, the agency will take years to
investigate, identify and consider the appeals filed by people like Ms. Pierre.
It has taken seven years to process her case.

But, in one way, that only makes her choice more difficult. Her two children are
not immigrants in a new culture. They are Haitians by ancestry only. They wear
Michael Jordan jerseys and Pooh pajamas. When she asks Jean a question in
Creole, he answers in English. Jean, who is making good grades in school in
Immokalee, where they now live, has no accent. Her baby daughter is not just
healthy, she is fat.

She has a picture in her mind of children with distended bellies who stand naked
in rainwater ditches tainted with human sewage, and she sees them drink from it
-- snapshots of home.

Here, on Sunday, she dresses her children in gleaming white.

"What am I going to do with them in Haiti?" she said. Ms. Pierre will make her
choice only when she absolutely must. A stay that has prevented her deportation
could evaporate at any time.

"How will they live?" Ms. Pierre said. "Children are always sick in Haiti."

The same questions haunt Mary France, a 21-year-old sales clerk who lives in
Fort Lauderdale. She and her husband are under a deportation order, for the same
reason as Ms. Pierre. They came here on an altered passport in 1995. They have a
5-year-old boy, Ronald.

"No way can I take him with me," Ms. France said, also speaking in the office of
her Miami lawyer. "No way can I leave him here. If I go, I don't have a job, I
don't have money. He can't even go to school." She looks across the room at her
son, and imagines him in the place she fled.

She began to shake her head, hard.

"Oh, God," she said.

She will decide at the last minute, too. Like Ms. Pierre, she does not have
anybody here to look after her child. To leave them means placing them in state
care.

In the anguish of Ms. Pierre and Ms. France, Cinette Dorias sees her future. Ms.
Dorias, who lives in Delray Beach with her husband, Rigaud Moise, and three
children, also faces deportation. But her case, like her husband's, is not so
far along. Only one of their children, Rickerson, 5, is a United States citizen.
She believes she is incapable of splitting up her family and leaving him.

"I have been here 10 years," Ms. Dorias said. "I work, in a nursing home and in
home care, and I pay my taxes and bills. We have bought a house -- the back yard
is nice -- and save our money. If I was not Haitian, if I was your sister, would
they still send me home?"

Michael D. Ray, an immigration lawyer and president of the South Florida chapter
of the Immigration Lawyers Association, said the Haitian mothers face more than
poverty, filth and hardship in Haiti, as will the children if they take them
back. One of the first things immigration lawyers try to prove is that their
clients are political refugees and try to get them asylum, lawyers said, but
that is difficult to prove.

His client, Ms. Pierre, is a political refugee, Mr. Ray said, but has not been
granted asylum. In Haiti, she and her boyfriend, Samuel Congas, were once
supporters of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the elected president who was ousted in a
bloody coup in October of 1991 and then returned, after years of bloodshed in
Haiti, in a United States occupation in 1994.

Their home, in Port-au-Prince, had a picture of Aristide painted on a wall. In
August 1992, opponents of Mr. Aristide arrived armed with pistols and machetes
and dragged Mr. Congas out into the night.

For weeks, she said, she searched for him, and even went to Titanyen, an
infamous place north of the city where countless dead, murdered over decades of
despotic rule, are buried. The rain and the rooting pigs sometimes uncover the
dead there, but she did not find him.

She had fled their house and hid with family and, when she thought it was safe,
used a passport with a new name spliced over her own to escape the country. As
soon as she arrived in Miami, she told immigration officials her real name,
believing they would understand.

"It was a life or death matter," said Mr. Ray. If Ms. Pierre returns, he said,
she goes back within reach of the people who chased her away.

"I close my eyes at night," she said, "and the men come into my house again."

Ms. Dorias's husband, Mr. Moise, was a soldier who refused to shoot into a crowd
of Aristide supporters at a pro-democracy demonstration in August 1990. He was
arrested and served five months in prison, then got his family out by plane. "I
was marked," he said.

In Miami, as Haitian-Americans are bombarded with news of Elian Gonzalez, they
are not sure public opinion has ever been on their side.

"A child should remain with its parents," said Micheline Ducena, the executive
director of the Haitian Organization of Women in Miami, repeating the United
States government's legal justification for reuniting Elian and his father.

"But if Elian were Haitian," she said, "he would have been sent back a long time
ago."

Ms. Pierre dreads the day when immigration officials order her to the Miami
airport. She is allowed to take with her just one bag of 44 pounds or less. She
has not decided if she will have to bring baby clothes.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cinette Dorias and her husband, Rigaud Moise, both Haitians who
live in Delray Beach, Fla., face deportation, while their son, Rickerson, 5, is
a United States citizen. The family's two older children are Haitian citizens.;
Esta Pierre, and her husband, Jean, in background, await word on deportation to
Haiti. Then, Ms. Pierre says, they will decide whether they dare take their
children with them or leave them with Florida authorities. (Photographs by Laura
Kleinhenz/Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. A23); Esta Pierre, who is Haitian
and faces deportation, with her children, Gaelle, 21 months, and Jean, 6, who
are United States citizens and may stay -- without her. (Laura Kleinhenz/Saba,
for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 30, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

CUBAN FATHER SET TO GET BOY IN U.S., CASTRO ANNOUNCES

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1479 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 29


As the relatives of Elian Gonzalez continued to defy immigration officials, and
politicians here seemed to side with them against the federal government,
President Fidel Castro of Cuba announced tonight that the boy's father was
preparing to come to the United States to reclaim him.

Speaking on Cuban television, Mr. Castro said Elian's father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez was "ready to immediately" go to Florida with a large group of
relatives if the United States government committed itself to turning the boy
over to him.

But adding to the confusion of the day, a State Department official, speaking on
the condition of anonymity, said American officials had been caught off guard by
Mr. Castro's speech.

The official said that Elian's father had not yet asked for permission to enter
the United States and that there was no expectation that, should he do so, he
would be accompanied by others.

The United States has always made clear, however, that Elian's father would be
welcome to come.

Throughout the day, tensions flared once again over the custody case of the
6-year-old boy. The Cuban president's remarks came after warnings from local
authorities in South Florida that Miami could erupt in violence if federal
agents tried to forcibly take the boy from his great-uncle's house in the Little
Havana section and send him back to Cuba.

"We will not lend our respective resources, whether they be in the form of
police officers or any other resources, to assist the federal government in any
way, shape or form to inappropriately repatriate Elian Gonzalez to Cuba," said
Alex Penelas, mayor of Miami-Dade County.

Lazaro Gonzalez, the boy's great-uncle and temporary guardian, continued to
refuse a demand from the Immigration and Naturalization Service that he agree to
hand the child over to immigration officials if the Miami relatives lose a fight
to keep him when the case is heard in May in the United States Court of Appeals
for the 11th Circuit.

"I won't cooperate in anything," Mr. Gonzalez told a Spanish-language television
station. "The boy lives in my house, and they'll have to go find him there."

After a meeting with Elian's relatives here that lasted well into the night, the
I.N.S. chose to extend by a day a 9 a.m. Thursday deadline to sign the
agreement, and immigration officials said they would meet with the family again
before deciding how to proceed.

Luis Fernandez, a spokesman for the Cuban Interest Section in Washington, said
Cuban officials and State Department officials would also meet on Thursday
morning. The interest section is the de facto Cuban Embassy in this country.

With the new negotiating sessions scheduled, immigration officials said they
would not follow through on their threat earlier this week to remove Elian on
Thursday morning, even if his Miami relatives continued to refuse to sign the
agreement the I.N.S. sought. The agency had said it would revoke Elian's
permission to stay in the United States, clearing the way for his return.

In his comments in Havana, President Castro said Elian's father would be
accompanied by other family members from Cuba, some of the boy's former
classmates and teachers, and psychiatric experts.

"We have the perfect formula for re-inserting Elian," Mr. Castro said.

He also said the group would be willing to wait as long as it took to bring the
boy back.

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, in a telephone interview, declined to
say whether the State Department had given Elian's father any assurances of
official help in reclaiming his son. "I'm not going to answer any questions on
Elian," Dr. Albright said.

Gregory B. Craig, a lawyer for Elian's father, said: "It has always been clear
that Juan Miguel Gonzalez would come to the United States if he were assured
that by coming he could take custody of his son. I think all that has happened
tonight is that the president of Cuba has said that there is no Cuban government
impediment to him coming and remaining here as long as it takes to exhaust the
appeals, if by coming he can take custody of Elian.

"Juan Miguel will come here, his absence is not an issue, he will come here to
the U.S., if by coming he is given custody of Elian."

But, Mr. Craig added, "there are two other players in that. The relatives in
Miami have said they won't release Elian. And the I.N.S. and the government of
the United States have not said, 'Yes, that if you come, we will arrange for you
to have Elian's custody.' Those two hurdles have not yet been overcome. The
conversations that are going on right now in Miami hold the key."

But in Miami, where many people see the return of Elian to Cuba as delivering
him to the hated Fidel Castro and communism more than as returning a boy to his
father, elected officials held a news conference to show solidarity not with the
federal government but with the family here. Their message was that if federal
officials want to take Elian away in what threatens to be a violent
confrontation with demonstrators, they are on their own.

"It is not the responsibility of the Miami Police Department to snatch Elian
Gonzalez from his Miami family and be sent back to a Communist regime," said Joe
Carollo, the mayor of Miami. "Local police should not be involved."

Mr. Penelas, of Miami-Dade County, said, "If their continued provocation, in the
form of unjustified threats to revoke the boy's parole, leads to civil unrest
and violence, we are holding the federal government responsible and,
specifically, Janet Reno and the President of the United States."

Immigration experts said the mayors' comments were frightening, and amounted to
what seemed to be defiance of a federal agency while presenting the possibility
of a breakdown of law and order.

"This is very disturbing," said Max Castro, a senior research associate for the
Dante B. Fascell North-South Center of the University of Miami, and an expert on
Cuban issues.

"If federal officers backed by Janet Reno and federal court attempt to carry out
a lawful order, the local authorities will not intervene?" asked Mr. Castro. "It
borders on the irresponsible. It's a defiance of legal authority. It almost
gives people more encouragement" to defy federal agents when they arrive here.

Immigration officials called the comments troubling.

President Clinton, speaking at a news conference, did not respond with strong
language to the mayors' decision to side with the family, saying that "whatever
the law is, whatever the decision that is ultimately made, the rest of us ought
to obey it."

Mr. Penelas, after the mayors' comments had circulated on news wires and
television, said he did not mean to say that the police here would not enforce
the law if illegal demonstrations take place.

But immigration experts said the city's politicians were trying to have it both
ways, and wondered what would happen if an illegal demonstration broke out at
the house or elsewhere between federal officials and people who want to keep
Elian here.

Mr. Penelas said the police would "keep public order."

But, he warned, that might not be possible.

"They are provoking this community to an extent that I nor anyone else can
control," said Mr. Penelas, of the government's handling of the case. "If blood
is shed on the streets," he said, "yes, I will hold them responsible."

In a day that brought many surprises in the Elian story, Mayor Carollo of Miami
said he had information that federal officials were mobilizing in South Florida
to take the boy home.

"For the last 48 hours the federal government has had federal agents in the area
of the old Homestead Air Force Base," he said. "There were federal agents
scouting and observing the area to see what would be the best way of bringing
the father in and taking Elian out.

"They did not deny that this is being considered," he said of his discussions
with federal officials. "I am strongly advising that this not be done. This is
not going to be in the best interest of our government of Miami and against the
best interests of Elian Gonzalez."

The mayor said he had spoken with Jeffrey Weiss, director of the asylum division
and international affairs for the immigration service.

A senior Pentagon official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he knew of
no plan by the Defense Department to provide a site for a reunion of Elian and
his father.

In Miami, Cuban-Americans make up almost 800,000 of Miami-Dade County's 2.1
million people. As Elian's Miami relatives continued to negotiate with federal
officials, leaders in the exile community practiced ways to prevent the boy's
repatriation. Some drilled in the street, linking arms and marching to a cadence
called by their leaders.

As darkness fell, demonstrators formed a human cross on Southwest Eighth Street,
holding candles and flashlights aloft. The police blocked off traffic for them.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Alex Penelas of Miami-Dade County, at lectern, said
yesterday that the local police would not help in the removal of Elian Gonzalez.
(Associated Press)(pg. A1); A Cuban-American woman held a crucifix as she joined
thousands of other people who rallied yesterday in the streets of Miami's Little
Havana section to show their support for Elian Gonzalez. (Agence France-Presse);
Elian Gonzalez shared a moment with a playmate in his backyard. (Reuters)(pg.
A20)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Just a Boy, and a Lightning Rod

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 104 words



To the Editor:

Anti-Castro Cuban emigres hurt the case for all immigrants when they openly
proclaim their intention to defy United States law, if necessary, to retain
Elian Gonzalez under their control (front page, March 30).

I have always assumed that immigrants to the United States, whether seeking
asylum or citizenship, were implicitly agreeing to abide by American law and to
support, not undermine, United States policy. Can we afford to allow the
anti-Castro emigres to be held to a lower standard of patriotism than
native-born Americans?

ROBERT S. BROWNE
Teaneck, N.J., March 30, 2000



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Big Issue In Miami Isn't A Boy, but A Man: Castro

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG and LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 30


Even miles away from sign-waving demonstrators who keep vigil outside the tiny
house in Little Havana where Elian Gonzalez lives with his great-uncle, talk
about the standoff between Elian's Miami relatives and Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials pours hot and quick from coffee stands on Calle
Ocho and other places Cuban-Americans gather.

In Spanish so fast that even people who learned the language in other Hispanic
cultures can have trouble keeping up they vilify Attorney General Janet Reno,
President Clinton and others who want to send the child back to his father in
Cuba. And they question -- or ridicule -- news that the boy's father plans to
come here to retrieve his son.

It is a Communist plot hatched by the hated dictator, Fidel Castro, they said.
If you are not Cuban, they said, you just would not understand.

"If it weren't Cuba, the child should go to be with his father," said Delfina
Miranda, 49, who works at a beauty salon in Little Havana. "But it is Cuba. That
kid will get nothing in Cuba. Well, maybe electro-shock treatment, so they can
brain-wash him."

Over and over, Cuban-Americans said that outsiders who did not suffer under the
Castro regime simply could not understand their passions in the Elian standoff.

As talk on the streets swirled, talks between lawyers for Elian's Miami
relatives and government officials crept to an uneventful close.

Federal immigration officials postponed until Tuesday morning any action on
revoking the boy's temporary permission to stay in the United States, which
would allow federal officials to, ultimately, take the boy from his relatives'
house and eventually return him to Cuba.

"Like the family, we are monitoring developments concerning the possible
arrival" of Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, in the United States, said
Robert Wallis, immigration director for the Miami district.

This evening, officials in Washington made their clearest statements about their
views on a possible trip to the United States by Elian's father. "We do believe
that when the time comes to transfer Elian, the smoothest and least traumatic
transition would be if he were to go from Lazaro Gonzalez's house to his
father's side," said Maria T. Cardona, an immigration service spokeswoman.

A State Department spokesman, James Foley, said, "We believe his presence in the
U.S. can be helpful to a successful resolution of the case."

Government officials had threatened to revoke the boy's parole if his
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, did not sign a document agreeing to hand Elian
over to federal officials once the family's appeal in the United States Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit had been decided.

But that standoff became less important in the eyes of Cuban-Americans here
after Mr. Castro announced on Wednesday that the boy's father was ready to
travel to the United States to take his son home.

Mr. Gonzalez's lawyer, Greg Craig, asked for a visa today for his client for the
expected visit, but was told by State Department officials that Mr. Gonzalez
himself had to apply for the visa at the United States diplomatic mission in
Havana.

"Juan Miguel Gonzalez is ready at a moment's notice to come to the United
States," Mr. Craig said.

In Miami, many Cuban-Americans said Mr. Castro was orchestrating the visit. Mr.
Castro said Mr. Gonzalez would travel with his current wife and their son, a top
government official, doctors, nurses, psychiatrists, Elian's Cuban kindergarten
teacher, classmates and his old school desk.

A list of 31 people issued by the Cuban Government today included Ricardo
Alarcon, president of Cuba's National Assembly. Mr. Castro has suggested that
Elian and his relatives stay at the residence of Cuba's chief diplomat in
Washington.

While American officials considered whether they would grant visas for such a
large entourage, Mr. Castro hardened his position, saying in a statement from
Havana tonight that the number was firm.

"It should be made absolutely clear that the presence of the boys, the teachers,
the psychologists and the psychiatrists and the specialist medical personnel
needed for the recovery and reinsertion of Elian to his family and social
milieu, is non-negotiable," the statement said.

Cuban-Americans here said they were worried that hidden in the entourage would
be Cuban security agents who would make sure that Mr. Gonzalez -- and everyone
else, for that matter -- did not defect.

"They are coming with everyone, including psychologists," said Armando Sanjurjo,
73. "You know why? To give Elian an injection and take him back to Cuba."

Mr. Sanjurjo, sipping a cafecito in front of Versailles restaurant, the nerve
center for Cuban political discussions in Little Havana, is convinced, like many
others here, that the entourage is intended to prevent any defections.

Angela Esparragera, 71, said: "He's coming with an entire court of people?
What's that about?

Ms. Miranda said that Elian's father would be "a virtual prisoner here if he
comes with all those people," adding, "He'll be surrounded by people if he goes
to the bathroom."

Among non-Cuban Americans, there was a drastic shift in feelings on the case.

"Send him back," said Marsha Raeber, 47, an airline employee. "Some people are
born rich, some people are are born poor. That's the luck of the draw. Who's to
say that he's better off at Disney World and eating fast food here instead if
breathing the fresh air of Cuba."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hanser Muniz Perrosa of Cardenas, Cuba, sits in a classroom by
the chair of his best friend, Elian Gonzalez, whose seat bears a sign in Spanish
that reads "This chair is untouchable." Below, Fernando Remirez, the head of the
Cuban mission in Washington, and Josefina Valdez after a meeting about Elian.
(Associated Press); (Reuters)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Juan Gonzalez and His Son

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words


The Elian Gonzalez case grows more tangled and charged by the hour, and the fate
of the young Cuban boy is now yoked to a destructive combination of cold-war
animosities and presidential politics. The furor is a terrible disservice to
Elian and is rapidly becoming a national embarrassment. Elian needs to be
reunited with his father, and all those involved should be working to find a
reasonable way to accomplish that rather than using the boy to score political
points.

Cuba's leader, Fidel Castro, has opened the door to a fair resolution with his
announcement that the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, is ready to come to
the United States to take custody of his son and remain here until the legal
process runs its course. Yesterday Mr. Gonzalez's attorney, Gregory Craig, said
Elian's father was seeking visas for himself and a group of family members. But
the father will come only if he receives assurances that he will have custody of
Elian while the case is adjudicated.

If Elian's Miami relatives are truly interested in the child's welfare, they
will accept this proposal, since uniting son and father is so clearly the right
thing to do. With the father in Cuba, the relatives could argue that their
custody of Elian was warranted while the courts considered the case. But if the
father, who is known to be a loving parent, comes to America, a refusal to
deliver Elian to him verges on kidnapping. It would suggest that the relatives
not only intend to defy the government but also the natural bonds that link
parent and child.

Elian's Miami relatives and their lawyers have thrown up a legal smokescreen by
arguing that the law is unclear in a case like this. It is not. As the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has maintained, and a federal district
court judge has confirmed, Elian's father is the person entitled to speak for
the child. If, as expected, further court review upholds the father's right to
be reunited with his son, the decision whether Elian and his father return to
Cuba should be theirs alone.

Vice President Al Gore needlessly complicated the issue yesterday by breaking
with the White House to support legislation in Congress that would grant
permanent resident status to Elian, his father and other members of the child's
family in Cuba. This is purely a political maneuver, designed to enhance Mr.
Gore's appeal in Florida, a crucial state in November. The point of such
legislation is to take the case out of federal jurisdiction and improperly place
it in the hands of a Florida family court. Gov. George W. Bush supports a
similar plan.

Miami's political leaders are acting even more shamelessly. Alex Penelas, mayor
of Miami-Dade County, has exacerbated tensions by saying he would hold President
Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno responsible for any civil unrest and
violence, and would not allow local police to assist federal agents in executing
any order to repatriate Elian. There should be no need to remove Elian forcibly
from his Miami relatives. That would be a defeat for all parties, and
emotionally lacerating for Elian. But Mr. Penelas increases the chances of a
confrontation with his irresponsible rhetoric.

The I.N.S. did its part yesterday to defuse the case by postponing its threat to
terminate the Miami relatives' custody of Elian, and to continue discussions
with his great-uncle. If the relatives can set aside their political fervor
against Fidel Castro and see this case in simple human terms, they will agree to
turn Elian over to his father now.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 56 words


A front-page article yesterday about Vice President Gore's call to grant
permanent residency status to Elian Gonzalez and his Cuban family misstated a
requirement for obtaining that status. Although there are several ways to obtain
permanent residency status, applicants need not have lived in the United States
for five years.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Stand Over Cuban Highlights A Virtual Secession of Miami

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1428 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 31


The last time Floridians spoke fiercely about rebellion and secession, they left
the Union. Now rebellion is happening again, as political leaders in Miami-Dade
County say they plan to defy federal authority in the international custody case
of Elian Gonzalez.

But secession, say all manner of people here, has been going on for a long time.
The battle over Elian merely shows how far it has come.

"This country is going to see now what we're all about," shouted Jose Ramos, an
elderly Cuban-American who considers himself Cuban, period, outside the house
where Elian lives in Little Havana. One of the many exiles in South Florida
whose hatred for President Fidel Castro of Cuba defines his past, present and
future, Mr. Ramos said he was ready to give his life to stop the federal
government from taking Elian away.

Such passion is expected at the house, ground zero in the four-month
confrontation between an overwhelming majority of Cuban exiles here and United
States government officials who want to return Elian to his father and to Cuba.
But on Wednesday, when 20 elected officials in Miami-Dade County said they would
not allow their police to aid federal authorities, it proved that the
politicians here would choose their own independent foreign policy over the rule
of law, say some legal, political and immigration experts who have followed the
Elian case.

To many people here, some who cheered and some who shuddered, it was a
declaration of independence for a part of the country that is, increasingly, a
nation apart. People have even begun to greet each other with, "Welcome to the
independent republic of Miami."

"This is a city that is separate," said Lisandro Perez, the director of the
Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University. "We now have our
own local foreign policy."

Cuban-Americans make up some 800,000 of the county's 2.1 million people. Latin
Americans make up the overwhelming majority, and English has faded from homes,
offices and stores. But it is the Cuban exiles who drive the county's economy,
politics and culture, and it is Cuba's flag, not the United States', in the
windows of shops, on car antennas and on the mural behind the Chevrolet
dealership on Le Jeune Road.

Many Cuban-Americans believe they have been strong-armed by the government, and
that its leaders have no compassion for Elian or for their view, said Luis
Aguilar Leon, Cuba scholar and historian at the University of Miami. "They are
thinking of justice," Mr. Leon said. "But justice is not only the law."

"It's hard for them not to get passionate," he said. "Everyone has a brother,
sister or family member who has suffered, because of a totalitarian regime."

And that, said political experts, is what drove Alex Penelas, mayor of
Miami-Dade County, to say that he would not use the county's resources to assist
federal officials if they come for the boy, and to say that he would hold
Attorney General Janet Reno responsible if blood was shed.

His language, said experts on exiles and people on the street, reminded them of
the way Southern governors talked during the civil rights movement decades ago.

"On Oct. 15, 1996, Penelas executed his solemn oath as Dade County's mayor to
'support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States,' " said
William P. Harris Jr., a lawyer in Miami.

But what Mr. Penelas and others did in front of the federal courthouse on
Wednesday afternoon reminded him of George Wallace on the steps of the Alabama
State Capitol in Montgomery in 1963, when, "in the face of a federalized force,
he violated his oath and disgraced himself," Mr. Harris said.

"I'm still angry," he said. "Everyone refers to Miami as that 'banana republic.'
First all the corruption we've had over the years and now this? My God."

Mr. Penelas said he never meant that the police would stand by if violence broke
out. "It's unfortunate that my statements were interpreted that way," he said.

What he meant, he said, was that the police would play no role in taking the boy
from the home. "If they think our SWAT team is going to go in there and take him
out, yelling and screaming," he said, federal officials are mistaken.

But local police often help federal officers in such tense situations, and in
choosing not to let his officers assist in this case, Mr. Penelas, and those
mayors who backed him, are siding against an unpopular but legal process, say
some experts on police actions and crowd control.

Mr. Penelas described the government's actions as "provocations" and
"unjustified threats." In Little Havana, exiles applauded Mr. Penelas' words,
and took them to mean that he is behind them in their fight to keep Elian in the
freedom of the United States, at all costs.

"This country is the land of laws," said Miguel Saavedra, president of Vigilia
Mambisa, an exile group here. "But not today. Not with us."

Max Castro, a senior research associate at the North-South Center at the
University of Miami, which focuses on immigration and Cuban issues, also said
the unrest echoes "state and federal confrontations in the civil rights era.
They had the same elements."

But like the people on both sides of that issue, "Cubans are polarized," he
said.

Critics of his stand said the mayor's comments, and the comments of others,
seemed to excuse disobedience if not invite it. What it shows, said David
Abraham, professor of immigration law at the University of Miami, is that "the
local political elite said they feel the laws of the United States do not apply
to them, when they feel otherwise. People who believe in the rule of law are
mystified by this."

"This isn't like some of the other things South Florida has done," he said,
referring to years of massive political corruption, police scandal, and
legendary drug trafficking -- local politicians once named a street after a drug
dealer, a mistake they corrected.

But this, said Mr. Abraham, "is the the most defiant position a public official
has taken since the days of Orville Faubus." Mr. Faubus was the Arkansas
governor who defied federal orders to integrate schools in 1957, leading to
violent confrontations in the streets, and to public dismay.

"Just as President Eisenhower found that only an overwhelming display of force
could make clear that the law of land also applied in Arkansas," Mr. Abraham
said, "it may regrettably take an overwhelming display to prove South Florida is
part of the United States."

The truth is, said many Cuban-Americans here, they do not mind if they are seen
as a separate country. Not only do they not want to be part of middle America,
they do not care very much what middle America thinks of them.

"I don't understand this country," said Marta Santana, who came to the United
States 40 years ago. She was a teacher in Cuba, then worked at a day care center
here. "Castro is the devil, and now so is Clinton."

But Miami's national image does matter, to the lenders and corporate
decision-makers who would invest in a region where bond ratings seem to sink
with every corruption scandal or sensational headline.

"People are going to look down at them around the country after this one," said
Mr. Perez of the Florida International University, who is Cuban himself. "It
will have a negative implication to those sitting in middle America."

For 40 years, he said, the exiles have been viewed not so much as immigrants as
fighters of communism.

"They've been spoiled by the U.S. government in the past. Look at the record.
They've gotten television stations, radio stations," to broadcast their message
to Cuba.

"This time the government is saying no."

Not all Cuban-Americans want the boy to stay, and even some of those who do say
they do not approve of the tactics. But they are shouted down.

Most support the hard-line against the federal government, even if quietly. "If
we were African American, no one would be questioning us," said Mazaro Menendez,
a salesman who came from Cuba 27 years ago.

Even as exiles vowed to use any means possible to stop the boy from being taken,
Joe Carollo, the mayor of Miami, said the Cuban community will not -- even as
his own constituents talk of violence -- become violent.

"The Cuban-American community has never been involved in riots," he said. "We
have no history of violence."

If the exiles somehow win, and keep Elian here in defiance of the law, it would
dismay many people here -- the anglos, blacks and non-Cuban Hispanics, said some
political experts.

"They would find someplace else to live," said Mr. Abraham.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elian Gonzalez yesterday in the backyard of his relatives'
house in Miami. (Associated Press); Demonstrators waited yesterday at barricades
outside the house of the Miami relatives with whom Elian Gonzalez is staying.
The woman at right said she planned to give the porcelain guardian angel to the
boy. (Cindy Karp for the New York Times)(pg. A9)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Democrats Criticize Gore For Position on Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1113 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31


A day after he endorsed legislation to give 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez permanent
residency status, Vice President Al Gore came under sharp criticism today from
members of his own party who said he had done little to improve the bill's dim
prospects in Congress and may have undermined his credibility in the process.

Congressional officials in both parties said that the legislation still faced
stiff opposition from an unusual alliance of conservative Republicans, who
believe the boy should be re-united with his father in Cuba, and liberal
Democrats, who contend that the bill shows gross favoritism toward
Cuban-Americans over other immigrant groups.

Some of those Democrats today questioned why Mr. Gore was coming to the support
of an immigrant community that has, in Florida at least, overwhelmingly voted
Republican in the past. Though the vice president's campaign contends it plans
to contest Florida, these Democrats argued that the number of Cuban votes Mr.
Gore might gain from his actions would be negligible.

And they asserted that the vice president might have even hurt himself among
non-Cuban voters by appearing to pander to an influential group known for its
voting strength and large campaign contributions.

"It hurts Gore throughout the country in terms of credibility," said
Representative Charles Rangel, a Manhattan Democrat who opposes the legislation.
"This legislation is not going to happen. That's again embarrassing."

Representative Jose E. Serrano, a Bronx Democrat, sent the vice president a
scathing letter, accusing him of having "politicized an issue that should not be
political."

"On a daily basis, many people wait patiently outside in the cold or heat for my
South Bronx office to open so that they can seek my caseworkers' assistance
navigating our complex immigration system," Mr. Serrano wrote. "Are these people
and others like them in any way less deserving of permanent resident status than
Elian Gonzalez?"

"For the sake of votes in Florida," he added, "votes that already belong to
Governor Bush, you have angered Latinos and African-Americans, including many
members of Congress."

The Capitol Hill debate also splashed over into the presidential race, as Mr.
Gore's likely Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, accused the vice
president today of politicizing the custody dispute.

Mr. Bush has already said he supports making Elian and some members of his
family either citizens or permanent residents. But today, in a sign that he
recognizes that the legislation faces strong opposition from many Congressional
Republicans, Mr. Bush called on Mr. Gore to press for the Clinton administration
to take action to allow the boy to stay in the United States while his case is
reviewed by a family court.

"I am concerned that Al Gore's sudden change of position yesterday may have had
more to do with the vice president's political interests than with the best
interests of Elian Gonzalez," Mr. Bush said today.

Doug Hattaway, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, replied, "Vice President Gore clearly
believes Elian ought to have permanent residency status, as well as his father
and the other family members, to provide real protection from Castro. And
Congress passing this immediately would accomplish that. It's clear he disagrees
with the administration on this."

Jake Siewert, a spokesman for President Clinton, said the president was not
angry that Mr. Gore had not consulted with him about the decision.

"We've said for some time now that the president and vice president would
occasionally differ on issues," Mr. Siewert said.

The Clinton administration argues that Elian's status should be determined by
Federal immigration law, which they say favors returning the child to his
father. But the child's relatives in Florida want the case handled by state
family court, where they believe they will have a better chance of winning
custody. President Fidel Castro of Cuba said on Wednesday that Elian's father
would travel to Florida to be reunited with his son. The government has extended
the Florida relatives' custody of Elian until at least Tuesday.

If Elian was given permanent-resident status, a step shy of citizenship, and the
family court decided he should be with his father, he would return to Cuba. Upon
becoming an adult, he could return to the United States, if Cuba let him, and
resume his permanent residency status.

The legislation supported by Mr. Gore has been promoted in the Senate by two
Republicans, Connie Mack of Florida and Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire, and
one Democrat, Bob Graham of Florida, who is often mentioned as a potential
running mate for Mr. Gore. In the House, it has been sponsored by Representative
Robert Menendez, a Democrat whose Union City, N.J., district is second only to
Miami in its concentration of Cuban immigrants.

The legislation has stalled in both houses amid bipartisan opposition, and aides
to Congressional leaders in both parties offered little evidence that the
opposition has softened. Spokesmen for Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader,
and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, both Republicans, said today that neither man had
decided whether to bring the bill to a floor vote.

In the Senate, where some Democrats have threatened to tie the bill up in a
filibuster, the minority leader, Senator Thomas Daschle of South Dakota, said
today that Mr. Gore's new position had not changed his feelings about the bill.

"I think that reunification with the father is paramount," Mr. Daschle said.
"The sooner we can do it, the less we can make this young boy a pawn, the
better."

Republicans, quietly acknowledging that the bill might not have enough votes to
pass, sought to toss the issue back at the White House, calling on President
Clinton to order the Justice Department to let Elian stay in Florida while his
case is adjudicated in family court.

In making his surprise decision, Mr. Gore -- who will travel to Miami next
Friday -- was obviously mindful of Florida's 25 electoral votes. President
Clinton and Mr. Gore won the state in 1996. And some Democrats contend that a
growing number of Cubans, particularly younger ones, are willing to vote
Democratic. They noted that the Clinton-Gore ticket won 40 percent of Florida's
Cuban vote in 1996, according to exit polls, and that in New Jersey, a
battleground state, many Cubans are already registered Democrats.

But Jim Kane, an independent pollster in Florida, said polls indicated that the
vast majority of non-Cuban voters in Florida supported returning Elian to his
father. And Mr. Kane said the number of Cubans willing to switch to the
Democratic Party still seemed tiny.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Court May Narrow Disparity in Way Illegal Re-entry Is Handled

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 31


When Alex Sanchez was picked up by the Los Angeles Police Department and handed
over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service in January, he was but one of
thousands of immigrants who re-enter the country illegally each year after
having been deported at least once before.

But what happened next has set his case apart from many others.

The United States attorney here, Alejandro Mayorkas, decided not to exercise his
authority to prosecute Mr. Sanchez on the felony charge of re-entering the
country illegally after having been deported, a decision that will spare Mr.
Sanchez a prison term.

Mr. Sanchez's guilt is not in doubt. But Mr. Mayorkas chose to take into
consideration work Mr. Sanchez had done here to help reduce gang activity in his
neighborhood. Mr. Mayorkas said the good deeds outweighed the crime in his view.
He exercised his prosecutorial discretion and dropped the matter, even though
the I.N.S. is still holding Mr. Sanchez and may still deport him.

"We were impressed by what this individual had done for the community," Mr.
Mayorkas said.

But Mr. Mayorkas's enforcement philosophy is not shared by everyone. If Mr.
Sanchez had been picked up just to the south, in San Diego, it is far more
likely that he would have faced a prison sentence, no matter what kind of
peacemaking role he might have played with gangs.

The difference in the way the cases are prosecuted is more than just a passing
curiosity. It has now become the focus of a court case that could narrow the
disparity in the ways illegal re-entry is prosecuted, potentially sending many
hundreds of additional illegal immigrants to American prisons.

This issue is critical in a region of the country where the number of
prosecutions for illegal re-entry exploded around 1994 and have come to dominate
the activities not just of the two Southern California federal districts, but of
districts in Arizona, New Mexico and Texas as well.

In the past five years, it has become the single most commonly prosecuted crime
in San Diego. In Los Angeles it has been either the most prosecuted or second
only to bank robberies, depending on the year.

The crucial difference lies in which part of the immigration law prosecutors
decide to use.

In Los Angeles the United States attorney follows the policy of applying a harsh
law known as section 1326, but he does so selectively. Section 1326 carries a
maximum sentence of 20 years for people who already have a criminal record and
are caught illegally re-entering the United States.

Generally prosecutors here are not inclined to devote a huge amount of time and
money to pursuing people on crimes related to their status rather than the
commission of some other felony.

But in San Diego and several other districts in the Southwest, United States
attorneys follow what they call a "fast-track" program, under which they file
far more cases, but generally under a less harsh part of the law known as
section 1325.

The penalties in these cases are generally a maximum sentence of 30 months and a
misdemeanor conviction if the person arrested accepts the government's plea
offer.

Whichever section they are prosecuted under, the defendants are deported after
being released from prison.

The large numbers of fast-track prosecutions represent a substantial extra
expense, but the program's supporters say it generally targets foreigners with
serious criminal records who are likely to commit more crimes. Thus, they say,
fast-track is a better use of resources than allowing them to prey on the
immigrant communities in which they generally live, then arresting and
prosecuting them.

"I think this fast-track program should be implemented in Los Angeles," said
Gregory A. Vega, the United States attorney in San Diego.

"I'm not criticizing my colleague," Mr. Vega said of Mr. Mayorkas. "But I
believe the true beneficiary of a fast-track would be the communities where
these individuals live."

Some of the differences in the way the laws are prosecuted could end as a result
of a case currently under appeal here.

The case involves Rogelio Banuelos Rodriguez, who was picked up in Los Angeles
several years ago for illegal re-entry. Mr. Rodriguez agreed to plead guilty to
a felony count under section 1326 and was sentenced to 70 months. He appealed,
arguing that if he had been picked up in San Diego, he would have probably been
offered a deal that would have resulted in a 24-month sentence.

A three-judge appeals panel has ruled in Mr. Rodriguez's favor, but the United
States attorney here appealed the ruling, and it is currently being considered
by the entire Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. If the ruling is upheld, future
cases like Mr. Sanchez's might be handled in a method like the fast-track.

Last year, the San Diego district filed 1,422 illegal re-entry charges, while
the Los Angeles district, which covers a far larger population, prosecuted 180
such cases.

Both figures represent sizable increases over prosecution rates for illegal
re-entry in the mid-1990's. In 1994, San Diego prosecuted only 240 such cases,
while Los Angeles prosecuted only 86 as recently as 1995.

The increase in prosecutions in San Diego was initiated by Alan D. Bersin, the
former United States attorney in San Diego. In an article in The Georgetown
Immigration Law Journal, he wrote that until 1994, those whom the United States
attorney decided should be prosecuted -- usually illegal immigrants caught
committing some other crime -- were generally charged with one felony count and
one misdemeanor, then offered a deal under which the felony charge would be
dropped in return for a guilty plea to the misdemeanor and a short jail
sentence.

They served a maximum of 180 days in jail, usually far less, then were returned
to their country of origin voluntarily. That meant there was no record of
deportation.

Mr. Bersin said the approach changed when the 140 miles of border in his
district became a prime cocaine smuggling route. Many of the people crossing
illegally were hard-core criminals rather than workers, he said, and a means had
to be devised to get criminals who had re-entered the country off the streets.
In part as an extra deterrent, felony charges were filed.

But the number of cases grew so huge that a method had to be developed to
process them quickly, hence the fast-track, which is generally reserved for
people with serious criminal records.

As a result, prisons in the region have been filling up with illegal immigrants
who will be deported once they are released.

Mr. Vega said he believed that fast-track was at least partly responsible for
the large decline in major crimes in the San Diego area, particularly in the
Hispanic neighborhoods where many of those prosecuted had lived. He conceded
that crime rates have been declining around the country, but he said he said he
believed that the fast-track prosecutions had been a major contributing factor.

Although his office did not have a neighborhood breakdown, overall crime
declined 41 percent in the San Diego region from the beginning of 1995 through
the middle of last year, with violent crime down 34 percent and property crimes
down 33 percent.

"The people we prosecute had been committing their crimes in the Hispanic
neighborhoods where they lived," Mr. Vega said. "There have not been any
complaints in those areas about what we're doing. This is a program that should
be used in the major urban areas in the country."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: United States Attorney Alejandro Mayorkas, above (Associated
Press), decided not to prosecute Alex Sanchez, right, for re-entering the
country illegally, because Mr. Sanchez had reduced gang activity in his
neighborhood. The I.N.S. may still deport Mr. Sanchez. (Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Vast Trade in Forced Labor Portrayed in C.I.A. Report

BYLINE: By Joel Brinkley

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1


As many as 50,000 women and children from Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe
are brought to the United States under false pretenses each year and forced to
work as prostitutes, abused laborers or servants, according to a Central
Intelligence Agency report that is the government's first comprehensive
assessment of the problem.


The carefully annotated and exhaustively researched, 79-page agency report -
"International Trafficking in Women to the United States: A Contemporary
Manifestation of Slavery" - paints a broad picture of this hidden trade and of
the difficulties that government agencies face in fighting it

Completed in November, the report is based on more than 150 interviews with
governnment officials, law-enforcement officers, victims and experts in the
United States and abroad, as well as investigate documents and a review of
international literature on the subject.

Law-enforcement officials have seen episodic evidence for years of trafficking
in immigrant women and children, some as young as 9 years old But the report
says that officers generally do not like to take on these cases because they are
difficult to investigate and prosecute. What is more, it says, the nation does
not have sufficient laws aimed at this problem, meaning that the penalties often
are insubstantial.

Two years ago, Attorney General Janet Reno chartered an interagency task force,
saying, "We are not interested in containing modern-day slavery; we want to
eradicate it." The report mentions many efforts to fight the problem, but also
many barriers to doing so

Over the last two years, while up to 100,000 victims poured into the United
States, where they were held in bondage, federal officials estimated that the
government prosecuted cases involving no more than 250 victims. The Justice
Department said it could not provide precise figures.

The report was prepared by a government intelligence analyst who was working on
assignment to the CIA While the report is not classified, it has not been made
public. Another government official who wanted the report's findings publicized
provided a copy

It describes case after case of foreign women who answered advertisement for au
pair, sales clerk, secretarial or waitress jobs in the United States but found,
once they arrived, that the jobs did not exist. Instead they were taken
prisoner, held under guard and forced into prostitution or peonage. Some of them
were, in fact, sold outright to brothel owners, the report says.

"Examples of this may include Latvian women threatened and forced to dance nude
in Chicago," the report says. Thai women were brought to the United States "but
then forced to be virtual sex slaves." Chinese-Korean women were "held as
indentured servants." And "Mexican women and girls, some as young as 14," were
promised jobs in house-keeping or child care but, upon arrival, "were told they
must work as prostitutes in brothels serving migrant workers."

Girls from Asian and African countries, some 9 years old, were essentially sold
to traffickers by their parents, "for less than the price of a toaster," one
government official said. This mainly happens in cultures where female children
are not valued. The girls are smuggled into the United States where, in a
typical case, they are forced to work "in an indentured sexual servitude
arrangement," the report says.

A Nigerian smuggling ring, the report says, citing an Immigration and
Naturalization Service case, charged parents from that country $10,000 to
$12,000 to bring their children to New York so they would have "better
educational opportunities." But once here, the smugglers "forced the Nigerian
children to work as domestics."

Some of these cases received news coverage when they were discovered. But they
are only a tiny fraction of the problem. The report says 700,000 to two million
women and children worldwide are victimized by traffickers each year. Although
the numbers who come to the United States are relatively small, the report says
that the problem "is likely to increase in the United States."

At a conference in Manila this week, delegates from 23 Asian countries called on
governments to seize the profits of the crime syndicates involved. A Filipino
group estimated those profits at up to $17 billion a year.

The countries that are the primary sources for traffickers are Thailand,
Vietnam, China, Mexico, Russia and the Czech Republic, the report says. Other
countries that are increasingly providing victims include the Philippines,
Korea, Malaysia, Latvia, Hungary, Poland, Brazil and Honduras, the report says.

The I.N.S, one of several federal agencies with jurisdiction in this area, noted
in an internal assessment last fall that agents had found 250 brothels in 26
cities that appeared to be holding trafficking victims. It was not always easy
to tell, the C.I.A. report says, because the victims generally did not speak
English and might have been even more afraid of law-enforcement officers than of
their captors. After raiding one of these brothels, the immigrations officers
generally move to deport the women because they are in the country illegally.
Often the officials do not have enough information to prosecute their captors.

Government officials said the problem is not new, but the scope seems to have
increased in recent years. The biggest reason is that, since the mid-1990's,
traffickers from Russia and the former republics of the Soviet Union have
aggressively entered the business, taking advantage of women from those
countries who are looking to the West for opportunities.

"It's accelerated tremendously in the last 10 years," said Donna Hughes,
director of the Women's Studies Program at the University of Rhode Island. She
has monitored the issue for a decade. "An important reason is that there's
increased migration of women now for purposes of work."

A C.I.A. analyst derived the estimate of 50,000 victims per year from public and
classified intelligence data, a government official said. No comparable
estimates were made in previous years, the official said, but the widespread
opinion among government officials was that the number was uch smaller 10 years
ago.

One reason for the scrutiny of the problem now is that Clinton administration
officials, including Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Attorney
General Reno, in addition to the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, have spoken
out on the issue.

The task force that Ms. Reno established federal efforts to fight the problem
meets every two or three months. It sponsors training seminars for
law-enforcement personnel and pilot projects for victims, among other efforts.
The Justice Department set up a hot line for victims, staffed during business
hours, Monday through Friday.

Other federal officials, and the report itself, say the government's efforts are
often fragmented and ineffectual. Many agencies have theoretial jurisdiction -
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the I.N.S., the Department of Labor, the
State Department, among others - but none of them see trafficking of women and
children as their clear responsibility, or as a desirable assignment because
"investigating trafficking and slavery cases is arduous" and unrewarding, the
report says.

Even when trafficerks are convicted, the penalties are usually light. In fact,
there are few federal or state laws aimed directly at this crime. One federal
law does forbid "sale into involuntary servitude." It carries a maximum penalty
of 10 years in prison. Many recent trafficking convictions have brought
sentences that were shorter than that.

In one case last year involving 70 Thai laborers "who had been held against
their will, systematically abused and made to work 20-hour shifts in a
sweatshop," the report says, seven defendants received sentences of four to
seven years; one received seven months.

"These low penalties and the long, complicated and resource-intensive nature of
trafficking cases tend to make them unattractive to many U.S. attorneys," the
report says.

Despite interest in the issue from the Clinton administration, government
officials said, few resources have been devoted to it.

"We have hundreds and hundreds of government analysts looking at drugs, arms,
economic issues," a government official said. "But hardly anyone is on this."

Two pending bills, in the House and the Senate, would increase prison time for
traffickers, provide assistance for victims and increase resources and training
for law-enforcement officers.

The bills would require the State Department to public an annual report on
trafficking and recommend sanctions against countries that are not, in the
administration's view, fighting it aggressively enough. This would be similar to
the annual State Department reports on human rights and drug trafficking. But
the department strongly opposes this idea, threatening the bills.

Although the C.I.A. report was distributed within the government last November,
it does not appear to be getting much attention.

"No one really knows what do with it," one government official said. "I'm not
sure people are really focusing on this."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

At a Bakery, Long, Hot Hours, and Little Time for Family

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 213 words


Sometimes workers at the bakery faint, but Roberto Lostaunau is not sure whether
it is from the heat or the exhaustion. Mr. Lostaunau, an oven tender who
emigrated from Peru in 1996, said he usually bakes bread from 3 a.m. to 3 p.m.,
six days a week.

"Sometimes we even have to work 14-hour days, going from 3 a.m. to 5 p.m.," said
Mr. Lostaunau, who works at the J.J. Cassone bakery in Port Chester, N.Y. "They
make us stay until we finish all the work they assigned us."

The heat is at times intolerable -- there are no air conditioners, he explained.
And the managers sometimes yell. But the bakery's 250 workers stay on: many are
illegal immigrants, he said, reluctant to turn their backs on a dependable job,
even one with low pay. Mr. Lostaunau recently received a $1 raise, and now makes
$6 an hour and earns time-and-a-half for overtime.

"I hardly have time to see my family," said Mr. Lostaunau, 38, whose three
daughters are younger than 13. "I'm off just one day a week."

Mr. Lostaunau was one of the main forces behind a drive to unionize, but it was
defeated by a handful of votes. He said the bakery's managers promised raises if
the workers voted against the union, and threatened to call in immigration
authorities if the majority voted for it.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Can Contribute

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 105 words



To the Editor:

The plight of Esta Pierre and other Haitians who face deportation sadly
illustrates the inconsistent and arbitrary nature of our immigration laws (front
page, March 29). Haitians should receive the same treatment as Cubans.

Besides, given the tight labor market in this country and the awful squalor in
Haiti, we can afford to be much more generous. Allowing more Haitians to work
legally in America would also serve as a more efficient form of foreign aid as
many send money to relatives in Haiti, while government aid is often squandered.


THOMAS KEARNEY
Briarwood, Queens, March 29, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 3, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Elian's Father Revises Offer On U.S. Trip, Castro Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 2


President Fidel Castro of Cuba said today that Elian Gonzalez's father was
willing to travel alone to the United States on Monday if officials promised to
turn over the boy and let them return to Cuba right away.

Failing that, visas would be sought for the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
and an entourage of 27 others to leave for the United States as early as Tuesday
to try to bring Elian to Cuba, Mr. Castro said in an appearance on national
television.

Mr. Castro was reading from a letter signed by Mr. Gonzalez, who was sitting in
the audience, looking distraught.

"I am willing to leave tomorrow, absolutely alone and transport myself to where
the child is," Mr. Castro read. But the letter added that if Mr. Gonzalez could
not leave with his son immediately, he would prefer to arrive with the
entourage.

The United States has been hesitant to grant visas to such a large group. Mr.
Castro had originally said 31 people -- including Mr. Gonzalez, psychologists
and some of Elian's schoolmates -- would seek visas. The new total was not
explained.

No more talks are scheduled with Elian's relatives in Miami until Monday, and a
deadline set by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for revocation of the
boy's permission to remain in the United States has already been pushed back to
Tuesday.

A spokeswoman for the immigration service, Maria Cardona, said in reaction to
Mr. Castro's statements: "Our goal is to reunite Elian and his father. Suffice
it to say, the issue is not whether we will transfer Elian to his father, but
when and how."

The Justice Department has given Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, until
Tuesday to sign a promise to surrender the boy if he and his family lose their
court battle. Lazaro Gonzalez has so far refused to sign such a pledge.

Before the announcement tonight, Mr. Castro was shown on television with Elian's
first-grade classmates, who were seated in the studio in their red and white
school uniforms.

Patting some of the children on the head, Mr. Castro assured them that they
formed a powerful "commando."

"Not even the Pentagon can handle these kids," he joked. "We are hoping that
they get their visas."

Elian has been at the center of the tug-of-war since he was rescued off the
coast of Florida on Thanksgiving. His mother, Elizabet Brotons, was among 10
people who died after their boat sank in the crossing from Cuba to the United
States.

Since then, Elian's Miami relatives have been fighting a battle, with
reverberations in Congress and the presidential race, to keep the boy in the
United States.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 3, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Cruelties

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 125 words



To the Editor:

A March 29 front-page article described the tough choice faced by foreign-born
parents who must decide whether to take their American-born children when they
are deported, often to places where there is little hope for a healthy life, or
leave them here in the care of relatives or the state. This is a cruelty that
cannot be tolerated by a nation that purports to value human rights. Children
need to be allowed to live with their parents, in safety.

There must be a way to raise children's rights above the relentlessly
bureaucratic policies and regressive politics of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

NANCY STIEFEL
New York, March 29, 2000

The writer is director of the Center for Aware Parenting.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Elian Waits Inside as Tension Grows Outside

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 4


As 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez teased a phalanx of news photographers today by
making faces at them through a window in his great-uncle's home, demonstrators
broke through metal police barricades while the police stood by and watched.

And, when an untrue rumor spread that an Immigration and Naturalization Service
van was approaching the house, demonstrators formed a human chain around the
yard to defy federal officers who never came.

The police said they would take no action until the nearly 200 demonstrators
calmed down, and then would move those nearest the house back behind the
barricades.

Day 132 of the Elian saga passed much like many recent days, as government
officials and Elian's family members again tried and failed to work out a plan
for the peaceful, uneventful transfer of the Cuban boy from the Miami house to
his father.  Talks were expected to resume on Thursday.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, could have custody of his son as soon as
he lands in the United States, said Maria Cardona, a spokeswoman for the
immigration service.

But how the actual reunion will be accomplished is still much in doubt.

Mr. Gonzalez's lawyer, Gregory B. Craig, was expected to go to Cuba tonight to
help arrange the father's trip, although visas for only 5 of the 27 people that
President Fidel Castro has ordered to accompany Mr. Gonzalez have been granted.

Mr. Craig said Mr. Gonzalez would go with the smaller group if he could return
quickly with the boy, and not have to wait out the outcome of a court fight over
Elian's custody in the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in
Atlanta.

But later tonight Reuters reported that because only six visas had been issued
for the father's trip, the Cuban government had made an official announcement
ruling out an immediate visit. A State Department spokesman in Washington said
the department had no comment on the report.

Visas have been granted for Elian's father, his stepmother, his half-brother, a
cousin, his pediatrician and his kindergarten teacher.

The Cuban government wants to send a larger delegation on the trip to retrieve
the boy, including a psychiatrist, Elian's classmates and Ricardo Alarcon, the
president of the National Assembly. The other visa requests are still being
considered, American officials said.

Elian's Miami relatives want three psychologists to evaluate the emotional
trauma the boy may suffer if he is sent back to Cuba. In return for peacefully
handing over the child, they also want a guarantee from immigration officials
that Elian will not be sent back to Cuba before the appeals process is over.

Meanwhile today, Elian's cousin and closest friend here, Marisleysis Gonzalez,
was hospitalized for the second time since Elian's rescue at sea, after an
emotional interview this morning in which she pleaded that Elian not be sent
back to Cuba.

Elian was rescued off the coast of Florida on Thanksgiving Day. His mother was
among 10 people who died after their boat sank in the crossing from Cuba.

As the stalemate continued, polls showed that almost two-thirds of Americans
questioned want Elian returned to his father.

A Gallup/CNN/USA Today poll found that of 998 respondents, 64 percent said the
child should be returned to his father. An ABC poll of 930 people found that 59
percent wanted the father and son reunited.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators formed a human chain and broke through police
barricades yesterday outside the Miami house where Elian Gonzalez is staying.
They chanted, "Elian will stay!" Custody talks continued with little progress.
(C. M. Guerrero/El Nuevo Herald, via Associated Press)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Gore Speaks of Cuban Boy, Repeatedly but Not Clearly

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4


Vice President Al Gore made three different statements today on Elian Gonzalez,
but by the end of the day it was not entirely clear what he had meant to convey.

Mr. Gore prompted harsh criticism from fellow Democrats last Thursday when,
breaking with President Clinton, he endorsed permanent residency status for
Elian. The vice president had not since spoken publicly on the matter until this
morning, when he was interviewed on the NBC News television program "Today."

In the interview, he seemed to suggest that the boy should be returned to his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. "Nobody from the start has disputed the fact that
this child eventually ought to go back with the father, if that is what is
clearly decided is in the best interests of the child," Mr. Gore said, although
he also said Mr. Gonzalez ought to first be able to say on American soil rather
than Cuban that he wants to take the boy back to Cuba.

But Mr. Gore refused to answer directly the question, posed three times, of
whether Mr. Gonzalez should be granted custody if he comes to the United States.
"If the father says on free soil that he believes the son should go back to Cuba
with him, that of course is likely to be determinative," Mr. Gore said,
carefully sidestepping whether that would be his own preference.

About three hours after his appearance on "Today," Mr. Gore's staff issued a
statement in his name that sought to clarify his position.

"Giving Elian, and his father and family, permanent resident status would allow
this matter to be handled in family court and would allow his father to express
what is in his heart," the statement said. "We need to ensure that his father
can speak, freely in a court of law on free soil. I believe a ruling by a court
of this kind, with these guarantees, would be respected by all parties."

A couple of hours later, Mr. Gore appeared on the Lifetime cable television
network, whose programming is aimed mostly at women. He said the Senate bill he
had endorsed granting Elian permanent residency status "would have the legal
effect of making it much easier to have this dispute resolved in a family
court."

Asked if Mr. Gonzalez should be allowed to take Elian home to Cuba, Mr. Gore
said, "I think that if the father comes here with his wife and new baby, and in
an atmosphere free of intimidation makes his true wishes known, then obviously a
family court that traditionally decides such matters would take that heavily
into account."

Again, he did not say that this was the preferable outcome, only that it was the
outcome he thought likely.

Mr. Gore's remarks provided fodder for his presidential campaign rival, Gov.
George W. Bush, who has made much of what he says is Mr. Gore's inconsistency on
a number of topics. Mr. Bush has said since January that Elian should be given
American citizenship.

Today Ari Fleischer, a Bush spokesman, issued a statement saying, "When it comes
to the future of Elian Gonzalez, it's becoming increasingly hard to understand
what Al Gore believes in or what he thinks should be done."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Lawyer Says Elian's Father Is Headed to U.S.

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5


The father of Elian Gonzalez will travel to the United States from Cuba on
Thursday morning to reclaim his son, a lawyer for the boy's father announced
tonight after returning from Havana.

The announcement sets the stage for a showdown over the boy, who has been in the
custody of relatives in Miami since he was rescued clinging to an inner tube in
November.

Gregory B. Craig, a lawyer who represents Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the boy's
father, told reporters tonight that he expected Attorney General Janet Reno and
Doris Meissner, the commissioner of immigration, "to take immediate action aimed
at reuniting Elian with his father."

Mr. Craig, who was in Havana today to consult with Mr. Gonzalez and Cuban
government officials, said the father, his new wife and 6-month old baby would
arrive in Washington on Thursday morning. His comments suggested that he was
able to persuade Cuban officials to allow the father to come to the United
States even though the State Department had not provided visas for all 27 people
the Cuban government wanted to accompany Mr. Gonzalez.

"Juan Miguel has now been separated from his 6-year-old son for over four
months," Mr. Craig said in a statement read to reporters. "This separation
occurred through no fault of his own and has continued against his wishes. It is
time for the reunion to go forward, and he has come here and is prepared to stay
here until he has achieved that objective."

Clinton administration officials, who have said they want to reunite the boy
with his father, have hoped for Mr. Gonzalez to come here to help strengthen the
case against the Miami relatives, who have been taking care of Elian and insist
that the boy should remain in the United States.

"For many weeks, people have asked why the father has not come to the United
States to take custody of his son," Mr. Craig told reporters in front of his
office building in downtown Washington tonight. "For just as many weeks, Juan
Miguel has stated that he would happily travel to the United States and was
fully prepared to do so if he could be assured that when he came here he would
in fact be given custody of his son."

Mr. Craig said he and the father were now both satisfied that the immigration
service would immediately begin to transfer legal custody of the boy from his
great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, who has cared for him in the Little Havana section
of Miami, to the father.

After hearing that the father was expected to arrive in the United States,
Elian's relatives in Miami invited him and his family to their house in Little
Havana to try to "work this out as a family," said Armando Gutierrez, a
spokesman for the relatives. "He's welcome in this house," Mr. Gutierrez added.

Mr. Gutierrez said the two sides should have a meal and work out their
differences without lawyers.

Fidel Castro, the Cuban president, said tonight that it was just a matter of
time before Elian would be reunited with his father, The Associated Press
reported. "It is inevitable," Mr. Castro told university students who were in
Havana for a regional congress, the news agency said.

United States officials said the reunion could take place as soon as Thursday. A
physical transfer of custody would take place soon after, the officials have
said.

The State Department has granted special visitors visas to Mr. Gonzalez and five
others. But the Cuban government had asked that 22 others be allowed to come,
including Ricardo Alarcon, the speaker of the national assembly, who is a robust
critic of the United States government.

James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said today that officials
believed that "the six visas we have provided are sufficient to provide an
environment appropriate for the child in this case."

Discussions between Justice Department officials and Elian's relatives in Miami
were expected to resume on Thursday morning at the offices of the chief federal
prosecutor in the Miami area.

Elian was rescued in the Atlantic off Florida on Thanksgiving Day. His mother
and others died after their boat sank while crossing from Cuba.

"It is a great tragedy when a young child loses a parent as Elian did during his
trip to the United States," Mr. Craig said tonight. "But it is an equal tragedy
for any parent to face the loss of a young child."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory B. Craig, a lawyer who represents Elian Gonzalez's
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, announced in Washington last night that the boy's
father would travel to the United States from Cuba this morning. (Agence
France-Presse)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Elian the Boy, Elian the Symbol

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 161 words



To the Editor:

Re "The Mystical Power of Elian" (Op-Ed, April 4), by Roberto Cespedes: In the
evolving debate over Elian Gonzalez, we learn that he is now the focus of
"mystical" religious beliefs. He is not just a lost little boy being strung out
between political rivals; he is a symbol, perhaps even a "child savior."

His life is being examined in ways unusual to most custody hearings. Somehow his
mother, who took to the sea in an untrustworthy vessel, is celebrated for an
irresponsible undertaking that could have cost Elian his life as well.

And the Cubans in Miami seem to believe that they should make decisions that are
not theirs to make. One thing this whole episode suggests is that the open-door
policy with regard to Cuban emigres should now be closed. The time has long
since passed, if ever it should have existed, for immigration from a single area
to be so encouraged.

ANN DAVIDOW
Old Greenwich, Conn., April 5, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Excerpts From Remarks by Elian's Father

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 495 words


Following are excerpts from the remarks of Juan Miguel Gonzalez after he arrived
yesterday at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, as translated from
the Spanish by The New York Times:

I hope very soon to embrace my son, Elian Gonzalez Brotons, for the first time
in more than four months. My wife and 6-month-old son are here with me. This is
Elian's real family, and we love him very much.

For the past 137 days, I have been cruelly and unjustly separated from my son.
Never has he needed his father and family, his friends and school more than
during this period of anguish that began on Nov. 22.

Witnessing the disappearance of his mother and miraculously surviving a
shipwreck is more than enough suffering for a 5-year-old. On top of this, he was
put in the temporary custody of some distant relatives. . . .

I requested immediately that the American authorities return my son. It was not
until Jan. 5 that the immigration service, in compliance with international law,
recognized the unquestionable principle of parental rights and, as is customary
practice in these cases, said that the child should return to his father.

Nevertheless, this decision was not and has never been carried out, but instead
has given way to an interminable and confusing judicial process. Finally, on
March 21, the federal court of the United States came out in favor of what never
should have been put in doubt.

It's been an agonizing experience to see my son subjected to cruel psychological
pressures intended to influence his character, already weakened by the terrible
trauma he suffered. Even worse, Elian has been put on display in public rallies
and by the media, with the intention of gaining political advantage. . . .

The telephone calls that I make daily to him from Cuba are frequently blocked,
and when communication is established, I can clearly hear my child being
harassed by adults.

I do not know who the medical doctors and psychologists are that have been
treating my son, nor the treatment or medications that he is receiving. . . .

I am waiting very impatiently for my son to be returned to me as soon as
possible, and I would like to return to Cuba with him immediately. I have been
told that I might have to wait up to two more months . . .

Faced with this new and unjust delay, I have asked the government of the United
States to allow me to get help in caring for my son by bringing here a small
group of Elian's classmates, some professionals -- a teacher, medical doctor,
psychologist -- who have followed this situation minute by minute, and a leader
from my country who has been by my side like a friend or brother, advising me .
. .

Despite what I have experienced and suffered since Nov. 22, I am still confident
that the authorities of the United States will not allow any more harm to come
to my son and family, and I ask that they understand why I should be joined by
the children and the people identified above.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Three Doctors Selected to Meet With Members of Gonzalez Family

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 580 words


Attorney General Janet Reno said yesterday that three doctors would meet with
the family of Elian Gonzalez to decide how to handle the transfer of the child.

Ms. Reno said Doris Meissner, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
commissioner, consulted with officials of psychological associations in choosing
the three.


PAULINA M. KERNBERG, 65, is the former director of child and adolescent services
at the Westchester Division of New York-Presbyterian Hospital and now oversees
the center's divorce program. That program seeks to provide psychiatric
expertise for families going through divorces, and the judges adjudicating them.
Dr. Kernberg provides evaluations of children and families and offers expert
testimony for judges and courts, according to colleagues. But the program also
provides sessions for young children to help them understand and cope with new
family arrangements and changing custody. One colleague said that Dr. Kernberg
had extensive experience dealing with the psychological and legal issues that
swirl around divorce cases, and that always put the child first.

"Her primary concern is the child's best interest," said Dr. Fleming Graae, the
interim director of child and adolescent services.

Dr. Kernberg was born in Chile, attended college there and is fluent in Spanish.
She received training in Baltimore and Topeka, Kan., and is a professor of
psychiatry at Cornell University. She lives in Scarsdale, N.Y.

LOURDES RIGUAL-LYNCH , 49, is a clinical psychologist and an assistant professor
of pediatrics at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. Dr.
Rigual-Lynch is the director of mental health services for the New York
Children's Health Project. For more than a decade she has studied the effects of
domestic violence and homelessness on children.

Dr. Rigual-Lynch regularly counsels, evaluates and works with homeless children,
said Thaler Pekar, a spokeswoman for the Children's Health Fund, which sponsors
the health project. "Dr. Lynch has worked with New York City's most vulnerable
children for the past 10 years," Ms. Pekar said.

Born in Puerto Rico, Dr. Rigual-Lynch moved to New York to attend Marymount
College in Tarrytown, N.Y., and then Adelphi University's Institute of Advanced
Psychological Studies in Garden City, N.Y. Dr. Rigual-Lynch, who is fluent in
Spanish, wrote her doctoral dissertation on Puerto Rican migrants. She lives in
Manhattan.

JAMES M. WIENER , 66, is a professor emeritus in psychiatry and behavioral
sciences at George Washington University in Washington. Dr. Wiener, who still
sees patients at university clinics, is considered a top child psychologist and
has held a variety of leadership positions in his field. In addition to serving
as chairman of the department of psychiatry at George Washington, he has been
president of the American Psychiatric Association and of the American Academy of
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

"He is an obviously qualified person," said Dr. Daniel B. Borenstein, the
president-elect of the American Psychiatry Association. "I have worked closely
with him, and he is extremely astute."

Dr. Wiener is considered a pioneer in studying attention deficit disorder among
children and adolescents, arguing a decade ago that the disorder is a
neurological ailment, not something caused by poor parenting. He has written on
a variety of issues in child psychiatry, including schizophrenia in adolescents
and medicating children.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore, in Florida, Says Nothing About Elian

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., April 7


Elian who?

On a campaign swing across Florida today, Vice President Al Gore talked about
Social Security, racial profiling, insurance coverage for contraception, even
the Microsoft case -- in short, everything but Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old
Cuban boy who has dominated local and national media coverage here for weeks.

In the span of a week, Mr. Gore has gone from issuing a statement at odds with
the administration's position in the case, to making a series of confusing
comments to remaining silent today, while Attorney General Janet Reno said she
would issue an order that the boy be handed over to his father next week.

Mr. Gore's spokesman, Doug Hattaway, told reporters here: "He thinks it's
important to let those talks happen and let the process play out, so he's not
going to make any statement. He understands that people disagree with his
position, but he thinks it's the right approach, and you have to let the chips
fall where they may."

Mr. Gore drew severe criticism on March 30 when he backed legislation to give
the boy permanent residency status -- a bill opposed by most Democrats as well
as by President Clinton. The statement bewildered and angered many, who accused
Mr. Gore of pandering to Florida's Cuban-Americans in an effort to win the
state's 25 electoral votes this fall.

The vice president then made a series of muddled comments on Tuesday when he was
asked in a television interview to explain his position, and he refused to say
whether Elian's father should be given custody of the boy.

In Washington today, Ms. Reno said the boy's father would be given custody. But
here on the campaign trail, less than 30 miles from where Elian is staying with
his Miami relatives, Mr. Gore had nothing to say about the case.

"He's made his position clear," Mr. Hattaway said of the vice president. "The
people of Florida understand his position."

The vice president spoke at a forum in Delray on the Democratic Party platform.
The audience asked him several questions, but none concerned Elian, and Mr.
Gore's staff kept reporters at bay.

Mr. Gore later attended a $5,000-per-person fund-raising luncheon at the home
here of Representative Peter Deutsch, a Florida Democrat, that raised $400,000
for the Democratic National Committee. Again, Mr. Gore did not discuss the boy.

Mr. Gore then flew to Tampa and talked about after-school programs with students
and teachers. He ignored questions that reporters shouted at him on the airport
tarmac about Elian.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

When Exiles Yield To Guilt and Rage

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 168 words



To the Editor:

There is an eerie parallel between the Cuban exiles driven to distraction by the
Elian Gonzalez case (front page, April 7) and the plight of former Soviet
dissidents recently described as rootless and depressed in the West (news
article, March 26).

As the grateful grandchild of immigrants from Lithuania, I do not mean to
denigrate the advantages of life in the United States, but one can only wonder
where Latin America or Russia would be today if more of those who believed in
participatory democracy and the market had stayed home, fought for freedom, and
invested in their own economies.

Once one abandons one's homeland, one becomes largely irrelevant there: guilt
and rage result.

Working democracy only flourishes from within. Emigration to the United States
or Western Europe is a valid solution for an individual's economic problems or
victimization by dictatorship, but it does not, as they say, "build patria."

DAVID M. FISHLOW
Washington, April 7, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba After Castro

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words



To the Editor:

With all due respect to Gary Hart (Op-Ed, April 2), whether the United States
has formal diplomatic relations with Cuba is irrelevant to Elian Gonzalez's
well-being and to the larger question of Cuba policy, since we have had such
ties since the late 1970's, disguised as liaison offices in Washington and
Havana.

The American interest, whether couched in moral terms or political ones, lies in
helping Cubans prepare for life after Fidel Castro. A post-Castro Cuba is likely
to be politically unstable, economically needy and a constant source of
immigrants. A violent struggle among his successors would be likely to prompt
American military intervention.

Unless this is what Americans want, we should lift economic sanctions (which
after 40 years have failed to oust Mr. Castro), except those directed at the
military and other agents of repression. Let the market do what it did for
Eastern Europe and set the stage for a more liberal Cuba.

FRANK MCNEIL
Boca Raton, Fla., April 5, 2000

The writer was United States ambassador to Costa Rica, 1980-83.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 10, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Signals Showdown Over Custody of Elian

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 9


Attorney General Janet Reno said today that she was determined to reunite Elian
Gonzalez with his father this week, signaling a likely showdown in the
international custody battle over the 6-year-old Cuban boy.

"Each day that goes by only hurts him, and I think we must get it resolved as
soon as possible," Ms. Reno said on the ABC News program "This Week," referring
to the boy who was rescued from the Atlantic Ocean off Florida last
Thanksgiving.

In Miami, Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, who has temporary custody of the
boy, had sent a letter to Ms. Reno asking her to tentatively schedule a meeting
on Monday in Miami with three doctors, although he complained that the doctors
did not plan to meet with Elian.

Ms. Reno had asked for the meeting with the doctors to discuss how to transfer
the child with minimum trauma, but it remained uncertain whether the meeting
would occur because Mr. Gonzalez said that he wanted his daughter, who is in the
hospital, to attend.

In two television interviews today, Ms. Reno would not discuss specifics of how
immigration officials planned to take custody of the boy. Justice Department
officials are wary of any use of force. Ms. Reno said that she wanted to arrange
a transfer that was not disruptive.

Hundreds of supporters have gathered outside the Gonzalez home in Miami in a
peaceful vigil that the authorities have said could turn violent if the
relatives resisted the government's order to turn over the boy.

That order, shifting custody of Elian from his great-uncle to his father, will
probably be issued on Monday afternoon or Tuesday and will probably set a
deadline of later in the week, government officials said.

Lawyers for the relatives have repeatedly said they would obey the law, but have
been unwilling to negotiate the terms under which they will relinquish custody.

Government officials have accused the relatives' lawyers of stalling in the face
of lawful directives granting custody to Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.
Lawyers for the relatives have said the government has not allowed the appeals
courts time to consider Elian's legal rights.

In another television appearance, Eric H. Holder Jr., Ms. Reno's deputy, said
the Justice Department would, if the relatives hand over the boy, try to
persuade the father to remain in the United States with his son pending the
outcome of an appeal in federal court.

The court is not considering whether Elian should remain in the United States
but whether his Miami relatives may file a political asylum claim on his behalf.
Government lawyers have said they are confident of the Justice Department's
authority to return the boy to his father.

Asked on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" whether the government was
prepared to take the child by force, Mr. Holder said that the authorities
believed it was unlikely that the relatives would refuse to hand over the boy.
But he said, "We will do what is necessary to reunite father and son."

Elian's father met today with the three doctors, but his lawyer, Gregory B.
Craig, would not discuss what was said.

Donato Dalrymple, one of two fishermen who rescued Elian, also met today with
Mr. Gonzalez.

Afterward, an unsatisfied Mr. Dalrymple said, "I am going to stay in Washington,
and I am going to push to meet with him again" to persuade him that "Elian
belongs in the U.S."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Miguel Gonzalez met yesterday with Representatives Donna M.
Christian-Green, left, and Barbara Lee. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 10, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

From Jumping Flea to Collegiate Craze

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 400 words


The ukulele is a descendent of a Portuguese instrument called the braguinha that
arrived in Hawaii in 1879 with a boatload of Portuguese immigrants. The islands'
royal family embraced the braguinha and had it played at hula dances and other
ceremonies.

At the same time, the braguinha was being redesigned to make it easier to play,
according to "The Ukulele: A Visual History," by Jim Beloff (Miller Freeman
Books, 1997). Manuel Nunes, one of the original Portuguese immigrants,
standardized the tuning to match that of the four highest strings on the guitar
and replaced the metal strings with catgut. Soon the instrument was known as the
ukulele -- Hawaiian for "jumping flea," an apparent reference to the way fingers
dance on its strings, although several other etymologies have been offered.

Interest in the uke was mostly local until around the time of the 1915 Panama
Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco, where there was a major
exhibition of Hawaiian culture. The ukulele and its Hawaiian sibling the steel
guitar exploded across mainland popular music.

Tin Pan Alley cranked out song after song with titles like "Under the Ukulele
Tree," "My Honolulu Ukulele Baby" and "Hello Hawaii, How are You?" Ukuleles were
sold by the millions in every conceivable variety -- pineapple-shaped ukes,
teardrop-shaped ukes, banjo ukuleles.

Cliff Edwards, also known as "Ukulele Ike," is reputed to have sold 70 million
records, and Admiral Richard Byrd's 1928 expedition to the South Pole took along
several dozen ukuleles to while away the freezing nights.

By the end of the 1920's, enthusiasm for the uke had begun to wane, only to be
nearly single-handedly revived in the 1940's and early 50's by the ubiquitous
television and radio performer Arthur Godfrey.

Ukuleles made of a new miracle substance called plastic proliferated. More than
nine million were sold. Many rock and folk musicians of the last thirty years,
including Joni Mitchell, Stephen Stills and Tracy Chapman, cut their musical
teeth on ukuleles.

By the late 1960's, however, the ukulele had declined again, notwithstanding
Tiny Tim's 1968 rendition of Nick Lucas' 1929 falsetto hit, "Tiptoe Through The
Tulips."

Interest in the uke declined even in Hawaii, but in the 1990's, younger virtuoso
players like the Ka'au Crater Boys and the late Israel Kamakawiwo'ole have
brought about another revival.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Relatives to Give Cuban Boy To His Father, Officials Say

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11


The relatives of Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban boy at the center of an
international custody battle, decided today to turn him over to his father here
on Wednesday, government officials said tonight. But later the boy's great-uncle
said in Miami that the meeting was off.

In frantic last-minute negotiations, as the Justice Department prepared to order
the transfer on Thursday morning in Florida, representatives of the Miami
relatives and Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian's father, agreed to a meeting in the
Washington area, the officials said.

But shortly before midnight, Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle who has temporary
custody of the boy, emerged from the house in Miami and told a cheering crowd
that Elian did not want to go to Washington, so no one from the Miami family
would go, The Associated Press reported.

A government official said tonight that efforts were still under way to try to
arrange the meeting.

Until today, the family had sought a meeting with the boy's father, but had
demanded that the discussion occur in Florida.

The meeting, if it takes place as planned, would end the lengthy custody battle
with a peaceful transfer that Attorney General Janet Reno had struggled to piece
together. After the meeting was announced, Justice Department officials
expressed satisfaction that the end seemed to be in sight.

Turning Elian over to his father would settle the issue in the view of
immigration officials. Those officials said they would urge Mr. Gonzalez to
remain in the United States until the courts finally decide whether the boy
should return to Cuba.

"We've encouraged them to talk and tried to facilitate from the start," one
official said. "We're happy that this appears to be an an opportunity for a new
beginning."

The first indication that the long dispute would quickly come to an end came
late tonight from Miami where a spokeswoman for the Cuban American National
Foundation said that representatives of the Miami relatives would meet with
Elian's father on Wednesday. She said that Senator Robert G. Torricelli,
Democrat of New Jersey, had helped arrange the meeting, but efforts to reach him
tonight were unsuccessful.

The development came after a hectic day in which Ms. Reno had first considered
and then canceled plans to visit Miami.

Ms. Reno has told aides at the Justice Department for several days that she was
convinced that her direct intervention could soothe the fiery passions within
the Cuban-American population of Miami, the city where Ms. Reno grew up and
where she served for 15 years as the elected local prosecutor.

Ms. Reno's desire to travel to Florida underscored how she has been swept up by
the raucous updraft of politics, emotion and drama in Miami. It is a city where
Ms. Reno has experienced firsthand the violent clash at the crossroads of the
law and politics.

In 1980, as the state attorney for Miami-Dade County, Ms. Reno saw the city
erupt in a riot after prosecutors in her office failed to win a conviction
against four white police officers charged with the beating death of a black
insurance salesman.

In recent days, Ms. Reno has spoken emotionally and emphatically at news
conferences and television interviews about her sympathy for the deep resentment
that many Cuban-Americans feel toward sending Elian back to a homeland ruled by
Fidel Castro, whom Ms. Reno has said she unequivocally opposes.

But she has also said that international politics should not block the reunion
of father and son, an outcome that she said was correct as a long-established
matter of immigration law and family values. Pediatric psychiatrists, she said,
had recommended turning over the child to his father.

Still, the possibility of an angry confrontation over the boy has haunted
negotiations between the government and Elian's Florida relatives ever since
fishermen plucked him from the Atlantic Ocean off Florida on Thanksgiving after
his mother drowned in their voyage from Cuba.

The relatives have said they would obey the law, including a court order
allowing the government to transfer custody to Elian's father, but until
tonight, they had never agreed to turn the child over to his father, repeatedly
asking for further legal review of whether the child should be returned to Cuba.

The issue seemed headed to a showdown when last week, Elian's father arrived in
the United States to retrieve his son from the Miami relatives, who were granted
temporary custody until federal authorities ordered that that child be reunited
with his father. Mr. Gonzalez has told the authorities he intends to take his
son back to Cuba.

Earlier today, the boy's relatives offered a proposal that was officially
ignored by the Justice Department. In a letter distributed outside the Miami
home of Lazaro Gonzalez, the family said it would be willing to meet Elian's
father at any "neutral place in South Florida."

The letter added that the session would be followed immediately by a second
meeting with the father that would include Elian. The relatives sought an
assurance that Elian would not be forcibly taken from them at the proposed
meeting.

Elian's father, who is staying at the home of a Cuban diplomat in a Washington,
D.C., suburb, had said he does not want to meet the Miami relatives, but would
fly to Florida if necessary to pick up his son. Afterward, the father has said,
the adult members of the Gonzalez family might seek a reconciliation.

At the Justice Department today, Alex Penelas, who is the Miami-Dade County
mayor, and Joseph Carollo, who is the mayor of Miami, met with Ms. Reno and with
Doris Meissner, commissioner of the immigration service, urging the attorney
general to arrange a meeting between Elian's father and the relatives.

After the meeting, Ms. Reno issued a statement saying she welcomed their
suggestions. She added: "The mayors have asked to me speak with leaders of the
Miami community and I have indicated my willingness and desire to do so. We
agreed to continue working together to seek an outcome that allows Elian to be
reunited with his father in the best way possible for him, his family and for
the Miami community as a whole."

Although Juan Miguel Gonzalez has said he does not want to defect to the United
States, the House Republican leadership and Cuban-American lawmakers today
invited him to a meeting on Wednesday. The lawmakers said in a letter to Mr.
Gonzalez, which was delivered by Congressional aides, that they wanted him "to
be sure that you are aware of all the options available to you as you make your
decision."

In another development, The Associated Press reported today that Elian's father
was making plans for a quiet reunion with his son and would treat the child to
one of his favorite meals: hot dogs and scrambled eggs.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Penelas, left, mayor of Miami-Dade, and Joe Carollo, mayor
of Miami, visited Washington yesterday and urged a meeting on Elian Gonzalez.
(Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A20)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Reno, a Custody Case Is Now a Personal Crusade

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


The custody battle over Elian Gonzalez has thrust Attorney General Janet Reno
into what is most likely to be one of her last starring roles as she returned to
her hometown, Miami, yesterday in a gesture that transformed a Justice
Department legal fight into a one-woman crusade.

The case has seemingly energized the 62-year-old Ms. Reno in the eighth and
final year of her stewardship at the Justice Department. And today, at
considerable risk to her credibility and reputation, she began a personal
mission to reunite Elian with his father.

Associates said Ms. Reno went to Miami because she felt comfortable in the fiery
politics and passions that have swirled through Miami's Cuban-American community
since Elian, then 5 years old, was pulled last Thanksgiving from the Atlantic
Ocean off Florida after fleeing Cuba with his mother.

Beyond that, they said, Ms. Reno made the trip to show that she is willing to
take every conceivable step to resolve the issue peacefully. They added that she
wanted to underscore the point that she had tried every reasonable approach in
case a subsequent law-enforcement action by the immigration service is necessary
to take custody of the child.

In addition, the associates said, Elian's case, in contrast to seemingly endless
partisan squabbles with Congress, has allowed her to demonstrate that she can be
what she hoped to be from the start: a forceful advocate for children.

But her trip remains a gamble. If she succeeds in reuniting Elian and his father
without provoking an outburst from Miami's Cuban-American community, it would
represent an achievement for the Justice Department. But it would be an even
bigger boost for Ms. Reno's standing, seriously depleted after years of battles
with Republicans.

If she cannot accomplish a reunion quickly, however, or if her presence only
makes matters worse, it would serve as a stunning personal blow to the attorney
general, leaving her perhaps irreversibly damaged as she enters the final months
of her tenure.

Despite her positive feelings about Cubans in Miami, it is clear they do not
necessarily feel the same toward her, adding to the political riskiness of the
endeavor.

Cuban-Americans here have said repeatedly that Ms. Reno never allowed the boy
his day in court and seemed to be trying to strong-arm the family in her
insistence in sending Elian the boy back to Cuba.

Cuban exile protesters have denounced her as a "witch," portraying her in
posters with horns and calling her a cohort of Cuban leader Fidel Castro.

Demonstrators have picketed her home and callers to Miami's Cuban exile radio
shows have mockingly said she cannot understand the situation because she has no
children of her own.

Despite the political dangers, her associates said she had thrown herself into
the case with vigor -- deciding nearly a week ago that she would fly to Miami if
the opportunity arose.

Her working style has shifted to accommodate her interest in the case. Ms. Reno,
who has often annoyed her aides by her inability to turn over even minor issues
to subordinates, in recent days has delegated much of her workload. That has
allowed her to concentrate on Elian, sometimes spending entire days riveted on
the legal strategy in the case.

In the process, her public demeanor has loosened up, in contrast to her often
pinched and uncommunicative presence at her weekly news conferences. Instead,
she has been a voluble advocate for the Justice Department, pressing for what
she has said the law unequivocally requires, the speedy reunification of Elian
and his father.

She told reporters that she had been deeply moved by her meeting last week with
Mr. Gonzalez, a session that aides said had confirmed in her mind the wisdom
granting the father custody, even if it meant sending the child back to Cuba,
whose government Ms. Reno has been careful to criticize as a dictatorship.

Ms. Reno's aides said her expression of such sentiments reflected her confidence
that she had not lost touch with the people and the place where she had spent so
much of her life.

Ms. Reno was born in Miami in 1938 and grew up in a house on the edge of the
Everglades. Her late father, Henry, a Danish immigrant, was a police reporter
for The Miami Herald. She attended local public schools before going on to
Harvard to study law.
 Elected as Dade County's state attorney in 1978, she served 15 years and saw
Miami through torrid times including drugs wars, refugee crises and race riots.

She still reads The Herald daily and has kept up with rising and falling
fortunes of local politicians. She remains certain that her personal presence
will calm a potentially volatile population, aides say..

Still, Ms. Reno has experienced firsthand the violence that can erupt at the
intersection of law and politics. In 1980, as the state attorney for Miami-Dade
County, Ms. Reno watched as the city erupted in a riot after prosecutors in her
office failed to convict four white police officers charged with the beating
death of a black insurance salesman.

But her decision to go to Miami may reflect a deeper longing that has stirred
her ever since she became attorney general, her associates said, a desire to
demonstrate that federal law can be used on behalf of children and families -- a
promise that her critics have complained has resulted in better speeches than
programs at the Justice Department.

Ms. Reno's efforts on behalf of children have sometimes gone awry. Early on as
attorney general, she gave the final go-ahead for the tear gas assault in April
1993 outside Waco, Tex, in part because of reports of child abuse inside the
Branch Davidian compound there.

But the tear-gas operation, which was supposed to allow those inside to flee,
instead ended in a deadly fire in which some 80 people, including many children,
were killed in a disaster that Ms. Reno once said she thought about every day of
her life.

Elian's case has provided Ms. Reno with a clear-cut example of how the attorney
general can exercise her power to improve the life of a child.

"She's always talking about wanting to save one child at a time," one government
official said. "Here's a real chance to save one little boy."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Voids Ethnic Profiling in Searches

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 12


In a potentially far-reaching decision contradicting a 25-year-old Supreme Court
opinion, a federal appeals court has ruled that in most circumstances,
law-enforcement officials cannot rely on ethnic appearance as a factor in
deciding whether to stop someone suspected of a crime.

In a strongly worded decision, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit declared on Tuesday that because of the growth in the Hispanic
population in this region, ethnicity was an irrelevant criterion for law
officers to stop a person, unless there was other very specific information
identifying the suspect.

While the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the United States
attorney's office in San Diego said the ruling would not affect their policies,
since they did not rely on racial profiling, some civil liberties experts said
the opinion could have a far-reaching effect on actions ranging from stops at
the border to traffic stops in other cities.

"This is a significant decision because every law-enforcement agency came to
believe race was one of the factors they could use in stopping people," said
Michelle Alexander, an expert on racial profiling with the American Civil
Liberties Union of Northern California. "This puts an end to that."

Stephen Hubacheck, a public defender in San Diego who represented one of the men
who appealed their arrest and conviction, Lorenzo Sanchez-Guillen, said: "We
quite regularly get cases where ethnicity is cited as a factor in why someone
was stopped. This case will be frequently cited in motions and appeals here."

The case involved three Mexicans who were stopped in the desert, about 115 miles
east of San Diego, by Border Patrol officers acting on a tip in 1996. The three
were found to have two large bags of marijuana, a handgun and ammunition. They
were convicted of various drug and weapons charges, served sentences and have
been deported.

The Border Patrol had cited five factors in the decision to stop the three,
including a U-turn just before reaching an immigration checkpoint, other
suspicious behavior and their Hispanic appearance.

In their appeal, the men argued that when the officers relied on their ethnic
appearance, they violated their Fourth Amendment protections against
unreasonable search and seizure.

In a 7-to-4 vote, the court upheld an earlier decision that the Border Patrol
was justified in making the stop, but it firmly rejected ethnic appearance as an
acceptable criterion. The judges said that officers must have very clearly
defined suspicions before stopping people in most circumstances, and that ethnic
appearance generally did not pass that test.

The opinion contradicted a Supreme Court ruling that said it was generally
justifiable to use racial appearance as one such factor. The appeals court
majority said it was diverging from that earlier opinion because the huge
increases in the Hispanic population in the border region required a change in
the way the law was applied.

"We decide no broad constitutional questions here," the majority wrote.

But the judges added, "We conclude that, at this point in our nation's history,
and given the continuing changes in our ethnic and racial composition, Hispanic
appearance is, in general, of such little probative value that it may not be
considered as a relevant factor where particularized or individualized suspicion
is required."

Legal experts said that it was unclear whether the Supreme Court would agree
with that reasoning, but that it appeared likely it would eventually be tested.
The defense lawyers in this case said they did not plan any further appeals.

"That's a significant change from what the Supreme Court said 25 years ago, and
though it's a plausible distinction, it's uncertain whether it's one the Supreme
Court would accept," said David Sklansky, an expert on racial profiling at the
University of Southern California at Los Angeles law school.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE MENTAL HEALTH EXPERTS;
Evaluators Are Troubled by Turmoil Around Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words


Experts in mental health who met earlier this week with the family of Elian
Gonzalez said yesterday they were worried that the boy was being worn down by
the public drama being played out on his doorstep. What Elian needs most of all,
they said, is to be reunited with his father quickly, and to see that the adults
in his world can work together in his best interests.

The experts said they were troubled by the television footage of Elian waving to
the crowds outside his great-uncle's house in Miami.

"We have seen a progressive deterioration," said Dr. Paulina Kernberg, a a child
psychoanalyst in the department of psychiatry at at Weill Medical College of
Cornell University and one of three experts asked to meet with the boy's family
by the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. "He is more subdued," Dr.
Kernberg said. "He is kind of limp. And when he is asked to greet the crowds,"
she said, he does it in a kind of automatic way.

A videotape of Elian, aired yesterday on television stations across the nation,
in which the boy told his father, "Papa, I don't want to go to Cuba," also
disturbed the experts, one of whom said the videotape was "almost exploitative."

"It's like the child has become an object for a cause, and not a child," said
the expert, Dr. Lourdes Rigual-Lynch, director of mental health for the
community pediatrics division of Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.

Dr. Kernberg said, "This has to stop."

Dr. Rigual-Lynch and Dr. Kernberg met with Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian's father,
his current wife, Nercy Carmenate Castillo, and the couple's new baby in
Washington. They also met briefly on Monday with Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's
great-uncle, at the Miami hospital where his daughter, Marisleysis, was
recovering from exhaustion.

The immigration service also called in Dr. Jerry Wiener, a professor emeritus in
psychiatry and behavioral sciences at George Washington University. The three
experts were asked to develop a plan for a "cooperative reunion" between Elian's
father and his Miami family.

Dr. Rigual-Lynch said that both she and Dr. Kernberg were positively impressed
by the meeting with Elian's father.

"He seemed to us to be extremely caring, very emotional, very smart," Dr.
Rigual-Lynch said. "We got an extremely positive feeling that this was a very
good family."

She added that Juan Miguel Gonzalez seemed very willing to meet with the
relatives in Miami and told the two doctors that before Elian came to the United
States, they had been on good terms and talked frequently by telephone.

Elian's father said he was willing to make peace with his relatives as soon as
he was reunited with his son. "He said, 'As long as I have my child we can all
be family again,' " Dr. Rigual-Lynch said.

The meeting with Lazaro Gonzalez was more difficult, the two experts said.
Lazaro Gonzalez, Dr. Rigual-Lynch said, seemed reluctant to compromise and
demanded that any meeting with Elian's father take place at his house in Miami.

"In all honesty," Dr. Rigual-Lynch said, Elian's family members in Miami "kept
stalling us and there were so many delays. Basically, we felt that they did not
want to meet."

She said that the relatives in Miami also failed to produce the records of
meetings they said Elian had had with mental health specialists there.

"We constantly asked for them," Dr. Rigual-Lynch said. "But they never gave us
anything. We can't say they exist."

The two experts said they were convinced that Elian's relatives in Miami love
him and have good intentions. But the combination of politics and family
relations, and the intrusion of lawyers, activists and television cameras have
made the situation difficult, adding to the trauma the boy has already
experienced, they said.

"The adults have a responsibility to give the child a model of the world that is
not filled with hatred and destruction," Dr. Kernberg said. "They need to show
that they are giving him safety and security and that they love him."

Elian, she said, has not yet been able to mourn his mother's death and will need
help coming to terms with that loss.

Dr. Judith Wallerstein, founder and director of the Center for the Family in
Transition in Corte Madera, Calif., said she feared that the model of adult
society that Elian appeared to be absorbing was one of "a group of people who
cannot resolve their issues except savagely, of adults who behave with passion
and who threaten force."

Dr. Wallerstein went on, saying: "Somebody has got to show enough civilization
to be able to sit down and negotiate a solution, and then together to convey it
to the little boy. Someone has to say, 'We both love you,' and in some way to
show him an example of adults who can behave with intelligence and rationality."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Moves to Clear Way For Cuban Boy's Transfer

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14


The Justice Department asked an appeals court in Atlanta today to lift an
emergency injunction and give federal law-enforcement officials the power to
reunite Elian Gonzalez with his father.

If the federal court cancels an order issued on Thursday that blocked the
child's transfer, the government will be free to take him from his Miami
relatives and allow the father to return home to Cuba with him.

The swirl of legal maneuvering took place as hope for a settlement dwindled.
Today, Elian's Miami relatives showed no sign that they would soften their
determination to keep the boy even as immigration officials wrote to Lazaro
Gonzalez, the child's great-uncle, reminding him that his legal authority over
the child ended on Thursday at 2 p.m., when he was ordered to take Elian to the
authorities at an airport north of Miami.

Tonight, in a brief filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit, in Atlanta, the Miami relatives said that they had been denied an
opportunity to show in court why Elian should remain in the United States. They
said they had evidence that "Elian confronts serious psychological injury if he
is removed from his home with Marisleysis and taken to Cuba." Marisleysis is Mr.
Gonzalez's daughter.

Separately, the relatives made public an uncorroborated affidavit from Orlando
Rodriguez, a neighbor of Elian's father in Cuba, which said that the father
mistreated his former wife, who drowned in the attempt to flee Cuba with Elian
last November. It said that he had "personal knowledge" of Juan Miguel's
mistreating his former wife, Elian's late mother, Elizabet Brotons.

The affidavit said Mr. Rodriguez saw the father hit Ms. Brotons "to the point
she went to the hospital" and that similar acts were inflicted on his son. The
relatives said two other witnesses could submit sealed affidavits about such
behavior by Elian's father.

At the Justice Department a mood of grim resolve replaced the disappointment
over Attorney General Janet Reno's fruitless trip to Miami on Wednesday to talk
the relatives into giving up the boy. Officials said Ms. Reno was at last
resigned to taking the step she struggled to avoid: a tactical law-enforcement
operation to remove the child from Miami forcibly.

The officials said Ms. Reno had quietly met law-enforcement officials in
Washington and Miami to discuss the operation.

They said she alone would choose the timing and nature of the action, adding
that it was likely to be carried out using a minimum of force at a time of day
when demonstrators were not likely to be massed in the Little Havana
neighborhood.

Other officials said it was possible that Ms. Reno would delay a tactical
operation until next week.

"As soon as it is clear that there is no injunction, the government will move to
implement its enforcement action to enforce our order," an immigration official
said today.

Today, downpours reduced the number of demonstrators outside the home of Mr.
Gonzalez from the thousands who marched in the streets on Thursday to about 150
people, some of whom sang songs about Elian during their soggy vigil.

The Justice Department filed its brief with the court in Atlanta. A judge on the
panel had issued a temporary order that prevented the government from
transferring Elian to his father and blocked the boy's return with his father to
Cuba. Mr. Gonzalez is now waiting in Washington for a reunion with his son.

The Justice Department brief said, "It is very important to Elian's long-term
well-being that Elian be transferred to his father's care as soon as possible,
that the transfer be unambiguous, that his care-givers since his arrival in the
United States prepare him for and participate in the transfer in a supportive
manner and that the transfer occur at a neutral location."

The brief said that Ms. Reno and the immigration commissioner, Doris Meissner,
"have gone to extraordinary lengths" to obtain the cooperation of Elian's Miami
relatives in the last week. But, the legal paper argued, the relatives had
refused to obey lawful government directives.

The Justice Department's filing said that if the relatives surrendered the child
the government would use its authority to keep Elian in the United States while
the appellate court considered the relatives' appeal of a decision by a federal
district judge in Miami, who ruled that the government could allow the child to
return to Cuba with his father.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Courts' Only Question: Who Speaks for Boy?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 943 words


The legal battle over Elian Gonzalez turns on a narrow question of law that
makes the political fight over whether the boy should be reared under communism
virtually irrelevant to the courts.

That question is who has the power to make decisions for the 6-year-old child in
deciding whether to seek political asylum in this country, legal experts said
yesterday.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, has said he does not want to seek asylum
for Elian, but the boy's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez filed an application in the
boy's name on Dec. 10. He then sued the federal government after immigration
officials refused to accept the application.

"The issue is who speaks for the child," said Linda Silberman, a professor at
New York University Law School and an expert on international child custody
issues.

"In this country," Professor Silberman said, "we treat family relationships as
sacred. We don't go looking at whether people are poor, at what people's
political views are, and we only intervene in a family when there is a very high
threshold of proof that a child is in danger."

The case centering on the asylum issue reached the United States Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, after a decision in federal court in
Miami went against the boy's Miami relatives.

It was in the suit that a judge on the appeals court issued a temporary order on
Thursday barring Elian's father from taking the boy back to Cuba until the full
court could review a request by the Miami relatives to keep Elian in the United
States while the court considers their case.

Most other issues that have been discussed and debated in the case -- including
the question of what is in Elian's "best interests" -- are peripheral and are
expected to be swept aside as the appeals court begins its examination of the
case, legal experts said yesterday.

Lazaro Gonzalez is contesting a ruling in favor of the federal government and
the father by a Federal district judge in Miami, K. Michael Moore, in March.
Judge Moore ruled that immigration officials had the power to decide as they did
this winter that the father, not the great-uncle, spoke for Elian.

The father had told immigration officials in Havana in December, "He should be
returned immediately to me."

The immigration officials' decision, Judge Moore said, was based in part on two
interviews they conducted with Mr. Gonzalez in Cuba in December. The officials
found no evidence that Mr. Gonzalez was an abusive father, he said, which would
be a ground to deprive him of the presumption that he speaks for his son.

Judge Moore said Congress had given immigration officials sweeping powers to
make such decisions and had sharply limited courts' power to review those
decisions. Only when immigration officials abuse their discretion, for example,
by making decisions that have no basis in fact, can courts overturn the rulings.
The judge held that in Elian's case there was no abuse of discretion by
immigration officials.

Among other things, the Miami relatives have asserted that the father cannot
speak freely because he is under the control of the government of Fidel Castro.
When they met the father in Cuba, the American officials tried to assess whether
he was able to answer freely by giving him written questionnaires.

He answered that he was offended that the Miami relatives were "questioning my
paternity rights." The Miami relatives have said such answers cannot have been
freely made because the Castro government is authoritarian.

Legal experts said it was standard in cases of small children for their parents
to speak for them.

"A bedrock principle of the Constitution is that strangers and even relatives
have no right to interfere with a parent's right to custody of his or her
child," said Michael R. Masinter, a professor of constitutional law at Nova
Southeastern University Law Center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Lawyers said there was no absolute age when children were considered able to
make decisions like whether they would seek asylum. In one much-publicized case
in 1980, a Ukrainian immigrant, Walter Polovchak, was considered old enough to
seek asylum at age 12, even though his parents wanted him to return to Ukraine.
But the experts said they knew of no case where a child as young as 6 was
considered mature enough.

Lawyers said yesterday that the legal posture of Elian's case had been confused
in public commentary about it.

Supporters of the Miami relatives, for example, have advocated that the
decisions concerning Elian should be handled by a Florida family court, where
Lazaro Gonzalez first went to try to win custody of Elian. They have said that
is because a family court judge would consider the "best interests of the
child," a legal standard typically applied in state courts when there is a
contest over the custody of a child between parents.

That position gained support in early January when a Miami-Dade Circuit Court
judge, Rosa Rodriguez, issued an order in favor of the Miami relatives. But this
week, a new judge in the Miami-Dade case, Jennifer Bailey, said the boy's
great-uncle had no legal standing even to raise the question of what would be in
Elian's best interest.

Judge Bailey also said the immigration official's decision to defer to Elian's
father's wishes superseded any state court power in the case.

Further confusing the legal picture, a lawyer for the Miami relatives filed a
separate suit yesterday in Federal District Court in Washington, asking the
court to bar Elian's return to Cuba unless government officials could certify
that the Castro government would not violate his human rights.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstrator's sign at the home of Elian Gonzalez showed
Attorney General Janet Reno saying, "Clinton requests not to brainwash the
child," and Fidel Castro replying, "As long as he doesn't speak English."
(Reuters)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

10 More Convictions Reversed in Scandal

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 14


A judge has reversed 10 more convictions tainted by the widening police
corruption scandal, and lawyers said they would seek federal help for those
whose criminal records caused them to be deported.

The ruling on Thursday brings to 60 the number of convictions overturned at the
request of prosecutors because the cases involved Los Angeles officers under
investigation on suspicion of framing, beating and shooting innocent people.

Two dozen officers have quit, been fired or been relieved of duty as a result of
the scandal, which is focused on the department's Rampart station.

Defense lawyers said they would seek help from Attorney General Janet Reno for
people who were deported after wrongful convictions.

Among those deported was Israel Cid, a legal resident before his arrest who now
lives in Mexico. Mr. Cid, 24, was reared in the United States, his lawyer,
Gregory Moreno, said.

Prosecutors said an officer lied about seeing Mr. Cid with a handgun, a
probation violation that brought him two years in prison and deportation.

Each case will be looked at individually to see whether the defendants should be
allowed back into the United States, said a spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Sharon Gavin.

Most defendants in the drug and weapons cases pleaded guilty and received
sentences ranging from probation to four years in prison.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 19, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Doctor Sees Mental Abuse of Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 18


A pediatrician who is advising the United States government on the Elian
Gonzalez custody standoff said the 6-year-old was being psychologically abused
in the home of his Miami relatives and should be immediately removed from the
home.

"We think the child should be rescued," said the pediatrician, Irwin Redlener,
who helped the Immigration and Naturalization Service pick the mental health
experts who met last week with Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

In a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno and Doris M. Meissner, the head of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, he wrote that Elian was being
"horrendously exploited in this bizarre and destructive ambiance."

And the situation is worsening daily, wrote Dr. Redlener, a professor of
pediatrics at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and president and director of
community pediatrics at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore in New York.

Dr. Redlener, an unpaid adviser to the government, was especially critical of a
home video taped by the relatives last week and broadcast by a Spanish language
television station here, in which Elian told his father that he did not want to
go back with him to Cuba.

The image of Elian, occasionally glancing off to the side as if for approval or
instructions, and sounding rehearsed, "looked exactly like what we might see in
a hostage situation," Dr. Redlener wrote.

But lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives said the pediatrician, as well as the
mental health experts the government sent to meet with Lazaro Gonzalez, never
talked to the child.

Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, one of the family's lawyers, said the pediatrician's
comments were "absurd."

Last week, psychologists who were invited into the home by the Miami family said
that taking Elian from the home would traumatize him.

But Dr. Redlener wrote that the situation is worsening for the boy as the
standoff has become more vicious and heated.

Around the country, other experts on pediatric medicine and mental health agreed
that the emotionally charged situation was destructive to the child. But in
Miami, Dr. Redlener's letter was denounced by the Cuban Pediatric Society in
exile.

Dr. Redlener's letter came as both sides in this case waited for a ruling from
the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, on an
emergency stay that would keep Elian in the United States until a full hearing
of an appeal of his case on May 11.

Elsewhere, the Elian saga became even stranger. Mayor Joe Carollo of Miami
traveled to Washington to accuse Cuban diplomats there of beating Cuban-American
protesters who had demonstrated outside the Cuban Interests Section last week.

The demonstrators said they were attacked by several men from inside the
Interests Section, who beat and kicked them. Mayor Carollo said Ms. Reno had
promised him that she would investigate the incident.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Joe Carollo of Miami, left, yesterday at a news conference
in Washington, with Jorge Rodriguez, second from right, and Ignacio Cordova, who
held photographs of Elian Gonzalez. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 20, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Excerpts From Appeals Court Ruling Barring Boy's Removal From the U.S.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1507 words


Following are excerpts from the ruling today by the United States Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta that extended a court order keeping
Elian Gonzalez in the United States:

Elian Gonzalez ("plaintiff"), a 6-year-old child from Cuba, has made his way to
the United States. Plaintiff, as an alien, submitted an application for asylum
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. His father asked, in effect, that
the application be withdrawn. After an investigation, the I.N.S. -- deciding
that plaintiff could not apply for asylum himself and that under the
circumstances, only his father could seek asylum on plaintiff's behalf --
concluded that there was no reason not to honor the father's request and,
accordingly, refused to consider plaintiff's application. Plaintiff then brought
suit in Federal District Court challenging on several grounds the I.N.S.'s
refusal to consider his application. The district court rejected plaintiff's
claims.

Plaintiff has appealed the district court's decision to this court. His appeal
is scheduled to be argued orally next month. Plaintiff, however, now moves for
an injunction "to preclude plaintiff's physical removal from the jurisdiction of
the United States during the pendency of this appeal." We conclude that
plaintiff is entitled to such an injunction and grant the motion.

In considering a motion for injunction pending appeal, we examine four factors:
(1) whether the movant is likely to prevail on the merits of his appeal; (2)
whether, if we do not issue an injunction, the movant will suffer irreparable
harm; (3) whether, if we issue an injunction, any other party will suffer
substantial harm; and (4) whether an injunction would serve the public interest.
Although the first factor is generally the most important, the movant need not
always show that he probably will succeed on the merits of his appeal. Instead,
where the "balance of the equities weighs heavily in favor of granting the
injunction " the movant need only show a "substantial case on the merits."

In this case, the balance of the equities weighs heavily in favor of enjoining
the removal of plaintiff from the United States pending appeal. And plaintiff
has made a "substantial case on the merits" of his appeal.

1. Balance of the Equities

The equities, in this case, weigh heavily in favor of issuing an injunction
pending appeal. Apart from concern about what might happen to this child if he
is returned to Cuba (which we do not address), if plaintiff leaves the United
States during the pendency of his appeal, his case will likely become moot. Our
failure to issue an injunction pending appeal, therefore, could strip the court
of jurisdiction over this case and deprive plaintiff forever of something of
great value: his day in a court of law. That circumstance alone presents a
significant risk of irreparable harm to plaintiff.

In addition, we doubt that an injunction would harm the I.N.S. Plaintiff has
been in the United States for nearly five months. The I.N.S. refused to consider
plaintiff's application for asylum more than three months ago. The I.N.S.,
however, has not sought to remove plaintiff in the meantime from the United
States. The suggestion that an injunction pending appeal, prohibiting the
removal of plaintiff from the United States until plaintiff's expedited appeal
is decided on the merits, will harm the I.N.S. is not compelling. . . .

2. Substantial Case on the Merits

This case is mainly about statutory construction and the proper exercise of
executive discretion. Among other things, we must ultimately decide what
Congress meant when it said:

Any alien who is physically present in the United States or who arrives in the
United States . . . irrespective of such alien's status, may apply for asylum in
accordance with this section or, where applicable, Section 1225(b) of this
title.

Plaintiff argues that the I.N.S.'s refusal even to consider his application
violates United States Code Section 1158(a). The I.N.S. contends that, because
plaintiff is a 6-year-old child, he is incompetent to submit an application on
his own behalf and that, on the facts of this case, he must have his father
submit the application for him. Because his father did not do so, the I.N.S.
contends that plaintiff never actually applied for asylum and that, therefore,
no application exists for its consideration. Even accepting as we do the
principles of deference set out in Chevron v. Natural Resources Defense Council,
we at this time have doubt, in the light of the record and plaintiff's arguments
on appeal, about the correctness of the I.N.S.'s interpretation of Section 1158.

In considering an agency's interpretation of a statute, we first must examine
the plain meaning of the pertinent statutory language: "If the intent of
Congress is clear, that is the end of the matter; for the court, as well as the
agency, must give effect to the unambiguously expressed intent of Congress." The
statute in this case seems pretty clear. Section 1158(a)(1) provides that "any
alien . . . irrespective of such alien's status, may apply for asylum."
Plaintiff appears to come within the meaning of "any alien." And the statute
plainly says that such an alien "may apply for asylum." We, therefore, question
the proposition that, as a matter of law, plaintiff (unless his father consents)
cannot exercise the statutory right to apply for asylum. . . .

The I.N.S. has not pointed to (nor have we found) statutory, regulatory or
guideline provisions which place an age-based restriction on an alien's ability
to apply for asylum. And we have found no pre-existing requirement that a minor,
in submitting an asylum application, must act through the representative
selected by the I.N.S.

Not only does it appear that plaintiff might be entitled to apply personally for
asylum, it appears that he did so. According to the record, plaintiff --
although a young child -- has expressed a wish that he not be returned to Cuba.
He personally signed an application for asylum. Plaintiff's cousin, Marisleysis
Gonzalez, notified the I.N.S. that plaintiff said he did not want to go back to
Cuba. And it appears that never have I.N.S. officials attempted to interview
plaintiff about his own wishes.

Even if the I.N.S. is correct that plaintiff needs an adult legal representative
for his asylum application, it is not clear that the I.N.S., in finding
plaintiff's father to be the only proper representative, considered all of the
relevant factors -- particularly the child's separate and independent interests
in seeking asylum. It does not appear that the I.N.S. ever spoke to or
interviewed plaintiff before making this determination. And Lazaro Gonzalez,
plaintiff's great-uncle, is no stranger to plaintiff. The I.N.S. placed
plaintiff in Lazaro's care upon plaintiff's arrival in this country, and Lazaro
is a blood relative. When Lazaro submitted applications for asylum on
plaintiff's behalf, Lazaro was the I.N.S.'s designated representative to take
care of plaintiff and to ensure his well-being. Lazaro's interests, to say the
least, are not obviously hostile to plaintiff's interests. So, for now, we
remain unconvinced that the asylum application submitted by Lazaro on behalf of
plaintiff necessarily was ineffectual under the law.

For these reasons and in these circumstances, we believe that plaintiff has
presented a substantial case on the merits.

Conclusion

By its nature, this order sets out more questions than answers. We have not
attempted to address every point advanced by both sides, but we have attempted
to explain our decision to grant the injunction. No one should feel confident in
predicting the eventual result in this case.

The true legal merits of this case will be finally decided in the future. More
briefing is expected. We intend to hear oral arguments. We need to think more
and hard about this case for which no sure and clear answers shine out today.
Still, because of the arguments presented as well as the potential
inconsistencies of the I.N.S.'s present position with the plain language of the
statute and with the I.N.S.'s own earlier interpretations of the statute in
I.N.S. regulations and guidelines, and because of the equities in this case, we
conclude that plaintiff is entitled to an injunction pending appeal.

Therefore, it is ordered that: (1) plaintiff Elian Gonzalez, is enjoined from
departing or attempting to depart from the United States; (2) any and all
persons acting for, on behalf of, or in concert with plaintiff, Elian Gonzalez,
are enjoined from aiding or assisting, or attempting to aid or assist in the
removal of plaintiff from the United States; (3) all officers, agents, and
employees of the United States, including but not limited to officers, agents,
and employees of the United States Department of Justice, are enjoined to take
such reasonable and lawful measures as necessary to prevent the removal of
plaintiff, Elian Gonzalez, from the United States.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 20, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

While Elian Waits

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words


A federal appellate court further complicated the Elian Gonzalez case yesterday
by giving new life to the idea that the young Cuban boy may be eligible on his
own to seek asylum in the United States. A definitive judgment on that issue
awaits further court deliberation, a process that may take many weeks. But while
Elian remains in the country -- the appellate court barred his departure until
the asylum issue can be decided -- he should be returned to the custody of his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.

The case is now unfolding along two related but distinct legal tracks. The
question of whether Elian, at the age of 6, is entitled to seek asylum will be
reviewed by the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. Three judges from that
court took the preliminary step yesterday of prohibiting Elian's return to Cuba
while the court considers the matter, which it is expected to do next month. In
surprisingly strong language, the court complained that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had rejected the asylum application without ever
interviewing Elian himself. Whether that presages an eventual ruling that
permits Elian to seek asylum is impossible to know, as the court itself
cautioned.

But adjudication of the asylum issue, which is likely to wind up before the
Supreme Court, need not, and should not, prevent Elian from being reunited with
his father. Juan Miguel Gonzalez is in Washington, and before yesterday's court
order had promised to remain in the United States until the asylum issue was
resolved.

The appellate court's limited injunction does not prohibit the government from
transferring care of Elian from his Miami relatives to his father. Though the
court declined to order the transfer itself, its action leaves the I.N.S. and
Attorney General Janet Reno free to reunite father and son. Elian's Miami
relatives have no legal right to hold Elian. Their status as temporary
caregivers has been revoked by the I.N.S.

Ms. Reno has shown commendable restraint, and is wise to avoid a confrontation
in Miami between federal authorities and Cuban-Americans who oppose Elian's
return to his father. She must continue to apply the pressure of the law against
the family. She should seek an affirmative court order from a federal district
judge to direct the relatives to turn Elian over to the I.N.S. for transfer to
his father. If they defy such an order, they could be held in contempt of court
and face serious legal sanctions. It now seems clear that Elian is likely to
remain in America for some time. It is time he should spend with his father, not
his great-uncle.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE OVERVIEW;
U.S. Gathers Officers, Preparing To Take Cuban From Miami Kin

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1263 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20


After a meeting today with Attorney General Janet Reno, federal law-enforcement
authorities began to mobilize to remove Elian Gonzalez forcibly from the home of
the Miami relatives who have refused to hand over the 6-year-old Cuban boy to
his father, government officials said.

Time, they said, has nearly run out on a negotiated solution. They said
law-enforcement action was now all but certain and would be carried out by
immigration agents and federal marshals who have been quietly arriving in Miami
in recent days.

Aides said tonight that Ms. Reno was still prepared to listen to any specific
proposal to conclude the matter peacefully.

In blunt comments this evening that sounded like a prelude to action, President
Clinton said the father should wait no longer for his son. "There is now no
conceivable argument for his not being reunited with his son," Mr. Clinton told
reporters, adding, "I think he should be reunited and in as prompt and orderly a
way as possible."

The hardening rhetoric and surge of behind-the-scenes activity came one day
after a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit, in Atlanta, barred the authorities from removing the boy from the
United States. The appeals court did not prohibit the Justice Department from
ordering the boy's Miami relatives to surrender him to the authorities.

Today, Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, renewed his plea for the government
to deliver his son. "Don't let them continue to abuse my son," Mr. Gonzalez
said, referring to the Miami relatives who have cared for Elian since he was
plucked from ocean waters off Florida last November, a survivor of an ill-fated
effort to flee Cuba.

"I really wish to be with my son," Mr. Gonzalez said, speaking in Spanish to
reporters gathered outside the home of a Cuban diplomat in suburban Washington
where he has been staying. "He belongs with me."

This evening, the boy spoke with his father on a telephone in the yard outside
his Miami relatives' home, said a spokesman for the family, Armando Gutierrez.

Members of the family were outside during the evening, and in the streets in
front of the Little Havana house of Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, the
crowd grew to about 200.

One of the people in front of the house, Jorge Gonzalez, took note of comments
by President Fidel Castro of Cuba likening his compatriots to terrorists and
mentioning guns around the house. "All we're going to do is form a human chain,"
Mr. Gonzalez said. "We're not terrorists. My only weapon is my walkie-talkie.
I'm here to protect the boy."

As the atmosphere around the case grew more tense, Ms. Reno met with senior
law-enforcement officials to discuss the preparations under way to carry out a
tactical operation in Miami. The meeting suggested that Ms. Reno, who has been
under heavy pressure to resolve the case, had reached a decision to end the
impasse over the boy's custody.

For months she had tried unsuccessfully to persuade the Miami relatives to give
up the child even as negotiations repeatedly stalled over their refusal to
relinquish him.

The officials said the number of agents would be kept small enough to avoid the
appearance of a military-style assault, but large enough to ensure the safety of
the boy and the agents.

It was not precisely clear when agents would move in to retrieve the child, but
the operation seemed likely at any time. One official said it would take place
"at the appropriate time," probably in a matter of a few days at most.

The officials said they believed they could remove the child without
interference from protesters but were concerned about potentially violent
demonstrations by Cuban-Americans in Miami after Elian is taken.

The officials said that a tactical operation had become more dangerous as the
custody battle has worn on and that the action would now have to be carried out
in a hostile neighborhood. Only yesterday, the neighborhood exploded in
triumphant demonstrations over the appellate court ruling that offered the
relatives another day in court.

As the case preoccupied administration officials, it also continued to create
political headaches for Vice President Al Gore, who has said the boy should be
granted permanent residency status. In a television interview today in New York,
Mr. Gore bristled when asked if his decision was motivated by politics.

"That's not the case," he said. "It's consistent with my long-term position on
Castro. And more to the point, consistent with the way our country always deals
with cases where custody is in dispute. And of course, the father's wishes are
often determinative. But that decision is supposed to be made according to the
best interest of the child."

After meeting on Wednesday night with President Clinton aboard Air Force One,
Ms. Reno broke off a trip to a Montana Indian tribe today and returned to her
office where she conferred with aides.

In the meeting as the president and Ms. Reno returned from a memorial ceremony
for the Oklahoma City federal building bombing, the two officials discussed "all
aspects of the issue," a presidential aide said.

Privately, however, some White House aides have been critical that Ms. Reno had
demanded the transfer of the child, but had failed to match her rhetoric with
action.

"There is some concern that Justice may be talking tough but not making a
decision to follow through," one official said. "We just want to make sure that
what they say matches what they are going to do."

The White House aide said that presidential advisers had grown "fed up" with
Elian's Miami relatives who had "used up any good will they've had," but
expected that the Justice Department would win little praise for removing the
boy.

Today, Joe Lockhart, the presidential spokesman, said Mr. Clinton approved of
Ms. Reno's handling of the matter. "The president believes the attorney general
has moved forward in a deliberate way, which he believes is appropriate,
allowing all sides their chance to have their say both to the attorney general
and in the court of law."

Other administration officials were less generous. They said there was a sense
within the government that Ms. Reno's problem was largely her own doing. They
said Ms. Reno, who knows her native Miami so well, appeared increasingly
paralyzed by weighing too many considerations.

But today's deliberations at the Justice Department seemed to bring to an end
what some advisers said had been a painful period of indecision. Through what
they said was a mix of good intentions and extreme caution, Ms. Reno had edged
close to the brink of a potentially violent clash between the government and
Elian's supporters in Miami.

Practically speaking, the officials said, she has run out of alternatives.

She could continue to do nothing, but waiting any longer before ordering the
child's removal seems like an unlikely possibility confronted as Ms. Reno is
with heavy pressure from inside and outside the government to resolve the
situation.

Some officials said Ms. Reno seemed to have misread the depth of the political
passions swirling through Miami's Cuban-American community, which have
solidified support behind the relatives' refusal to voluntarily hand over the
boy to the authorities.

Moreover, they said, she seemed to have misread the attitude of the appeals
court, believing that the law was on her side, a view that was shaken when the
court rejected the government's request to lift the emergency order barring
immigration officials from allowing the boy to return to Cuba.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaking outside the Cuban diplomatic residence in Bethesda,
Md., Juan Miguel Gonzalez yesterday asked for the government to deliver his son.
(Associated Press)(pg. A19)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE COURTS;
Legal Fight Over Boy Could Last For Months

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words


The federal appellate court decision on Wednesday preventing Elian Gonzalez from
leaving the country showed that the courts are rarely a place to get quick
answers to the kinds of volatile questions raised by the battle over 6-year-old
Elian.

As they studied the decision, legal experts said yesterday that they could see
the beginnings of a protracted tug-of-war over the Cuban boy in court. They said
court proceedings could extend into next year, during which the boy may be kept
in this country either with his father or with his Miami relatives.

"I think Elian will be celebrating Christmas in the United States," said Richard
D. Freer, a professor at the Emory University School of Law in Atlanta. In its
decision on Wednesday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals
for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, directed that the boy should not leave the
country while that court considers the full case: whether immigration officials
were correct in rejecting an asylum application filed by the boy's Miami
relatives.

The Supreme Court could eventually enter the fray, either at the request of the
federal government or the boy's relatives in Miami. Professor Freer, a
specialist in federal court litigation, said it was too early to tell whether
the Supreme Court would agree to review whatever is the 11th Circuit Court's
final ruling.

That ruling is not expected until mid-May at the earliest. Some weeks or months
could pass if either side then asked the full 12-member 11th Circuit Court to
reconsider the panel's decision.

Then, if the Supreme Court were asked to consider the case, it might be October
before the justices decided whether to take it on, lawyers said, and it could be
months after that before the justices would issue a decision.

Although the courts are known for their slow pace, several experts said the
political context of the case underscored the sharp differences between the
judicial system and the other branches of government, which can sometimes shift
course in a matter of days.

"What you are seeing here is a clash of two worlds," said Michael C. Dorf, a
professor at Columbia Law School. "The political system needs to move on an
expedited basis and the court system is not persuaded to depart from its
deliberate procedures."

The 11th Circuit Court is evaluating the case on a far faster schedule than it
normally provides for appeals. The Miami relatives filed an asylum application
for Elian last winter, but federal immigration officials refused to consider it.
In a ruling in March, a federal district judge in Miami sided with the
government. Elian's Miami relatives then appealed to the court in Atlanta.

But the appeals court has yet to hear lawyers' arguments on the central issue in
the case, which is whether immigration officials were correct in their decision
that only Elian's father could speak for the boy in deciding whether to seek
political asylum. The arguments are scheduled to be heard on May 11.

In its interim decision on Wednesday, the three-judge appellate court panel
suggested that immigration officials could have at least interviewed Elian to
learn whether he had any views on whether he wanted asylum.

If the court were to decide that the immigration officials should legally have
interviewed Elian, the ruling might be on narrow grounds. The officials might
still be permitted to decide, after interviewing him, that Elian lacked the
necessary maturity to speak for himself.

Still, even such a technical victory could be important for the boy's relatives
in Miami. New hearings might be required, and immigration officials might be
ordered to interview Elian.

Delay, legal experts said, can only help the Miami relatives in their standoff
with the government.

Courts have said children as young as 12 can decide whether to apply for asylum.
There is no minimum age, but legal experts have said they doubted any court
would direct that immigration officials accept a 6-year-old's asylum
application.

Berta E. Hernandez-Truyol, a professor of international and immigration law at
the University of Florida's Levin College of Law in Gainesville, suggested that
the Miami relatives could make the legal battle last so long that Elian could
grow up enough during the court process to be considered old enough to speak for
himself.

"A delay of a year and a half makes Elian 8, which could start this whole
process all over again," Professor Hernandez-Truyol said. "Eight," she said, "is
not 6."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 23, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE OVERVIEW;
CUBAN BOY SEIZED BY U.S. AGENTS AND REUNITED WITH HIS FATHER

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2108 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 22


Armed United States immigration agents smashed their way into the Little Havana
home of Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives before dawn today, took the sobbing
6-year-old boy from a bedroom closet and flew him to a reunion with his father
outside Washington.

As demonstrators wept in rage and coughed from pepper spray and tear gas, the
agents wrapped the child in a blanket and carried him to an airport to fly him
to Washington. The action touched off a fury in the streets outside the home
where Cuban exiles have kept a vigil since November.

"What's happening? What's happening?" Elian said in Spanish as he was taken
away. "Help me. Help me."

The raid ended a bitter standoff between the federal government and the boy's
defiant great-uncle, after federal officials finally gave up fruitless
negotiations with an exile community that saw Elian as a symbol of freedom and a
precious victory, now perhaps lost, over President Fidel Castro of Cuba.

"God, how could you have performed only half a miracle?" asked a frantic,
weeping Marisleysis Gonzalez, a 21-year-old cousin who had been the boy's
closest companion since he was rescued at sea on Nov. 25 on a failed crossing
from Cuba that drowned his mother.

The United States Justice Department said this morning that Elian was taken
safely from the home at about 5:10 a.m. and was flown to Andrews Air Force Base
near Washington, where his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, waited.

Later in the morning, Mr. Gonzalez was seen carrying Elian from a car at the
base. "They are together," said Myron Marlin, a Justice Department spokesman.

Within minutes of being reunited with his father, stepmother and 6-month-old
half-brother, Elian was "totally at ease" and laughing, said Gregory B. Craig,
Juan Miguel Gonzalez's lawyer.

Photographs released by the lawyer showed a beaming Elian. The family will be
taken to an undisclosed location in the Washington area, where it can be assured
of privacy, officials said.

Elian, one Justice Department spokesman said, was subdued and calm on the flight
from Miami, as federal agents gently explained what was happening.

Hundreds of unhappy Cuban-American demonstrators clashed with the police here
this afternoon, and by late in the evening, The Associated Press reported, more
than 260 people had been arrested. The distraught Miami relatives, saying they
wanted to assure themselves that the boy was happy and safe, boarded a plane to
Washington, seeking a meeting with Mr. Gonzalez, who had not yet decided whether
to grant one.

The relatives -- Lazaro, Delfin and Marisleysis Gonzalez -- were met at Reagan
National Airport by a police escort. They had hoped to go directly to Andrews to
see Elian, but were told they would be turned away at the gate.

They drove to Capitol Hill, where they met with Senator Bob Smith, Republican of
New Hampshire. The family and Mr. Smith then drove to the Air Force base, where
they were turned away.

Attorney General Janet Reno told reporters this morning that she had tried until
the final moment of the standoff to try to find some other way that father and
son could be reunited, but that no agreement could be reached.

Ms. Reno also defended the decision to use force, and armed agents, saying there
were reports that people in the crowd or the neighborhood had weapons.

She had no other choice, she said, but to order the raid on the home of Lazaro
Gonzalez. "Elian is safe and no one is seriously hurt," she said.

This does not mean Elian is on his way back to Cuba. Under an order by a
three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in
Atlanta, Elian's father cannot take the boy home before a decision in a hearing
on Elian's application, filed by his relatives, for political asylum. The
hearing is scheduled for May 11.

But at the two-bedroom house in Little Havana, where Elian has lived under the
constant watch of television cameras and of demonstrators who have turned him
into an almost saintlike presence as well as a prize in the 41-year-old cold war
with Mr. Castro, people wailed, sank to the ground and cursed the United States
government for what it had done.

"They're animals," screeched Marisleysis Gonzalez to the swelling crowd this
morning.

While exiles here had kept vigil in anticipation of such a raid for months, the
timing -- the morning after Good Friday and the day before Easter in a heavily
Roman Catholic community -- and the violent, sudden nature of it, left them in
as much disbelief as rage.

A crowd of demonstrators had slowly dwindled overnight from hundreds to about 50
people, some sleeping behind police barricades, when three white unmarked vans
sped down the dark street and stopped in front of the house.

"They're here! They're here!" demonstrators shouted.

About 20 agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service leaped from the
vans and tore through a chain-link gate. Eight broke through the front door and,
displaying automatic weapons, stormed through the tiny house in search of Elian.

Cesar Camejo, a cousin of Lazaro Gonzalez, was in the house with the family
watching television as the agents burst in. "They held Marisleysis down and told
her not to move in Spanish," Mr. Camejo said. The agents shouted at the others
not to move or interfere, as Marisleysis pleaded: "Don't take the boy. Don't
take the boy."

The boy was hiding in a closet in the arms of Donato Dalrymple, one of the two
fishermen who rescued Elian from the Atlantic Ocean and who has been a constant
presence at the house.

An agent in helmet and body armor, holding an automatic rifle, pulled the boy
from Mr. Dalrymple's arms. The agent, Mr. Dalrymple said, pointed the rifle at
him as Elian cried "No! No! No!"

An Associated Press photograph, sent around the world, showed the gun close to
Elian's face, but Ms. Reno said that the barrel was never pointed at the boy and
that the agent's finger was not on the trigger. The photograph bears out that
description.

The boy was handed to a female agent who cradled him in her arms and, with help
from another agent, raced out into the din and confusion of the street and
quickly through the side doors of a van.

Elian's eyes were wide open. He cried and seemed terrified as all around him
people screamed, cursed and fought against a line of federal agents who formed a
wall with shields and automatic weapons as a cloud of tear gas and pepper spray
wafted down the street.

In all, the operation took about three minutes.

A few protesters tried to form a human chain to block the front of the house and
keep the agents from taking the boy. Ramon Saul Sanchez, an exile in Miami who
has become the leader in the demonstrations, said he was struck by an agent's
gun butt. He bled from an ear as a young man held him upright.

Moments after Elian was taken from the bedroom closet, he was aboard a plane and
headed for Washington and his father. A female United States immigration agent
comforted him.

"This may seem very scary," the agent told him in Spanish, officials said. "It
will soon be better."

Ms. Reno called for giving father and son privacy to become reacquainted. "Let
us give him and his father the space, the calm, the moral support they need to
reconnect and reaffirm their bond between father and son," Ms. Reno said.

After taking Elian from the house, agents had whisked him to nearby Watson
Island, where they boarded a helicopter to Homestead Air Force Base in southern
Miami-Dade County. A doctor examined him to make sure the boy had not been
injured.

Continuing an extraordinary voyage for a boy who was shipwrecked off Florida and
had never flown before, Elian was then put on a United States Marshals Service
plane for Washington.

The immigration agent who comforted Elian on board was joined by a psychiatrist,
a flight surgeon and the Immigration and Naturalization Service agent who had
led the rescue operation, officials said.

"All of our reports so far are that the child has been very calm, has not been
anxious, has not been thrashing, has not been crying," said Doris Meissner,
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "And the basic
feedback that we have from a series of people now, who have been directly with
him, is that he is a real terrific, tough kid."

Few details had been ignored.

The immigration agent at Elian's side, whose name was not released for security
reasons, soothed him with prearranged words cleared by psychologists. He was
offered food and drink. He was also offered a few toys: some Play-Doh, an
airplane, a map and a watch, an administration official said.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez rushed to the Andrews base in a convoy of vehicles to await
Elian's arrival. He had been staying at the residence in Bethesda, Md., of
Cuba's top diplomat in the United States.

"They need more space," Mrs. Meissner said. "And they need more privacy."

Mr. Craig, Juan Miguel Gonzalez's lawyer, reiterated his client's pledge to
remain in the United States while the Miami relatives seek a political asylum
hearing on his behalf.

The raid apparently came as a shock to the family in Miami. The family had
thought that negotiations would continue, said family members and their lawyers,
but Ms. Reno said that it had been obvious the family was not going to budge.

President Clinton said this morning that "the law has been upheld."

"When all efforts failed," Mr. Clinton said, "there was no alternative but to
enforce the decision by the I.N.S. and federal court that Juan Miguel Gonzalez
have custody of his son.

"I think that it was the right thing to do," Mr. Clinton said. "I am very
pleased with the way she handled it."

But in Miami, people compared the raid to something that might happen in
Communist Cuba and swore that the United States government would regret its
actions.

"We never expected the federal government to come in like they did, like thieves
in the night," said Carlos Brito, who demonstrated outside the house almost
every night for months. "I've always been proud of being an American, but this
morning I wish I were a citizen of any other country. I've always defended this
country, but to take this boy in the middle of the night? Today, the federal
government has betrayed me."

Rosa de la Cruz, 58, said she was knocked to the ground by an armed man, near a
gardenia bush in front of the house. "I was praying," Ms. Cruz said.

Outside the house, in the minutes after the raid, three young men held each
other and sobbed. One woman sat in a ditch, crying and holding her face in her
hands. People rushed back and forth yelling, unsure whom to vent their anger on.
An American flag was flown upside down in disrespect.

In the city, protests gradually swelled as groups for blocks around the house
burned tires in intersections and snarled traffic by standing or marching in the
road. Protesters punched, kicked and spat at the police, and hurled bus benches
into streets, which soon clogged with backed-up traffic, ambulances and fire
trucks. Protesters blocked the access roads to the Miami International Airport,
and traffic backed up for miles.

The Associated Press reported that by late afternoon protesters started more
than 207 fires, mostly burning tires and trash, and emergency crews had answered
at least 69 injury calls while a nearby hospital treated 11 people, all for
minor injuries.

Earlier in the morning as the raid was being conducted, the police appeared to
have no presence at all at the house. Miami police had stood watch at the house
for months, but as the federal agents moved in, there seemed to be no uniformed
officers there to aid with the operation.

Only several minutes later, after the federal agents had left, did the Miami
police move in.

Mayor Joseph Carollo of Miami said he had not been told about the raid, but that
was not a surprise. Mr. Carollo has made it clear that he sides with the exile
community in this fight.

That community, he said, is "destroyed, emotionally destroyed."

Mayor Alex Penelas of Miami-Dade County, who had also sided with the exile
community, said he, too, had not heard about the raid until after it was over.
Mr. Penelas had pledged that his officers would not aid the federal government
in any attempt to take Elian.

Later in the day, police officers responded to try to keep the peace.

But the paralyzing of Miami that some people here had feared if the government
seized the boy never really happened. By late afternoon, the crowds had
dissipated.

What many people talked about was a sense of something lost.

"My heart was taken out," said Ledia Chavez, 38, who came from Cuba in 1962.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Angela Gonzalez, Elian Gonzalez's great-aunt, locking her front
door yesterday after the raid in which federal authorities seized the boy at her
home in Miami. Next to her lay a toppled statue of the Virgin Mary. (Associated
Press)(pg. 16); Juan Miguel Gonzalez with his son Elian yesterday after Elian's
9:42 a.m. arrival at Andrews Air Force Base, in a photo released by the family's
lawyer. Mr. Gonzalez's wife, Nersy, held their 6-month-old son, Hianny.
(Courtesy of Juan Miguel Gonzalez via Associated Press)(pg. 1)

Chart/Diagram: "Inside the House"
WHERE AGENTS FOUND ELIAN
Donato Dalrymple, one of the fishermen who rescued Elian, was hiding with him in
this closet.

ELIAN'S BEDROOM
Marisleysis Gonzalez's bedroom as well.

Diagram shows the plans for Elian's house. (pg. 16)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 23, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE;
Excerpts From Attorney General's News Conference

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1486 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22


Following are excerpts from a news conference about 8 a.m. by Attorney General
Janet Reno and the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Doris Meissner, on the transfer of Elian Gonzalez to his father, as transcribed
by the Federal Document Clearing House, a private transcription service:

Earlier this morning, federal agents in Miami began to reunite Elian Gonzalez
with his father and uphold the rule of law.

As I speak, Elian is safe. He is on a plane headed for Andrews Air Force Base in
Washington, D.C., where he will be reunited with his father for the first time
in five months.

When the two are reunited, they will remain in the United States during the
appellate process while the injunction is in place. And in accordance with the
court of appeals ruling, we will take every step necessary to ensure that Elian
does not leave the country while the court of appeals injunction is in place.

We have been to great lengths to resolve this case in the least disruptive
manner possible. Up until the last, we tried every way we could to encourage
Lazaro Gonzalez to voluntarily hand over the child to his father. Unfortunately,
the Miami relatives rejected our efforts, leaving us no other option but the
enforcement action. . . .

So this morning, I commenced an operation, with the paramount concern being the
well-being of Elian, the safety of the agents and others. After negotiating
through the night, I informed the parties that time had run out. At that moment,
I gave the go-ahead for the operation. After I had set the operation in motion,
the intermediaries called back to offer one more counteroffer. I indicated that
I was willing to continue to engage in dialogue, but that time had run out.

I did, until the final moments, try to reach a voluntary solution.
Law-enforcement personnel were on the scene, were authorized to and did make the
final call as to when to enter the Gonzalez home, because this was a very
carefully timed law-enforcement operation.

Eight agents were in the house during the operation. They were there for three
minutes. During that time, a female agent picked up Elian and spoke to him in
Spanish. The agents then took Elian to Watson Island, where they boarded a
helicopter bound for Homestead Air Force Base. There he was examined by a doctor
to make sure that there were no injuries. At that point, he was boarded onto a
U.S. Marshal's plane headed to Washington, D.C., where his father was anxiously
awaiting for his son. . . .

Q. Ms. Reno, the image that was released this morning by a photographer inside
the house, of a federal agent with his gun drawn and pointed toward Elian, and
Elian anguished, looking on, is going to summarize this raid. So I ask you now,
why was that necessary? Why was that level of force necessary?

MS. RENO One of the beauties of television is that it shows exactly what the
facts are. And as I understand it, if you look at it carefully, it shows that
the gun was pointed to the side, and that the finger was not on the trigger.

It is important in these situations to look carefully and to understand the
facts and to understand that we had received information that there were guns,
perhaps in the crowd, perhaps in the house; it was unclear, but that the safety
of all involved was paramount. And when law enforcement goes into a situation
like that, it must go in prepared for the unexpected.

Q. After the reunion at Andrews, where will Elian and his father be staying?

MS. RENO Somewhere in the Washington, D.C., area. . . .

Q. Ms. Reno, concerning the issue of the weapons, did you give any instructions
to law-enforcement officials on the scene about the child?

MS. RENO I would ask Commissioner Meissner to address that specifically.

MS. MEISSNER The child has been our paramount concern in this operation. We
structured the operation around the child's safety as the first, most important
priority. We had Spanish-speaking female agents -- agent -- responsible for
bringing the child from the home. We had worked out with our team of experts in
advance the kind of conversation that the agent responsible for the child could
and should use, in order to be reassuring. That was carefully worked out between
the experts and the people on the scene. The flight has Elian accompanied by a
child psychiatrist and a flight surgeon, both of whom are bilingual. There is a
play pack on the airplane of Play-Doh, other things, food, to amuse him. One of
the things that we learned from our experts was that the squeezing of Play-Doh
is the best thing that you can do for a child who might be experiencing stress.

I must say, though, that all of our reports so far are that the child has been
very calm, has not been anxious, has not been thrashing, has not been crying.
And the basic feedback that we have from a series of people now, who have been
directly with him, is that he's a real terrific, tough kid.

Q. Did you consult with psychiatrists beforehand to discuss the possibility of
the impact of using weapons during the incident, how that might affect the
child?

MS. MEISSNER We discussed the nature of a law-enforcement operation, and we
knew, of course, that it could be traumatic, and so we were very, very concerned
to set it up in a way that would minimize that kind of fearfulness.

Q. Did Elian have the opportunity to speak to his father before leaving? Or
maybe from the plane?

MS. MEISSNER He is actually speaking to his father right now. . . .

Q. Was the father able to speak to Elian at any point during the operation? I
know that was a concern. . . .

MS. MEISSNER No. The operation took, really, only three to four minutes from
seeing the child to having him in the van, to being on the way to the
helicopter. And the safety and operational concerns overrode anything at that
point.

As I say, he has now been able to have a conversation, father and son.

Q. You said there was a conversation that the agent was told would be good for
the boy as he was being removed from the house.

MS. MEISSNER The conversation goes along the lines of, "This may seem very scary
right now, but it will soon be better. We're taking you to see your papa." He
calls him papa. "You will not be going back to Cuba. You will not be on a boat.
You are around people who care for you. We are going to take care of you. Please
don't be frightened." That kind of a conversation. . . .

Q. Ms. Reno, what kind of information did you have about weapons in the house?

MS. RENO We had been told on occasions that people were threatening to have
weapons. To prevent it from happening, again, there were discussions of weapons
in the crowd, weapons in the home, whether weapons were present on the grounds.

Q. You said for nine days, Lazaro Gonzalez has been essentially in violation of
the law. Are there any plans to take some sort of action against him now,
against Lazaro Gonzalez?

MS. RENO Our effort was to reunite a little boy with his father. That has or
will soon be achieved. And I think that it is important for everyone now to move
on, and to put this time behind us, and to do everything we can to see that
those involved heal and reunite. . . .

Q. Ms. Reno, at what point did you finally make your decision and give the
order? About what time?

MS. RENO It was at about 4.

Q. Ms. Reno, what did the family in Miami offer to do? What was their best
offer?

MS. RENO I don't know how you characterize what their best offer was, but what
they had offered to do was to arrange for a site here in Miami. They would
require Juan Miguel Gonzalez to come to Miami or to someplace in Dade County for
a period of time that was open-ended. And we would consult experts, experts
would interview the parties, evaluate Elian and would make recommendations to me
or give me advice on what should be involved in the transition. Those were some
of the points that were raised.

Q. Was that the last offer by the family or was that the last offer by the
intermediaries? You mentioned that after you had made your decision, the
intermediaries came out with one more offer.

MS. RENO The intermediaries wanted to further discuss it and they were in the
process of discussing it in those very last moments.

Q. Ms. Reno, you have spoken at various points in this process, openly,
emotionally, personally about your feelings about this community and about this
situation. I wonder what your personal feelings are this morning?

MS. RENO The community is hurting, I'm hurting, but I'm very glad for Juan
Miguel Gonzalez and Elian, that they can be reunited. And it is time for the
community to heal. It is going to be difficult, but it has healed before and it
can do so again.

And it is time for us to give space and calm and peace to father and son so that
they can begin to reunite.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Reno said yesterday that Juan Miguel Gonzalez's family
should be left alone. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE HOMETOWN NEWSPAPER;
Newspaper in Sea of Outrage Over Coverage of Elian Case

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1788 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 23


The first e-mail message opened at noon today by Tom Fiedler, the editorial page
editor of The Miami Herald, began, "I am ashamed of The Herald -- focusing your
front page on the tragedy of little Elian."

The front page of the newspaper's Sunday issue was dominated by the word SEIZED
in three-inch letters. The photograph of the boy, smiling with his father, was
next to it, and below, across the page, was the now famous photograph of an
armed agent confronting the family friend who held a clearly frightened Elian
Gonzalez in his arms.

Mr. Fiedler was beginning one more day of absorbing outrage at the newspaper,
which is wrestling with the biggest and most emotional local news event since
the Mariel boatlift from Cuba in 1980. On Saturday, after agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service took the 6-year-old child from the home
where his Miami relatives were keeping him, 500 emotional e-mail messages and
faxes poured into The Herald, sometimes at the rate of one a minute.

Since Thanksgiving, The Herald's journalists have been walking barefoot over the
shards of pent-up resentment that litter this poly-lingual, poly-cultural,
poly-angry place. For the new editor and almost new publisher, the forced march
of Elian coverage -- 1,000 articles and counting -- is a chance to rebut the
longtime criticism that The Herald shrinks from tough, fair and comprehensive
coverage of Miami's powerful Cuban-American majority. Or a chance to give
critics the evidence they crave. Or both.

"It is such a huge story and a story that a portion of the population has such a
fixed view of that it's almost inconceivable that The Herald could cover it in a
way that satisfies the audience in Miami," said James M. Naughton, the president
of the Poynter Institute, a journalism research and training organization in St.
Petersburg, Fla. "It's an opportunity to say: That's not our standard. We're
going to cover it in a way the community deserves and hope that we cover it in a
way that is always respected, if not always accepted."

Along the way, however, the newspaper is being buffeted by attacks from within
and without. Its newsroom of 400 people, which is 21 percent Hispanic, 12
percent black, 2 percent Asian-American and 65 percent non-Hispanic white, is
growing accustomed to -- though not necessarily comfortable with -- open
second-guessing of coverage, second-guessing that often breaks down along ethnic
lines.

Last week, the black columnist Robert Steinback was answering e-mail messages
from Cuban-Americans angry about the gulf between Little Havana and the city's
other ethnic enclaves.

In general, Mr. Steinback said, his critics offered variations of the theme:
"Who are you to talk to us? You should talk to your own people."

An article one week ago by Manny Garcia, profiling Elian's great-uncle Lazaro
Gonzalez, mentioned everything from his mercurial behavior and his two
convictions for driving under the influence of alcohol to his fierce affection
for Elian. It brought its Cuban-American author 100 e-mail messages on Monday.
"Half said, 'You're anti-Cuban, a bad Cuban,' " Mr. Garcia said. "The other half
said, 'You're a suck-up for your own people.' "

Recent polls provide graphic evidence of the ethnic chasms among Herald readers.
While nationally, a CBS News poll in mid-April showed that 58 percent of
Americans said Elian should be returned to his father, a Herald poll the first
week in April showed far greater polarization here. While 83 percent of
Cuban-Americans thought the boy should remain in Miami, 76 percent of
non-Hispanic whites and 92 percent of blacks thought he should be returned to
his father. Among non-Cuban Hispanics, 55 percent said the boy should remain in
South Florida.

Those polled in Miami-Dade County represent the bulk of the readership of The
Herald, whose daily spring and summer circulation is about 314,000, and whose
winter vacation-season numbers rise to about 340,000 daily.

That does not count The Herald's Spanish-language sister newspaper, El Nuevo
Herald, which mostly uses its own reporters' material and tends to frame its
coverage with partisan flair. On Saturday, El Herald sold out 25,000 copies of
an eight-page, 25-cent special issue bearing the headline "!Que Verguenza!" (How
Shameful!) superimposed over the picture of Elian facing the agent with an
assault rifle.

The back page of the issue had a full-page picture of Elian's cousin,
Marisleysis Gonzalez, sobbing.

Carlos Castaneda, the editor of El Nuevo Herald, is pleased with both the
coverage and the way it has pumped up his circulation, whose street sales have
risen between 750 and 2,500 copies over the average. For the six months ended in
March, El Herald's circulation was 96,897, an 8.4 percent increase over the same
period a year earlier.

Asked whether the coverage in the special issue was objective, Mr. Castaneda
said the paper mirrored its readers: "The people have reacted that way all
around. It's how the people feel. We are interpreting the feeling of our
readers. A newspaper has to reflect the feeling of its readers."

Since January, the English-language Herald has written so many articles that it
will have to cut back its news space later in the year to meet its budget.

Earlier this year, the editors sent Frances Robles, a reporter of Puerto Rican
heritage, to Cuba for six weeks to cover the boy's hometown. Ms. Robles, who had
no visa because the Cuban government opposes visas for Herald journalists, was
eventually detained by the police, interrogated for five hours, then sent home.

Since Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, arrived in Washington more than two
weeks ago, Ms. Robles, who is covering him, has received e-mail messages from
Cuban colleagues chastising her for not asking tough questions of him, even
though the Cuban government's dislike of The Herald makes Ms. Robles an unlikely
candidate to get an interview with Mr. Gonzalez.

The assistant managing editor, Mark Seibel, said in an interview on Thursday:
"People think if you just explain things more, cover them more, people will
understand. But that's where I talk about this in terms of articles of faith."

On the issue of Elian's future, he said "there is noncommunication, a
disconnect." To Cubans, he said, the decision to keep Elian from his father and
a Cuban future "is obvious," but "to Anglos and African-Americans it is not
obvious; this is a difference of belief."

Every article, every headline, must pass through the filter of two prevailing
beliefs. For instance, when Herald reporters assigned to check out Lazaro
Gonzalez's background failed to turn up the convictions for driving under the
influence of alcohol, "we were accused of hiding this information by some people
unsympathetic to the Miami family," said Martin Baron, who became The Herald's
executive editor on Jan. 10, after nearly three years as an associate managing
editor of The New York Times.

The Herald, which has since covered those issues, has also been criticized for
failing to look into the source of the money supporting the array of lawyers for
Elian's family in Miami -- reporting that is under way, Mr. Seibel said.

Those are seen as sins of omission by people unfriendly to the claims of Lazaro
Gonzalez. But some Cuban-Americans take as sins of commission the Herald
exclusives about the frequent stress-related hospitalizations of Marisleysis
Gonzalez, Elian's cousin and primary caretaker, or the $1 million Miami has had
to spend because of the protests.

One article, by Meg Laughlin, a respected feature writer, brought internal
complaints, which reached Mr. Baron and Mr. Seibel. One of the articles
described out-of-town journalists' fondness for quoting a Florida International
University professor abhorred by conservatives for saying Miami had some
characteristics of "a banana republic." The piece quoted the professor, Dario
Moreno, angering some of Ms. Laughlin's colleagues, who said the news columns
would have been better off without his views.

Judy Miller, the newspaper's city editor, said in an interview that she was
"very proud" of the newspaper's willingness to take a hard look at the issues
and claims surrounding the controversy.

Prominent, though not alone, among the internal critics is Liz Balmaseda. Ms.
Balmaseda, whose commentaries about Haitian and Cuban issues won a Pulitzer
Prize in 1983, is Cuban-American. She declined to discuss her criticisms in
detail, saying "We have conversations about our coverage." She has high-profile
and prominent friends in the Cuban community; she is on leave working with the
actor Andy Garcia on an HBO film about the Cuban-born trumpeter Arturo Sandoval.
Sometimes a commentator, sometimes an internal critic, sometimes a reporter, she
is also seen by some as a partisan, and was photographed taking part in an April
13 prayer circle outside the Gonzalez home in Little Havana, along with the
singer Gloria Estefan.

"I'm a columnist," said Ms. Balmaseda, who has favored keeping Elian in Miami.
"I didn't start out to make a political statement. Prayer is very personal. It's
a personal conversation with God, and only God knows what I'm praying for."

Mr. Baron said he had talked with Ms. Balmaseda about the incident, adding, "I
told her I thought it was inappropriate and we should maintain our distance."

On another front, Mr. Baron addressed the concerns of some journalists,
instructing his lieutenants to tell their staffs to guard against insensitive
comments on the Elian matter. In an interview, he said that while wisecracks
were a newsroom staple, "this is one where people are in close contact with
families, and it's very personal." He added, "Their families have left an
authoritarian regime, and they take it very personally."

Negotiating the brittle sensibilities, in house and out, has been a strain,
people in The Herald's newsroom agree. One who does not show it, however, is
Alberto Ibarguen, who is the publisher of The Herald and El Herald and to whom
both Mr. Baron and Mr. Castaneda report. In his job about 18 months, he said he
was pleased with The Herald's down-the-middle coverage and as pleased with the
more subjective alternative offered in El Herald. The variety, he said, "is just
what I want."

A slightly more distant observer, Michael McQueen, a former assistant city
editor at The Herald who is now chairman of the journalism department at Florida
International University, said: "I think the paper is doing pretty good on the
Elian story. It is so explosive. Everything you do is going to be wrong." He
added: "The output is fairly good, fairly balanced, fairly free of tilting one
way or another. I don't know how they've done it."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2000, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about The Miami Herald's coverage of the Elian Gonzalez
situation misstated the year in which Liz Balmaseda, a Herald columnist critical
of the paper, was awarded a Pulitzer Prize. It was 1993, not 1983.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Front pages of The Miami Herald yesterday and of a special
issue of El Nuevo Herald on Saturday.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Raid in Miami: Reasonable, or Reckless?

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 168 words



To the Editor:

A photograph of a federal marshal pointing a gun near little Elian Gonzalez
(news article, April 23) stopped my breath. The fear and pain on the boy's face
were unmistakable, and no amount of "context" about the need to remove him from
a circus atmosphere can erase that anguish.

Our government invaded the home of private citizens without a court order or
search warrant, solely on the authority of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The administration is now trying to justify its actions with photos of the
"re-unification" of father and son. But they were not united before. Juan Miguel
was divorced from Elian's mother -- the boy's legal guardian -- and she had
taken an unambiguous step to remove Elian from his life forever. Perhaps the
United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit will eventually rule that he
belongs with his father, but Elian and his Miami relatives deserved their day in
court.

CHRISTOPHER BUCZEK
New York, April 23, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Raid in Miami: Reasonable, or Reckless?

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 98 words



To the Editor:

Attorney General Janet Reno did not have the best interest of Elian Gonzalez at
heart when she authorized the Immigration and Naturalization Service raid to
"reunite" Elian with his father (front page, April 23).

The fact that heavily armed I.N.S. agents were used means that she had
determined that there was potential danger. That potential danger also put Elian
at risk of injury or death.

Apparently, Ms. Reno did not learn a lesson from Waco. Fortunately for Elian,
this time she was lucky.

FRANK BRAULT
West Hartford, Conn., April 23, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Political Memo;
After U.S. Agents Seize Cuban Boy, Giuliani Seizes an Issue

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words


For the second time in two days, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani seized on the Elian
Gonzalez case yesterday to mount a harsh attack on President Clinton.

He accused the president of coordinating foreign policy with a totalitarian
regime, of ignoring peaceful means of reuniting the boy with his father, and of
authorizing a "gross overreaction" by armed immigration officials who grabbed
the boy in a predawn raid Saturday.

"Consider the level of armament used," Mr. Giuliani told reporters yesterday,
moments after passing out Easter baskets to sick children at Metropolitan
Hospital Center in Manhattan. "It's astounding, for a 6-year-old boy and a
family that has no history of involvement in organized crime, terrorism or
anything like that."

He added: "They were pointing machine guns at them, and they were dressed up as
if they were in the middle of a war action. So there's no question that it was a
gross overreaction."

In theory, any connection between little Elian and the mayor of New York City
would seem negligible. With all the challenges confronting Mr. Giuliani --
understaffed summer schools, criticism of police tactics, a troubled
welfare-to-work program -- one might guess that he would have little more than
passing interest in the international saga of a 6-year-old Cuban refugee in
Miami.

But for the past two days, Mr. Giuliani has focused his public remarks on the
boy, as if Elian had washed ashore on Governors Island instead of the coast of
Florida. He opened his press conference on Saturday with a statement about the
case. Then he accepted an invitation to discuss the case on CNN with Larry King,
who, in a slip of the tongue, referred to him as the "mayor of Miami." Last
night, Mr. Giuliani appeared on Fox to discuss the case.

Sunny Mindel, the mayor's spokeswoman, said there was a straightforward
explanation for the mayor's comments on the case. "He feels very strongly about
it, in addition to which, he is available to the press and the press is asking
about it," she said. "And he's answering."

But the mayor has his doubters, especially in the camp of First Lady Hillary
Rodham Clinton, his opponent for a seat in the United States States Senate.
Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, accused Mr. Giuliani of exploiting
Elian Gonzalez for political advantage.

"As far as I'm aware, this is one of the few national issues that the mayor has
been willing to take a position on or talk about."

Ms. Mindel said in response: "This is a typical Clinton attempt to deflect
responsibility. They chose this excessive display of force."

And Kim Serafin, a spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani's campaign, said he had taken
positions on a variety of national and international issues. "If they would do a
search," she said of Mrs. Clinton's staff, "they would find that he's even been
criticized for taking positions on too many issues."

But clearly Saturday's raid to reunite Elian with his father offers Mr. Giuliani
an enticing package of political benefits. At a time when he faces marches and
protests against his Police Department's aggressive tactics, Mr. Giuliani has
presented himself this weekend as a champion of law enforcement moderation on
the question of Elian Gonzalez.

The Clinton administration, he said yesterday, should have spent more time using
dialogue and mediation. At the very least, he said, the administration should
have first obtained a court order, followed by several "low key" attempts to
execute the order without resorting to force.

"Those attempts were never made," he said, contrasting his preferred approach
with the 151 heavily armed federal agents who took part in Saturday's raid.

"That's the level of armament you would use if you were arresting vicious
horrible terrorists," said Mr. Giuliani, who is a former federal prosecutor. "I
can remember arresting organized crime figures with considerably less armament
than that -- Fat Tony Salerno and Paul Castellano. These are people who
specialize in murdering other people. I can remember arrests of terrorists. And
there there was a higher level of armament than the organized crime figures, but
nothing like that."

At another moment later yesterday, Mr. Giuliani urged people to compare the law
enforcement tactics in Miami with those of the New York's Police Department.
"Think of how lucky you are to have the kind of police department you have in
New York City, how restrained it is, the way in which they handle crowds."

Though Mr. Giuliani built a reputation out of being a tough prosecutor, he was
fiercely criticized at the time by those who said he hounded and humiliated
suspects with publicity-seeking arrests, several of which were later overturned.

Wall Street executives still remember how he ordered the arrest in 1987 of three
traders, one of whom was led across the floor of Kidder, Peabody in handcuffs.
Two years later, one trader pleaded guilty to a lesser charge and the
investigation against the others was dropped.

For Mr. Giuliani today, speaking out about the case on national broadcasts also
gives him a opportunity to try to make new campaign donors out of conservative,
out-of-state Republicans who detest the Clintons.

Ms. Serafin said that Mr. Giuliani's television appearances have nothing to do
with fund-raising. "The mayor's simply re-affirming his long held convictions."
But about half of the $19 million Mr. Giuliani has raised so far has come from
out-of-state donors. And his reference on Saturday to "storm troopers using
guns" has immediate resonance for the many Republicans who have expressed
concerns about the federal government's tactics at Waco and Ruby Ridge.

And yesterday, Mr. Giuliani once again described the president as the puppet of
a brutal Communist dictator. "The reality is that this has something to do with
his relationship with Fidel Castro," Mr. Giuliani said of Mr. Clinton. "It's not
by accident that Fidel Castro had a tremendous demonstration in Cuba yesterday.

"The big winner yesterday," he continued, "was Fidel Castro. He's been
orchestrating this. And when you got up yesterday morning, and you looked at
what was happening in Miami, for a moment you had to say to yourself, 'No, no,
no. That's not America. That's happening in Cuba. That must be happening in
Cuba.' Not only did the Clinton administration adopt Fidel Castro's position,
they're now adopting his tactics."

Mrs. Clinton's spokesman, Mr. Wolfson, dismissed Mr. Giuliani's remarks. "I
think when you call United States law enforcement personnel storm troopers, that
sounds like you're getting your talking points from the black helicopter crowd."

Such responses are aimed at bolstering a central theme of Mrs. Clinton's
campaign -- that the mayor is simply too divisive, too strident, to make an
effective senator. Last month, for example, Mrs. Clinton accused the mayor of
intentionally polarizing the city by leading "a rush to judgment" against
Patrick Dorismond, the unarmed black man who was shot and killed by undercover
police officers.

"At a time when calmer heads are called for," Mr. Wolfson said, "the mayor finds
a way to inflame a situation with angry rhetoric."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After passing out Easter baskets yesterday, Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani continued his criticism of the government's seizure of Elian Gonzalez.
(Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B4)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Vietnamese Immigrants Swell Catholic Clergy

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, April 20


Twenty-five years ago this month, when Saigon fell to Communist armies, the
tract of land off Dwyer Road was a just another soggy stretch of wetlands that
ran from New Orleans's eastern fringe to the waters of the Gulf of Mexico, many
miles away.

"This was swamp," said Msgr. Dominic Luong, a Roman Catholic priest and Fordham
University graduate who arrived here in the late 1970's.

But these days Monsignor Luong can look from his modest office and see a
spacious beige church bordered by a trim lawn where three flags -- the Stars and
Stripes, a banner representing the Sacred Heart of Jesus and the yellow and red
flag of the former South Vietnam -- snap in the spring breeze.

The church that rose from this drained swamp is Mary Queen of Vietnam, spiritual
home to 5,000 parishioners and a landmark both for the growing influence of
Vietnamese Catholics in the United States and for the larger church, too, whose
demographic contours are being reshaped by immigration.

Major changes in immigration law, together with political and economic upheavals
abroad, have brought an influx of Latin Americans, Asians, eastern Europeans and
Africans, many of them Catholics whose impact on the church may prove as great
as that of the Germans, Irish and Italians who preceded them a century ago.

Among this new group, the Vietnamese are a small minority, but their presence is
hard to miss. They have formed parishes and missions across this very Catholic
city, as well as in Texas and California, established an annual pilgrimage of
tens of thousands of people to southwestern Missouri and, most significantly,
produced a disproportionately high number of young men and women studying to
become priests and nuns -- when such religious vocations have been in short
supply among American-born Catholics.

A few miles to the west, for example, in New Orleans's stately Uptown,
Vietnamese seminarians make up a fifth of those studying for the priesthood at
Notre Dame Seminary.

On social issues, they tend to be conservative, opposed to abortion and the idea
of women as priests.

"Religion is their center -- they brought that with them," said Kyle Dave, 29, a
seminarian who is a native of New Orleans and grew up in a neighborhood that
absorbed many Vietnamese immigrants.

American Catholic officials say most Vietnamese immigrants are Buddhists, but
about 300,000 -- perhaps a third of them -- are Catholics.

That amounts to less than 1 percent of the estimated 61 million Catholics in the
United States. But Vietnamese seminarians make up nearly 3 percent of the
approximately 3,500 men studying for the priesthood, according to the Center for
Applied Research in the Apostolate, an organization at Georgetown University
that studies such trends.

Michael W. Foley, an associate professor of political science at Catholic
University, in Washington, D.C., who conducted a study of several new immigrant
groups for the American bishops, said, "Seminary enrollments have been on a down
slide since the 1960's, and we see some modest recoveries as a result of this
new blood."

"The same thing is true of the church as a whole," Mr. Foley said. "The Catholic
Church is the only mainline church that has not lost members over the past 20
years, and I think a case could be made for the immigrants as the primary
reason."

In May, the Archdiocese of New Orleans will ordain seven seminarians as deacons,
a transitional step toward their becoming priests. Among them is Hoang M. Tuong,
31, a parishioner at Mary Queen of Vietnam, who arrived here in 1984, after he
and his family fled Vietnam by sea in a tidal exodus of "boat people." Not long
after the family arrived here, he entered a high school seminary, a first step
along the road he is now following.

"Vietnamese families are very big," Mr. Tuong said, adding that parents often
hope to have "at least one" child become a priest or nun. "I have only three
sisters," he said. "My family is very small."

Monsignor Luong said he was one of 11 children -- 8 boys and 3 girls. One
brother also became a priest and serves among the Montagnard people in central
Vietnam.

Monsignor Luong was ordained in 1965 in New York. Over the last two decades, he
has become well known in Catholic circles for his work among Vietnamese
immigrants.

He recalled the early days in New Orleans East as difficult for Vietnamese
Catholics. "We had nothing," he said. "We worshiped outdoors for two years." It
sometimes rained on Sundays, but the weather, as he remembered it, always seemed
to clear before Mass.

The parish at which he presides was founded in 1983, the beginning of a
decade-long boom in the area's Vietnamese population, as immigrants who had been
settled in other parts of the nation began to move here. A spokeswoman for the
Archdiocese of New Orleans said about 20,000 Catholics were of Asian background,
primarily Vietnamese -- about 4 percent of the half-million parishioners here.

Other big centers for Vietnamese Catholics are Houston; San Jose, Calif., and
Orange County, Calif. There are smaller communities as well. Monsignor Luong
said he recently traveled to Sioux City, Iowa, for the installation of a
Vietnamese-born priest there.

Behind his office is a two-story structure that houses a preschool, run by
Vietnamese-born nuns who were busy supervising dozens of children in an Easter
egg hunt this week.

Sister Mary Faustina Nguyen Bach Yen, 28, said she was 8 years old when her
family fled Vietnam in 1979. After more than a year in a refugee camp, the
family moved to New Orleans.

The third child among eight, she originally helped her parents in a small
business. But, she said, "I was searching for inner peace." As a teenager, she
felt a call to become a nun and eventually joined the Daughters of Our Lady of
the Holy Rosary, the order that supervises the preschool. It has 40 nuns, and
four novices preparing to take vows. But, she said, "This is just a small branch
in the United States." The order has hundreds of nuns in Vietnam.

Another Vietnamese order visible in the United States is the Congregation of the
Mother Co-Redemptrix, which has a monastery in Carthage, Mo. Each summer, the
site becomes a pilgrimage destination for Vietnamese families. "They draw 30,000
to 40,000," Monsignor Luong said.

But as Vietnamese immigrants become rooted in the United States, a question
arises. How long will such devotion endure in a culture that esteems material
wealth and individual choice?

Already, some of the nuns at the preschool say, it is less easy to talk to a
younger generation about a religious vocation than it was to speak with their
older brothers and sisters a decade ago. The preschool's director, Sister Rose
Tin Vu, said many adolescents' interests tended toward American culture. "Money
and fashion" often preoccupy them, she said.

Sister Mary Faustina, who teaches religious education classes to teenagers,
agreed. "Most of the teenagers, they've got peer pressure," she said. "It's very
hard to listen to the inner voice, to listen to the heart."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Altar boys and girls at Mary Queen of Vietnam Roman Catholic
Church in New Orleans at Holy Thursday Mass. The church, with 5,000
parishioners, has become something of a landmark for the growing influence of
Vietnamese Catholics in the United States.; Msgr. Dominic Luong has seen his
congregation grow in two decades. (Photographs by David Rae Morris/Impact
Visuals, for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Foreign Affairs;
Reno for President

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words


Frankly, I liked both pictures.

Yup, I gotta confess, that now-famous picture of a U.S. marshal in Miami
pointing an automatic weapon toward Donato Dalrymple and ordering him in the
name of the U.S. government to turn over Elian Gonzalez warmed my heart. They
should put that picture up in every visa line in every U.S. consulate around the
world, with a caption that reads: "America is a country where the rule of law
rules. This picture illustrates what happens to those who defy the rule of law
and how far our government and people will go to preserve it. Come all ye who
understand that."

And I was also warmed by the picture of Elian back in his father's arms. Some
things you can fake -- like a 6-year-old wagging his finger on a homemade video
and telling his father to go back to Cuba without him -- and some things you
can't fake. That picture of Elian and his father illustrated the very
parent-child bond that our law was written to preserve.

Hats off to Janet Reno for understanding that the Elian Gonzalez case was about
both of these pictures: the well-being of a child and the well-being of our
Constitution, on which all good things in our society rest. But hats off twice
to Ms. Reno for understanding that these two noble virtues are not equal. The
fear of causing some trauma to Elian by rescuing him could never outweigh the
need to uphold the rule of law.

One only hopes that this affair will remind the extremists among the Miami
Cubans that they are not living in their own private country, that they cannot
do whatever they please and that they may hate Fidel Castro more than they love
the U.S. Constitution -- but that doesn't apply to the rest of us.

One also hopes that now that Ms. Reno has ended the kidnapping of Elian by the
Miami Cubans, the other hard-nosed lady in the cabinet, Madeleine Albright, will
end the Miami Cubans' kidnapping of U.S. Cuba policy as well. Ms. Albright could
start by relaxing the embargo on Cuba.

I share the Miami Cubans' visceral hatred of Fidel Castro's regime. It is an
awful government that has taught its people to write -- and then forced its most
educated to become taxi drivers and, in thousands of cases, prostitutes in order
to feed their families.

But the way to hasten the end of this regime is not with embargoes and
kidnappings. We have sanctioned Castro for 40 years, and so far he has outlived
nine U.S. presidencies. Normally, such a policy would be adjusted. But this
policy is not driven by strategic thinking. It's driven by blind hatred of
Castro by the Miami Cubans, who, because of their perceived voting clout in the
key state of Florida, have been able to impose this policy on the whole U.S. --
even though it has had the opposite effect we, and they, want. It punishes
Cuba's people and reinforces Castro's hold on power.

What ails Cuba's economy is Fidel Castro's failed Marxism. But the U.S. embargo
obscures that, giving him a foreign bogeyman to blame for Cuba's travails and
enabling him to argue that Cuba is under siege from America, therefore Cubans
have to remain mobilized and he, Castro, has to keep a tight rein.

Forget Fidel Castro. He's a spent dictator who peddles Marxism while keeping his
economy afloat with Thomas Cook tours and prostitution. As Ms. Albright knows, a
wise U.S. policy today would be focused on shaping post-Castro Cuba, so that we
don't have another Haiti -- where, after the regime collapses, everyone builds a
raft to get to Miami -- and so the Cuban people don't have another 40 years of
repression. Our best tool for shaping post-Castro Cuba is letting more Cubans
study in the U.S., training their technocrats in managing a modern state and,
yes, opening the way for greater U.S. investment in Cuba, and for money flows,
trade and family visits. At best, this will create much greater internal
pressures on Castro to open his regime, and at worst it will help ensure that
whoever succeeds him will have to change.

It was precisely the ease with which the hard-line Cuban-Americans kidnapped
U.S. policy on Cuba for all these years -- with the help of pandering
politicians -- that made them believe they could get away with kidnapping Elian.
America is a lot better off today because Janet Reno taught them otherwise, and
a million Cuban children would be better off tomorrow if Madeleine Albright
could administer a similar lesson in foreign policy. Go ladies!

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2000, Saturday

CORRECTION:

A map on Tuesday with an article about 20 people who were kidnapped from a
diving resort in Malaysia showed an outdated name for an Indonesian island in
the region. It is Sulawesi, no longer Celebes.




TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Returning Elian to His Father: The Aftershocks

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 186 words



To the Editor:

Your April 24 editorial reasonably concludes that executive power alone was too
quickly invoked to return Elian Gonzalez to his father. The attorney general's
reluctance to seek a court order to Lazaro Gonzalez's family to produce the
child as well as her refusal to seek an independent counsel in the Democratic
Party fund-raising matters, however, may sadly, but quite understandably, be
understood as a loss of confidence in a nonpolitical judiciary.

A court-appointed independent counsel who recommends to the House how it should
vote on a bill of impeachment and a court of appeals panel criticizing the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for not interviewing a 6-year-old on his
desire for political amnesty are not politically neutral judgments.

From the standpoint of our democracy, the most damaging consequence of the
Clinton years (not necessarily the fault of the president) is that the political
polarization so manifest in the Congress has permeated the judicial branch of
government. It is an ominous sign indeed.

DANIEL SILVERMAN
Brooklyn, April 24, 2000



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Returning Elian to His Father: The Aftershocks

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 97 words



To the Editor:

Those who argue over whether Elian Gonzalez should be with his father or with
his Miami relatives miss the point of Saturday's raid entirely (front page,
April 24). The point is that those who support the raid support not only the
right of our government, but also the responsibility of our government, to break
down our doors, enter our homes with guns and batter our privacy both literally
and figuratively. Shame on Americans for talking about freedom while they hand
over our liberty.

MARIE DARNELL SONNEN
Saratoga Springs, N.Y., April 24, 2000



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Returning Elian to His Father: The Aftershocks

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 121 words



To the Editor:

As a former state court judge, I am truly ashamed of the actions of the
government (front page, April 24). If you have ever wondered about the terror
experienced by those living in a police state, the seizure of Elian Gonzalez
should strike fear in the heart of every American.

Recognizing the difficulty of the issue, the court's intent to resolve it made
forcible removal unnecessary and unwarranted.

If it was truly the rule of law that motivated the Justice Department in its
relentless quest to return Elian to his father, it would seem that it should
have welcomed the opportunity to vindicate its single-mindedness in the courts.

RONALD E. BOGLE
Raleigh, N.C., April 24, 2000



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Returning Elian to His Father: The Aftershocks

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words



To the Editor:

Re "Strength Through Restraint" (editorial, April 24):

In using the term "citizens who are not behaving violently," you demonstrate a
lack of understanding. The act of the Miami relatives in holding a 6-year-old
boy against the will of his father -- his lawful custodian -- is an act of
violence. The conduct of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was entirely
proper. By a show of force, the I.N.S. agents precluded resistance and the need
to apply actual force.

MORTON FRIEDMAN
Wilmette, Ill., April 24, 2000



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Seizure of Cuban Child Is Grist for Senate Race

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 818 words


Hillary Rodham Clinton said in a statement yesterday that Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani's characterization of the federal agents who seized Elian Gonzalez as
"storm troopers" was "extreme and unwarranted," and that he was exploiting the
6-year-old boy for political gain. Mr. Giuliani responded by in effect saying
that it was the first lady who was exploiting the issue, and that on matters of
immigration, "I'm one of the people that probably understands this area better
than most people in the United States."

Three days after federal agents seized the Cuban boy from relatives at gunpoint
in Miami's Little Havana, Elian has become one of the more furious sources of
contention in the United States Senate campaign in New York. Yesterday, the two
sides industriously issued no less than four separate news releases, while Mr.
Giuliani held a news conference excoriating "Fidel Castro, Bill Clinton and
Janet Reno" -- he repeated the three names three times -- and the agents' use of
force. "The action was unprecedented and unconscionable," he said.

Mrs. Clinton's aides began the day by issuing her statement from her campaign
headquarters in Manhattan while the first lady was at the White House as hostess
of her eighth, and last, Easter Egg Roll.

"I am relieved that Elian has been reunited with his father," Mrs. Clinton said
in her first remarks since Saturday's raid, adding that the action "was
accomplished rapidly and without injury." She also said, "At a time that cried
out for healing, the mayor chose to exploit this situation by making divisive
attacks on the United States law enforcement officers." She concluded, in an
obvious reference to Mr. Giuliani's temperament and his recent heated statements
from behind a podium, "It is time for all of us to take a deep breath and allow
Elian and his father to spend time together outside of the media and political
spotlight."

Mr. Giuliani responded at a news conference at Brooklyn College after a
graduation ceremony for 292 New York City firefighters.

"She's finally emerged -- good!" he said sarcastically of Mrs. Clinton, who was
at the White House and Camp David, Md., with the president and their daughter,
Chelsea, over the Easter weekend. When a reporter offered to read Mrs. Clinton's
statement for Mr. Giuliani, the mayor cut him off. "I don't really care what she
said," he said.

The Republican mayor then began a nearly 15-minute monologue about the case,
including recollections of his time as the third-ranking official at the Justice
Department in the Reagan administration. As associate attorney general, Mr.
Giuliani was in charge of drug enforcement, prisons and immigration. "So this is
not a new issue for me," he said. He repeated his contention that Elian should
be granted asylum from a totalitarian government, and added that New York City
would never remove a child in a custody case in such a manner.

"We don't use machine guns, we don't use people dressed up in war armament," Mr.
Giuliani said. But he did not use the term "storm troopers," as he had over the
weekend.

The Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, a nonpartisan group
representing 17,500 federal agents and officers, issued a news release yesterday
expressing its "strong disgust" with the characterization and saying that anyone
who used the word "storm trooper" owed the officers an apology.

By midafternoon, supporters of Mrs. Clinton were busily turning out their own
documents against the Republican mayor. Aides in the office of City Council
Speaker Peter F. Vallone, a Democrat, provided City Hall reporters with a copy
of a 1995 Daily News article describing "Any Time Baby," a 50,000-pound armored
personnel carrier that was used by the Police Department to evict squatters from
three buildings on the Lower East Side.

Around the same time, City Council aides made available to reporters a letter to
the mayor, dated Monday, from Councilwoman Christine C. Quinn, a Manhattan
Democrat, who said she was "surprised" to hear about Mr. Giuliani's "newfound
concern" about the use of excessive force by law enforcement. Ms. Quinn said Mr.
Giuliani's statements were "somewhat at odds" with his record, and mentioned in
particular a 1998 World AIDS Day vigil at City Hall in which participants were
watched by sharpshooters on the roof of City Hall.

Yesterday, Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's spokesman, said the mayor was using
his criticism of Fidel Castro to appeal to conservative voters, and challenged
him not to use Elian as a tool in future fund-raising letters. Although one of
Mr. Giuliani's aides said over the weekend that the mayor's recent statements
about Elian on national television had nothing to do with fund-raising, his
campaign staff has readily acknowledged in the past that Mr. Giuliani's
television appearances do in fact bolster his fund-raising. Mr. Giuliani has
raised $19 million so far.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Conjuring Evil

BYLINE: By Garry Wills;  Garry Wills is the author of "A Necessary Evil: A
History of American Distrust of Government."

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 687 words


When the Lebanese government asked President Eisenhower in 1958 to send troops
to stabilize a situation where a coup was feared, he sent so many marines that
critics said he was trying to re-enact D-Day.

He had the troops storm a beach rather than disembark at the harbor, since he
wanted them to be present all at once and in full force. The journalist Murray
Kempton said that this was as typical of the president's methods as was his
refusal to go into Vietnam. He did not like to move unless overwhelming odds
precluded resistance. The troops in Lebanon had a lovely time basking in the
sun, all thought of opposing them out of the question.

In 1794, when President Washington raised several state militias to march
against the Whiskey Rebellion in Pennsylvania, he, too, was said to be
overreacting. But the pacified countryside proved the wisdom of the new
government; it had faced a challenge to its authority with a peaceful show of
force.

In the 1960's, Attorney General Ramsey Clark advised local authorities who
anticipated violent civil rights demonstrations to flood their areas with
police, to insure peace. It is when police feel isolated and outnumbered that
they react with panic and lose discipline.

These are analogues that spring to mind when I hear that Americans wanted Elian
Gonzalez returned to his father, his rightful custodian, but did not like the
use of force or violence -- as if the alternatives had not been explored
endlessly for month upon month. The show of force is not the use of force, but a
way of precluding violence. Wrestling a boy out of someone's arms is more
violent than shouting from a position of strength to give the boy over. (As it
is, the only directly violent acts were those of resisters who threw trash cans
and other objects at the agents. If they did that even with the intimidation,
what would they have done without it?)

The transfer was effected without harm. People so ready to talk of miraculous
dolphins should be amazed at the accomplishment of something that was considered
impossible in the preceding weeks.

The readiness of people to deplore "jackbooted" tactics reveals the
intransigence that made the rescue necessary. Those denouncing the tactics
really opposed the removal under any conditions. That is why we are told that
only a drugged or intimidated child could display happiness at seeing his
father. Those claiming this have demonized the father as a Fidel Castro in
disguise, not a man who could ever have a right to see his own son. The familiar
picture of the menacing I.N.S. agent flourishing a machine gun shows us an
officer trying to avoid violence, not one inviting it. In fact, I am glad the
picture exists, since the people who had been deceiving the nation and Elian
would have made up far worse things if the milder evidence were not at hand.

As it is, supposedly responsible people said there was no warrant, no
preliminary knocking, no request for surrender of the boy. We hear of guns
pointed at the child's head and "guns blazing." Peggy Noonan, in The Wall Street
Journal, confronting the mystery of why any son should be reunited with his
father, imagines that only wild scenarios can explain it -- maybe Mr. Castro was
blackmailing President Clinton with secret phone intercepts. Then she says that
Ronald Reagan "would not have dismissed the story of the dolphins" -- Elian's
miraculous escorts to our shores -- "as Christian kitsch but seen it as possible
evidence of the reasonable assumption that God's creatures had been commanded to
protect one of God's children."

That kind of superstition, expressed by congressmen and pundits alike, shows why
resistance had to be anticipated and precluded in Miami.

Opportunists say they will now conduct serious investigations into whether a
photo of Elian and his father was doctored, whether another Waco has occurred,
whether we are all at the mercy of agents in black helicopters, and whether the
timing of the rescue is evidence of its operatives' atheism. Perhaps we should
also anticipate an expert witness testifying on God's dolphin escort service.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE MENTAL HEALTH EXPERTS;
What a Smile Hides: Unknown Effects Of Cuban Boy's Ordeal

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words


Smiling is something that a 6-year-old boy can do, even a boy at the center of a
political hurricane. And during the last few weeks, surrounded by adults whose
own faces have often been contorted with anger, Elian Gonzalez has done a lot of
smiling.

He has smiled for the television cameras. He has smiled for the crowds outside
his relatives' house in Miami. Now, secluded in suburban Washington with his
father, he smiles in the photographs released to the public.

Yet behind the smile is a child who has seen a parent drown, has had caretakers
zoom into and out of his life in rapid succession and has endured weeks of
confusion, tumult and disruption -- not to mention a predawn raid by armed
federal agents.

And it may be months, or even years, mental health experts say, before anyone
can know the imprint that these events will leave on Elian's life or understand
the emotions, fantasies, fears and recollections that lie beneath the surface.

"Traumatized kids have glorious smiles," said Dr. Lenore Terr, a clinical
professor of psychiatry at the University of California at San Francisco, who
has spent four decades studying the effects on children of traumatic
experiences.

"You cannot spot a traumatized kid with your eyes, and the camera can't spot him
either," Dr. Terr said.

Too little is publicly known about Elian's state of mind for mental health
experts who have not been involved in the case to say anything about him as an
individual. Nor do most feel comfortable speculating about people they have
never interviewed.

But Dr. Terr and others said any child who has gone through what Elian has gone
through needs time to recover, time that might begin now that he has been
reunited with his father and the crowds and television have gone away.

And many experts emphasized that while Elian might have been frightened and
confused by the raid, the most profound, and potentially damaging, trauma he has
experienced was his mother's death.

The loss of his mother, especially in such a traumatic fashion -- she drowned
when the boat carrying them from Cuba sank -- will have an impact that endures
throughout his life, the experts said, and may perhaps make him more vulnerable
to depression, and intensely sensitive to other losses.

In addition, the fact that Elian's parents divorced when he was small, and that
he has experienced a series of abrupt separations, most recently from his cousin
Marisleysis and his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, are added stresses, they said.

How well Elian copes with these experiences, the experts said, will depend in
large part on the assistance he receives from adults, who must provide a secure
and safe place for him to mourn his mother and help him sort through what has
happened and put it in some context.

The earlier children who have endured traumatic experiences get treatment, the
better, Dr. Terr said.

Some of that help appears to be already taking shape. A person familiar with
Elian's situation said that a child psychiatrist met with Elian yesterday, to
evaluate him and see if he was showing symptoms of distress.

Many people who have met the 6-year-old have used words like "resilient,"
"playful" and "enchanting" to describe him. And his natural strengths, the
experts said, will help in the healing process.

"He has already had a background of a loving, happy family," said Dr. Paulina
Kernberg, the former director of child and adolescent services at New York
Presbyterian Medical Center in Westchester and one of three mental health
professionals called in as consultants on the case by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Dr. Kernberg said Elian appeared to have had "an experience with his mother who
really loved him very much for the first five years of his life," and that he
also had a close relationship with his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, and his
stepmother, Nersy Carmenate Castillo.

"He brings that with him," Dr. Kernberg said.

But there are also hints, she and other experts said, that Elian has not been
entirely unscathed by his experiences.

One sign came on the plane ride to Washington, said the psychiatrist who
accompanied him, Dr. Gustavo Cadavid, the adviser for mental health of the
United States Public Health Service's division of immigration health services.

Dr. Cadavid said that at one point he could not remember the Spanish word for
"stepmother" and so told Elian that he was going to see his "papa" and his
"mama." When Elian heard the word "mama," Dr. Cadavid said, the boy's face
changed, tension flickering across it for a moment before his smile returned.

Such a reaction, Dr. Terr said, is typical of children who have endured
traumatic experiences, who are also likely to show fear in situations that
remind them of the traumatic event.

"You'll get these stricken responses," she said, adding that a boy who almost
drowned might be afraid to swim, or become nervous in other situations involving
water.

Also typical of children who have lost a parent at an early age is the mixture
of fantasy and reality that Elian has shown in describing his mother's death.

Dr. Gunther Perdigao, a child psychoanalyst who appeared with Elian on "Good
Morning America," and spent several hours with him during the process of taping
the show, said Elian sometimes said his mother had died.

But at other times, he said, Elian stated that his mother was in Miami and had
lost her memory, so she could not find him. When she finally remembered where he
was, the boy said, she would come and get him.

Because young children have difficulty understanding death, said Dr. Jerry
Wiener, emeritus professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at George Washington
University, adults need to provide an anchor of reality. This anchor has been
missing for Elian, he said, who has not seen people mourning his mother, or been
able so far to attend a funeral or other ceremony marking her death.

"Children live more moment to moment than adults," said Dr. Wiener, who was also
a consultant to the I.N.S. in negotiating Elian's reunion with his father. "And
children tend to be more likely to deal with a painful or disturbing or
frightening reality by denial and repression."

Dr. Wiener said he and the other mental health consultants explained the
potential problems that Elian might have to Juan Miguel Gonzalez when they met
with him. The father, he added, "seems quite understanding and sensitive to
that."

He and other experts said Cuba, where Elian may eventually return, has a
sophisticated system of psychiatric care and many highly trained child
psychiatrists and psychologists.

If Elian is as plucky and resilient as he seems, the experts said, the chances
are that he will come through even such extreme experiences as a healthy and
normal adolescent.

But if he does not get the help he needs, they said, he risks emotional problems
later in life, including a persistent sense that the future holds little because
the past has contained so many obstacles.

Either way, the answers to Elian's future will not show up in his smile.

"They all look great in photographs," Dr. Terr said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2000, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about potential effects of trauma on Elian Gonzalez's
mental health misstated the timing of his parents' divorce and the role of a
psychiatrist who was a consultant to the government in the case. Juan Miguel
Gonzalez and Elizabet Brotons divorced before Elian was born, not afterward, but
were living together at the time of his birth. The psychiatrist, Jerry Weiner,
was part of a team of mental health experts assembled to advise the government,
but he was not present the day of the meeting with Mr. Gonzalez.




                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE OVERVIEW;
SENATE WILL HOLD HEARINGS ON RAID ON HOUSE IN MIAMI

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


The political storm over Elian Gonzalez grew fiercer today as the Republican
leadership of the Senate called for hearings on the Justice Department's
decision to use armed agents to seize the 6-year-old boy, and as Vice President
Al Gore distanced himself again from the government's handling of the case.

Attorney General Janet Reno defended the raid in meetings today on Capitol Hill,
but her answers did not satisfy Republican leaders.

The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said he
wanted hearings next week to explore why Ms. Reno had ordered the use of agents
armed with automatic weapons to take the boy from the house of relatives in
Miami.

In his first public comments about the raid, Mr. Gore, the presumptive
Democratic presidential nominee, told National Public Radio today that he "would
have handled it differently." Mr. Gore, who has been at odds with President
Clinton and Ms. Reno over the case, repeated that a family court should have
decided the boy's future, although he stopped short of directly criticizing the
move.

Elian, his father, his stepmother and his half-brother were moved today from
Andrews Air Force Base near Washington, where they had stayed since the weekend,
to the Wye River conference center in Maryland in what was described as an
effort to give them greater privacy.

A federal appeals court has barred Elian from leaving the country pending
appeals by his Miami relatives, who are seeking asylum for him, and today the
appeals court expanded its order to forbid the boy from being taken to any
location protected by diplomatic immunity.

The expanded order would effectively bar Elian from visiting the homes or
offices of diplomats assigned to the Cuban Interests Section here.

The new order came in response to a request from the Miami relatives, namely
Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great-uncle, who also asked that the court appoint an
independent guardian for Elian while the court case played out. The order from
the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit gave the government
until 4 p.m. Wednesday to respond.

At a White House event, President Clinton asked today that the family be given
"space" to "heal its wounds and strengthen its bonds."

He praised Ms. Reno and the immigration agents involved in the raid. "After five
months, it was long overdue," said Mr. Clinton, who has long had a frosty
relationship with his attorney general.

Other efforts were announced today to make Elian and his family more comfortable
while they wait for court rulings in the case.

The State Department agreed today to allow four Cuban schoolmates of Elian's,
along with one parent from each family, to come to the United States to visit
the boy.

James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said the visas would probably be
granted quickly and the children were expected to stay a couple of weeks.

It was shortly before dawn on Saturday, when Ms. Reno who was still on the
telephone trying to negotiate a solution, ordered a raid of the home of Lazaro
Gonzalez, who had refused to hand the boy over to the Department of Justice.

Dozens of armed immigration agents surrounded the house and sprayed tear gas
while a female agent rushed the terrified boy into a waiting van. A photograph
showed one agent, in military gear and goggles, pointing an automatic rifle in
Elian's direction as the boy clutched Donato Dalrymple, the fisherman who
rescued the boy in November.

The operation took about three minutes but has led to days of rancorous debate
about whether it was justified. Public opinion surveys showed that most
Americans supported the raid and were tired of the topic.

The raid produced more difficult questions today for Mr. Gore as he campaigned.

Although he has insisted that his comments have been consistent and that his
sole concern is for the fate of Elian, the vice president has been criticized by
Republicans and Democrats alike for appearing to distance himself from the
administration in hopes of winning over Cuban-American voters who want the boy
to remain in the United States.

He said again today that he thought the courts should have handled the case. "I
would try to bring the family together and, barring that, try to handle it in
family court," he said in the radio interview. "The outcome in a family court
proceeding in circumstances like these is usually that the surviving parent is
of course given custody, but if there are unusual circumstances, what's the best
interest of the child dictates otherwise."

But on Capitol Hill today, Senate Republicans, led by Mr. Lott, said they were
shocked by the level of force that had been used and believed that Congressional
hearings were needed to explain why Ms. Reno ordered a raid in the midst of
negotiations.

In a closed meeting today, more than a dozen Democratic and Republican senators
questioned Doris Meissner, the commissioner for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service; Eric H. Holder, deputy attorney general; and Ms. Reno
about their decision to send agents into the house in the early morning hours.

Most Democrats in the meeting said they were satisfied that Ms. Reno was
justified in sending in the agents to reunite father and son. Republicans,
though, described her answers as vague and inadequate.

"I woke up on Saturday morning and saw that picture and said, 'Goodness
gracious, what has this come to,' " Mr. Lott said at a news conference.

Of most concern to him, Mr. Lott said, was why Ms. Reno had ordered the raid
when negotiators in Miami, led by several prominent civic leaders, felt they
were making progress in reaching a solution for Elian's peaceful transfer to his
father.

And despite results from opinion surveys showing public support for the raid,
Mr. Lott said he believed that most Americans thought Ms. Reno used excessive
force.

"I felt like a number of the questions were not adequately answered," Mr. Lott
said. "Why did you use this amount of force at this particular time? Why did it
have to be done that day, when negotiations are going on and there is even an
indication by some of the independent negotiators that they were making some
progress?"

Republicans at the meeting also questioned Ms. Reno about why the application
for the administrative search warrant that she obtained did not mention the
possibility that guns were being stashed in the Gonzalez house if officials were
so concerned about weapons. The request for the warrant did refer to a concern
that the crowd outside would form a human chain around the house.

They also wondered why Ms. Reno chose to act now, after an appeals court had
made it clear, in its temporary emergency order, that both sides had a chance of
winning the legal battle.

"The issue is whether we as a society, as a government, as a country, should
authorize the use of force to go into a family home to settle an issue about
custody," said Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida. "It is an
over-reaching of the power of government."

Ms. Reno did little to dispel their concerns, Republicans said, issuing vague
answers and sticking to her argument that further negotiations were fruitless
and that time had run out.

Mr. Lott said he had asked Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, to begin hearings as early as Tuesday that would explore
that question as well as obtain specifics on how much Ms. Reno had spent on the
raid and other assorted activities.

The hearings were expected to feature now familiar figures in the drama,
including the Miami relatives, their lawyers, the civic leaders, Ms. Reno, other
Justice Department officials, and possibly, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the boy's
father.

"I think that Juan Miguel Gonzalez would be a very interesting witness, to say
the least," Mr. Lott said.

But Gregory B. Craig, Mr. Gonzalez's attorney, called it a terrible idea. "What
would they want him to testify about?" Mr. Craig asked.

Senate Democrats who attended the meeting defended Ms. Reno, saying she had done
everything possible to resolve the five month tug-of-war over Elian, and they
criticized Republicans for rushing to hold hearings.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary
Committee, said Ms. Reno discussed the toll the prayer vigils and other
demonstrations outside the home had taken on Elian.

"She acted as she had to," Mr. Leahy said. "She had a search warrant. The
custody was with the father., And the family could have avoided this happening.
I wish they had."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton praised Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday
at a White House session on hate crimes for her handling of the events in Miami
that led to the reunion of Elian Gonzalez and his father. (Stephen Crowley/The
New York Times)(pg. A16)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 26, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Mayor Says 'Storm Trooper' Reflects Truth in Miami Case

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 434 words


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that he would not apologize for
characterizing the federal agents who seized Elian Gonzalez as "storm troopers,"
adding that it was "an appropriate criticism" directed not at the agents but at
President Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno.

"I'm not going to back down from it," Mr. Giuliani said during a news conference
at Shea Stadium. "I've been involved in law enforcement for a very long time.
I've never seen a situation in which a 6-year-old was removed in that way."

But Mr. Giuliani took care to say that the term "was not intended as a criticism
of the particular law enforcement officers carrying out the mission."

"I understand the realities of law enforcement and who makes the decisions," he
added. "Probably understand that better than most people. It was meant clearly
as a criticism, and a direct one, of Attorney General Reno and Bill Clinton."

On Monday, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, a nonpartisan group
representing 17,500 federal agents and officers, issued a news release
expressing "strong disgust and dismay" with the labeling of the officers as
storm troopers, and saying that anyone who had used the term should apologize.
At a news conference on Saturday, Mr. Giuliani used the term more than six times
and said that the Nazi imagery was "obvious."

Yesterday, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the mayor's opponent for United States
Senate, agreed with the officers' union. "I thought it was wrong of him to call
federal law enforcement officials 'storm troopers,' and I believe that the
officials appropriately demanded an apology from him," she said at a news
conference in Westchester County. "And I would hope that an apology would be
forthcoming."

Mrs. Clinton also said: "We've got to see what this truly is: a little boy
traumatized and reunited with his father, and I applaud his father for not
parading the boy around and further exploiting him. I would like to see
everybody just cease and desist from treating this little child as a political
symbol instead of as a little boy."

Mrs. Clinton's comments came on a day in which she campaigned upstate. In the
afternoon, she spoke to about 500 people, primarily students, at Alfred
University, in the southwestern part of the state. Later, she greeted diners in
a restaurant in Livonia, a small town near Rochester.

At the university, Mrs. Clinton spoke to the College Democrats Club and the
Allegany County Democratic Committee, describing her interests in making
education and health care more accessible and in improving the upstate economy.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 27, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Man Beaten by Officer Settles Lawsuit With City

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 147 words


Patrick Antoine, a Haitian immigrant who was arrested at the same time as Abner
Louima and beaten by Officer Justin A. Volpe, has settled his civil lawsuit with
the city, his lawyer said yesterday.

Mr. Antoine has agreed to accept $250,000 from city officials to drop his
lawsuit, which named the city and several officers of the 70th Precinct in
Flatbush as defendants, said the lawyer, Alan Abramson.

Mr. Antoine said he was wrongfully arrested on Aug. 9, 1997, and beaten by Mr.
Volpe, who has admitted to sodomizing Mr. Louima with a broken broomstick. In
the suit, Mr. Antoine accused the city and other officers of the 70th Precinct
of helping to cover up the arrest and the assault.

Mr. Abramson said the settlement with the city resolved all claims in the case.
Dan Connolly, an assistant corporation counsel, confirmed that the agreement had
been reached.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 27, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The Warrant In the Elian Raid

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 255 words



To the Editor:

Laurence H. Tribe (Op-Ed, April 25), in writing about our successful effort to
reunite Elian Gonzalez with his father, asserts that our actions were not
authorized because our search warrant "was not a warrant to seize the child."

Before entering the home last Saturday, the agents obtained a warrant from a
magistrate judge authorizing them to search "the residence of Lazaro Gonzalez"
and to seize "the person of Elian Gonzalez . . . a native and citizen of Cuba."
As a result, the agents had all the legal authority they needed to do what they
did.

The warrant was authorized by Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 41(b), which
provides that a warrant may be issued to search for and seize any person "who is
unlawfully restrained." That rule is intended to permit just the type of action
taken here: entry to recover a child or other person being held without legal
justification.

As is well known, Elian was "unlawfully restrained" by his great-uncle because
the Immigration and Naturalization Service had revoked Elian's parole,
terminated his great-uncle's right to care for him temporarily, and directed his
great-uncle to return Elian to the immigration service so that he could be
reunited with his father. Nonetheless, for nine days, the great-uncle refused to
surrender Elian. Consequently, the agents' entry and recovery of Elian was
pursuant to a warrant and unambiguously lawful.

BO COOPER
General Counsel, Immigration and Naturalization Service
Washington, April 26, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 27, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: COUNTING THE COST;
Castro Emerges as Conflict's Clear Winner

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 26


At the corner of Flagler Street and 22nd Avenue, a procession of cars filled
with teenagers, salsa music blaring, crawled slowly across the intersection with
Cuban flags fluttering from radio antennas and a big American flag flying upside
down, in scorn.

In Little Havana, in the days since Elian Gonzalez was taken from his Miami
relatives' home in a blur of tear gas and armed federal agents, upside-down
flags and disdain for the United States are fashionable.

As a city, "we are more divided than we have ever been," said Max Castro, the
senior research associate at the Dante B. Fascell North-South Center at the
University of Miami, and an expert on the exile community.

Almost everyone involved in the case lost something in the five-month standoff
and the three-minute raid on his relatives' home, say legal, immigration and
political experts, including his Miami family, the exiles who made Elian a
symbol of freedom, the two mayors who sided with the exiles over the government,
and -- because of the nature of the raid -- the government itself.

And the clear winner, said the experts, is the man exiles here see as the devil
himself. "Fidel Castro has taken great advantage," said Osmel Lugo, a political
dissident jailed in Cuba until 1999.

It is not that Mr. Castro did very much to profit from the case. Others, even
those who hate him most, did his work for him, said experts on Cuba and the
exile community.

The exiles and the family that could not bear to give up the child, no matter
how well-intentioned their refusal, gave Mr. Castro material to prop up his
sagging revolution and have turned American support from their cause.

And Mayor Alex Penelas of Miami-Dade County and Mayor Joseph Carollo of Miami,
though they may have heartened many of their constituents by siding with the
exile community against the government, stumbled on the national stage.

"The clear losers are the hard-liners in the Cuban exile community who conducted
themselves in such a way as to antagonize and alienate U.S. public opinion,"
said Wayne Smith, a senior fellow at the Center for International Policy in
Washington who served as a diplomat in Cuba.

"They seemed to believe they could take the law into their own hands, defy the
law, defy the federal government, and get away with it."

Few people doubt, political and immigration experts said, that Elian's
great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez and the boy's cousin Marisleysis Gonzalez both loved
Elian and were heartbroken when he was taken. But, even if a last-minute
compromise was close, as the Miami family and others said, the family clearly
had little credibility with a frustrated Attorney General Janet Reno.

"Lazaro Gonzalez said a number of times they would have to take the boy by
force," Mr. Smith said. "Well, they did. I think U.S. public opinion was turned
off by them."

Despite criticism that the government used excessive force in the raid,
Americans have overwhelmingly approved of it in poll after poll.

A USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll released on Monday showed that 60 percent of
respondents approved, and 62 percent believed that the Miami relatives would not
have turned the boy over peacefully if the agents had not been armed.

Only 28 percent of respondents said that Congress should hold hearings on the
raid, and only 25 percent said they believed that Elian should remain in the
United States.

Mr. Penelas and Mr. Carollo had, before and after, harshly criticized efforts to
remove the boy, refused to let their police help in the effort and made speeches
that left no doubt they would not cooperate with the government, drawing
condemnations from around the country.

So, in a startling snub, federal officials did not alert them to the raid,
apparently because those officials felt they could not trust them. For the top
elected officials in an American city to be so ignored is unusual, said
political experts.

"The government just went around them," said Lisandro Perez, director of the
Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University.

If the two mayors plan to seek office only in South Florida, where
Cuban-Americans remain the dominant cultural, political and economic force, they
probably did not hurt themselves, political experts agree.

Mr. Carollo, in a city dominated by Cuban-Americans, "solidified his position,"
said Dario Moreno, an associate professor of political science at Florida
International University.

But, said political experts, television images of smoking tires and trash bins
burning in the streets and the police scuffling with violent demonstrators may
halt any larger political ambitions at the Miami-Dade County line for both
mayors.

Mr. Penelas, the young mayor of Miami-Dade County, had seemed destined for a
political career beyond Miami, but was condemned by dozens of editorial pages
around the nation, and by whites, blacks and other Hispanics in his own county.
"He hurt his political career," Mr. Moreno said, though he added that it was too
soon to write the mayor's political obituary.

Both mayors have said over and over they did what was right, what the majority
of constituents wanted. But in doing so they ignored almost everyone except
Cuban-Americans.

"Some people really became invested in Elian remaining here," Mr. Castro, the
researcher, said. "Other people felt alienated, felt the city was being taken
over by one case."

The long-standing power in the Cuban exile community, the Cuban American
National Foundation, and its chairman, Jorge Mas Santos, tried but failed to
broker a deal for a more peaceful transfer of Elian.

And, the foundation had a less visible presence at street level than the much
less powerful Movimiento Democracia, led by Ramon Saul Sanchez. Mr. Sanchez was
slammed in the head by a rifle butt in the raid.

"At this point it means that they, the hard-liners, do not have the monopoly on
Cuban policy, do not have the influence they had," said Mauricio Font, director
of the Cuba Project at the Graduate Center of City University of New York. But
Mr. Mas Santos said the Elian case helped the exile's fight, because "people now
have a better understanding about what life is like in Cuba. Fidel's tyranny had
been exposed."

Gov. Jeb Bush, who insisted that family court should settle the issue, had no
real presence in the case and should not be affected much by it one way or
another. Political experts said Mr. Bush, a Republican, was supportive of exiles
but was not bloodied because he was never a real factor in how the drama played
out.

But votes, power and public opinion aside, Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
seems to have won the ultimate battle, for the child.

The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit is expected to rule on
May 11 on the Miami relatives' appeal of a lower court ruling that Elian, at 6,
is too young to ask for a political asylum hearing.

Experts on immigration law and child psychology say that, with a 6-year-old boy,
whoever exercises influence over him will ultimately win the custody battle,
which is really what the asylum hearing is about.

"The power of persuasion is now in the hands of the father," said Pamela Falk, a
professor of immigration law at the City University of New York. That, Professor
Falk said, was why the government had to act so drastically to remove Elian from
the Miami family.

The Miami family lost a child. Elian's father was without his son for five
months. And Elian endured a nightmare when armed agents took him from the home
and into the chaos of the street outside.

Fidel Castro, in a time when he needed a shot of power, has it now.

"Every three or four months, Fidel has a speech and talks about the same thing,"
Mr. Lugo said.

Elian's story has given him a passionate topic that appeals to the nationalism
of the Cuban people.

He will talk about it, experts on Cuba said, forever.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayors Alex Penelas, of Miami-Dade County, above right, and
Joseph Carollo, of Miami, left, earned praise and criticism; Ramon Saul Sanchez,
top right, raised his profile as an activist, and Jorge Mas Santos of the Cuban
American National Foundation, below, saw his power ebb. (Photographs by
Associated Press);(Laura Kleinhenz/Saba); Federal marshals on all-terrain
vehicles preparing to patrol the Wye River conference center in Maryland, where
Elian Gonzalez is staying. (Pool photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE: THE ACTION;
Raid Leaders Explain the Use of Automatic Weapons

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27


Commanders of the raid that reunited Elian Gonzalez with his father went into
the home of his Miami relatives with automatic weapons early last Saturday
because intelligence reports indicated that the house was being guarded by a
shadowy network of men who had permits to carry concealed weapons, a history of
violent crime or a record of anti-Castro violence, one of the officers said
today.

A senior immigration official in charge of intelligence gathering for the
operation said it was the information suggesting the possibility of violence
that led the authorities to plan a large military-style raid with about 140
agents, a few armed with automatic weapons.

"There was a structure and the potential of violent threats to prevent us from
recovering Elian from the house and perhaps do serious harm to our personnel and
maybe innocent people in the area," the official said. "That's really why we
structured the enforcement plan to be, by any objective standard, an
overwhelming show of force to prevent the use of force."

The official said there were several reports of an unidentified person at the
house who was observed with a firearm but no reports of weapons in the house.
Attorney General Janet Reno has said there were reports of weapons inside the
house.

There was no immediate comment on firearms tonight from a spokesman for the
family, though the family has always insisted it had none in the house and none
were confiscated in the raid.

The intelligence operation uncovered what the official said was a plan to thwart
any effort to remove Elian from the Gonzalez home forcibly by rushing him to the
house directly behind the Gonzalez's if the authorities tried to break in. That
house was headquarters for the Cuban-American security operation in the Little
Havana neighborhood, the official said.

The intelligence operation relied largely on covert surveillance, overflights of
helicopters and fixed wing aircraft, the official said, speaking on condition of
not being named. The information was cross-checked with law enforcement and
commercial databases to provide a profile of the loose network of security
personnel around the child in the days before the raid.

The official said agents detected several layers in what he described as a
security cordon around the house of Lazaro Gonzalez, where Elian was staying
after he was rescued from the Atlantic on Nov. 25. The security operation
extended to the streets surrounding the house, where, the official said,
supporters in lawn chairs took positions at strategic intersections and used
walkie-talkies and cell phones to report law enforcement activity.

The official said the reports were transmitted to supporters of the Miami
relatives at a house on the same block as the Gonzalez home. The reports, he
said, were relayed to local Spanish-speaking radio stations, which sometimes
broadcast appeals to Cuban-Americans to crowd the streets around the house.

The official said agents identified five people who seemed to operate as what he
called "close quarters bodyguards" who were at the Gonzalez house at varying
times. Four of the five people, the official said, were identified, and all four
had active permits to carry concealed weapons.

Although the Gonzalez family seemed to know and allow some members of the
security force into their home, the official said, it was unclear whether the
Miami relatives played a significant role in organizing or managing the network
of Cuban-American supporters.

The official said the leaders of the security force occupied the house behind
the Gonzalez home. This was what he described as a base of operations for a
larger group of 15 to 20 people who set up roving patrols on foot, bicycles and
cars.

Among this group were nine people whom the official said had criminal records
for violent crimes.

"These people had essentially taken it on their own to prevent the removal of
Elian from the Gonzalez home," the official said.

In addition, the official said, five members of the militant anti-Castro group
Alpha 66 were seen on several occasions in the crowd of demonstrators. He said
three of the five had taken credit for firing from a boat into a seaside hotel
in Cuba in 1995.

Immigration officials said they coordinated their intelligence gathering with
other federal agencies and with Miami police. But the officials said they did
not coordinate the raid with the local authorities who, except for a few senior
commanders, did not know how or when the operation was to take place.

Although several Cuban citizens in the security operation were detained in the
days before the assault, the official said, the intelligence collection effort
did not result in arrests or searches for weapons. That was because the
operation to take custody of the child was focused solely on that goal, the
official said, and was not viewed as broader law enforcement action.

The operation took place shortly after 5 a.m. on Saturday after negotiations
that Ms. Reno had said stalled over the relatives' unwillingness to surrender
the child unconditionally to the authorities after months of refusing to hand
over the boy.

Lawyers for the relatives have complained that they were pleading for more time
to negotiate a peaceful transfer at nearly the exact time that Ms. Reno sent the
agents to the house and have bitterly criticized her for undertaking the assault
without giving the talks more time.

Republicans in Congress are planning hearings to review the operation. Some
lawmakers have sharply criticized Ms. Reno for sending in agents outfitted in
military-style jump suits who carried automatic weapons in an operation that
they said was likely to provoke violence and terrorize the boy.

Justice Department lawyers have not allowed the agents who planned and carried
out the assault to be interviewed until today, in part because they were
assembling an after-action report and reviewing each agent's account in
anticipation of civil lawsuits and Congressional inquiries.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 29, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Elian and the Law

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The critics of Attorney General Janet Reno's decision to take Elian Gonzalez
from the home of his Miami relatives rely heavily on legal arguments. How good
are those arguments?

1. It is argued that no law authorized the attorney general's order to Elian's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, to give him up.

Longstanding statutes give the Immigration and Naturalization Service custody of
any alien who, like Elian, arrives at this country's borders without entry
documents. The law allows the attorney general, and through her the I.N.S., to
parole an alien, with this proviso: "When the purposes of such parole shall, in
the opinion of the attorney general, have been served, the alien shall forthwith
return or be returned to the custody from which he was paroled."

On April 4 Lazaro Gonzalez was advised by letter that Attorney General Reno had
revoked Elian's parole in his care. The law then unequivocally required him to
return Elian to the custody of the I.N.S. He was told to do so, and he did not.

2. The warrant produced by the officers who made the raid was only a warrant to
search the house, not to seize Elian.

The federal criminal rules were amended years ago to allow searches not only for
fruits of crime or evidence but for individuals wrongly held. The purpose was to
deal with kidnappings and other unlawful detentions.

In its application for a warrant, the I.N.S. specified that it wanted one "in
order to seize the person of Elian Gonzalez." The warrant, as issued, authorized
officers to search the house "and if the person or property be found there to
seize same."

3. The attorney general's order to agents to enter the house and take Elian out
was precipitous.

Elian had been kept by the Miami relatives -- kept from his father -- for
months. He had been subjected to propaganda and demonstrations at all hours of
the day and night. Far from being precipitous, the attorney general had been
extraordinarily patient, if not dilatory, in a situation increasingly dangerous
to Elian's long-term well-being.

4. Negotiations with the Miami relatives were near success and should have been
continued.

On the last night, the Miami relatives insisted that, rather than Elian being
turned over to the I.N.S. and then to his father, all of them -- relatives,
father and son, plus "facilitators" -- live together in a temporary home in
Miami-Dade County. After all the weeks of frustrated negotiations there was no
reason to think they would ever voluntarily let Elian go back to his father.

5. Attorney General Reno should have gone to court for a specific order
requiring Lazaro Gonzalez to give up Elian.

No immigration statute gives the federal courts jurisdiction to issue such
orders, and it is questionable that a judge would have entertained a request for
one. If he had, powerful prudential concerns would have arisen: Court
proceedings would have taken days, perhaps weeks -- with Elian still in the
Miami circus atmosphere. If an order had been issued, the relatives' prior
conduct suggests that they would have defied it. The Justice Department would
have had to bring contempt proceedings -- and I do not think it could have acted
while those proceedings were pending.

In the end, many weeks down the line, the attorney general would in all
likelihood have had to do the same thing: send agents in to get Elian. But by
then thousands of protesters might have surrounded the house, making violence
more likely.

6. The I.N.S. agents should not have carried such heavy weapons or worn such
menacing clothes.

The photograph was indeed shocking. But police going into a hostile situation
where there may be danger say they must be prepared for the worst. In fact there
was no violence, and the show of force may have prevented it.

Over the last several years I have written many columns critical of the I.N.S.
and of the harsh 1996 Immigration Act it enforces. In this case, under Attorney
General Reno's guidance, the I.N.S. swiftly, professionally and legally
accomplished what many thought could not be done without tragedy.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ON POLITICS;
You'd Think Young Elian Was Holed Up in Bayonne

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus;  Laura Mansnerus reports from Trenton for The New
York Times.

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


Times are good, and persistent questions about health care, income inequality
and the like can always wait for a while. So political attention turns to Elian
Gonzalez.

As everyone with a television set knows, the 6-year-old was whisked away from
his relatives in Miami last weekend by federal agents with guns -- an action
that touched off a stream of news releases and led to calls for congressional
hearings. Even in New Jersey.

Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat, spoke of the "despicable use of the
force of the federal government against a humble, unarmed, law-abiding family."
Representative Bob Franks, a candidate for the Republican Senate nomination,
called for Attorney General Janet Reno's resignation.

And those who didn't volunteer their thoughts were badgered for them. Governor
Whitman, asked about the case at a news conference, managed to say that she
hoped everything would be resolved in the boy's best interests.

Jon Corzine, campaigning for the Democratic Senate nomination, held firmly to
the fence when asked the same question, saying that the raid was "overreaching"
but that "I think we should allow the child to be with his father."

But when Mr. Corzine added that "this whole issue has been so dramatically
politicized," he was probably thinking warmly, as many Democrats said they were,
of the way that Republicans poll numbers dipped during the impeachment hearings
against Bill Clinton.

In all fairness, the Elian spectacle is a media production. None of us has been
able to pass up pictures of an enormously appealing child or the opportunity to
ask every American not in a coma for an opinion about the 6-year-old child's
future. And if reporters accost mildly surprised Anglos strolling in Santa
Monica, why not Governor Whitman?

Then, of course, some politicians have reasons to have an opinion.

Mr. Menendez has the best reasons in the book: He was involved in talks with
community leaders in Miami and actually knows what happened. He represents Union
City -- of which he used to be mayor -- with a Cuban-American population second
only to Miami's. And his parents were Cuban immigrants.

In defense of a legal principle -- that the child has a right to apply for
political asylum -- the congressman broke with the president and attorney
general of his own party. When Vice President Al Gore did that, he became the
target of a thousand snarky comments about pandering for Florida's electoral
votes.

Among the New Jersey delegation, Senator Robert G. Torricelli probably has the
second-best reason to be talking, though he is not exercising it much. The
senator, who has developed a well-known hostility toward Cuba over the years,
was involved in last-minute negotiations involving Deputy Attorney General Eric
H. Holder and attorneys for Elian's father and for the Miami relatives.

Before the talks collapsed, cars were waiting to pick up the participants and
take them to the Vatican's offices in Washington for another meeting, said
Richard McGrath, the senator's spokesman.

Mr. Torricelli's statement after the raid ventured: "We must also remember to
maintain our trust in a legal process that has not played itself out and that we
are a nation of laws."

For the most part, the New Jersey delegation is lining up largely the way it did
on the Monica Lewinsky question: Republicans are ready to harass President
Clinton, and Democrats are happy to see Republicans preparing to do themselves
damage by conducting hearings while public opinion supports the administration.

"I think they'll regret the day they did it," Representative Robert Andrews, a
Democrat, said of Republicans plans for hearings. "Janet Reno has a tremendous
amount of integrity and doesn't get rattled by a bunch of congressional press
releases."

Representative Christopher H. Smith, a Republican who is chairman of the House
subcommittee on international human rights, was "appalled that the Clinton-Gore
Administration had to go to these lengths," his spokesman, Chris Connelly, said.
Mr. Smith was nothing if not consistent: In a hearing two weeks ago, he said
that if Elian was returned to Cuba he would be "forced to be a Marxist."

Mr. Menendez pointed out that the whole issue was not likely to affect the
average member of Congress. Of all the voters bombarded with film and opinion
pieces, none who are not Cuban-Americans are likely to cast a vote based on this
issue, he said. Those who are Cuban-American will.

As to his own Cuban-American constituency, a community less Republican than its
counterpart in Little Havana, he said: "I just left a bunch of them who, while
they respect me and the views I've held over many years, were giving me an
earful over Clinton. And we've done a lot of work here over the years to turn
them into Democrats."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Mansnerus

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Man Jailed in 5 Killings Is Called Mentally Ill

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, April 30


The man arrested in a shooting rampage that killed three immigrants, a Jewish
woman and a black man had a history of mental illness and irrational fears, a
friend and his lawyer said today.

Police officers searching the house where the man, Richard Scott Baumhammers,
34, lived before the attacks on Friday, found a three-page manifesto indicating
that Mr. Baumhammers was trying to form a political party opposed to
immigration, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported.

The document, which included Mr. Baumhammers' signature as chairman of The Free
Market Party, advocated the rights of European-Americans and denounced Third
World immigration, said a prosecution source whom the newspaper did not name.

Mr. Baumhammers has been charged in the death of Garry Lee, 22, who was killed
while taking a karate class. More charges were expected this week.

His lawyer, William Difenderfer, said Mr. Baumhammers had a history of mental
illness.

A friend of Mr. Baumhammers', Dr. George Naruns of St. Petersburg, Fla., said he
had expressed paranoid ideas and sometimes said he believed he was being
followed.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Panel Suggests Latent TB Testing for Immigrants

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 410 words


Though the number of tuberculosis cases in the United States has fallen to an
all-time low, a panel of experts called yesterday for renewed efforts to prevent
the disease, including screening immigrants for the dormant form of TB and
tripling the financing for tuberculosis research.

There were just 17,528 cases of active tuberculosis disease reported in the
United States last year, down from 18,361 cases in 1998 and fully a third less
than the recent peak of 26,673 set in 1992.

Still, according to a report from the Institute of Medicine of the National
Academies, because tuberculosis remains widespread in many parts of the world,
the current decline in the United States could easily reverse.

"U.S. policy makers cannot afford to relax their vigilance," Morton N. Swartz, a
professor at Harvard Medical School, said.

Dr. Swartz, the chairman of the committee that wrote the report, added that
"current efforts at TB control will not be sufficient, and doing less could be
disastrous."

The committee warned against a replay of the 1970's, when declining TB rates led
to a dismantling of prevention and treatment programs. A decade later, in the
late 1980's, TB infection rates rose again, with drug-resistant strains
emerging.

Part of the difficulty in eradicating tuberculosis is that the airborne bacteria
that cause it can lie inactive in a person's lungs for years, with the host
entirely unaware of the infection. An estimated 90 percent of people infected by
the bacteria never develop the active form of the disease, which can cause a
persistent cough, chest pain, fatigue and fever.

The report urges new efforts at detecting latent tuberculosis infections,
particularly among immigrants. Though immigrants account for only 10 percent of
the United States population, they constitute about 40 percent of active
tuberculosis cases.

It recommended that immigrants from countries with high incidence of the
disease, mostly in Asia and Africa, be screened for latent tuberculosis
infections. Those who tested positive would still be allowed to enter the United
States, but would have to undergo evaluation and antibiotic therapy before they
could get a permanent residency card.

The study was financed by the federal Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. The Institute of Medicine is a private, nonprofit institution that
provides advice on health policy under a Congressional charter to the National
Academy of Sciences.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Sprechen Sie Technology?;
Europeans Try to Relax Borders for Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1670 words

DATELINE: PARIS, May 4


Eric Perbos-Brinck gave up a promising management career last year at Promodes,
the big French retailer, to start an Internet company called Bravonestor.com. He
began in November with just 2 people, but already has 10 employees, with plans
to hire 5 more in the next few weeks. To fill the jobs, Mr. Perbos-Brinck, 31,
casts his net wide. One of his programmers is Moroccan. The designer of search
engines is Senegalese. Both were studying in France as exchange students when
Mr. Perbos-Brinck found them in a desperate search.

"It's difficult and it's an issue," he said. "One of my American investors said,
'This is war, so get anyone you can, anywhere.' "

Mr. Perbos-Brinck's polyglot staff would not draw a second glance in the United
States, where the technology industry's ravenous demand for skilled workers has
created a multinational, multicultural work force that includes many foreigners.
But in Europe, his effort to find qualified help has collided with one of
Europe's most divisive issues: immigration.

The historic European antipathy toward immigrants has only sharpened in recent
years. But with the European economy on the rebound, unemployment dropping from
the extremely high levels of the mid-1990's and leaders clamoring to catch up
with the United States in high technology, business faces a serious problem.

Although job creation is gradually reducing overall unemployment rates, Europe
finds itself in the curious situation of facing much higher unemployment than in
the United States yet simultaneously suffering a critical shortage of skilled
high-technology workers that is expected to worsen.

The shortfall is particularly acute in Internet and Web-related businesses
because European countries have not trained enough workers of their own with
high-technology skills, a problem they are just beginning to address.

As a result, even as overall opposition to immigration remains deeply
entrenched, European governments are under pressure to find ways around these
obstacles for at least some high-technology workers.

In Britain, Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, proposed in March to
relax rules on hiring skilled foreigners.

In Germany, the chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, set off a stormy debate with a
proposal to lift visa restrictions so that software experts from India and
elsewhere could work in Germany. Even though the plan has not been approved, it
has already attracted about 1,800 applications or requests for information.

Pre-empting a final decision, cities like Frankfurt have begun to make
exceptions to the rule that keeps foreign computer experts out.

For Ernesto Schmitt, such openings in Europe's immigration net cannot come too
soon. Mr. Schmitt, 28, set up Peoplesound.com, a London company that sells music
over the Internet, and he uses all the tricks common to start-ups in the United
States to find and keep talent, including the use of aggressive international
headhunters and the promise of equity stakes in his company. Yet recently, when
he discovered talented potential employees in South Africa, he decided he could
not hire them. "We did not want the pain of waiting six months for them to get
visas," he said.

The new economy is not waiting for governments to act on the shortage, which is
leading to brawls for talented people. At big corporations, once the safe domain
of career-oriented young Europeans, the best talent is being lured away by
headhunters; other gifted young executives are leaving of their own accord,
willingly forfeiting the security of the old economy for the rough-and-tumble
risk of the new.

Mr. Schmitt, who grew up in Belgium, the son of a Uruguayan mother and German
father, is perhaps typical of the new brand of European Web business leader. A
self-styled frustrated disc jockey, he took the idea for his company from
American models like MP3.com but rejiggered it for the European market. After
attracting investors including Bernard Arnault, the wealthy chairman of the LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton luxury goods group, he gave up the comfort of a
secure job at the Boston Consulting Group to plunge into the new economy.

Olivier Gravelle, 29, operating in sparsely furnished offices in Paris, recently
set up the French unit of Wideyes.com, an online job search company much like
Monster.com in the United States. Wideyes, founded in Sweden about a year ago,
now employs 70 people there and in Britain, France and Spain. By the end of the
year, after moving into Germany and Italy, it expects to have about 230
employees.

"There is a war for talent," said Mr. Gravelle, who is French. Aggravating a
basic shortage of skilled workers, upstart companies are acquiring established
businesses -- he cites the successful hostile bid by the British wireless
company Vodafone AirTouch for the German phone giant Mannesmann -- and needing
new-style managers who are suited to the speed and complexity of electronic
business.

"People who come to us looking for jobs want mobility; they want to change jobs
and to change geographically," Mr. Gravelle said. Young Europeans, he added,
"understand their duty to manage their skills and their careers."

Mr. Gravelle himself left a secure job at the consultants Booz Allen & Hamilton
in November to join Wideyes. He had met the Swedish founders of Wideyes earlier,
while working in Scandinavia for the French bank Credit Lyonnais, before joining
Booz Allen.

Five years ago, that kind of mobility was the preserve of a small elite. Today
it is so common that European companies are having to learn how to hold on to
talented people, often employing means, like stock options, that not long ago
were considered symptoms of very un-European greediness. Last month, for
example, when Societe Generale in France announced the sale of shares in its
online banking unit, Fimatex, it did so not least to enable it to retain talent
by offering stock options, after the executive who started Fimatex was lured by
stock options to a competitor.

Consulting companies are among the main beneficiaries of the growth, as demand
soars from corporations that are in need of skilled help.

Marc A. Enjolras, a partner at Andersen Consulting in Paris, says Andersen will
hire 250 people in France this year, increasing its staff to 2,750.

To avoid losing people to Internet start-ups, Andersen France is introducing a
number of retention measures already in use in the United States. Starting this
year, Andersen's French employees will receive "e-units," or shares in a $1
billion venture capital fund that the firm established in December. In France,
as elsewhere, Andersen is also shortening the path to full partner by
eliminating the rank of associate partner.

Hugues Bertrand, director of the Center for the Study of Employment and
Qualification in Marseille, a port city plagued by high unemployment and urban
decay, said that in large measure "companies that are successful are those that
are creative and active in finding people." Much European job growth is coming
not in technical professions, he added, but in traditional fields like
education, career training and health and fitness services. "Preparation need
not be so much technical as social -- dealing with people, running an
organization," he said.

Many business leaders argue that the shortage of technology workers is real and
that failure to address it will stunt Europe's revived growth.

Bernard Vergnes, the 54-year-old chairman of Microsoft Europe, points to a study
commissioned by Microsoft and published in March by the International Data
Corporation that suggests that European demand for skilled professionals in
telecommunications and computers will outstrip supply by as much as 13 percent
over the next three years.

Microsoft recently joined a group of Europe-based technology companies,
including British Telecommunications, Nokia of Finland and Siemens of Germany,
as well as IBM Europe, to urge greater cooperation between industry and
governments in training skilled technology workers.

Hardest hit by the shortages, according to the International Data study, will be
Germany, which has the largest European economy and is the heart of European
Internet business. Demand for talent in Germany is expected to exceed supply by
as much as 15 percent, or more than 400,000 jobs.

Touring a computer fair in March, Mr. Schroder, the German chancellor, responded
to industry's demands for help by taking a chapter from United States policy and
promising to offer temporary work permits -- a kind of German green card -- to
as many as 20,000 skilled foreigners, notably from India and Eastern Europe. In
return, German industry leaders promised to step up the training of domestic
computer experts.

The plan quickly drew fire from labor unions and opposition parties, who cited
Germany's 4 million unemployed and 7.3 million foreigners, the highest number of
immigrants in any European country. It also faced criticism from Mr. Schroder's
own labor ministry. Gerd Andres, the ministry's No. 2 official, said the plan
would only "bring cheap labor into the country."

German cities have jumped the gun on this issue. In Frankfurt, the German
financial capital and a major computer center, the local investment promotion
agency, with the approval of local immigration officials, has persuaded six
software companies from India to establish affiliates in the city.

The agency's director, Hartmut Schwesinger, said recently that six more Indian
companies were about to follow and that he was in discussions with 30 more.

Still, given the Continent's distaste for foreigners, not everyone is convinced
that foreign workers will come even if the German proposal is repeated across
Europe.

Andrew Milroy, who oversaw the shortages study for International Data, recalled
talking with Sri Lankan and Indian software experts who said they would not be
inclined to accept a European invitation.

Mr. Milroy recalled their saying, "Europe is just not a welcoming place to
live."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Paris, right, Eric Perbos-Brinck stands amid his Web
designers at Bravonestor.com. In Frankfurt, above, Hartmut Schwesinger, director
of the local investment promotion agency, with Madhu Bhonsle, an English/Indian
trainee for Asia. (John Giannini (above) and Harald Schroeder (top), both for
The New York Times)

Charts: "Openings Over There"
Estimated demand for technology professionals in Europe's four largest economies
is expected to continue to grow faster than the supply.

Chart tracks supply of technology workers and estimated technology jobs
unfilled, since 1998.

(Source: International Data Corporation)

"In Queue"
As Germany debates a special high-technology work visa, 1,800 foreigners have
expressed interest in getting one. Here is where many are from.

(Source: Central employment office in Bonn)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ON THE CONTRARY;
A Forgotten Threat: Free Trade in Population

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST;  Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business
wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words


IN their determination to derail the forces of globalization -- a process in
which dastardly capitalists provide employment to impoverished people all over
the world -- protesters in Washington focused recently on a pair of plump
targets, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.

Yet they directed none of their ire at the Washington headquarters of another
notorious agent of globalization, the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Of course, the I.N.S. is not really responsible for America's decision to
tolerate consistently high levels of legal and illegal immigration, or for the
nation's indifference to the age, training or skill level of most of the
immigrants it admits.

But the protesters seemed mainly to want a symbol. So why assail global trade
(the importing of goods) but ignore immigration (the importing of people)? After
all, economists across the political spectrum agree that the growing volume of
world trade yields economic, social and even geopolitical benefits to Americans
and foreigners alike, making the world more peaceful and more affluent. There is
no such consensus on current immigration policy.

Many of the protesters claimed to be environmentalists. Surely the arrival of
large numbers of immigrants, who will soon begin consuming land, fuel and other
resources at gargantuan American levels, is an environmental issue.

Other protesters profess a concern for American jobs. Yet unemployment in this
country is negligible.

The real problem for American workers is that immigration keeps increasing the
supply of labor, seriously suppressing low-end wages. George J. Borjas, a
Harvard professor of public policy specializing in immigration, calls this "an
astonishing transfer of wealth from the poorest people in the country, who are
disproportionately minorities, to the richest."

John Micklethwait and Adrian Woolridge, in their exhaustive new book about
globalization, "A Future Perfect" (Crown Business Books) state flatly that
"immigration has a much more direct impact on American wages than trade does."

What's more, immigration holds down wages in exactly the kinds of low-skill jobs
that are not easy to shift overseas -- the only ones, in other words, that are
likely to remain available in the long run to the poorest Americans. Many of the
poor -- often immigrants themselves -- generally take a much dimmer view of high
immigration rates than does the latte-and-S.U.V. crowd, which mainly sees cheap
child care and great new ethnic restaurants.

Certainly, immigration has played a role in the declining fortunes of organized
labor. Consider the drywallers of Southern California. In the 1970's, installing
gypsum wallboard there was highly paid union work. But at the end of that
decade, contractors began using nonunion Mexican immigrants, many of them from a
single village. By the early 1980's, union drywallers had been completely
displaced, and wages had plummeted.

Eventually, after a struggle, the immigrant drywallers formed their own union
and won raises, but their pay remains far below what their predecessors earned
-- perhaps because there are more immigrants waiting to take their places.

In the rhetoric of its opponents, global capitalism has a prominent failing:
income inequality. But in the United States, that inequality is almost certainly
exacerbated by immigration; indeed, it is becoming common again for the
bourgeoisie to employ servants, though no one uses the term in polite company.

Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve and bete noire of
anticapitalists everywhere, recently called for more immigration of skilled
workers. Software companies, of course, love that idea. They want more immigrant
programmers, even though there is no great shortage of homegrown software labor,
at least according to Norman Matloff, a computer scientist at the University of
California at Davis who also studies immigration. There is only a shortage, he
says of cheap software labor.

IT would be more logical for foes of globalization to also oppose immigration,
but such a stance is, of course, politically incorrect. While supporting both
free trade and immigration may be more consistent, I'm not sure it is any more
right. If we are to continue reaping the benefits of globalization, we must do
more to help those who suffer the heaviest cost -- America's working poor, who
should, at the least, receive decent pay and health insurance for their labors.
The nation is unlikely to make much headway on this or many other important
fronts (like income inequality, suburban sprawl or social cohesion) until we
reassess which people, and how many of them, can enter the country. In the past,
big influxes have often been followed by long periods of digestion in which
fewer newcomers were admitted.

The time may be right for another such breather.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Gayle Hegland)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 8, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Cubans Rescued at Sea Are Released to Relatives

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 7


Fourteen Cubans have been reunited with relatives here after being found at sea
suffering from severe dehydration.

The group of 12 men and 2 women was rescued on Friday by the United States Coast
Guard about seven miles off Miami after their boat was spotted by a freighter.

They were taken to three hospitals in the area for treatment and released to
family members and friends on Saturday.

The group told the Coast Guard that they had left the Matanzas province in a
small boat they built from discarded aluminum pipes and spent 10 days at sea.
They said they lost their rations early in their journey and had to share a bag
of crackers and drink salt water.

Under immigration policy, Cuban refugees who reach land are usually allowed to
remain. Those intercepted before setting foot on United States soil are usually
returned to Cuba.

In this case, the Cubans will be permitted to stay because all were brought
ashore because of their medical needs.






http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 10, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Judge Bars U.S. From Deporting Boy to Thailand

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 9


A federal judge delayed the deportation of a 2-year-old boy to Thailand today,
saying that he had questions about the boy's safety.

The judge, Dickran Tevrizian of United States District Court, acting at the
request of lawyers for the boy, Phanupong Khaisri, issued a temporary
restraining order against the Immigration and Naturalization Service that
prevented the agency from deporting him for 10 days.
 Judge Tevrizian said he had concerns about the boy's safety in Thailand, and
scheduled a hearing for May 23.

"I can't, as a parent . . . just simply return this child back to Thailand after
what this child has been through," The Associated Press quoted him as saying.

He said he would appoint two doctors to examine Phanupong, who had suffered an
ear infection and flu after he arrived in the United States.  The restraining
order came shortly after members of the Thai community here had gone to court to
block Phanupong's return as they sought custody safeguards similar to those
afforded Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy whose case has inflamed passions in
Miami.

Phanupong had been taken into custody on April 11 by the immigration service,
which said he was being used as a decoy by a group smuggling women into the
United States. The boy had been detained at Los Angeles International Airport
with a man and woman posing as his parents.

Advocates representing the child said they feared that sending him back to
Thailand without more investigation could put him in jeopardy.

The Thai government, working with the immigration service, had intended to
return the boy to Thailand today. But advocates refused to give the boy to Thai
officials this morning and filed a lawsuit.

After he arrived in the United States, the boy had been placed with a social
worker through the Thai Community Development Center, a nonprofit organization
that serves the Thai residents in California.

According to the lawsuit, the boy's mother was sold into sexual slavery at the
age of 12, and Phanupong had been in the care of his maternal grandmother until
February, when his mother sold him for about $260. It is believed that he had
been used as a decoy at least two other times.

The father, according to the lawsuit, had contracted H.I.V., the virus that
causes AIDS, and had committed suicide when the boy was just a few months old.

Although the paternal grandparents have agreed to adopt Phanupong, advocates for
the boy said they believed the case was being rushed in a way that could further
traumatize him. They said they feared that the boy would be placed in an
orphanage while his adoption was processed.

"Given the widespread nature of corruption, bribery and child trafficking in
Thailand, we are very concerned that unless custody is transferred to his
paternal grandparents he may find himself back in the stream of illicit child
trafficking once again," said Peter A. Schey, president of the Center for Human
Rights and Constitutional Law, who filed the lawsuit.

The lawsuit had asked that the immigration service provide a formal hearing
before the boy leaves the country, that his parole status be extended
temporarily if the request is not granted and that he be given temporary asylum
while custodial arrangements are finalized.

Mr. Schey said the United States Attorney's Office has agreed to try to resolve
the case in the next two days.

Sharon Gavin, a spokeswoman for the immigration service, said officials have
been working with the Thai government to assure the boy's safe return.

"We're all working toward the same goal: to ensure the safety and well being of
the young boy," Ms. Gavin said.

Chanchanit Martorell, executive director of the Thai Community Development
Center, said that given the child's background and what he had been through,
extra care was needed in the transition to a new home.

Advocates for the boy question why the type of scrutiny that was given to Elian
Gonzalez, whose father was interviewed and brought to the United States, was not
being given to this child.

They speculate that the United States is less inclined to go against a country
with which it shares political and economic ties as opposed to a country such as
Cuba.

While there are few similarities between the two cases, Phanupong has no
relatives in the United States and no one is seeking permanent residency for
him, advocates feel that his case should have been given similar scrutiny.

"Elian has been treated with kids gloves by the Attorney General, the I.N.S. and
the president," Mr. Schey said. "This child is being treated completely
different."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phanupong Khaisri, 2, was used by smugglers, federal agents
said. (Kirk McKoy/The Los Angeles Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 14, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Taking Away Rights: Where Do You Stop?

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 21; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 191 words


Jim Panos's column misses the point. The bumper sticker in its regrettably crude
terseness is a growing reaction to the increasing flood of immigrants who, as
soon as they arrive, insist on the use of their own language at our expense.

Bilingual and multilingual education, the provision of court interpreters, the
publication of government documents in a multiplicity of languages and even the
administration of the citizenship oath in a language other than English all
serve to balkanize our country, to reinforce national, cultural and behavioral
differences among various immigrant groups and ultimately to sow the seeds of
our own destruction. And all of us taxpayers pay heavily for this privilege.

There is nothing wrong with immigrants preserving their language, culture and
practices, but let them do it at their own expense, not ours.

It is about time that the United States formally declared English as our
official language and restricted all official proceedings to that language.
Until that time I would alter the bumper sticker to read: "If you don't speak
English -- learn, or get out!"

HEINZ ROSEN
 Huntington

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 16, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Travel Agent Sentenced for Fake Weddings

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 15


A former travel agent who admitted arranging more than 100 fake marriages to
help Latin American immigrants acquire United States residency papers was
sentenced today to the maximum 46 months in prison.

The agent, Jesus Pascual Cigollen, was also fined $25,000 by United States
District Court Judge William H. Walls. Four of Mr. Cigollen's subordinates in
the marriage scheme were given terms of one to two years, and two others await
sentencing. Mr. Cigollen's wife was also implicated but remains a fugitive.

Mr. Cigollen, 49, pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges in November. He admitted
staging the marriages from his company, Cigollen Travel Agency in Union City,
from 1996 to 1998. Documentation was submitted to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on behalf of the prospective immigrants. Mr. Cigollen
charged up to $4,500 for each client. The conspirators recruited United States
citizens to serve as spouses, and they even scripted fake wedding receptions,
prosecutors said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 18, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Fewer 18-Year-Olds Complying With Law on Draft Registration

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


Although there is no military draft, young men are required by law to register
for the draft at age 18, but there has been a steady decline in compliance in
recent years, the government said today.

Just 88 percent of young men have registered, with compliance ranging from 95
percent in New Hampshire to 73 percent in Hawaii.

Lewis C. Brodsky, the draft system's director of public and Congressional
affairs, said it was unknown why compliance rates varied so widely. He suggested
that low population density might contribute to compliance, with New Hampshire
and Maine at the top of the registration chart, but that would not account for
the low showing of other states with low population densities like Kentucky and
Mississippi.

Another possibility is that large numbers of immigrants may contribute to low
registration. That holds true for California and Texas, which have many
immigrants and low compliance, but New York and Florida, with high immigrant
populations, have higher compliance.

At a news conference called to announce the start of a campaign to increase the
registration rate, Gil Coronado, the Selective Service director, emphasized that
his agency did not provide names to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Young men living in the United States, whether here legally or illegally, are
required to register for the draft, and they are not asked their citizenship,
Mr. Coronado said.

The government regards registration as an insurance policy of sorts. If war
came, men could be drafted faster if they are registered.

Following are the states the agency gave an A on a report card of draft
registration compliance, with the percentage of eligible men enrolled:

New Hampshire (95), Maine (93), North Dakota (93), Iowa (91), Nebraska (91) and
Minnesota (90).

Those with a B:

South Dakota (89), Vermont (89), West Virginia (89), Arkansas (88), Indiana
(88), Wyoming (88), Idaho (87), Oklahoma (87), Rhode Island (87), Utah (87),
Montana (86), New Jersey (86), Washington (86), Kansas (85), Ohio (85),
Tennessee (85), Wisconsin (85), Alabama (84), Alaska (84), Colorado (84),
Connecticut (84), District of Columbia (84), Florida (84), Illinois (84),
Massachusetts (84), Missouri (84), Nevada (84), North Carolina (84), Oregon
(84), Virginia (84), Delaware (83), Arizona (82), Michigan (82), New York (82),
Pennsylvania (82), New Mexico (81) and Maryland (80).

Those with a C: California (79), Georgia (79), Kentucky (79), Mississippi (79),
South Carolina (79), Texas (77), Louisiana (74) and Hawaii (73).

Jerry Bachman, a social psychologist at the Institute for Social Research at the
University of Michigan, who has studied the draft, said in an interview: "The
idea of registering for the draft, I suppose, is lost on them with increased
distance from the actual use of the draft."

The last draftee was inducted in 1973 and the highest level of registration
since then was 97.7 percent in 1991.

Mr. Coronado said criminal penalties for not registering were rarely imposed,
the last case coming in 1985. Men who do not register are ineligible for many
federal benefits, including student loans, job training and government jobs, and
immigrants are barred from citizenship.

Mr. Coronado said that the failure to register was probably caused by a growing
lack of awareness of the requirement and that it meant that there was a risk of
"inadvertently creating a permanent underclass of men."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 21, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FOLLOWING UP

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 600 words



After Forced Servitude, Deaf Mexicans Resettle

When news of their captivity broke in July 1997, some of the 51 deaf Mexican
immigrants had been beaten, tortured with stun guns and forced to work long
hours for negligible pay. They had been smuggled here and forced to sell
trinkets on the subways and give their profits to their bosses.

But life has improved for the 34 who remain in New York. (Thirteen adults and
their 4 children voluntarily returned to Mexico in July 1998.) Some found jobs
and are living independently, said Ariadna Renteria-Torres, their Legal Aid
lawyer, and none are working in the subways.

The city has found public housing for those who stayed. It has hired the
Lexington Center for the Deaf to give them vocational training, classes in
American Sign Language and help in finding homes.

The immigrants petitioned to stay in the country under the S visa, given to
people who make significant contributions to criminal cases and who would face
danger in their home countries. Their captors, 18 men and women, pleaded guilty
and were sentenced to prison in the United States or deported to Mexico.

Twenty workers received visas, and 14 are still waiting. All were allowed to
work in the country, said Mark Thorn of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

A law enforcement official close to the case said the Mexican government has
said it will allow the United States to extradite Renato Paoletti Lemus,
considered one of the leaders of the ring.

Tower in Hunters Point Wins Over Neighbors

 In a Queens neighborhood that prided itself on its mix of smaller residential
and industrial buildings, a three-year-old, 42-story apartment building has fit
right in, some residents say. Despite initial protests, some neighbors in
Hunters Point, part of Long Island City, seem to have adjusted to the Citylights
building, the first of the proposed Queens West development, although when the
site's 18 other buildings are completed, they may react differently.

"The neighborhood seems to have come alive," said Jim Romano, 60, a retired city
employee who has lived in Hunters Point all his life. "There are a lot more
people now. It's good for business and it really livens up the neighborhood a
lot."

Al Benevento, a manager of a printing company, said the tower had not changed
the neighborhood much, "outside of driving up the property valuation." He added,
"They charge so much money over there." A two-bedroom co-op apartment on an
upper floor of Citylights now costs about $210,000, plus a maintenance fee of
$2,180.

Thomas Paino, chairman of the Hunters Point Community Coalition, said commercial
rents along Vernon Boulevard have skyrocketed, leaving many vacancies. Four
hardware stores left recently, he said. He also worries that open space in
western Queens, already dismally small, will decrease with the development. And
he is amazed by the number of people searching for apartments in Hunters Point.

"You see more curtains going up in industrial buildings," he said.

Anna Finn, 43, a systems information manager in Manhattan, recently bought her
childhood home in Hunters Point from her mother. She has seen an influx of
younger people and artists, and she has enjoyed visiting the waterfront park by
the building.

"I don't think you'd want to live anywhere else," she said. "It's a nice area."

But with ground to be broken in the fall for a 372-unit apartment building, she
worries about losing any view of Manhattan.

"They're supposed to build a few more like that, and that'll just kill
everything."   TINA KELLEY


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 21, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Detroit Journal;
Mexican Immigrants Lead a Revival

BYLINE: By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 20


When he was a boy growing up in west-central Mexico, Jesus Lopez and his
brothers would load agave leaves onto the backs of donkeys and haul them to
factories to be converted into tequila. Along the way, he would dream of living
in a place with electricity and abundant water.

But the dream never included Detroit. Mr. Lopez had not even heard of it until
the day that his brothers and many in Jesus Maria, his hometown, packed their
bags and headed to America's Motor City. When an 18-year-old Jesus Lopez arrived
here, he said recently, he was convinced that those who had come before him were
crazy.

"In those days, over here there was only burned-out houses," he recalled. "Who
would want to live here? It was not good."

But today, 18 years later, the view is much different in southwest Detroit,
where many of this city's immigrants from Mexico live. So much has changed that
it is being hailed as the nation's new Mexican boomtown.

Scorched shells of houses are being bought and resurrected by scores of skilled
Mexican tradesmen. They have snapped up dozens of the old Victorians and
duplexes for as little as $20,000, and they have nearly doubled the population
to 90,000.

Their impact is undeniable. The three local Roman Catholic parishes have each
added two weekend Masses in Spanish to accommodate the wave of new arrivals, who
started showing up here six years ago, most directly from Mexico. They say they
came to escape rising costs and growing hostilities against immigrants in
Arizona, California and Chicago, and to reunite with older relatives who had
been cashing in on Detroit's labor shortage for more than a decade.

West Vernor Avenue, the main strip here, is lined with evidence: Mexican
bakeries, paleta (Popsicle) shops, taquerias, tortilla factories, Mexican
grocery stores. Since 1994, about 35 businesses have opened and dozens have
expanded, business groups said. An $8 million mercado and welcome center will be
built next year. Amid the abundance of Spanish signs, it is easy to overlook the
golden arches of McDonald's.

"Nobody over here saw the opportunity we did," said Mr. Lopez, who left a
10-year construction career five months ago to open his own taqueria. "Where we
come from, you work all your life to have a house, a business, and you still
don't get nowhere. That's why we work hard to make this good for us."

The Rev. Donald Hanchon of Most Holy Redeemer Catholic Church said: "These are
people who are determined to be an asset. You see it in the churches, where
they're helping with children and services. They genuinely want to make this a
better place."

Father Hanchon said he believed that the renovation of run-down houses here was
forcing drug dealers to find new dens.

Like Mr. Lopez, the majority of the families settling here come from villages in
Jalisco, the Mexican state renowned for producing tequila, mariachi music and
rancheros, Mexican cowboys. More than 40,000 of the people who live in southwest
Detroit are either from Jalisco or have relatives there, said Maria Elena
Rodriguez, who is a Detroit native and president of the Mexicantown Community
Development Corporation.

Some of the businesses are named to honor Jalisco and its towns, like Arandas,
Jesus Maria and San Ignacio. The connection is so strong that caravans of adults
and children load up their cars each January and return to the towns to
celebrate las fiestas patronales, a 10-day festival held in honor of patron
saints.

"We go back, so they know we are proud to be from Mexico, from Jalisco," said
Guadalupe Guzman, 70, who moved here to work in the steel factories in 1950. He
and his family return to Jesus Maria every year.

It took two decades for 32-year-old Jose Zamudio to believe the stories that his
brothers and sisters told about the untapped opportunities in Detroit. Even
after five of them came here from San Ignacio, bought homes and found steady
jobs, Mr. Zamudio refused to follow.

"It was too ugly," he said. Mr. Zamudio and his wife, Anna, chose instead to go
to Oakland, Calif. But after four years of working for $10 an hour and living in
cramped apartments, they gave up and moved back to Mexico. They built a home and
had three children.

Then two years ago, when the whole family had obtained visas, they decided to
give the United States another try, in Chicago this time. They stayed three
months. The pressure of having five people in a $600-a-month one-room apartment
was too much. Now they are gambling on Detroit.

So far, their gamble has paid off. Mr. Zamudio is earning $18 an hour as a
bricklayer for a construction company. Six months ago, he and his wife bought a
three-bedroom duplex for $40,000. But what thrills Mr. Zamudio most is seeing
how much his family -- 5 brothers and sisters and 19 nieces and nephews -- and
others from back home have done to help rebuild southwest Detroit.

"Look at it, it's like little Jalisco," he said. "We never knew people of our
towns building this kind of business. They show if you fight and fight, you
reach your dreams."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesus Lopez, a native of Jalisco, Mexico, opened a taqueria in a
part of Detroit hailed as a Mexican boomtown. (Allan Barnes for The New York
Times)

Map of United States shows the location of Detroit: Southwest Detroit is home to
thousands of Jalisco immigrants.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 28, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Overcoming Obstacles, 4 Determined Students Earn Degrees -- An Immigrant;
Citadel Cadet Came to the U.S. at 14

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 608 words


Despite being born and reared in Prague, Petra Lovetinska said she felt
surprisingly prepared for life at The Citadel, the tradition-steeped military
college in Charleston, S.C. Until she sat down to breakfast.

"I wouldn't eat the school grits," she said. "Those could kill you."

Ms. Lovetinska's unusual path to The Citadel, from which she graduated this
month with the rank of cadet major, began in the fields near her family's home.

"I was as girl as a girl can be, with all the pretty dresses my mom made for
me," she said. "The next day I'd be running in camouflage, hiding in bushes,
playing soldiers."

When her father, who worked for the Czech government as a chauffeur and
housekeeper, was transferred to the republic's embassy in Washington in 1992,
Ms. Lovetinska moved there, too, at 14. Unable to say much in English beyond,
"My name is Petra" and "I don't understand," Ms. Lovetinska enrolled at Woodrow
Wilson High School in Washington.

The granddaughter of a lieutenant colonel in the Czech Army, Ms. Lovetinska
found herself gravitating toward the Junior R.O.T.C. program, where she rode in
a helicopter and spent hours on the air rifle range.

"From then, my life sort of changed," she said.

Intent on a military career but not yet an American citizen, Ms. Lovetinska
learned that The Citadel had no such citizenship requirement.

A member of the first female cadet class -- the trailblazing first female cadet,
Shannon Faulkner, had survived less than a week before withdrawing, a year
earlier -- Ms. Lovetinska said she was not immune from ribbing from her
classmates.

"What happened to me wasn't really any different than what happened to the
guys," said Ms. Lovetinska, 22. "Sometimes the guys punch each other in the
chest, as an acknowledgment of something good happening to them. For me, they'd
sort of hit me in the back or the leg."

She took more good-natured abuse, she said, for her heavy accent. "It sort of
added to the mystique," she said.

Her background even won her a role in the annual talent show as "someone who
knocked down the Berlin Wall."

Though she says she was too young when the wall came down to really reflect on
communism, she has since realized that it was oppressive for people to "have to
watch yourself and make sure you have the right friends."

At The Citadel, Ms. Lovetinska said she delighted in studying political theory
-- "from Plato and Aristotle, all the way to Marx and Hegel" -- as well as
taking classes in naval science and history. She was also awarded the Palmetto
Medal, for good service. But she said she absorbed some practical lessons
outside the classroom.

"Now I'm getting the y'all and I reckon down," she said. "The guys tried very
hard to teach me how to speak Southern."

One of them, Michael Cribb, of Georgetown, S.C., became her fiance. They are to
marry on Dec. 15, 2001, but life is sure to be difficult: he is in the Army,
assigned to Fort Stewart, Ga.; having attained her citizenship, she is to be
commissioned into the Marine Corps later this year, her assignment unknown.

Among the greatest challenges for Ms. Lovetinska was finding the money to pay
The Citadel's tuition and fees, which grew to $18,500 from $15,200 while she was
there.

For that, she had some help: Langhorne A. Motley, an alumnus and former
assistant secretary of state, drafted 113 alumni and other friends to serve as
"Petra's Plank Holders."

"It seems like one of the things that only happens in the movies," she said. "I
don't think the Plank Holders realize they gave me more than just money to go to
school. They gave me a whole life."

   JACQUES STEINBERG


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Petra Lovetinska, 22, who is headed for the Marines, said that
while growing up in Prague, "I'd be running in camouflage, hiding in bushes,
playing soldiers." (Wade Spees for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 28, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Big Money, Cheap Labor

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 114 words



To the Editor:

Re "A Forgotten Threat: Free Trade in Population," (May 7), I despair that we
can get the immigration "breather" the article wisely recommends without first
enacting true campaign finance reform. Many industries have become deeply
addicted to cheap immigrant labor. They maintain their supply by inundating
Congress with money, reminding politicians to reward wealthy interests with even
more permissive immigration policies.

Meanwhile, the nation suffers industrialized overpopulation, environmental
destruction, balkanized communities, crowded schools, reduced natural resources
and overtaxed infrastructure.

BRENDA WALKER
Berkeley, Calif., May 8


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 28, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Second Great Wave;
Hispanic Immigrants Are Changing the Face of Central Jersey

BYLINE: By RICHARD BRAND

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2858 words

DATELINE: PRINCETON


IT is 6:30 p.m., and there isn't an empty seat at St. Paul's Catholic Church at
the church's busiest service on the holiest day of the year. Father Javiar Diaz,
reading from a Bible written in Spanish, gives the Easter Mass while hymns are
accompanied by Mexican guitars.

The parishioners -- many dressed in worn jeans and mud-stained sweatshirts --
line the pews at the stolid brick church on Nassau Street. They come from places
like Oaxaca, Mexico; Santa Rosa, Guatemala; and Havana, Cuba.

There weren't always standing-room-only crowds at St. Paul's. Two years ago,
only a third of the pews were filled on Easter Sunday. And less than a decade
ago, there was no Spanish-language Mass at all.

"This is a growing community, one with many needs," Father Diaz said. "They are
people who work very much and make very little. The majority don't have social
security or medical security. Yet they pay their taxes, because they have enough
problems in their lives."

It is in church that Hispanic immigrants find the pervasive Roman Catholic
culture they left behind, one in which the priest and the church are the center
of private and community life.

The crowd at the service is just one reflection of the recent flood of Hispanic
immigrants to central New Jersey, one that immigration experts say rivals the
great wave of European migration of the late 19th century. And Newark
International Airport, where about 55,423 international flights land each year,
has replaced Ellis Island as the port of entry.

From Bound Brook to New Brunswick to Princeton, the state's Hispanic communities
are larger and more vibrant than ever before. The United States Census Bureau
says the state's Hispanic population grew to more than a million people in 1999
from 739,861 in 1990.

More startling, perhaps, is the bureau's prediction that Hispanics will surpass
blacks as the largest minority group in the state by 2004. Puerto Ricans and
Cubans now make up the largest Hispanic groups in the state, though most
immigrants in the last five years have come from Central and South America.

"We are going through the second great wave of immigration in the history of
this country," said James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. "New Jersey has always been an
immigration gateway, and it is getting a large share of what is a far more
heterogeneous immigration boom."

As was the case in the late 19th century, when European migration underpinned
the rise of New Jersey's urban manufacturing economy, most of today's immigrants
are drawn by the prospect of better-paying jobs in towns like Princeton, where
help-wanted signs are ubiquitous.

The boom in central New Jersey's economy has been fueled by the growth of
electronic, biotech and information industries. Indeed, Route 1 has become a
busy corridor of steel and glass office parks; and to the west, a number of
luxury housing developments have helped the "Wealth Belt" earn its nickname.

With such prosperity, professionals in the area have more money than ever, and
unemployment in the state is below 4 percent. As a result, service-level jobs in
kitchens, automobile repair shops and landscaping companies are abundant in an
area where Mercedes Benzes and BMW's are almost as common as stop signs.

But with so many opportunities, there are also major risks. Practically all of
the undocumented immigrants seized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
will be sent back to the countries they came from, losing the investment of many
years' wages to make the journey.

So far 38-year-old Pedro Sanchez Rodriguez, who has been here for less than a
month, has not yet found a job. No reason to worry, though said Mr. Sanchez,
because "there are many places to work."

Instead, he worries about his undocumented status and repaying the relatives who
scraped together $3,000 for him to make the journey from Oaxaca, Mexico. He
worries about his wife and two children still there, to whom he will send money
when he gets some.

"It was a risk to come here," he said in Spanish. "I don't speak English. I have
$20 in my pocket, a friend with a house and the clothes I am wearing. I know
there is work, even though I have not found it yet."

Lynn Durko, a spokeswoman for the immigration office in Newark, says there are
an estimated 143,000 undocumented immigrants in New Jersey, although she cannot
not say how many are Hispanic.

The growth of the Hispanic community in central New Jersey is rooted in several
historical processes. Hispanic immigration first became a significant trend in
the New York metropolitan area when Puerto Rico became a Commonwealth of the
United States in 1952. In addition, the effects of regularized air travel
combined with aftermath of the Cuban revolution in the 1950's led to the
expansion of Cuban and Puerto Rican neighborhood in North Jersey, most of them
in Hudson County.

In 1965, a revised immigration law gave preference to immigrants seeking to
reunify families in the United States, and it increased quotas from non-European
countries that in the past had been excluded.

"At some point by historical accident, these communities provided a comfortable,
transitional environment where newcomers felt comfortable,"

Mr. Hughes said, explaining why Hispanics were drawn to this area. "You always
have newcomers coming to a node and expanding it."

In the same way that Union City developed a large Cuban community in the 1950's,
towns in central New Jersey like New Brunswick, Hightstown and Bound Brook have
recently been the destination of choice for Mexicans and Guatemalans.

Moreover, the overwhelming majority of these newest immigrants are men. Some are
like Mr. Sanchez: heads of households taking a gamble on America. Others are
young men seeking a better life.

Mario Barias, 22, remembers being a migrant farm worker in Guatemala, a country
with an annual per capita income of less than $675. "Depending on the season, we
would pick beans, corn and coffee," Mr. Barias said. "It was very difficult."

Mr. Barias is now cleaning dishes at a restaurant in West Windsor, making the
minimum wage of $5.25 per hour.

"The jobs here are much easier and more relaxed," he said. His one regret is
that he has not spoken to his parents or brothers since he left his hometown of
Santa Rosa four years ago.

While some new immigrants intend to earn some money and return home, many others
come to settle in the United States and start families.

Less than a mile from Nassau Street's tony boutiques and restaurants one recent
night, Flabio Cortez Gonzalez, 30, ate dinner in a parking lot outside the
one-bedroom apartment where he lives with his wife, nephew and two children.

"It's cooler out here," he said as he spooned from a bowl of rice, chicken and
frijoles.

Inside, his wife, Venoria Gonzalez Cortez, prepared soft tacos, boiled peppers
and grilled chicken. Smells of grease, plantains and burnt cheese hung over the
stove. The hot oven inside and relentless heat outside caused Ms. Gonzalez, a
native of Oaxaca and no stranger to warm weather, to sweat heavily.

"We turn the air-conditioner on only when we are sleeping," Ms. Gonzalez
explained. "Electricity is very expensive."

Mr. Cortez says he and his wife can barely afford the rent of $975 a month for
the apartment behind a small bodega; he works at a nearby stable, feeding horses
and cleaning stalls, and she at a restaurant.

The apartment is decorated with a giant stuffed Tweety Bird, Porky Pig, and
Sylvester the cat. "The children like them from television," Mr. Cortez says.

Their two children, Flabio, 5, and Lizbeth, 2, are American citizens born in
Princeton, where the family hopes to stay because of the highly regarded public
schools.

Luxury comes in the form of large Sunday-night dinners and three annual trips to
the Six Flags amusement park.

Mr. Cortez says the couple came to the United States in 1988 from Oaxaca
"because of the need to do something with our lives, to have money to buy a
house, buy a car and help my parents economically."

Not all of New Jersey's newest Hispanic immigrants came merely to tap the
employment opportunities on the bottom rung of the ladder. To be sure,
engineers, academics and entrepreneurs make a significant portion of the new
immigrants, especially since the immigration agency now gives preference to
those with high-tech skills.

A handful of New Jersey companies recruit abroad, and a growing number of Latin
American-born people with doctorates are streaming into the New Jersey work
force after graduating from Rutgers and Princeton Universities.

In 1993, the New Jersey Department of Labor reported that a survey had found
that 30 percent of the state's Hispanics earned from $25,000 to $50,000 a year,
and almost 15 percent earned more than $50,000.

Indeed, a good number of Hispanic earners chose to start their own businesses.
The 11-year-old Statewide Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey says it
represents 30,000 businesses.

"Without the Latino entrepreneur, New Jersey's cities would be falling into
urban decay," said Guillermo Beytagh-Maldonado, the executive director of New
Brunswick's Puerto Rican Action Board and a board member of the chamber, which
says it represents 30,000 businesses. "If you go through New Brunswick, you'll
see that that Latino entrepreneurs are the owners of the mom-and-pop shops."

Many of the state's middle-class Hispanics are second-generation Americans whose
immigrant parents had struggled to make ends meet.

Jeffrey Vega, 33, is the vice president of New Brunswick Tomorrow, one of the
most active Hispanic community organizations in the state. He remembers how his
Peruvian-born mother worked at a Revlon factory in Irvington even though she
barely understood English. She encouraged him to study hard, and he became the
first in his family to attend college.

Now Mr. Vega, a graduate of Rutgers, is the family's main breadwinner, and he
just bought a house in Highland Park that he shares with his mother, sister and
nephews, and he regularly sends money to relatives in Peru.

"It's really the experience of the Latino family in the U.S. that you have
somebody who has gone to college, become educated and has a career while the
rest of your family still lives somewhat in poverty and is still struggling,"
Mr. Vega said.

Most economists agree that the influx of immigrants to New Jersey has helped
sustain the state's recent economic growth by providing labor in a tight market.

"We are a labor-short nation and New Jersey is a labor-short state," Mr. Hughes
said. "So absent immigration, we'd be in trouble."

He added, "Immigrants push forward the economy through their labor and tax
revenue contributions, and immigrants that are both documented and undocumented
give to taxes more than they get from government benefits."

While their ability to pay taxes has indeed been tapped, their potential
political clout has not.

Mr. Beytagh-Maldonado asserted, "Hispanics can be a swing vote in close
elections nationwide, and it behooves politicians to pay attention to us."

Only recently have politicians have taken note of the swelling Hispanic vote in
the region, saying that what the community lacked in its ability to donate money
to campaigns it made up for in turnout.

In the 1996 Presidential election, for instance, about 248,000 Hispanics voted
in New Jersey, accounting for 7.6 percent of the state's total turnout, the
Census Bureau said. The National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials projects that almost 328,000 Hispanics will vote in the 2000 election,
comprising about 10.2 percent of the overall turnout.

Although Hispanics actually have lower voting rates than non-Hispanic groups,
the lag is attributed to the fact that the median age for Hispanics in the
country is about 26 years, compared with 36 years for non-Hispanics. In
addition, noncitizens -- who make up about 25 percent of the Hispanic population
-- are not allowed to vote.

Still, most of the Hispanics who can vote ultimately do.

"In many cases it is because they left countries where they lost that right, and
they are very conscientious of it," said Representative Robert Menendez, whose
Union City constituency includes a large Cuban population. "Or they came from
countries where political activity is very high. This is where the community has
used the power of its votes to maybe offset the power of donations. And it has
done that quite significantly."

More and more frequently, Hispanics themselves are running for office in the
state -- and winning.

"In 1986, I became the first mayor of Hispanic descent in the state's history,"
Mr. Menendez said. "Now you have several Hispanic mayors. Where I was the only
Hispanic legislator in the state at one time, you have now five and literally
dozens who are councilmen. In less than a decade, you've gone from one in all
those categories to something like 30 to 40. There may be even more."

As the November election draws near -- at stake is the presidency, a Senate seat
and the House seats -- the ability to woo the Hispanic vote will be crucial.

"Hispanics are becoming a real focus for political actors on both sides of the
aisle," Governor Whitman said in a recent interview, citing a growing number of
Latino political action groups in the state.

Although politicians are beginning to seek out Hispanic voters, financing of
programs to improve their plight has been slow to come.

"We are contributing to society more than we get out," said Mr.
Beytagh-Maldonado.

In 1994, the Urban Institute, a research organization in Washington issued a
report, "Immigrants and Immigration, Setting the Record Straight," which said
that for every dollar a recent immigrant pays in taxes, he or she receive 37
cents in government benefits.

Over all, it said, annual taxes paid by immigrants to all levels of government
offset the costs of services received, generating a net annual surplus of $25
billion $30 billion.

Most federal and state social services are not available to noncitizens, even to
those who are in the country legally. Part of the problem is that the government
cannot provide services to populations that it does not officially acknowledge.

Hispanic community leaders charge that in 1990 the census undercounted
Hispanics, and because of that that funds allocated for community programs are
insufficient.

"There were a lot more than 700,000 in 1990, and there's a lot more then a
million now," said Mr. Beytagh-Maldonado. "There is a major undercount problem."

Even though the census bureau has invested tens of millions of dollars in
advertisements encouraging Hispanics to fill out census forms, Mr.
Beytagh-Maldonado said he was concerned that an undercount of Hispanics in 2000
was inevitable. "Many are here undocumented, and they won't allow themselves to
be counted," he said.

New Jersey's Center for Hispanic Policy, Research and Development, which was
founded in 1975 to distribute funds for community-based projects, has an annual
budget of $1.625 million to divide among almost 80 programs statewide. "It's not
enough," said Mr. Vega of New Brunswick Tomorrow. "It's not a lot of money."

Mr. Vega, who is the chairman of the center's advisory board, said: "But I don't
want to criticize the government because the Whitman administration has been
more open to help the Hispanic community than any other administration. Our
budget before Whitman was $1.25 million and she was the one who advocated the
increase."

The Hispanic community has pulled together to do many of the jobs the government
does not finance.

"We are the organizations that are taking care of the newly arrived immigrants,"
said Mr. Beytagh-Maldonado, who is also the president of the Hispanic Directors
Association, a coalition of 27 Hispanic community-based organizations across the
state that run preschools, health clinics, youth volunteer groups, housing
services and English classes.

While most of today's immigrants are seeking the same opportunities as the
Europeans of generations ago, community leaders fear that the American Dream may
now be more difficult to achieve. They cite Hispanic dropout rates in some
school districts as high as 38 percent, a growing illiteracy problem and efforts
by lawmakers to exclude immigrants from welfare benefits.

"A lot of people that talk about immigration issues really use their own
experience as a basis to make judgment about those that are now coming," Mr.
Vega said. "They say, 'Well, my grandfather migrated to this country and he was
able to make it. Why can't you?' And that's a view that tends to blame the
victim. Back several generations ago if you didn't have an education, that was
fine. You could make a decent earning. You could make a living wage. Today, if
you have no technical training or hard skills, you can't survive."

He added, "Will the community advance and be equal to other communities? I don't
know if it will happen in my lifetime, but I like to think that it will, but
it's not going to be at the same rate as the immigrants of the past."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hispanics crowded into St. Paul's Catholic Church, top, on
Easter Sunday. Norma Garcia, above, carries many products imported from Mexico
at her grocery in Princeton. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York
Times)(pg. 1); Celeste Simpkins, a teacher at the Puerto Rican Day Care Center
in New Brunswick, plays a memory game with the children, above. At left, day
workers board a van that takes them to job locations.; Students at an English as
a second language program in New Brunswick evening class count American money in
one of the drills. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times(pg. 10)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Refugees Return to Cuba After a Violent Standoff

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 30


A group of Cubans on a homemade vessel threw rocks and tools and brandished
knives and machetes in a standoff last week with United States Coast Guard
officers in a failed effort to reach the United States, the Coast Guard said
today.

The 12 Cubans, who were returned home today, resisted for six hours last
Wednesday south of Florida but were then persuaded to board a Coast Guard cutter
after being hit with pepper spray.

A Coast Guard spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. Ron LaBrec, told a news conference today that
several Coast Guard officers were hit by objects and suffered minor injuries.

Cubans who reach American land are generally allowed to stay, while those
intercepted at sea are almost always sent back home. Twenty-three illegal Cuban
immigrants arrived in Key West, Fla., today, Agence France-Presse reported.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE;
Excerpts From Ruling on Asylum

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words


Following are excerpts from the decision yesterday by a panel of the United
States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit upholding the denial of an asylum
hearing to Elian Gonzalez:

The courts retain the authority to check agency policy making for procedural
compliance and for arbitrariness. But the courts cannot properly re-examine the
wisdom of an agency-promulgated policy. . . . In this case, because the law --
particularly section 1158 -- is silent about the validity of plaintiff's
purported asylum applications, it fell to the I.N.S. to make a discretionary
policy choice. The I.N.S., exercising its gap-filling discretion, determined
these things: (1) 6-year-old children lack the capacity to sign and to submit
personally an application for asylum; (2) instead, 6-year-old children must be
represented by an adult in immigration matters; (3) absent special
circumstances, the only proper adult to represent a 6-year-old child is the
child's parent, even when the parent is not in this country; and, (4) that the
parent lives in a communist totalitarian state (such as Cuba), in and of itself,
does not constitute a special circumstance requiring the selection of a
nonparental representative. Our duty is to decide whether this policy might be a
reasonable one in the light of the statutory scheme. . . .

While the policy announced by the I.N.S. may not harmonize perfectly with
earlier I.N.S. interpretative guidelines (which are not law), the parties have
cited, and we have found, no statutory provision, no regulatory authority, and
no prior agency adjudication that "flatly contradicts" the policy. . . .

We accept that the I.N.S. policy at issue here comes within the range of
reasonable choices.

First, we cannot say that the foundation of the policy -- the I.N.S.
determination that 6-year-old children necessarily lack sufficient capacity to
assert, on their own, an asylum claim -- is unreasonable. . . . The next element
of the I.N.S. policy -- that a 6-year-old child must be represented by some
adult in applying for asylum -- necessarily is reasonable.  . . .

Critically important, the I.N.S. policy does not neglect completely the
independent and separate interest that a child may have, apart from his parents,
in applying for asylum. . . . Instead, according to the I.N.S. policy, special
circumstances may exist that render a parent an inappropriate representative for
the child.  Where such circumstances do exist, the I.N.S. policy appears to
permit other persons, besides a parent, to speak for the child in immigration
matters. So, to some extent, the policy does protect a child's own right to
apply for asylum under section 1158 despite the contrary wishes of his parents.
. . .

And we cannot invalidate the policy -- one with international-relations
implications -- selected by the I.N.S. merely because we personally might have
chosen another. . . . The final aspect of the I.N.S. policy also worries us
some. According to the I.N.S. policy, that a parent lives in a
communist-totalitarian state is no special circumstance, sufficient in and of
itself, to justify the consideration of a 6-year-old child's asylum claim
(presented by a relative in this country) against the wishes of the nonresident
parent. We acknowledge, as a widely accepted truth, that Cuba does violate human
rights and fundamental freedoms and does not guarantee the rule of law to people
living in Cuba. . . .

Persons living in such a totalitarian state may be unable to assert freely their
own legal rights, much less the legal rights of others. Moreover, some
reasonable people might say that a child in the United States inherently has a
substantial conflict of interest with a parent residing in a totalitarian state
when that parent -- even when he is not coerced -- demands that the child leave
this country to return to a country with little respect for human rights and
basic freedoms.

Nonetheless, we cannot properly conclude that the I.N.S. policy is totally
unreasonable in this respect. The I.N.S. policy does take some account of the
possibility of government coercion: where special circumstances -- such as
definite coercion directed at an individual parent -- exist, a nonparental
representative may be necessary to speak for the child. In addition and more
important, in no context is the executive branch entitled to more deference than
in the context of foreign affairs. . . . This aspect of the I.N.S. policy seems
to implicate the conduct of foreign affairs more than any other. Something even
close to a per se rule -- that, for immigration purposes, no parent living in a
totalitarian state has sufficient liberty to represent and to serve the true,
best interests of his own child in the United States -- likely would have
significant consequences for the president's conduct of our nation's
international affairs: such a rule would focus not on the qualities of the
particular parent, but on the qualities of the government of the parent's
country. As we understand the legal precedents, they, in effect, direct that a
court of law defer especially to this international-relations aspect of the
I.N.S. policy. . . .

The essence of plaintiff's asylum claim was that, if he is returned to Cuba: (1)
he will not enjoy the freedom that he has in the United States; (2) he might be
forced to undergo "re-education" and indoctrination in communist theory; and (3)
he might be used by the Cuban government for propaganda purposes. No one should
doubt that, if plaintiff returns to Cuba, he will be without the degree of
liberty that people enjoy in the United States. Also, we admit that
re-education, communist indoctrination and political manipulation of Plaintiff
for propaganda purposes, upon a return to Cuba, are not beyond the realm of
possibility.

Nonetheless, we cannot say that the I.N.S.'s assessment of plaintiff's asylum
claim -- that it probably lacked merit -- was arbitrary. To make a meritorious
asylum claim, an asylum applicant must show that he has a "well-founded fear of
persecution" in his native land. . . . Congress largely has left the task of
defining with precision the phrase "well-founded fear of persecution" to the
I.N.S. . . . Plaintiff points to no earlier I.N.S. adjudications or judicial
decisions where a person, in circumstances similar to plaintiff's, was found to
have established a "well-founded fear of persecution." Political conditions
"which affect the populace as a whole or in large part are generally
insufficient to establish" persecution. . . .

We cannot say that the INS had to treat education and indoctrination as
synonymous with "persecution." . . .  We have not the slightest illusion about
the I.N.S.'s choices: the choices -- about policy and about application of the
policy -- that the I.N.S. made in this case are choices about which reasonable
people can disagree. Still, the choices were not unreasonable, not capricious
and not arbitrary, but were reasoned and reasonable. The I.N.S.'s considerable
discretion was not abused.

Conclusion

As policy makers, it is the duty of the Congress and of the executive branch to
exercise political will. Although courts should not be unquestioning, we should
respect the other branches' policy making powers. The judicial power is a
limited power. It is the duty of the judicial branch not to exercise political
will, but only to render judicial judgment under the law.

When the I.N.S. was confronted with plaintiff's purported asylum applications,
the immigration law of the United States provided the I.N.S. with no clear
answer. The I.N.S. accordingly developed a policy to deal with the extraordinary
circumstances of asylum applications filed on behalf of a 6-year-old child, by
the child himself and a nonparental relative, against the express wishes of the
child's parents (or sole parent).

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Ruling's Risks for Other Elians

BYLINE: By Elisa Massimino;  Elisa Massimino directs the Washington office of
the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 414 words


Juan Miguel Gonzalez is another step closer to taking his son Elian home to
Cuba, thanks to yesterday's ruling by the Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit,
and Americans who have been caught up in the drama of a divided family may be
feeling happy for him. But for those of us who try to help refugees fleeing from
oppression and mistreatment in their home countries, this case is not so easy to
celebrate.

The decision did provide a victory for refugee children: the judges
unambiguously affirmed that children have the right to apply for asylum in the
United States. That is enormously significant, since as Elian's case
dramatically illustrates, not every child who lands on our shores arrives with
an intact nuclear family able to speak for him in unison. The lower court
ruling, which held that United States law was silent about the right of children
to apply for asylum, had threatened to undermine the important principle that
children, even on their own, have a right to ask for refuge here.

But what good is that legal right if the rules by which it must be exercised
restrict it out of existence? This is where yesterday's appeals court decision
went down the same wrong path as the lower court, chiefly by putting too much
faith in the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The judges declined to intervene in the workings of the I.N.S. -- ceding its
right under separation of powers to carry out immigration law -- even though
much of the decision is devoted to outlining ways in which the I.N.S. policy
"worries" the court: Elian was not interviewed, and no consideration was given
to the regime under which he would live in Cuba, or to his father's delay in
appearing in the United States to retrieve his son.

Whether or not one agrees with the result in this case, clearly there will be
other cases where the lack of fair procedures can harm children with genuine
asylum claims.

What about a West African girl fleeing her father's command that she undergo
genital mutilation? What about a 17-year-old Pakistani whose family wants her
killed for wishing to marry out of her faith?

Will courts in the future, looking to this case as a precedent, leave it to the
I.N.S. to decide whether to accept their applications if their parents object?
The court made clear yesterday that children have a right to apply for asylum,
but it offered no assurance that courts will step in to protect refugees in
future cases when I.N.S. policies are unfairly applied.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 3, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Meaning of Asylum To a Child of 6

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 72 words



To the Editor:

Sometimes it's embarrassing to be an American, as happened during the Elian
Gonzalez debacle. So I, too, must express appreciation to the federal appellate
panel that upheld the Immigration and Naturalization Service's right to let
Elian and his father return to Cuba (front page, June 2). Justice was served,
parenthood was honored, and Americans can be proud.

JENNIFER BEYERS
Pittsburgh, June 2, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 3, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Meaning of Asylum To a Child of 6

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 127 words



To the Editor:

Re "Court Upholds I.N.S.'s Rejection of Asylum Effort for Cuban Boy" (front
page, June 2):

The decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit has
further codified the executive branch's authority in policing a child's right to
apply for asylum. Would anyone like to speculate on how the Clinton
administration or the Immigration and Naturalization Service would have handled
the Elian Gonzalez case had it involved a 6-year-old girl fleeing an Afghanistan
ruled by Taliban fundamentalists?

Do we now believe that the immigration service is the agency best equipped to
address asylum claims where institutionalized persecution or parental
suitability are at issue?

AURELIO SALAS
New York, June 2, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION/RADIO;
Telling Tales of Fear to a Wary Audience

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN;  Samuel G. Freedman is a professor of journalism
at Columbia University and author of the forthcoming "Jew vs. Jew: The Struggle
for the Soul of American Jewry" (Simon and Schuster).

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1594 words


THE creased and sweaty figure of a Chinese poet named Huang Xiang appears on the
screen halfway through the new documentary "Well-Founded Fear." Seated in a drab
and spartan apartment, his wife beside him, he begins to recall a recent medical
examination. The physician had noticed a number of curious scars, evidence of
the poet's plight during the Cultural Revolution.

With a quaking finger, Mr. Huang traces the line of a wound across his chest. He
speaks of bones shattered in his hands, palms torn apart. "My feet," he
continues, pulling up a trouser leg. "The veins were broken and never stitched
back." As he indicates his teeth, his voice breaks into wordless moans. When his
wife reaches to comfort him, he shakes off her touch, covers his face with his
forearms, and cries, "I do not dare to remember my past. I do not dare!"

Yet Mr. Huang must remember, and remember in accurate and compelling detail, in
order to gain asylum in the United States as a political refugee. The story he
tells the camera is the same story he will imminently tell a bespectacled and
bow-tied immigration officer named Gerald Brown, on whom the dissident's destiny
rests. And in their encounter, and 10 others like it captured on camera, lies
the dramatic force of the documentary directed by Michael Camerini and Shari
Robertson.

"Well-Founded Fear" penetrates the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
confidential system of granting or denying asylum to tens of thousands of
refugees each year. (It will be broadcast at 9 p.m. tomorrow on PBS in its
"P.O.V." series and will be screened tonight at 9:15 in the New York
International Documentary Festival at the Directors Guild of America Theater at
110 West 57th Street.) The film's title refers to the requirement that an
applicant prove a "well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion."

As the two-hour documentary makes evident, what is at issue in the asylum
hearings is less the objective reality of an applicant's experience than his or
her ability to express it, often in imperfect English or through the imprecise
channels of an interpreter or attorney. On the receiving end, the asylum officer
has roughly 90 minutes per case to separate truth from falsehood, to parse all
the increments of exaggeration and emphasis in between, and thus to determine
which refugee receives sanctuary and which is rejected and left to fight
deportation before an immigration judge. In the fiscal year that ended last
September, asylum officers heard 41,377 cases, approving 13,220. The political
theater surrounding the Elian Gonzalez case could hardly be more of an
aberration.

"People judge each other by how they seem," Ms. Robertson said during a recent
interview at the office she and Mr. Camerini share in the Chelsea neighborhood
of Manhattan, "and that's based on appearance and performance and the luck of
which officer hears your case. It's about how well you say things, how winning
you can be. One sentence can make the difference in your case." Or as one
applicant puts it: "How can you express a life experience in a few minutes? It's
one thing to tell a story about something. It's a completely different thing to
live it."

The supplicants in "Well-Founded Fear" range from a Romanian woman claiming she
was persecuted as an Anglican to a Nigerian man citing multiple arrests for
opposing the military regime to a Salvadoran woman who fled after the murder of
two relatives more than a decade ago to a Chinese man who says he was forcibly
sterilized -- and adds inexplicably that he will be sterilized again if he is
returned.

Weighing those stories are a spectrum of officers, from a former immigration
lawyer to a military veteran, from the solicitous to the skeptical.
"Well-Founded Fear" offers as much empathy for the asylum officers as for the
applicants, capturing their private discussions and doubts about the
life-changing judgments they make daily. In one moment, Mr. Brown expresses awe
at Mr. Huang's suffering, granting his application; in another, several
colleagues crack wise about how many petitioners claim to have toppled the
statue of the dictator in their homeland.

"Sometimes you get a case where the person has pictures of dead bodies," says
one officer, Charlene Claxton. "And that's of course the last thing you want to
look at. And they just give them to you." She continues: "And we're not
permitted to cry, we can't cry during interviews, it's not a good thing. You
want to come up sometimes and give them a hug, but you can't, you can't do it."

Another officer, Kevin Love, instead emphasizes how guarded he has grown over
the years. "Maybe at first I was more gullible, I was more naive," he says. "I
felt like I wasn't a detective. And now, after seeing so many people who come in
and have an identical story. They're so boilerplate, there's not even anything
unique about the claims. It makes you wonder."

For the filmmakers, the asylum system provided not only dramatic material but a
vehicle for fulfilling their journalistic ambitions. "We had been struggling
with how to get Americans to think about the world," Mr. Camerini said. "And
suddenly it was clear that here, in the asylum officers, were the Americans who
dealt with the world. Here was the place where the world collided with America."

Both Mr. Camerini, who is 50, and Ms. Robertson, 46, had worked abroad
extensively before embarking on this project. Their separate documentaries had
covered such topics as the Khmer Rouge guerrillas, the drug war in Peru, social
change in India and the Mexican artist Diego Rivera, and they began
collaborating in the early 1990's with a film about girls in sub-Saharan Africa.

WHAT ultimately became "Well-Founded Fear" had its genesis as a proposed
multi-part series on immigrants and refugees in the post-cold war world. Mr.
Camerini and Ms. Robertson did not even intend to focus on the American asylum
system, dismissing it as too small a part of the subject. But the filmmakers
were never able to raise more than a fraction of their $3 million budget, and
they came to doubt the interest of domestic audiences in six hours of
programming on an international topic.

Stymied, they went to dinner one night in January 1996 with a member of their
advisory board, Estelle Strizhak. A former specialist in refugee resettlement,
Ms. Strizhak had recently been recruited to join the I.N.S. as an asylum
officer. Having known Ms. Strizhak in her prior life as "someone good at
guerrilla warfare against the I.N.S.," as Mr. Camerini put it, the filmmakers
were surprised and intrigued to hear her speak admiringly of her current
colleagues in the agency. The problem, however, was the service's policy of
confidentiality for all asylum cases. Even over a friendly meal, Ms. Strizhak
would not divulge the name of a single officer or applicant.

So the filmmakers relied on another advisory-board member, Demetrio
Papademetriou, of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He had
previously worked in the Labor Department with Doris Meissner, who was by this
time the I.N.S. commissioner, and he delivered to her a one-page proposal from
Mr. Camerini and Ms. Robertson to film hearings inside any of the agency's nine
asylum centers. In October 1996, Ms. Meissner essentially ordered her
subordinates to cooperate with the documentary, and that same month the
filmmakers became fixtures in the asylum offices in Queens, N.Y., and Lyndhurst,
N.J.

Before even starting to shoot, they attended 50 hearings and interviewed all 116
officers and supervisors; they parked themselves in a conference room to read
volumes of I.N.S. regulations; they screened their earlier documentaries for the
staff members. The efforts were enough to persuade 81 employees to agree to be
filmed. The applicants proved even more amenable, hoping that a camera and sound
man in the hearing room might somehow help their chances. From July 1997 to May
1998, Mr. Camerini and Ms. Robertson collected 85 hours of video and another 15
of audio tape. Of the 50 asylum cases they filmed, 11 made the final cut
(material omitted from the film can be found on the documentary's Web site,
www.pbs .org/pov/wellfoundedfear).

Along the way, the pair watched their $500,000 budget double and their debts
mount. They were $40,000 in arrears and paying their studio rent with cash
advances from a credit card by the time their first large grants -- from the
Ford Foundation and the Open Society Institute, among others -- arrived early in
1997. Even after that, the filmmakers had to resort to credit-card advances for
the $80,000 cost of enlarging their 16-millimeter print to 35-millimeter for
film festivals. A showing at Sundance last January gave "Well-Founded Fear" its
first burst of exposure and critical acclaim.

For Mr. Camerini and Ms. Robertson, though, an earlier indicator of success came
when they feuded with their own editors. "When you edit, you're working with a
new person who's never seen the footage and they have this tendency to simplify
the characters and the issues -- 'Oh, that person is ridiculous, that person is
awful,' " Mr. Camerini said. "Both Shari and I were terribly defensive of all
the people in the film. To run into that instinct to make archetypes sharpened
our sense of goal. Which was to identify with and really like pretty much
everyone in the movie. It's easier for people to fall in love with the poet than
with the officers. But the officers are us."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An officer at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
interviews asylum applicants in the documentary "Well-Founded Fear." (Leo
Hsu/"P.O.V.")(pg. 30); The Chinese poet Huang Xiang, left, is one of the
refugees whose plea for political asylum is seen in "Well-Founded Fear,"
directed by Michael Camerini and Shari Robertson, above. (Chester Higgins
Jr./The New York Times); (Leo Hsu/"P.O.V.")(pg. 29)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

United States Sends Cuban Athlete Home

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


Breaking a long tradition, the Clinton administration forcibly repatriated today
a prominent Cuban baseball player who had tried to slip into the United States
by sea.

The athlete, Andy Morales, a big-hitting third baseman on Cuba's national team,
was returned home by Coast Guard authorities after he failed to convince
American immigration agents that he deserved political asylum, administration
officials said.

Cuban-American advocates and Mr. Morales's family in the United States voiced
outrage at the action, which they said was unprecedented. An immigration
official, speaking on condition of anonymity, acknowledged that it was the first
time in memory that the United States had sent home a prominent Cuban athlete
who had tried to flee his country.

The United States has welcomed dozens of defecting Cuban athletes over the
years, including Orlando Hernandez, the New York Yankees pitcher, and his
brother, Livan, the 1997 World Series-winning pitcher of the Florida Marlins.

Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who is Cuban-American, called the decision
on Mr. Morales "a real shame."

Because Mr. Morales has renounced the government of Cuban President Fidel
Castro, "it's going to be very hard for him," said Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida
Republican. "His life will be in jeopardy."

Ramon Batista, a sports agent in Miami who was asked by Mr. Morales's relatives
to represent him, said that "if he had made it to the United States, I'm sure he
would be in the major leagues." Administration officials said that Mr. Morales,
who was picked up off the Florida coast on Friday with 32 others, did not merit
special treatment and that his case had been handled like that of any other
Cuban refugee caught trying to enter the country illegally.

Mr. Morales was aboard a speedboat when he was intercepted by the Coast Guard
and had apparently paid smugglers to help him cross the Florida Straits,
officials said. Two suspected smugglers are being held in Florida. And the other
30 would-be refugees were returned today with Mr. Morales.

"It is not unprecedented to interdict migrants attempting to enter the United
States illegally," said Philip Reeker, a State Department spokesman.

An administration official said Mr. Morales had been interviewed twice by
immigration agents and both times failed to make a case that he faced
persecution if returned to Cuba.

Mr. Morales, who enjoyed a brief moment in the American spotlight last year with
a three-run homer in Cuba's victory over the Baltimore Orioles in an exhibition
game, told American authorities he wanted to play in the major leagues.

"He said he came here to play baseball. That does not constitute a well-founded
fear of persecution," said the administration official, who asked not to be
identified. "This was a blatant case of alien smuggling, well organized and
highly paid."

The administration position appeared to signal a hardening toward Cubans who
defy established procedures for immigrating to the United States.

Under a 1995 accord, the United States agreed to take in a minimum of 20,000
Cuban immigrants a year, processing them through the American mission in Havana.

From the administration's standpoint, the migration agreement has been a rare
point of harmony in United States-Cuban relations.

"We do not condone blatant violations of U.S. law and do not bring interdicted
individuals into the United States except under extraordinary circumstances,
generally involving medical emergencies," Mr. Reeker said.

Some officials have recently voiced fears that the case of Elian Gonzalez, a
6-year-old Cuban boy locked in a custody battle between his Cuban father and his
Miami relatives, might jeopardize the stabilizing accord.

"The administration is making sure there's no forced migration issues and no
rafter crisis," said Pamela Falk, a professor of international law at the City
University of New York law school. "Partly it's because the mood in the country
has shifted because of Elian."

American policy, which is commonly referred to as the "wet foot, dry foot"
distinction, returns Cuban refugees like Mr. Morales if they are intercepted at
sea and cannot demonstrate a fear of persecution. If they can demonstrate such a
fear, the United States will seek haven for them in a third country. But Cuban
refugees who reach American soil become eligible for permanent residency in a
year.

The treatment of Mr. Morales contrasted starkly with that of Orlando Hernandez,
who was one of Cuba's most celebrated pitchers until 1996, when he was banned
from baseball after the government suspected his intention to defect.

Mr. Hernandez, who said he had endured harassment in Cuba, drifted into the
Bahamas after setting out in a leaky boat with six others in 1998. Attorney
General Janet Reno offered him political asylum in the United States after
Bahamian authorities refused to hear his claim and prepared to send him home.

But, guided by a savvy sports agent, Mr. Hernandez took refuge in Costa Rica,
which allowed him to avoid baseball's draft and negotiate a $6.6 million
contract as a free agent.

Mr. Morales's father-in-law, Carlos Castillo of Miami, said the ballplayer had
left behind his wife and two children in Cuba because he was "desperate" to make
a better living in the United States.

Mr. Castillo, who was in touch by telephone with Mr. Morales's relatives in
Havana tonight, accused American authorities of putting the whole Cuban family
at risk.

"They buried him alive and all the family," Mr. Castillo said. "They just ended
his career."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andelso Morales and Magdalena Leon, parents of Andy Morales,
who tried to defect, waited on Tuesday in San Nicolas, Cuba. (Associated Press);
Andy Morales celebrated on May 3, 1999, after hitting a crucial home run in the
Cuban national team's victory over the Baltimore Orioles. (Associated Press)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Asks Appeals Court To Allow Boy to Return to Cuba

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


The Justice Department asked the full 12-member federal appeals court in Atlanta
today to quickly affirm the immigration service's ruling that Elian Gonzalez
should be able to go home to Cuba with his father.

The department also asked the court to shorten the process by which Elian and
his father could return to Cuba. The government's brief was in response to an
appeal filed last week by Elian's Miami relatives to overturn the ruling by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In its brief, the department asked the court, the United States Court of Appeal
for the 11th Circuit, not only to decide in favor of the immigration service but
to issue a mandate enforcing the ruling immediately. That would eliminate the
usual seven-day waiting period after a decision.

If the court accepts the government's request, Elian and his father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, could board a flight for Cuba hours after the ruling.  Mr. Gonzalez is
under a court order not to take Elian back to Cuba until the court issues a
mandate.

The most important remaining legal issue is whether federal courts should give
great deference to the rulings of the immigration service in the case. In the
absence of an explicit law, the immigration service had ruled that Elian, as a
6-year-old boy, could not request an asylum hearing on his own. The ruling meant
that Elian's father, and not Elian's Miami relatives, spoke for the boy. The
relatives have fought to have the boy remain in the United States.

A panel of 3 of the 12 judges on the court decided that the ruling by the
immigration service was reasonable and should not be reviewed by the courts. The
Miami relatives asked the full 12-member court to reconsider the case.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 23, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Slaughterhouse Jobs

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

Re "At a Slaughterhouse, Some Things Never Die" ("How Race Is Lived in America,"
June 16):

The meat and poultry industry employs nearly half a million workers in jobs that
are often among the highest paying in the community. Many of those jobs provide
on-the-job training for unskilled workers, often workers who have recently
arrived in this country seeking new opportunities.

As the work force in plants has become more diverse, employers have developed
programs to help their workers assimilate. Many companies offer child care,
literacy programs and tax assistance.

The meat and poultry industry does not actively recruit illegal immigrant
workers. In fact, the industry has worked with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to promote legal work forces in meatpacking plants.

J. PATRICK BOYLE
President and Chief Executive
American Meat Institute
Washington, June 19, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Bush Campaigns on Issues of a 'Different' Republican

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 980 words


Gov. George W. Bush continued yesterday to present himself as a "different kind
of Republican," describing an immigrant-friendly approach to the bureaucratic
Immigration and Naturalization Service and making a broad appeal to black voters
in an address in Manhattan.

Mr. Bush lauded racial harmony in a dinner speech before the Congress of Racial
Equality at the Hilton Hotel in Midtown. He said he wanted to finance mentoring
programs for children whose parents were in prison and to rally "the vast armies
of compassion." Among those on the dais were Wayne LaPierre, executive vice
president of the National Rifle Association; Bob Grant, the conservative radio
talk-show host; Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani; and descendants of Thomas Jefferson
and his wife, Martha, and others thought to be descended from Jefferson and his
slave Sally Hemings.

Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's spokeswoman, said Mr. Bush was dedicating himself
this week to making a broad appeal across party lines to groups that
traditionally lean Democratic. Today he plans to discuss welfare-to-work
programs in Michigan, and the next day he plans to speak in Ohio about removing
barriers to those with disabilities.

On immigration, the Texas governor said yesterday that he would propose
legislation to split the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two
agencies, one to deal with law enforcement and the other to provide services to
immigrants.

For years, officials across the political spectrum have supported reconstructing
the unwieldy immigration service, and two bills are moving through the
Republican-controlled Congress to do so.

Addressing the League of United Latin American Citizens yesterday at a
conference in Washington, Mr. Bush spoke in brief generalities, saying that as
president he would "reform the I.N.S." and that he wanted a "more humane"
approach to immigration.

His aides said later that while Mr. Bush would propose his own legislation, he
favored the approach of Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan, and
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. Their bill is viewed by
pro-immigration groups as more helpful to immigrants than the House bill
proposed by Representatives Lamar Smith of Texas and Harold Rogers of Kentucky,
both Republicans.

The chief difference in the bills is that the Senate's, in splitting the agency,
would put one person in charge to supervise both the law enforcement and service
functions to make sure that they took consistent approaches.

Pro-immigrant groups worry that if the agency is split, the law enforcement
branch would consume most of the money and the services for immigrants would get
short shrift. The enforcement side gets most of the agency's money now, but
backers of the Senate bill hope that would change.

Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said the governor was not endorsing any
particular legislation but added, "There are no differences between the
governor's bill and Senator Abraham's bill."

Although Mr. Bush's language was vague and his view seems to differ little from
that of the Clinton administration, the point was to distinguish himself from
the stricter Republican immigration politics of yore.

"It's outreach," Mr. Fleischer said. "It's the governor following through on his
promise that the Republican Party has to be the party of inclusion, for single
moms, for new citizens coming to America. It's different from a lot of the
sights and sounds that people have been hearing from the Republican Party in
recent years."

The Bush campaign has been working to change the reputation the party gained in
1994 when some prominent Republicans, including Pete Wilson, then the governor
of California, backed a California ballot proposition that would deny medical
and education services to children of illegal immigrants. Mr. Bush did not
comment directly on the proposition, which voters overwhelmingly endorsed,
saying he did not want to tell another state what to do, but he said he would
educate all children.

The governor also said yesterday that he would grant tourist visas to immigrants
who were waiting for their visas if their spouse or child had already received
permanent residency status. Now, such family members are ineligible to visit, on
the theory that they would try to stay in the United States illegally.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a Washington
advocacy group for immigrants, said in an interview that Mr. Bush's proposal to
split the immigration service was "not exactly a profile in courage," since
almost everyone supported it.

Mr. Sharry said it was more interesting that Mr. Bush had not mentioned other
issues of importance to Latino voters and especially immigrants, like the H-1B
visa bill, which would increase the number of visas for high-tech workers from
abroad. Mr. Bush supports increasing the number of visas, but Republicans -- and
Democrats, particularly those from organized labor -- are divided over whether
this is a good idea.

"He didn't speak to the tough issues, though he's trying to present himself as a
new kind of Republican," Mr. Sharry said.

Vice President Al Gore is to address the League of United Latin American
Citizens on Friday. Douglas Hattaway, a Gore spokesman, said Mr. Gore wanted to
streamline the immigration agency.

"Bush would start from square 1," Mr. Hattaway said, "and we don't think that's
necessary."

Commenting more broadly on Mr. Bush's approach, Mr. Hattaway said: "Bush is
clearly trying to make himself out to be a different kind of Republican by
appearing friendly to immigrants. But under his leadership in Texas, Hispanics
are not doing as well as other residents."

Hispanics in Texas, he continued, were disproportionately poor, in part because
Texas has a minimum wage of $3.35 per hour, compared with the federal minimum of
$5.15 per hour.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush meeting yesterday in Washington with the
League of United Latin American Citizens. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Arrests Made in Drugs-for-Green-Card Scheme

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 418 words


Nearly 160 Colombian and Mexican suspected drug traffickers believed to have
been operating along the Eastern Seaboard were charged yesterday with trading
vast quantities of cocaine and heroin for green cards from an undercover agent
posing as a crooked official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

More than 100 of the suspects, most of whom lived in New York, were arrested as
scores of law enforcement officers fanned out in a series of daybreak raids from
New York City to southern Florida.

The sting, which went by the code name Operation Wildcard, was intended to
cripple the New York arm of the Mexican and Colombian drug cartels, particularly
in upstate counties, said Daniel J. French, the United States attorney in
Albany, whose office is to prosecute the case.

"These traffickers were very interested in obtaining green cards so as to come
and go freely from the United States," Mr. French said. "But the cards they were
dealt came from a stacked deck."

The operation relied heavily upon an undercover agent of the I.N.S. in the
Albany area who posed as a corrupt official and agreed to furnish the suspected
traffickers with resident alien cards for $5,000 to $13,000 each, Mr. French
said. Many times, the payments came in the form of drugs -- up to a half
kilogram of heroin, for example. The deals were made at a number of small
upstate restaurants, with names like Sharon's Place or Denny's, or highway
motels like the Best Western Inn.

The suspected traffickers were steered to the immigration service agent by two
other undercover investigators working with the state police and the Federal
Drug Enforcement Administration, who have been working for several years to
infiltrate the drug cartels, said James W. McMahon, the state police
superintendent. About a dozen of the defendants arrested yesterday were
described as cell managers, or leaders of the American wings of the cartels.

While making the arrests, the authorities said, they seized seven kilograms of
heroin, said to be worth more than $10 million on the street, and 12 kilograms
of cocaine, said to have a street value of about $5 million. They also seized
about $350,000 in cash.

Mr. French said the green cards were a crucial tool used by the cartels,
allowing the cell managers, their lieutenants and drug smugglers to pass easily
through United States borders. He added that all of the defendants would be
arraigned in Brooklyn in the next few days and then sent to Albany for
prosecution.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. McMahon, state police superintendent, in Brooklyn
yesterday telling of a drug sting. With him were Joseph Weber, right, of the
Customs Service, and Daniel J. French, center, United States attorney in Albany.
(Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              408 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Elian Goes Home

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words


Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old boy found off the Florida coast last Thanksgiving
Day, returned home to Cuba last night after the Supreme Court rejected an
emergency request from the child's relatives in Miami to keep him in the United
States. It was the proper legal conclusion to a bitter family dispute that
dragged on for months and drew international attention. The high court was right
not to take the case because there were no important issues of law that had not
been resolved by lower courts.

This page opposed the predawn raid in April by federal immigration agents to
remove Elian from the home of his Miami relatives as an unwarranted use of force
against citizens who were behaving in a recalcitrant but not violent manner. But
we have supported the father's right to regain custody of the child and to
decide where he should live. The relatives had no business blocking the return
of the boy to his father simply because they equated paternal custody with
delivering him to Fidel Castro.

Despite pandering by politicians to the passions of Miami's Cuban-American
community and despite intense community anger over the raid, there was no deadly
violence. The legal system provided a rational process and has now produced a
just outcome. All the parties were allowed to make their arguments in court,
with the federal judges ruling that in this case only the parent could speak for
the young boy in making an asylum decision.

Elian may yet find his way to a normal childhood in his country. The image of
the Cuban-American community in Miami, however, has suffered because of its
belligerence in disrupting familial ties between father and son. The posturing
by Miami's elected leaders in refusing to aid federal authorities was
insupportable. Miami city politics have become more divisive than ever.

On the national scene, the anti-Castro lobby has hurt its message by seeming to
use a child as a political prop. Perhaps most harmful to that cause is that many
Americans came to sympathize with Elian's father and became more aware of
America's outdated policy of isolation toward Cuba. It is perhaps not surprising
that just one day before Elian's flight home, the House Republican leaders
agreed to end four decades of sanctions on food sales to Cuba. The saga of this
Cuban child helped to hasten that shift in policy.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              409 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 2, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CROSSING BORDERS: The Trade in Humans;
Europe Tries to Turn a Tide Of Migrants Chasing Dreams

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2141 words

DATELINE: DOVER, England


This was once a quiet port town famous above all for its white cliffs. It is now
notorious for the corpses of 58 Chinese immigrants that lie, unclaimed and
unnamed, in large meat lockers -- and for the likes of Tara Muhammad roaming its
streets.

Like the desperate Chinese travelers found dead here on June 19 in an airtight
container, Mr. Muhammad entered Britain in June concealed in the rear of a
truck. From his native town of Kirkuk in Iraq, he walked into Iran. From Iran
into Turkey, five days on foot, moving at night. A 24-hour bus ride to Istanbul
followed.

"Then I went to a parking place for trucks," Mr. Muhammad, 22, said. "And I
found this man and I told him, 'I want to go to Europa. Yes, anywhere in
Europa.' And he said, 'O.K., no problem.' " After paying $4,000 in cash,
changing trucks three times and traveling for 11 days, Mr. Muhammad reached
Dover, where he requested asylum.

"Europa," the old continent, persistent source of hordes of migrants to the New
World, has become the ersatz United States of modern asylum-seekers. Where just
30,000 people applied for asylum in America last year, down from 127,000 in
1993, more than 365,000 did so in the 15-nation European Union.

This shift is troubling to a Europe that tends to see more problems than promise
in alien blood. But its causes are not about to disappear. The collapse of the
Soviet Union has opened up new land routes to Europe from Asia and turned
once-closed cities like Moscow and Kiev into nodal points of migrant travel from
Afghanistan and China.

Increasingly well-organized criminal groups trading in human freight -- a less
risky but scarcely less lucrative commodity than drugs -- have emerged to
coordinate smuggled passages into a Europe largely closed to legal immigration.

"The penalties are far less severe than for drugs, the up-front investment much
smaller, and the evidence has legs and tends to run away," explained Brunson
McKinley, the director general of the International Organization for Migration.

Europe is also relatively cheap. Tan Wah Piow, a London lawyer close to the
Chinese immigrant community, put the cost of being brought to Europe from China
at $25,000, perhaps half the cost of transport to America. "People have turned
from the United States as it is more difficult to get into it," he said.

On his desk sits a fax from China. It shows a blurred photograph of a young man.
His name is Lin Liguan. He weighs 136 pounds. He was born on Nov. 30, 1979. He
comes from China's southern Fujian province and, a few months back, he departed
for Europe.

The message pleads: Do you know where my son is? Could he be among the dead in
Dover? Can you help us? Mr. Tan points angrily at the paper. "It is good for
China to join the World Trade Organization because we support the free movement
of global capital," he said. "But what about the free movement of labor?"

What indeed. Think of the anonymous Dover dead, piles of flesh unclaimed by any
relative because those relatives may themselves be in Europe illegally and fear
deportation, as so many units in a grim global equation.

The richest fifth of mankind earns 86 percent of the world's income while the
poorest fifth earns 1 percent. The riches are ever more visible through global
communications; options for travel are ever greater; millions of sealed
containers make an ever growing exchange of goods even easier.

So an opulent Europe, even one with high unemployment, glimmers as a land of
opportunity. More than 70 million migrants are thought to be on the move at any
one time. And, on the whole, Europe looks relatively accessible to them.

The European Union has now eliminated most internal borders, making Athens to
Amsterdam a passport-free passage, but the pan-European police force to control
a growing flux of people scarcely exists. Europol, the fledgling F.B.I. of a
united Europe, has all of 220 employees in its Dutch offices.

Yet this "Europa" is profoundly uneasy at its emergent role of magnet to the
world's dispossessed. Unlike America, no mythology exhorts the embrace of "your
tired, your poor, your huddled masses."

Rather, the national psyches of Spain, Italy, Greece and Ireland are shaped by
tales of emigration. Even a country like Germany, whose population is now 9
percent foreign, and whose postwar education system has relentlessly pushed
ethnic tolerance as a central tenet, remains agonized over whether it can ever
become "a land of immigration."

"There is a deep sense that we are full up, that we have no room, and that we
are being exploited," said John Salt, a migration expert at London University.
"No European country has voted for a multicultural society, or thought of itself
as such, yet now we are all told we live in one."

Certainly Dover looks like one. Many of the bed-and-breakfasts have been
converted into impromptu hostels for asylum-seekers. Signs advertise English
lessons given by speakers of Czech, Slovak, Russian, Polish, German, Finnish,
Kurdish, Arabic, Turkish, Farsi, Pashto, Urdu and Hindi.

In this world, six days into his English existence, Mr. Muhammad of Kirkuk,
Iraq, makes his way. Installed in Room 12 of one hostel, proud possessor of the
upper bed on a bunk, he has a television to gaze at and is given three meals a
day. "I don't need money at the moment," he said. "Money for what?"

Earlier this year, the British government, responding to growing criticism of
"phony" asylum-seekers, cut back on benefits. But the likes of Mr. Muhammad are
still given enough for basic needs pending a decision on their status, even as
the local press laments that Dover has become "a hole."

"What happens to the care-worn citizens of this once-proud port now cursed by
association with a problem the government seems unable to deal with?" thundered
the Dover Express in a front-page "Editorial Comment" three days after the
Chinese corpses were found.

Such exasperation is driving European attempts to make borders less penetrable
and, in countries from Denmark to Switzerland, fueling a revival of rightist and
nationalist parties symbolized by the success of Jorg Haider's party entering
the Austrian government.

"Politically, the government wants to be seen as tough," said Annie Ledger, the
chief executive of Migrant Helpline, a state-financed charity handling
registration of 1,000 asylum-seekers a month in Dover. "But personally I don't
believe we are so generous that people leave countries thousands of miles away
in search of our handouts."

Certainly, that is not what drove Wu Xueping, who left Fujian province in April
after paying $25,000 to the smugglers who provided him with a fake passport.

His journey to London, he said, initially took him by plane to Belgrade (China
has close relations with Slobodan Milosevic's Yugoslavia). From there, he
traveled by bus to Hungary, then on into the Czech Republic, before entering the
European Union by crossing the mountains into Germany on foot -- a three-day
hike.

"After Germany, we were taken to Belgium, where we were locked in a small room
in a house for about a month and fed on bread and water," he said. "Then I was
put into the back of a truck with eight other people, arriving in England on May
17." Mr. Wu, who has a wife and 9-year-old child back in Fujian Province, said
that, as a member of the Falun Gong group banned last year, he had been
persecuted in China. But the reality is that economic and political motives blur
when seeking a better life in Europe.

"One week's pay here can support a family for two or three months in China,"
said Chew Beng Lan, a lawyer in London. "I know one girl working in a restaurant
in Chinatown who told me one year worked here was equivalent to eight at home."

The pattern in Chinese immigration is now clear: families pool resources and
borrow money to finance the dispatch of one member, who then helps others come.
Debts to the people smugglers are paid off over three to seven years, when other
relatives follow. Money is earned mainly in restaurants and housing is either
above the restaurants or with other local Chinese.

Working long hours, six days a week, an immigrant can earn as much as $2,400 a
month in London, Mrs. Chew said. The immigrants, who have destroyed any
documents in order to make removal back to China more difficult, live in a
protracted limbo, working illegally or with temporary papers repeatedly renewed.

It was a dream of just such an existence that prompted 60 Chinese to take their
places beside cartons of tomatoes in a sealed container in Rotterdam on June 18.
How they reached Europe's largest port, transit point for 6.5 million containers
a year, remains uncertain, but the Dutch police say they believe that they
traveled overland through Moscow.

Wim de Bruin, a judicial official, said a Rotterdam warehouse had now been
identified as the place where the would-be immigrants boarded the stifling truck
and a ring of eight people suspected of involvement in the human smuggling have
been arrested.

The emerging picture of the crime fits the pattern of adaptable criminal
networks that the police say now run an international business in illicit human
cargo that turns over at least $3 billion a year.

Professionals, often from the so-called "source countries," interact with local
"amateurs" recruited ad hoc to act as couriers. The operations are often hard to
penetrate because of language difficulties and the very closed nature of
Chinese, Albanian or other gangs engaged in trafficking, said Bjorn Clarberg, a
Swedish police officer who specializes in illegal immigration.

This particular tragedy began in the unlikeliest of places: a leafy Rotterdam
suburb where Arie van der Spek, 24, lived in a small apartment with his parents
above the Piet Hordijk bicycle store. The young man had a small decorating
company but was struggling to make ends meet.

"He was quiet, a bit naive, and there were rumors that he had got involved in
gambling," said Dennis Hordijk, 32, his neighbor. "But like his parents, who
have now moved away for a while, I was incredulous at what happened."

Willy Bruggeman, the deputy director of Europol, based in The Hague, suggested
that Mr. van der Spek, who has been arrested, probably became a front man for
Chinese operators after incurring gambling debts in Chinese circles. To pay them
off, the police theorize, Mr. van der Spek agreed to establish the "transport
company" he registered three days before the truck departed for Belgium.

The driver, Perry Wacker, also of Rotterdam, may have met Mr. van der Spek in
the same gambling circles, the police said. Mr. Wacker has been charged with 58
counts of manslaughter in Britain. Just two of the people in his truck survived.

"In such cases, the owner of the truck company and the driver may be paid a
total $750 per person," said Poel van der Molen-Maesen, a Dutch prosecutor.
"That is a lot of money. But the people who have contracted them are getting
much more."

This sort of trafficking is happening on a very large scale. In May, Dutch
authorities found a Czech van at the German-Dutch border "with 20 people from
China sitting in back surrounded by their own excrement," said Geert Pieglage of
the Defense Ministry.

On April 5, on board another ferry from Zeebrugge, 50 desperate Chinese
immigrants were let out of the back of a truck after hammering on the sides of
its sealed container, said Peter Hillman, a spokesman for the British Home
Office. They are now in Britain as asylum-seekers.

"The pressure fueling migration is such that European governments will not be
able to control this movement," said Professor Salt of London University. "Their
best strategy is try to manage it."

The Dover deaths have spurred renewed talk of a coordinated immigration strategy
across Europe and of the possibility of following Canada and the United States
in permitting more legal immigration.

"Europe does need workers in certain areas, so why not put policy together in a
way that takes the wind out of the sails of the traffickers?" said Mr. McKinley
of the International Organization for Migration.

But in the current European political climate, making more immigration legal
will be arduous. Mr. Muhammad, who says he was persecuted by the Iraqi leader
Saddam Hussein but declines to say how, has an engagingly open smile. His
ambition is simple and apparently inoffensive: "To live in England just like
English people."

He is, however, among those who cause the resentments that led to a pitched
battle in Dover last year between rightist youths and immigrants. Mr. Bruggeman
of Europol was blunt: "There is a problem of saturation in Europe," he said.
"The differences between rich and poor countries are such that people are going
to move and we cannot stop them. But open borders amounts to mission
impossible."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: X-rays in France show immigrants in trucks headed for England.
The deaths of 58 Chinese in Dover has put world attention on the trade in
humans. (Associated Press)(pg. 6)

Map of Britain shows the location of Dover: Dover has many asylum-seekers, in a
nation some see as "full up." (pg. 6)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              410 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 3, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Deadly Journeys

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words


The death of 58 Chinese immigrants found suffocated in an airless container
truck at the port of Dover, England, last month provided stark witness to the
rising global traffic in people who illegally cross borders and whole continents
in search of a better life. The Chinese immigrants reportedly traveled for four
months by way of Russia and Central Europe to get from their home in China's
Fujian province to England. They represented only a tiny part of the flow of
millions making dangerous journeys to distant lands.

In 1993, 10 Chinese immigrants died trying to swim to shore when the Golden
Venture, a ship carrying nearly 300 immigrants from southern China, ran aground
off Queens. In 1995, 18 Sri Lankans were found dead in a container truck in
Hungary. In 1998, seven Mexicans died in the California desert, abandoned by
smugglers. Reports of these catastrophes, however, have not discouraged other
people from migrating.

The trade in illegal migration is growing partly because more countries have
tightened legal avenues for immigration, as has happened in Europe. The fall of
the Berlin Wall is often cited as a factor because it opened Central and Eastern
Europe as a migration route. But there are few reliable statistics in this
field, and even categorizing criminal activities can be difficult since the
illegal transport of people can vary from individuals paying smugglers to help
them cross borders to individuals who are kidnapped or trapped into slavery by
traffickers for the sex industry. The common characteristic is that all of the
trade operates underground, with victims who are in no position to report abuse.
Evidence that the industry exists tends to surface only when smuggled migrants
are found dead, or when those in bondage manage to escape.

Conservative estimates suggest that some 700,000 women and children are
illegally transported for sexual and labor exploitation each year, with at least
50,000 brought into the United States. The total number of migrants smuggled
across borders is more than four million a year worldwide.

The International Organization for Migration estimates that roughly 400,000
people are smuggled into Western Europe alone each year. Smuggling into the
United States has also increased. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has
found that illegal border crossers are relying more heavily on smugglers, and
that the number of smuggled people apprehended has risen from 138,000 in 1997 to
247,000 in 1999.

Fighting this trade is extremely difficult, in part because governments know so
little about these cross-border enterprises. Even with the arrest of the Dutch
truck driver and several others in connection with the Dover case, there is
scant information about that operation. Still, it is clear the smugglers had to
be part of a sophisticated, highly flexible network that could manage the trip
across two continents. Their profits are high. Chinese migrants are thought to
pay at least $25,000 to be smuggled to Europe. The global trade is believed to
be worth more than $7 billion a year.

Not much can be done in the short term to deal with the main factors, poverty
and persecution, that lie at the root of these sad migrations. Nor can any
single country combat transnational trafficking by itself. It will take the
cooperation of countries that are part of migration pipelines in both
investigations and prosecutions. The European Union, in the wake of the deaths
in Dover, may well be pushed to consider a common asylum policy. Many countries
need to enact anti-trafficking laws. Much more also needs to be done to help
victims of this trade, who could, if protected, testify against traffickers.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Shift in the Mix Alters the Face Of California

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1799 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 30


At some unknown moment between now and July 1, 2001, if demographers are right,
California will become the first big state in which non-Hispanic whites are
officially no longer a majority. Or, to put it another way, California will
become by far the largest proving ground for what it may eventually be like to
live in a United States in which no one racial or ethnic group predominates.

The California of postwar popular imagination, of the Beach Boys and the John
Birch Society, of Disneyland and monochromatic Pleasantvilles full of aerospace
workers, is not dead. But it is, literally, dying fast. Non-Hispanic whites now
account for about three-quarters of the deaths in California, and barely a third
of the births. As recently as 1970, the state was 80 percent white.

Some experts argue that this shift, fueled by millions of new immigrants, mostly
Latin American and Asian, and the higher birth rates of foreign-born residents
has already taken place and has yet to be reflected in estimates by the state
Department of Finance only because of counting glitches. It has already had
striking social, political, economic and psychic effects, including bitterly
fought ballot initiatives to cut government services for illegal immigrants, and
to end state affirmative action programs and bilingual education. Polls show
that the disappearing white majority is generally more pessimistic than other
groups.

But with the state's economy booming again, and the overall population expected
to grow by close to 18 million in the next 25 years, Californians are grappling
anew with the meaning of this momentous shift, which the State Department of
Finance now projects will happen sometime in the next year, and many are finding
reasons for optimism.

"Who knows when that line is crossed, but it surely will be," said Gov. Gray
Davis, a Democrat. "I believe leadership requires one to look on the bright
side. There's no question that a more diverse population creates some potential
discomforts and even potential conflicts, but it also brings great strengths."

The demographic shift has begun to change the state's politics as scores of
Hispanic voters have registered as Democrats in a backlash spurred by
Republican-led campaigns against illegal immigration. That is complicating
efforts by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to make inroads in a state where his
aides believe his Southwestern brand of Republicanism should be appealing.

In Los Angeles, where the demographic transition has already occurred, it is at
once invisible and omnipresent, apparent in the miles of neighborhoods where
signs are printed in every language but English. This city has the largest
population of Koreans outside Korea and the largest concentration of Iranians in
the Western world, a polyglot port of entry comparable to New York at the turn
of the last century. The region's latest gang battle is between Hispanics and
Armenians in the once lily-white suburb of Glendale.

California is not the first state where non-Hispanic whites will not constitute
a majority; they do not in Hawaii, whose population is mainly Asian and Pacific
Islander. In the past, there have been times when they have not been a majority
in New Mexico, while before the Civil War, South Carolina had a black majority.

But California is the biggest state to experience the shift, and for longtime
residents, the changes seem breathtaking. Just 40 years ago, the most common
language of foreign-born Californians was English, reflecting the population of
British and Canadian immigrants, said Peter Schrag, the former editorial page
editor of The Sacramento Bee and the author of "Paradise Lost: California's
Experience, America's Future" (1998), a study of the state government's failures
to deal with social and economic change.

"In the history of the state, we've gone up and down on this issue, and there's
a kind of inherent ambivalence," Mr. Schrag said of the demographic diversity.
"But a lot of it is conditioned by economic circumstances. When times are good,
we like these folks, because they give us cheap labor. And when times are bad,
we say, 'Who are these damn Mexicans taking our jobs away or using public
welfare?' I'm not saying that's a cycle we're fated to live with for the rest of
our existence, but it's been the pattern."

The prevailing classification scheme of demographic groups is itself fraught
with anomalies. "Hispanic" is an ethnic description, not a racial one, that
lumps together Latin Americans of all descriptions: whites, blacks, mixed-race
people, and descendants of Mayans, Aztecs, Incas and other Indian groups.

Similarly, "white" in the California usage can include immigrants from the
Middle East who may be dark skinned. By this standard, some analysts argue that
Californians of Anglo-European ancestry have actually been a minority here since
sometime in the late 1980's.

One such analyst is Ron Unz, the Republican millionaire who sponsored the 1998
measure to end bilingual education in the public schools in an effort to help
forge what he sees as the state's best hope: a new multiethnic assimilationism
that could avoid the racial wars of the past.

"Asians and Latinos are intermarrying at 30, 40, 50 percent rates, so the
reality of the melting pot is stronger than ever," Mr. Unz said. "But the
ideology has been driven out of the public arena. Very few members of the media
or politicians are talking in terms of glorifying and ratifying the melting pot,
so whether assimilation is doing well or not depends a lot on how you define the
terms."

When California joined the union 150 years ago, it was the nation's most diverse
state, with a population of international adventurers drawn by the Gold Rush.
But beginning with the Southern California real estate boom of the 1880's,
Midwestern whites poured in, and ever since, the state has followed cyclical
patterns of welcoming, and then rejecting, immigrants, from the Asian exclusion
laws of the late 19th century to Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot measure
sponsored by the Republican governor at the time, Pete Wilson, to cut off social
services for illegal immigrants. Blacks have never been the presence here that
they have in other large, industrialized states.

The current estimated population of 34 million includes 17.4 million
non-Hispanic whites, 10.7 million Hispanics, 3.9 million Asians or Pacific
Islanders and 2.3 million blacks.

Anxiety over immigration seems to have abated. By 1998, polls found that fewer
than 10 percent identified either legal or illegal immigration as a major
concern, and recent surveys by the Public Policy Institute of California, a
nonpartisan research group, show residents about evenly divided over whether
immigrants are a benefit or a burden, with whites the most skeptical. In various
surveys, Hispanics, who are expected to surpass non-Hispanic whites in total
population by 2025 and become an absolute majority by 2040, express more
optimism about the future.

"Optimism is alive in the barrios," said Harry P. Pachon, a political scientist
who directs the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research
organization with branches at the Claremont Graduate University and the
University of Texas. "It is constantly being renewed by an influx of immigrants
and however bad things are, relative to the home country, things are better
here.

"The dispersion of a population of color throughout California means that white
Californians now routinely see others who are unlike them," Dr. Pachon added.
"So at a political level, the anti-immigration rhetoric has subsided. But
nativist groups are sitting out there in the wings, and we can't underestimate
how some of that is bubbling under the surface and may erupt in an economic
downturn."

Nearly three million legal immigrants came to California between 1980 and 1994,
and perhaps another two million entered illegally. Analyses are divided over the
net costs and benefits, though a rough consensus suggests that the short-term
costs have been high and the long-term benefits are potentially great, as new
generations of immigrants assimilate and fuel the economy.

"This plurality that we have is what allows us to be so creative," said Maria
Contreras-Sweet, the state's Mexican-born secretary of business, transportation
and housing. "In Silicon Valley or wherever, as you're developing a product,
you're doing so mindful of the different needs and cultural nuances of world
markets."

The political implications of the change are hard to predict. Hispanics
accounted for nearly all of the increase of one million registered voters over
the last decade, and went from about 4 percent of the electorate in the 1990
gubernatorial election to 14 percent two years ago, while whites declined to 74
percent from 84 percent in the same period and blacks shrunk to 7 percent from 8
percent. The new Hispanic voters are predominantly Democratic, in what is
regarded as a protest against Mr. Wilson and Proposition 187.

Yet in other ways, surveys show, including a recent extensive statewide sampling
by the nonpartisan Field Institute of San Francisco, the overall ideology of
Hispanic voters is similar to California voters on the whole, with nearly half
calling themselves middle-of-the-road. On some issues, like abortion, Hispanic
voters tend to be more conservative than other groups as a whole.

And though California is often celebrated as the crucible of trends, and other
big states like Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois are on the road to
becoming similarly diverse, demographers note that the nation will not catch up
to California's diversity until midcentury, and even then small, interior states
may remain disproportionately white.

"It's not the precursor for the rest of the country," said William H. Frey, a
demographer at the Milken Institute in Santa Monica. "A lot of white,
baby-boomer retirees are going to be moving to the Rocky Mountain West and the
South Atlantic states and other high-amenity states."

But even some of the most pessimistic critics of California's experience find
hope in the prospect of diversity and rising intermarriage.

"The California that I love is incipiently Hawaii," said Mike Davis, who wrote
"City of Quartz" and other studies of the California dream's downside. "That's
not to embrace multiculturalism, everybody in their little box, but to embrace
all the leakage and the fact that the boxes don't work anymore. Here in L.A. you
have this seashore that could be Polynesian, but it's been owned by
Midwesterners for most of the 20th century who built this Puritan city on the
edge of the Pacific. For generations, Hawaii's been trying to break out of that,
and there's a real chance for that again this generation."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shops on Western Avenue in Los Angeles cater to the growing
Hispanic and Korean populations. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A11)

Chart: "California Changing"
Shows estimates and projections of the rise in minoritiy population between 1970
and 2040. (Source: California Department of Finance)(pg. A1)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              412 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

VICTOR IN MEXICO PLANS TO OVERHAUL LAW ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 4


The president-elect of Mexico, Vicente Fox Quesada, announced plans today to
rebuild the country's federal law enforcement system, moving it toward an
American model of justice as a way to wipe out corruption that has crippled his
nation for decades.

Mr. Fox also said he would travel to the United States soon to meet with
President Clinton and both major presidential candidates to press his proposal
to open the United States-Mexico border to a less-restricted flow of immigrants.

The president-elect also explained some of the measures his new government would
take to deal with a range of Mexico's most persistent and complex troubles,
including the fight against poverty, efforts to stem the flow of drugs through
Mexico and the unresolved conflict in Chiapas.

A two-hour news conference by Mr. Fox, whose election on Sunday ended a 71-year
rule of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, turned into a wide-ranging
foreign policy address. But his most detailed proposals centered on his fight
against corruption, a problem he considers a top priority.

To accomplish the overhaul, he is likely to use executive powers that allow him
to create a federal police agency and to shift law enforcement responsibilities
from one agency to another.

Toward that end, he said, he will create a Ministry of Security and Justice,
similar to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, that will be responsible for all
the federal police.

Mr. Fox's plans would also significantly reduce the powers of the Interior
Ministry, which currently manages a recently created federal police force. And
the attorney general's office would be similarly weakened, not only by the
removal of its control over federal law enforcement, but also by Mr. Fox's plans
to create a new agency of federal prosecutors to manage investigations.

Because his ideas have widespread support, Mr. Fox's transformation of the
system is also expected to be well received in the Mexican Congress even though
it will no longer be dominated by any single political party as a result of the
election on Sunday.

In his wide-ranging comments, Mr. Fox brought up his goal of having greater
cooperation between the United States, Mexico and Canada. He suggested the
creation of a North American common market that would allow a freer flow of
merchandise and workers, with strict standards for the protection of the
environment, law enforcement and workers' rights.

"It appears to me that both of us have lost sight of the goal," Mr. Fox said,
referring to the United States and Mexico. "The United States' goal has been to
put up walls, police and soldiers to fight immigration. That can't work."

"Mexico's goal," he added, "has been to open an escape valve, allowing 350,000
young people to cross the border each year and washing its hands of any
responsibility."

"If we are serious," Mr. Fox concluded, "the least we can do is sit down and
say, 'This is the problem' and the goal is to close the development gap."

In his answers to reporters' questions, Mr. Fox also offered specific proposals
for improving United States-Mexican relations, including extending the benefits
of the North American Free Trade Agreement more evenly to small businesses on
both sides of the border and turning the drug certification program from a
unilateral to a multilateral process involving all countries affected by
trafficking.

Mr. Fox said that in the next two months he would use five international
head-hunting concerns to help him select the members of his cabinet so that
leading up to his inauguration on Dec. they can work side by side with the
ministers they will replace. A team of aides to Mr. Fox have also been assigned
to work with the current leaders of the Finance Ministry on setting next year's
budget.

In trying to transform the law enforcement system, Mr. Fox's plans could be
upset by a backlash from below, where bureaucrats and officers enjoy strong
Civil Service protections.

President Ernesto Zedillo reorganized and renamed the nation's drug police at
least twice, and each time traffickers quickly infiltrated the forces and bought
off leading officials.

And he created a new federal police force to fight a mounting wave of federal
crimes, including kidnapping. But so far the new police have done little to make
Mexicans, especially those in larger cities, feel any safer.

Jorge Chabat, an analyst of Mexican law enforcement, praised Mr. Fox's plan to
take the federal police out of the hands of politicians, who used the agents for
their own agendas. He said he felt some pessimism over whether the new system
would be resistant to the corrupting forces of drug traffickers. But, he said,
"someone has to try to fight them."

"The truth is whatever the government tries, it will face a problem with the
corruption of traffickers."

In emphasizing his commitment to fighting corruption, Mr. Fox turned the
spotlight not only on the past, but also on his administration and its future.
He announced that he would create a "Commission of Transparency," made up of
Mexican citizens whose job would be to investigate high-profile scandals of past
administrations as well as to serve as a watchdog over his own government.

But he was careful to make clear that he would not conduct wholesale
investigations of government conduct before taking office.

"We do not want to waste our government looking only at the past and conducting
witch hunts that could be misinterpreted," Mr. Fox said in the news conference
at the presidential residence, Los Pinos. The transparency commission, he added,
would be his government's way to "set its sights forward, to construct a
harmonious government and also to make an accounting of the past."

In a signal of assurance to the Mexican military, Mr. Fox said he would not
consider appointing a civilian as chief of the Ministry of Defense. "I see no
reason to break a tradition that has brought stability to the country," he said.

On other domestic issues, Mr. Fox said he wanted to visit Chiapas as soon as
possible and reopen peace talks with the Zapatista rebels. He said he was
willing to consider withdrawing the military from rural areas of conflict in the
state, one of the rebels' main demands.

Fighting poverty was another area that Mr. Fox called a priority and he said
that he would not approve budgets or program proposals from members of his
cabinet unless they could demonstrate in concrete terms how these would help the
poor.

"This would be our way to pay attention to the groups that have been totally
excluded from the development of our country," he said. "It is one of the strong
principals that we are going to introduce in the decision-making process of the
new government."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Vicente Fox Quesada at a news conference with
the international press yesterday. He said he would travel to the United States
soon to meet with President Clinton and both major presidential candidates.
(Associated Press)(pg. A8)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              413 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba Sees Fervor Over Elian Useful in Other Battles

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, July 4


Now that Elian Gonzalez is home and has begun to reclaim his young life,
officials say that it will be a challenge to sustain the emotional commitment
Cubans had to that case as the government presses its latest battle with the
United States over its trade embargo and immigration policy.

The embargo and the Cuban Adjustment Act are emerging as the centerpieces of a
post-Elian era, and officials intend to continue the public rallies and
televised discussion that were a staple of daily life throughout the seven-month
custody battle over Elian. But in an acknowledgement that the issues are
different, Ricardo Alarcon, the president of the National Assembly and the main
adviser to the Gonzalez family, said the events would be scaled down somewhat.

"Do you ask if there can be the same emotional level? No," he said in a
90-minute interview on Monday. "You cannot ask people to have the same emotional
level about a boy without a mother, separated from his father, for a discussion
of the adjustment law. It is more abstract."

Still, Mr. Alarcon, who was the highest-ranking Cuban official to greet Elian
when he arrived at Jose Marti International Airport last week, said the public
events staged on behalf of Elian had proved useful in mobilizing people and
reaching out to Cuban youth. It was an opportunity, he said, born of the
campaign by Cuban-Americans and their Congressional supporters to keep Elian in
Miami after he was rescued from an inner tube last Thanksgiving.

"They gave it to us on a silver platter," he said. "This is a battle of ideas
that we appreciate clearly. This did not begin in November or in the first days
of December. The denunciations started with Elian, and at that time we did not
think it would go so long. But those seven months have allowed us to discover
new forms, methods and actors, and a lot more youth, above all. Why stop that
when there are so many problems to resolve?"

Those problems, officials contend, stem from the economic havoc wreaked by the
embargo and are exacerbated by policies that allow Cubans who reach American
soil to apply for asylum. Others, including ordinary Cuban citizens, feel the
real problem is a lack of enthusiasm for the revolution among a people who have
been fed a diet of slogans while adjusting themselves to the daily struggle of
inventing ways to resolve their personal economic crises.

Mr. Alarcon said it was "simplistic" to believe the rallies were intended to
revive the revolution's flagging domestic appeal. But he acknowledged that
Elian's case had intense support among the young, who have been featured players
in the rallies and other events.

"The youth will continue to be the protagonists, but that is the march of life,"
he said of the new campaign. "Elian touched almost all the youth. Elian was 5
years old. His mother, Elisabet, was around 24. His father Juan Miguel was 31.
The grandparents are in their 50's. They were children at the triumph of the
revolution."

He said that the public support for Elian paid off with his return, which he
said some young people likened to Jan. 1, 1959, when Fidel Castro and his
revolutionaries took power.

"For the youth, Jan. 1, 1959, was something they read about of their parent's
generation," he said. "This is theirs. We speak about how youth are into other
things. But no one could imagine how the events here firmed up people of both
generations."

Cuban officials want to capitalize on that attention, although at a rally in
Manzanillo last Saturday many there seemed to be going through the motions,
waving flags during speeches filled with familiar scorn for American policy.
Just in case, officials have reduced the time of the televised discussions to
one hour and 45 minutes from two hours, as well as freeing up one of the
country's two state-run television stations for regular programming. In the
interview, Mr. Alarcon took issue with how a recent Congressional agreement
allowing American food sales was portrayed as a softening of the embargo. He
insisted it would make sales of wheat and rice more difficult unless American
banks are allowed to finance the transactions and ships are allowed to make
deliveries without being penalized. Currently, ships cannot dock at American
ports for six months after going to Cuba .

As officials turn their attention to the new priorities of trade and
immigration, the Gonzalez family may find it difficult to attain its own goal of
being a normal clan. For now, they are in a seaside Havana home, where Elian and
some of his classmates are wrapping up their first-grade studies before going
off on a vacation with the eventual plan being that the Gonzalez family will
return to its hometown of Cardenas.

In recent weeks, the government media has been filled with praise for Juan
Miguel and Elian as model citizens, raising the question of whether greater
things are in store for Mr. Gonzalez.

"Juan Miguel will be able to do whatever he wants," was all Mr. Alarcon would
say about the future. "He was a normal person who was turned into something
else. Returning to what he was before will not be easy."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Alarcon, the president of the National Assembly in Cuba.
(Associated Press)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              414 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 6, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Seeing Patriotism In a Fresh Light

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 79 words



To the Editor:

"What Is America?", by Jesse Gordon (Op-Art, July 3), spoke volumes with a few
words. Those who were born here provided much of the tired cynicism. Those who
immigrated provided much of the energetic optimism and joy. This is more proof
that America does not just have an immigrant past; it has an immigrant future.

Let us continue to welcome the newcomers who define our best nature.

MATTHEW ORISTANO
Woodbridge, Conn., July 3, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              415 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 8, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Irish Now Face the Other Side of Immigration

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

DATELINE: BIRR, Ireland


It is hard to find anyone in this busy little town with a specific complaint
about the 70-odd strangers who abruptly arrived last fall from places like
Chechnya and Nigeria. But that does not mean the town wants them here.

"Maybe we're ignorant, but the only colored person you'd ever see before was
someone back from England," said a 45-year-old carpenter who refused to give his
name, saying that the issue was too fraught and that Birr, with only 4,000 or so
people, was too small.

"It's not that we're biased," he said, trying to explain why he had not spoken
to any of the newcomers, who are living here at government expense while their
applications for political asylum are being considered. "It's just that we don't
know what to make of these black people. We don't understand them. We're, maybe,
afraid of them."

For the last decade, Ireland's membership in the European Union has helped fuel
an economic boom, transforming an isolated, desperately poor economy into the
proud success that calls itself the Celtic Tiger.

But the boom has brought another European dividend: waves of unwanted newcomers,
most of them seeking employment and refuge from politically unstable,
war-ravaged areas of Africa and Europe.

And now Ireland, with its history of sending its citizens abroad in search of
better lives, has become something it never would have imagined: a magnet for
the dispossessed. "This is the real world catching up to us," said Piaras
MacEinri, director of the Irish Center for Migration Studies at University
College, Cork. "It's not just about refugees. It's about Ireland no longer being
a small, white place of emigrants."

By now the Irish are all too familiar with the prejudice and hardships their
countrymen suffered over the centuries as they searched for work abroad. It is
hard-wired into their sense of themselves.

That is why people like Ned Lawton become so angry when they hear the common
complaint, voiced in Birr and elsewhere, that the refugees are here simply to
take advantage of Ireland's newfound wealth, not to flee persecution at home.

"In the 1980's when you saw a headline about illegal immigrants, you'd assume
the article was talking about Irish immigrants in New York," said Mr. Lawton, a
spokesman for the Irish Refugee Council. "This is all a bit rich, coming from
us, particularly now that we have a booming economy."

Europe is awash in refugees these days, but Ireland, more than its Continental
cousins, has been forced by the rush of events to make up its asylum policy as
it goes along.

In 1992 only 39 people applied for asylum in Ireland. In 1999 there were 7,724.
Now 1,000 are applying every month, a number that sounds inconsequential until
you consider Ireland's relatively tiny size, less than half the size of North
Carolina.

With only 3.6 million residents, the country drew more asylum seekers as a
percentage of its population last year than any other European country except
Austria and Belgium. Most of the new arrivals have gravitated to an already
overwhelmed Dublin, forcing the government to scramble for places to put them.

A proposal to build floating detention centers, or "flotels," foundered when
port after port found new objections to raise. The current plan is to build some
4,000 housing units where the refugees can live for the 18 months or so it
generally takes to process their applications.

In the meantime the Nigerians, Congolese, Romanians, Chechens and Poles living
in the Maltings guesthouse, a private rooming house at one end of Birr, are
beneficiaries, if that is the right word, of the government's current program of
dispersing the asylum seekers around the country, even in rural areas ill
equipped to handle them and even less prepared to welcome them.

Compounding the problem, for the refugees and the residents, is the government's
decision to forbid asylum seekers to work while their cases are being
considered.

"You're having a situation where people are being dispersed, but social services
are not dispersed with them," Mr. MacEinri said. "Local government is in a poor
state, and we're not really giving it any extra money."

In Birr the program has stirred up a stew of feelings, many of them negative,
about where the country is going. Residents say they cannot square the fact that
the asylum seekers are living rent-free -- with their meals taken care of and 15
pounds ($18) a week in spending money besides -- with the knowledge that there
are still Irish people living on the streets of Dublin.

"They keep to themselves," admitted a 23-year-old man, walking past the Maltings
on his way home from work and speaking on condition that his name and occupation
not be disclosed. "But most people aren't happy with them. They're living the
life of luxury."

Another man, who is in his 50's and runs a tractor-trailer business, stood next
to a construction site and said he thought Ireland was taking on more than it
could handle. Birr, too.

People tend to know each other here. Smack in the middle of Ireland, the town
has several bustling streets of small stores and pubs and makes its living from
a handful of factories around its edges and from the tourists who drive through,
looking for Birr Castle.

Before the newcomers came, the man said, he had rarely -- if ever -- seen more
than one dark-skinned person at a time. "I turned against them completely when I
saw them begging in restaurants," he said. He did not know whom he had seen.
"Either Romanians or Nigerians," he said. "We don't know the difference. They're
all the same. They're all black, and we've never been used to colored people
here."

On the other side of the cultural divide are people like Dorcas Balogun, 25. For
Mrs. Balogun, a Muslim who fled Nigeria with her husband when both of his
parents were killed by Christians who then came looking for them, her exile to
Birr has meant long days of idleness, with too much time to fret about the
future.

While she waits for her application to be processed -- and only a tiny
percentage of Nigerians who applied for asylum in Ireland last year had their
applications accepted -- she has had scarcely a conversation, let alone a shared
meal, with an actual Irish person.

"Mostly I just sit around the house all day," she said, the house being the
two-bedroom apartment she and her husband share with another Nigerian couple.
Sometimes they take the long, slow bus ride into Dublin, but they do not feel
comfortable walking around.

"It's not too bad," her husband, Adele, said. "But sometimes, when you go out to
take some air, they look at you and say: 'Black people -- what are you doing in
Ireland? Go back to your country.' "

Some townspeople have reached out. Maeve Garry, who runs the Maltings with her
husband, has made several trips to Dublin to buy African food. The Rev. Tony
Cahir, the priest at St. Brendan's, the Roman Catholic church in Birr, organized
a minivan trip to visit a neighboring town. He also gave refugees used radios
and tape recorders donated by his parishioners.

And when he sees the refugees walking past his house on their way to the tiny
local library, where they tend to gather, he goes out of his way to greet them.

"If there was somebody passing by, I'd introduce them and say, 'This is Jimmy
from Nigeria,' " he said.

Father Cahir said the community had reacted as well as could be expected.
"Honestly, I'd say that the attitude has been a positive one," he said. "There
has been wonderment, questioning, people asking who these people are, what is
going to happen. But then people realized that they were here waiting for a
decision from the government, and they saw that there's been absolutely no
trouble."

But his optimism does not erase the anger simmering beneath the surface around
the country, particularly in the places ordered to accept people they do not
want. So far, almost 1,500 refugees are living in small communities outside
Dublin.

In the town of Kildare, the outraged Chamber of Commerce has sued to block the
arrival of 400 refugees, pointing out that the town had already taken in 300
from Kosovo. And in tiny Clogheen, in County Tipperary, an empty hostel that was
being refurbished to house 40 asylum seekers was set on fire.

"We would have liked to consult a lot more, but you have to understand our
predicament," said Alan Mulligan, a spokesman for the Department of Justice,
Equality and Law Reform, explaining the government's policy of dispersing the
refugees. "The vast majority -- 90 percent -- were staying in Dublin, and we
just didn't have the accommodation for them."

Meanwhile, a country that was so homogeneous until the mid-1990's that the Rough
Guide travel book described its residents as having a "uniquely naive brand of
racism," is trying as best as it can to figure out what to do next.

"The government accepts its obligation to asylum seekers under international
law," Mr. Mulligan said. "Racism will not be tolerated. But no government can go
into any village and force people to like each other."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Nigerians who have applied for asylum in Ireland chatted on
Main Street in the small town of Birr. (Derek Spries for The New York Times)

Map of Ireland showing location of Birr; Birr is playing reluctant host to about
70 would-be immigrants. (pg. A8)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              416 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 55 words


An article on Monday about a program that reaches out to immigrants in Mount
Kisco, N.Y., misspelled the surname of a doctor who is organizing health
screening for its participants. She is Dr. Amy Salerno, not Solerno. The article
also misstated the birthplaces of her parents. Both were born in the United
States.






http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              417 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Judge Extends Stay Of Thai in Custody Fight

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 17


A 3-year-old boy brought from Thailand as a prop in an immigrant-smuggling
scheme will remain in the United States indefinitely, a federal judge ruled
today.

It was the second time that Judge Dickran Tevrizian of Federal District Court
had extended a restraining order to block repatriation of the boy, Phanupong
Khaisri. The judge said he wanted to ensure that the boy, who is infected with
H.I.V., received proper health care.

Judge Tevrizian said a court-appointed guardian could file a request for the boy
to be granted asylum.

Now in the care of social workers, the boy is the subject a custody dispute,
with his grandparents seeking his return to Thailand.

The boy arrived in Los Angeles on April 11 with a man and woman posing as his
parents. Thai officials determined that the boy's mother in Thailand was unfit
to have custody. His father is dead.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              418 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico's One-Way Remedy

BYLINE: By George J. Borjas;  George J. Borjas, a professor of public policy at
Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, is author of "Heaven's Door: Immigration
Policy and the American Economy."

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


President-elect Vicente Fox of Mexico has wasted no time initiating a
much-needed dialogue over U.S.-Mexican immigration issues. More than seven
million Mexican immigrants now live in the United States, a number equal to 7
percent of Mexico's current population. And we get an additional 130,000 legal
Mexican immigrants and 150,000 illegal ones annually. What Mr. Fox wants to do,
however, is radical.

He proposes that the United States immediately provide 250,000 visas a year to
Mexican nationals, accommodating much of the desire to move here, and that
within 10 years, our countries share an open border, with free movement of
people and goods.

This would be good for the Mexican economy, reducing labor market pressures, and
pleasing to many Mexican immigrants in the United States, who maintain an
interest in Mexican politics and are increasingly powerful there. But it would
be far less likely to benefit the United States.

The U.S.-Mexico wage gap is among the largest between contiguous countries. A
manufacturing worker in the United States earns four times the salary of a
Mexican factory worker and 30 times that of a Mexican agricultural worker. These
differences ensure that an open border would increase the number of immigrants.

No one knows how many more people would immigrate, but the Puerto Rican
experience may be instructive. Puerto Ricans are American citizens who can move
freely within the United States, and the differences in economic opportunities
between Puerto Rico and the mainland are quite large. Not surprisingly, about 25
percent of Puerto Rico's population moved to the United States in the last 50
years. Even if the Mexican migration response were only half that of Puerto
Rico, total Mexican immigration to the United States could conceivably be 12.5
million, compared with the current 7 million.

The new immigrants would probably resemble the Mexican immigrants already here,
whose poverty rate exceeds 33 percent. Research that I conducted with my Harvard
colleagues Richard Freeman and Larry Katz showed that the large-scale
immigration of low-skill workers during the 1980's and 1990's, by increasing the
pool of low-skill workers, reduced the relative wage of native workers with less
than a high school education by 5 percentage points. This group's wages would be
further eroded under Mr. Fox's proposals.

Some may say that Mexican immigrants take jobs that Americans do not want, but a
more sensible statement is that Mexican immigrants take jobs that Americans do
not want at the going wage. The service sector remains alive and well even in
those parts of the country that have not been penetrated by heavy immigration.
It just costs more to have a manicured lawn in New England than in Southern
California.

Almost 30 percent of the immigrants now living in this country are of Mexican
origin. (In 1920, after decades of heavy immigration, the three largest groups
-- Germans, Italians, and Russians -- together made up only a third.) Numbers
like these slow assimilation because a large immigrant group can maintain its
separate identity, culture and language far into the future. It is unfashionable
to view the melting pot as desirable, but is balkanization good for the United
States?

The free movement of people is not the same thing as the free movement of goods.
And, as we will surely relearn in the next economic downturn, the United States
offers public services that are far more expensive to maintain when there are
many immigrants who are poor and have low job skills.

The United States should begin to reflect more seriously on its huge income
disparity with Mexico, and the onset of democracy there suggests that it may be
time to think about a Marshall program to introduce permanent prosperity. But
enacting Vicente Fox's proposals now would limit the economic opportunities
available to America's less advantaged and would cause a higher level of
immigration than the United States could comfortably sustain.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              419 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Slugger Makes It to U.S. On Second Try

BYLINE: By CHARLIE NOBLES

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 19


Andy Morales, a standout with the Cuban national baseball team, has succeeded in
his second attempt to flee Cuba for the United States.

Mr. Morales was being interviewed by the federal authorities here tonight after
being smuggled with 8 others to the Florida Keys.

Mr. Morales is a 25-year-old third baseman who hit a three-run home run in the
Cuban national team's victory over the host Baltimore Orioles last year. Last
month, he was refused asylum along with 30 others after they were intercepted at
sea by the Coast Guard.

This time, Mr. Morales, seven other men and a 16-year-old girl reached the
Marquesas, a group of islands west of Key West. Under federal rules, Cuban
refugees who actually reach United States soil are usually allowed to stay,
while those intercepted at sea are returned.

"They made it to U.S. territory," a Border Patrol spokesman, Joe Mellia, said
today.

The Border Patrol interviewed each of the Cubans separately in its Pembroke
Pines, Fla., office, Mr. Mellia said, and several said they had paid $5,000 each
to be smuggled here.

After being interviewed by the Border Patrol, the nine were taken to a detention
center here for questioning by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Rene Guim, a spokesman for Mr. Morales's agent, Gus Dominguiz of Los Angeles,
said Mr. Morales had been harassed and beaten after he was repatriated.

"Cuban security people were following him everywhere," Mr. Guim said. Mr. Guim
said that a week ago, Mr. Morales got into "a little push and shove" with three
security personnel. "They pushed him in an alley and beat the heck out of him,"
Mr. Guim said. "I think that's probably what broke the camel's back."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              420 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Bridge Across the Rio Grande

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 121 words



To the Editor:
 In "Mexico's One-Way Remedy" (Op-Ed, July 18), George J. Borjas points out that
immigration acts to lower the standard of living of current unskilled laborers.
But he doesn't mention another reason the United States, especially the West,
cannot sustain more immigration: the increasing environmental degradation caused
by population pressures.

While great strides in air quality have been made by reducing emissions from
industry and by requiring cleaner motor-vehicle engines and cleaner fuels,
health-threatening air pollution continues to worsen in growing California
cities like Bakersfield and Sacramento because of one main factor: miles driven.


EDWARD YATES
San Francisco, July 19, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              421 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Bridge Across the Rio Grande

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 123 words



To the Editor:

Re "Mexico's One-Way Remedy" (Op-Ed, July 18):

Arguing against an open border with Mexico, proposed by President-elect Vicente
Fox, George J. Borjas says, "The free movement of people is not the same as the
free movement of goods."

But for most immigrants, as for most people in the world, the labor their bodies
can provide is the only good they have to sell.

It is injustice of the most acute sort to support multinational corporations'
"right" to sell billions of dollars of goods in every market they want, while
denying most people the right to transport the one good they have -- their labor
-- to markets where it can fetch the highest price.

STEVEN SHERMAN
Chapel Hill, N.C., July 18, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              422 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Bridge Across the Rio Grande

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 186 words



To the Editor:

"Mexico's One-Way Remedy," by George J. Borjas (Op-Ed, July 18), unjustifiably
pits President-elect Vicente Fox's proposal to open borders with the United
States against America's less advantaged. By concluding that the United States
can't handle open immigration, it doesn't do justice to Mr. Fox's proposal.

The proposal is patterned on the European Union, which elevated living standards
in the poorer countries like Spain and Greece and was able to tolerate a freer
movement of workers. Mr. Fox's basic idea is to raise the living standard in
Mexico first, and then, over the course of at least a decade but perhaps longer,
begin to relax migration for Mexicans with jobs in the United States.

His thoughtful proposal deserves analysis and support, rather than the
anti-immigrant reaction that it is receiving -- particularly in light of his
willingness to take on the powerful and corrupting drug cartels and open doors
to investment by Americans.

PAMELA S. FALK
New York, July 20, 2000

The writer is a professor of international law and trade at CUNY Law School.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              423 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
The Bonding And Biases That Built Chinatowns

BYLINE: By DAVID DeWITT

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 21; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend
Desk

LENGTH: 589 words


Chinatown: the word implies strong identity and limiting boundaries. But that
label does not communicate the rich depth of Chinatowns in San Francisco, New
York, Vancouver and many other cities where Chinese immigrants have made their
homes.

Tonight's History Channel "Time Machine" presentation, "Chinatown: Strangers in
a Strange Land," aims to show the depth of Chinatown, "a world that is rarely
seen and even more rarely understood," according to the narration.

To a degree that aim is achieved. The program is clearly a History Channel
presentation; "Strangers in a Strange Land" feels impersonal, and contemporary
Chinatown gets slight attention. But while the documentary is stingy with heart,
it is generous with fact and offers a dense and insightful visit to these
communities.

"Strangers in a Strange Land" mixes contemporary videography with archival
stills to document the Chinese experience in Chinatowns, described in voice-over
by the actor Monte Markham as both ghettos and havens for their residents.
Beginning with the first major wave of Chinese immigrants during the California
Gold Rush of the mid-1800's, the documentary describes the combination of
American discrimination and Chinese heritage that led to the development of
Chinatowns.

The discrimination provides especially compelling material. Chinese gold miners,
for instance, faced taxes not levied on Caucasians for the same work. The 1882
Chinese Exclusion Act for a time suspended legal migration to America; later,
immigrants were held in internment camps, which are shown in the documentary as
they appear today. Facing such discrimination, many Chinese-Americans sought
refuge in communities of their own.

Chinese cultural life also led immigrants to bond, the documentary explains. An
array of contemporary Chinese-Americans -- storekeepers, detectives, lawyers and
authors -- explain how the traditional associations and tongs, complex units of
Chinese community life, served as organized touchstones for their ancestors and
themselves.

The documentary aims to praise, not bury, these Chinatowns, but it does note
their defects. Stories are told of gang wars in the 1980's in New York's
Chinatown. The negative side of a passion for gambling is also described, as are
the traditions that keep many Chinese-Americans bound to a narrow range of job
opportunities.

Mostly, however, the documentary admires its subjects, describing contemporary
Chinese-Americans as a "model minority."

"Strangers in a Strange Land" is skimpy with personal portraits; the program
sticks to a broad historical canvas, expressing general truths of the American
immigrant experience. But though it emphasizes the extraordinary, the
documentary more memorably depicts the ordinary: food markets that draw
enthusiastic cooks, outdoor tai chi sessions with an intergenerational mix of
participants and celebrations that promote the pride and interdependence of
families.

That, the program implies, is the hidden truth of Chinatown; it is a place where
residents hold off assimilation to hold onto their culture in the face of forces
both attractive and overwhelming. As one resident puts it, "It's a small-town
feeling in a large city."

TIME MACHINE
Chinatown: Strangers in a Strange Land

The History Channel, today at 9 p.m.

Production of Perpetual Motion Films for the History Channel. Monte Markham and
Jason Markham, executive producers; Monte Markham, narrator. Nancy Dubuc and
Charlie Maday, executive producers for the channel.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              424 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Crucial I.N.S. Gatekeeper: The Airport Dentist

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1511 words


Lloyd Tysuir was trying, without much success, not to shake. He had tightly
pursed his lips and pressed his forearms against his knees. His head was bent
low, eyes fixed on the floor.

Two Immigration and Naturalization Service officers, in white short-sleeved
shirts and blue pants, stood over Mr. Tysuir, their detainee from Kingston,
Jamaica, at Kennedy International Airport. And nearby, Dr. Robert M. Trager, the
man with the unusual title of airport dentist, pulled on his surgical gloves
with a snap.

"Relax," he said. "This isn't going to hurt."

Much, though, was at stake for the young man on this afternoon as he at last
opened his mouth inside Dr. Trager's tiny dental office, just down the hall from
the American Indian gift shop in the airport's Terminal 4.

Dental and bone X-rays, in the view of the I.N.S., are one of the most reliable
ways of determining age. The eruption of wisdom teeth, and the fusion of bones
in the wrist, usually signify that a person is over 18, Dr. Trager said. And an
immigrant's age can be critical to his or her effort to gain entry to, and
residence in, the United States.

So, hundreds of Chinese, Somalis, Sri Lankans, Albanians, Hondurans and others
who claim on travel documents to be under 18 have filed through Dr. Trager's
office in recent years. He takes X-rays of their teeth, and often of their
wrists as well.

They get a look out the office's small window onto the airport tarmac. For most,
it is all they see of the United States.

Dr. Trager, who also has a private practice in Queens, works under contract to
the I.N.S. In his airport office, he also sees a regular roster of airport
employees and businessmen who need fillings and the like. "I was in the right
place at the right time," he said of his work for the I.N.S., which began in
1997. "My office is right above Customs and Immigration. Lawyers for the
detainees have tried to challenge my diagnosis and method, but these challenges
have all been dismissed in federal court."

At the airport, I.N.S. agents single out illegal immigrants who appear to be
older than their paperwork indicates, and take them to see Dr. Trager. Minors
who enter the United States, unlike adults, are exempt from immediate
deportation. They are automatically released to any family members living in the
country.

The I.N.S. will allow minors to remain in the United States if they are granted
political asylum or "special immigrant juvenile status," given when a child is
the victim of abuse or neglect. Most cases take at least six months to resolve.
If denied asylum, they cannot be sent home until relatives in their home country
are contacted.

Juvenile immigrants who have no relatives in the United States can be detained.
But during any period of detention, they are housed separately from adults for
their safety.

For the immigrants, then, the stakes are high.

"We use this method because it is a widely accepted process within forensic
medicine to accurately, within a given range, determine an individual's age,"
said Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the I.N.S. "This is important to us
because we need to determine age in order to ensure juveniles are handled as
juveniles and adults do not use false statements with respect to their age to
avoid treatment as adults."

But some specialists view the dental and wrist X-rays as far from foolproof. Dr.
Herbert H. Frommer, the director of radiology at New York University College of
Dentistry, is one.

"It is impossible to make an exact judgment based on radiographs of whether an
individual is above or below the age of 18," he said.

Human rights advocates cite the case of a teenager from Liberia, Mekabou Fofana,
who arrived at Kennedy Airport in July 1999 and had a dental and bone exam.
Based on the X-rays, he was determined to be over 18, and was therefore ordered
held at a detention center in Queens. His family members, including an uncle who
is a United States citizen, continue to insist that he was born on July 20,
1983, and that he should be treated as a minor.

"We are very concerned about the accuracy of this practice," said Eleanor Acer,
a staff attorney for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which is handling
Mr. Fofana's case. "We have found teenage children, inaccurately determined by
the I.N.S. to be adults, detained in adult facilities."

Advocates also criticize the I.N.S.'s decision not to allow those determined to
be adults to appeal the decision.

"There should be some objective scrutiny of this decision by someone like an
immigration judge," said Wendy Young, the director of government relations at
the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children. "One of the problems we
encounter is that there is an incentive by the I.N.S. to detain children with
adults, because it is cheaper.  When you have one dentist contracted to the
I.N.S. making these calls, it raises red flags."

In the dentist's office last week, Lloyd Tysuir was so nervous that he could
barely make it to the beige vinyl dental chair. He started moaning: "They are
going to lock me up and put me in jail. They are going to lock me up and put me
in jail."

"I'm only 15," he implored.

"Calm down, Louie," Dr. Trager said, mispronouncing the young man's name. "You
are going to be all right, brother. Just relax."

When the dentist finished taking pictures of Mr. Tysuir's mouth, he took two
X-rays of his wrist, tossing the first aside because his patient was shaking too
much.

Then, with a smile, he waved goodbye to his patient and the two uniformed
escorts and shut the door to his tiny dark room, built in what was once a
closet, with a bang.

Dr. Trager, 60, who also has a small dental office at La Guardia Airport, has
examined well over a thousand undocumented immigrants and those with
questionable documents, and nearly all, after his 20-minute procedure, have been
determined to be older than 18.

While the exams are routine, designed to detect the wisdom teeth and determine
whether the wrist bones are fused, many of the immigrants take one look at the
dental drill, the stocky doctor and the rows of medicine bottles and collapse in
fear.

Last January, a Polish applicant fell to his knees, clasped his hands and began
praying loudly. He wet his pants before the I.N.S. guards could coax him into
the chair. He turned out to be 16.

"He looked at me as if I was Dr. Mengele," Dr. Trager said.

The dentist's business -- he hands out fliers advertising his business as the
Smiles High Club -- got a huge boost in April 1997, when the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act went into effect. Immigration officials
began bringing him about 600 people a year. He declined to reveal how much the
agency pays him.

Under the new law, immigrants were no longer released and told to appear at
hearings. Instead, undocumented immigrants seeking asylum were detained if their
status was in doubt or immediately deported.

The I.N.S. has not housed minors and adults in the same facility since the rape
several years ago of an underage girl in a detention center. The I.N.S. took
4,607 minors into custody last year.

Dr. Trager said he believed that he was the only dentist who did both the
medical and dental exams for the I.N.S. In Miami, a dentist under contract to
the I.N.S. examines teeth, and an orthopedist takes X-rays of the wrist. Dr.
Trager acknowledged that he was not trained in orthopedics, but insisted that he
had enough medical background to interpret the X-ray results correctly.

"I look at the molars first," the dentist said, referring to the wisdom teeth.
"When all four molars have erupted in a Caucasian male, this means the patient
is between 18 and 21. In black males the person is between 17 and 21. In females
the molars erupt about six months later."

When the dental X-rays are inconclusive, he turns to a large book with a blue
cover he calls "my bible." It is a 1959 edition of the Radiographic Atlas of
Skeletal Development of the Hand and Wrist, by William Walter Greulich and S.
Idell Pyle. He keeps a second volume in the trunk of his car.

The dentist matches the X-rays of the wrists of his patients with the photos in
the book. Female wrist bones are fused at the age of 17. Male wrist bones fuse
at 18. The fused bone, with the fully erupted wisdom teeth, allow him to
determine whether a patient is under or over 18, he said, to within three
months.

Last week, when he finished taking the X-rays of Lloyd Tysuir, Dr. Trager had
the film developed and filled out an I.N.S. form. Mr. Tysuir, he wrote, was
about 20. One of the I.N.S. officers glanced at the form.  "It's just as well,"
said the guard.  "He'll get shipped home quicker."

As Mr. Tysuir departed, he turned to the dentist.

"I'm not over 18, am I?" he asked. "I'm 15."

The dentist was unmoved.

"He knows he is lying," Dr. Trager said as the young man was being taken away to
an I.N.S. detention center. "He was putting on an act. I would say at least 90
percent don't tell the truth. It is part of the game. This charade is over."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Robert M. Trager uses X-rays to determine the ages of
illegal immigrants. Minors are exempt from immediate deportation, and many
immigrants claim to be under 18 to gain entry to America, the I.N.S. says.
(Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              425 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

40 Percent In New York Born Abroad

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1519 words


A human tidal wave has added one million immigrants to New York City in the last
decade, propelling foreign-born residents to 40 percent of the population, an
analysis of United States Census Bureau figures shows.

That level of immigration has not been equaled for nearly a century. As recently
as 1990, the figure for foreign-born residents was 28 percent.

The new figures come not from the 2000 census, whose results will not be known
until next year. Instead, they are derived from the recently released results of
a 15,417-household survey taken in 1999 by the Census Bureau. That study is done
every three years to see if housing vacancies are below 5 percent, the legal
threshold for continuing rent regulation. Because the sample is large and the
bureau conducts the survey, the data are considered highly reliable. They jibe
with the census, which is undertaken every 10 years.

"It's really a preview of the full census," said Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, a
Queens College sociologist who analyzes census data.

Although the surge has been evident for years, its sheer size is stunning. "Boy,
that is some number -- wow, wow!" said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan,
co-author of "Beyond the Melting Pot," a 1963 treatise on race and ethnicity in
the city. "It's an enriching experience for us," Mr. Moynihan said. "It's
wonderful -- I mean, we have to think of it that way. If we think of it any
other way, it won't be."

Without immigration, for example, New York's overall population would be
shrinking. Instead, the stream of people from around the world is offsetting the
loss of city residents to death and relocation to the suburbs and other regions.
The result has been a modest net gain of about 130,000 since 1990, to an
estimated total of 7.4 million last year.

"Absent immigration, we would be seeing a very different New York, with
neighborhood abandonment and depopulation," said Dr. Philip Kasinitz, a
sociology professor at Hunter College. Dr. William H. Frey, a demographer at the
State University of New York at Albany, said, "These groups are revitalizing and
re-energizing these neighborhoods."

Similar flows from abroad are bolstering the population of other major cities
across the nation, although New York has had the largest influx. A big
difference, however, is that other places have ethnically concentrated
immigration, such as the Cubans in Miami, while the new New Yorkers are
extraordinarily diverse by race and nationality. "This is a region that is going
to continue to be very different from any other areas of the country," Dr. Frey
said.

City Planning Commission officials declined to be interviewed about the
findings. An agency spokeswoman, Jennifer Chait, voiced caution. "These
projections are based on data that is incomplete and inadequate for drawing
significant conclusions," she said. "Our expectations are that the definitive
Census 2000 data will show a substantial increase in New York City foreign-born
population but not to as nearly as high as 40 percent."

But Dr. Beveridge said his figures were actually conservative. The Census Bureau
sample showed that 44 percent of heads of households were foreign born.
Estimating the figure for the entire city, he reduced the percentage to adjust
for factors like children of immigrants being born here. The margin of error is
0.8 of a percentage point, he said. He also noted that the planning agency
itself had estimated immigration at 100,000 a year, which in 10 years adds up to
one million.

Further, official statistics undercount immigrants who decline to respond
because of language barriers, wariness of the government or concern about the
legality of their immigration, jobs or housing. Immigration data also exclude
native Puerto Ricans, who are American citizens, though it can be argued that by
language, culture and geography, they have much in common with immigrants.

Dr. Beveridge's findings were backed by two other experts. Dr. John Mollenkopf,
director of the Urban Research Center at the City University of New York's
Graduate Center, said, "That's consistent with what other sources, like the
current population survey, are showing," referring to yet another Census Bureau
sampling. His work on that survey indicates that 54 percent of children through
the age of 18 are either foreign born or have foreign-born parents. And Dr.
Aristide R. Zolberg, director of New School University's International Center
for Migration, Ethnicity and Citizenship, said he used a 40 percent estimate for
the immigrant population.

Not since 1910 has New York's percentage of foreign-born residents been so high.
That era of immigration, through the halls of Ellis Island, transformed the city
and sparked debates over the role of newcomers that still echo today. To house
the last wave, a staggering 600,000 dwellings were built in the 1920's.
Radicalized newcomers enlivened local politics. And sweatshop exploitation of
immigrants, spotlighted by the fatal fire at the Triangle Shirtwaist factory in
1911, galvanized the labor movement.

"We never dreamed that New York would again become a major city of immigrants,
but then the immigration laws changed in 1965," said Mr. Moynihan's co-author,
Dr. Nathan Glazer of Harvard University.

The latest tide continues unabated into the new century.

Experts say the current wave was accelerated by the enticing economic boom and
New York's refurbished image as a safer, cleaner city. And there is the age-old
tradition of new arrivals following the footsteps of friends and relatives to
ethnic enclaves throughout the five boroughs.

Immigration is as old as the city itself. Back in 1643, when New York was called
New Amsterdam, the 500 residents spoke 18 languages.

Major ethnic shifts within the current immigration wave are changing the city's
makeup. Dr. Beveridge's estimates show that New Yorkers born in the former
Soviet Union, who numbered 81,000 in 1990, had nearly tripled to 229,000 by
1999. Other fast-growing groups include Mexicans, who nearly quadrupled to
133,000 in 1999 from 35,000 in 1990, and South Asians from India, Pakistan and
Bangladesh, who more than doubled to 146,000 in 1999 from 67,000 in 1990.

Continuing to climb as a major Hispanic group, the number of Dominicans rose by
more than two-thirds, to 387,000 in 1999 from 230,000 in 1990. (The number of
Puerto Ricans born on the island dropped 21 percent to 290,000 in 1999, from
367,000 in 1990. Adding those born on the mainland, Puerto Ricans here totaled
744,000 last year, an 11 percent drop from 834,000 in 1990.)

The statistics confirm the changing face of the city witnessed on the streets
every day by native New Yorkers, themselves descended from earlier immigrants.
Mexican shops are sprouting in western Queens, Middle Eastern businesses now
compete with the Greek establishments of Astoria, and very little of Italy is
left in Little Italy, where Chinese-Americans are the absolute majority and
Hispanics have been jostling for secnd place.

"Gateway to America," says the welcoming sign at Kennedy International Airport
in Queens. So many newcomers have stepped off and made their home in that
borough that its 167 nationalities and 116 languages make it the nation's most
diverse county. But immigration "certainly poses challenges and pressures," Dr.
Glazer said. The Queens borough president, Claire Shulman, said: "I'm
continually looking for school seats and sites to build, because we are minus
30,000 seats and growing 10 percent a year. The other thing is there really
isn't enough affordable housing, which has led to a lot of illegal conversions."

Some experts call for a strategic plan for dealing with immigration. "We need to
get out in front and plan and strive to do better," said Michael H. Schill, a
New York University professor.

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has often voiced support for immigrants. His press
office did not return calls seeking comment from him and from the immigrant
affairs office on the latest figures.

Immigration has produced tensions. The visiting baseball pitcher John Rocker
made his distaste well known. One man paid for anti-immigration billboards, and
City Councilwoman Julia Harrison of Queens objected to Chinese and Korean
business signs without English translations.

Most experts say that immigrants are a plus for the city. Although many may be
dependent when they arrive, Professor Schill said, "that rapidly changes as they
move up the ladder and contribute more in taxes than they consume." He added,
"Immigrants tend to be very resourceful, or they wouldn't be here in the first
place."

Mrs. Shulman agreed: "They're all wonderful. For the most part they're all
working; our unemployment is under 5 percent. I go to a lot of graduations, and
they're winning a lot of valedictorians and salutatorians and walking away with
lots of good scholarships. The vitality, the energy, the chemistry from people
all over the world is what makes New York City unique and makes New York City
great." She named another benefit to Queens: "Hey, listen, we have the best
restaurants in the city."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "IMMIGRATION: A NEW WAVE OF NEW YORKERS"
The percentage of New York City residents who are foreign born has reached a
level not seen since 1910. (pg. B5)

Graph shows estimates in population of New York from 1910-1940. (pg. B5)(Source:
U.S. Bureau of the Census)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              426 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Germans Say Nine Wounded By Bomb Were Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, July 28


The nine people wounded by a bomb on Thursday in Dusseldorf are immigrants, with
six of them Jews, the police and prosecutors said today.

Johannes Mocken, a spokesman for state prosecutors in the western city, said the
victims had just left their daily German class at a language school when the
bomb exploded on a metal footbridge leading to a commuter station. "We cannot
exclude that somebody purposefully intended to kill members of this group," Mr.
Mocken said.

Interior Minister Otto Schily said it was reasonable to assume that the attack
had a racist motive.

The leader of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Paul Spiegel, said: "I
don't want to create any hysteria. But the fact is most of the victims were
Jewish, and it appears that they passed on the same route from school every
day."

The number of Jews in Germany has been growing rapidly over the last decade,
bolstered by waves of immigrants from the former Soviet Union drawn here by the
relative ease of obtaining residence papers and generous financial aid. The
country has 85,000 registered Jews compared with 29,000 at the beginning of the
1990's.

A bombing against those immigrants would be a blow to Germany's international
image and a worrying indication that the extreme right is becoming bolder and
more organized.

But no organization, rightist or other, has claimed responsibility for the
bombing. The police said all possible motives, including reports of a feud among
the immigrants, remained under examination.

One of the wounded, identified by the police only as Tatyana, 26, was 6 months
pregnant. The unborn child was killed when shrapnel pierced her stomach. Her
condition, and that of her husband, Michael, 28, were listed as critical. Two
other people were listed in serious condition.

The immigrants came from Azerbaijan, Russia and Ukraine, the police said. Their
German lessons were part of the government's aid for immigrants, and the group
was about to board a train to nearby Solingen, where five Turkish women and
girls were killed in 1993 in a racist firebombing.

Anti-immigrant violence has steadily risen in Germany in the 1990's, spurred by
high unemployment, frustration among idle youths and well-organized, if
marginal, neo-Nazi movements.

Last month, a 39-year-old black immigrant from Mozambique was beaten to death by
neo-Nazi skinheads in the eastern town of Dessau, and the police dismantled what
they described as a highly organized and heavily armed rightist youth group near
Dresden, finding grenades, ignition devices and parts of rockets.

The openness to Jewish immigration is rooted in a deep-seated political
conviction that the Holocaust makes any other policy unthinkable, as well as a
calculation that such receptiveness is generally good for Germany as it asserts
its growing economic power, particularly in the United States.

But protracted recent negotiations over compensation for Nazi-era slave and
forced laborers showed a growing, if still rarely expressed, impatience with
what is sometimes described as "Jewish blackmail." In October, more than 100
headstones in Europe's largest Jewish cemetery, in Berlin, were smashed or
overturned.

Dusseldorf has been a major center of Jewish immigration. Michael Szentei-Heife,
leader of the branch of the Jewish council there, said 6,300 Jews lived in the
area, with 5,100 being recent Russian emigres. Their move stems from a decision
to accept Jews from the former Soviet Union by Helmut Kohl, who was then the
chancellor, shortly after the Berlin Wall fell.

But that decision was never the subject of a parliamentary vote or national
debate, and the public view of the de facto rebuilding of a German Jewish
community all but extinguished by Hitler remains unclear.

Chancellor Gerhard Schroder said this week that anti-immigrant violence by
rightist groups had reached unacceptable levels.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              427 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Into America: How Open a Door?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 189 words



To the Editor:

New Yorkers should be asking why so many of their fellow residents are leaving
the city (news article, July 24). Immigration is not the only reason the
foreign-born population has risen from 28 percent in 1990 to 40 percent today.
There has also been an exodus of New Yorkers.

The departure of residents from the metropolitan area is alarmingly huge. The
Census Bureau's figures show a net loss between 1990 and 1999 of more than 1.4
million residents from domestic migration. Meanwhile, the net change from
international migration was an increase of just under one million.

Instead of nostalgia for the city's history as a portal for immigrants, New
Yorkers should remember the exploitation of sweatshops, immigrant-related crime,
public health issues and other social service challenges. City planners should
be striving to cope with the problems that so much immigration brings -- and
seeking ways to make the city attractive enough to stem the tide of departures.

DAN STEIN
Washington, July 26, 2000

The writer is executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              428 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Into America: How Open a Door?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 88 words



To the Editor:

A July 23 editorial acknowledges that unskilled immigration hurts unskilled
American workers but rejects the common-sense solution of reducing unskilled
immigration as politically unfeasible because it would offend increasingly
powerful Hispanic and Asian-American voters. Rather than increase immigration,
as the editorial proposes, we need to slow the growth of divisive ethnic voting
blocs by rolling immigration back to the moderate levels of the mid-1960's.

JOHN BROCK
New York, July 23, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              429 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Into America: How Open a Door?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words



To the Editor:

One element often left out of the discussion of immigration (editorial, July 23)
is refugee admissions. Our country was founded as a haven for those fleeing
persecution. But with the end of the cold war, refugees seem to be dropping off
the political radar.

The number of refugees, however, remains very high, approximately 14 million
worldwide. Sadly, this year fewer than 75,000 will be admitted to the United
States. In 1992, more than 132,000 refugees arrived.

Restoring due process to the persecuted and opening wider our gateway to them
should be at the top of the agenda of our next president. Our goal should be to
admit at least 100,000 refugees next year, thereby approaching the levels of the
early 1990's.

LEONARD GLICKMAN
Executive Vice President
Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society
New York, July 23, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              430 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Into America: How Open a Door?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 109 words



To the Editor:

In the debate over immigration ("Gateway to America," editorial, July 23), we
must remember that this influx is driving the country's uncontrolled population
growth. According to the Census Bureau, our population will surpass 500 million
by 2050 if the current rate of immigration, legal and illegal, continues.

If we double our 1970 population by midcentury, how will we cope with the
pollution, urban sprawl, overcrowded schools and jails, and potential shortage
of food and water in many areas? Cutting immigration is the only controllable
factor in our population growth.

BYRON SLATER
San Diego, July 23, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              431 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Four Corners;
When Shifting Groups of Immigrants Compete for the Same Turf, Even an
Intersection Can Become Contested Ground

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2916 words


THERE is a saying among urban historians: You can always tell how a neighborhood
is changing. The name of the outgoing ethnic group is on the funeral homes, and
that of the incoming group is on the grocery stores.

In New York, ethnic groups move like tectonic plates, drifting land masses,
sometimes colliding at their edges with unhappy consequences, sometimes slipping
past one another with relative ease.

The signs of shift are everywhere. In the span of a few years, a Little Italy, a
Koreatown or a Little Odessa is newly defined by the Mexican bodegas or Chinese
shoe stores or Indian delis that press at its borders.

The phenomenon, which sociologists call ethnic succession, is as old as the city
itself and may be heightened in New York because of its size and the
multiplicity of ethnic groups jostling for the same turf.

A single street corner can become central to a group's identity.

"In New York, because we live so much of our life in public and the sidewalk
plays such a role in our perception of the city, busy street corners demarcate
territory in a way that may be much more significant than in other cities," said
Philip Kasinitz, a professor of sociology at Hunter College who specializes in
immigration issues. "People feel an allegiance to a stretch of businesses or a
corner because that's where the community is defined most publicly."

So, 20 years ago, Puerto Ricans in East Harlem knew that if they walked east
past Third Avenue on East 116th Street, which was controlled by Italians, they
faced the threat of physical violence. Today, the same corner is dominated by
Mexicans, who were just as wary of the corner a decade ago when Puerto Ricans
held sway there.

To outsiders, these shifts may be all but invisible. Sometimes the two groups
occupying the same turf share physical attributes and speak the same language.
But the differences are all too evident to groups trying to forge or maintain an
identity.

The result can be out-and-out conflict, but more often it is a fluid process
that involves intricate cultural negotiation. Here are four corners where those
delicate negotiations are taking place today.

In Flatbush,
Russian Jews and Pakistanis

Yakov Semichan, 56, a Russian Jew whose barbershop has been at Coney Island
Avenue and Glenwood Road in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn for nine years, was
fighting the crosscurrents.

In the last five years, his original customer base, Orthodox and Russian Jews
whose synagogues and kosher restaurants once dominated the corner, has been
departing for wealthier sections of Flatbush. Pakistani immigrants and
businesses that catered to them were replacing them.

But when two Pakistani barbershops opened across the street from Mr. Semichan's
shop during the last six years, his business began to suffer.

Mr. Semichan, who has piercing blue-gray eyes and a gap-toothed grin, had bought
Al's Barber Shop from another Russian Jewish barber in 1991, when he moved to
Brooklyn from Moldova in the former Soviet Union, and renamed it Yakov's. At
first, the shifting population did not affect his business. He was still the
only barber on the strip.

"Hair is hair," he said over his shoulder as he passed the afternoon playing
checkers with Nikolay Banov, a friend and customer from Kiev. "Jewish hair,
Pakistani hair, it's all the same."

But Asghar Choudhri, president of the Pakistani American Federation of New York,
whose headquarters is up the block, said many new immigrants saw otherwise.

"The Pakistanis all went to their own places," Mr. Choudhri said. "They stayed
with their own. When the second Pakistani barber opened, that's when his
business really went down."

In 1996, a Pakistani immigrant named Shabbir Hussain, who had owned four barber
shops in his native city of Lahore, had arrived in Flatbush and was looking for
a job. Mr. Semichan offered Mr. Hussain the battered red barber's chair in the
front of the shop and put a bright green sign in the window advertising, "We
speak Russian, English and Yiddish," along with Mr. Hussein's name translated
into Urdu, the Pakistani language.

The two men now cut hair side by side in Yakov's Barber Shop, and the shop seems
busy. But their situation is unusual. Although many elderly Jews still live on
side streets like Glenwood Road and Avenue H, the two groups enjoy little
interaction.

On Coney Island Avenue between Glenwood and Avenue H, almost all the businesses
are owned by Pakistanis, Bangladeshis or other Muslims. These include Urdu
Bazzar, a 99-cent store; Asian Grocery Halal Market; Bukhara Restaurant, which
serves Pakistani, Indian and Bangladeshi cuisine, and Raheela Beauty Parlor.
Children wear shalwar kameez, traditional Muslim garb.

But one block from Glenwood, the scenery changes. Just across Avenue H, the
streets are populated by Hasidic Jews in black coats and hats. Though the two
communities lead separate lives, they share certain traits. Both groups are
religious and conservative, both observe restricted diets, and in both
communities, women assume traditional roles. Both groups have had tense
relationships with blacks and Hispanics in surrounding areas. On a recent
afternoon, Mr. Choudhri of the Pakistani American Federation spent the afternoon
on the telephone, complaining to the police that African-American teenagers were
throwing bottles and rocks at a new mosque and cursing its congregants.

The Jews and Pakistanis lead largely separate lives.

"There has been no real interaction, except on the leadership level," said Rabbi
Yechezkel Pikus, executive director of the Council of Jewish Organizations of
Flatbush. "There's a sort of tolerance. You mind your business and I'll mind
mine."


In Belmont,
Albanians Displace Italians

Felix Mastro, a former prizefighter, stood with his buddies, Sal, Johnny D.,
Guido and Mikey, in the blue light filtering through a canopy outside the
Cosenza Fish Market at Arthur Avenue and 186th Street.

The four men were downing clams on the half shell and reminiscing about the old
days, 80 years ago -- before any of them were born -- when pushcarts selling
Italian goods rumbled along Arthur Avenue, the heart of the Belmont section of
the Bronx.

"It all changed in 1933, when they opened the Arthur Avenue Retail Market," said
Mr. Mastro, 70, still dapper in his brown sports jacket, who has lived in the
neighborhood all his life. "They closed the last place where you could buy live
chickens on the street over here just a couple of years ago. Very few Italians
are left here now." It is a daily lament at this intersection.

At first glance, the Italian presence seems as bright as ever. Along Arthur
Avenue, banners on lampposts proclaim "Welcome to Little Italy in the Bronx,"
beside Italian bakeries, meat markets and cheese stores. But in the last five
years, as Italians have left Belmont for the suburbs, they have been replaced by
Albanians.

Many Roman Catholic Albanians first moved to Belmont in the 1980's, when those
who suffered under their country's fanatical Communist regime fled to the United
States. The recent wars that drove thousands of Albanians from Kosovo produced
the latest wave of immigration, which began about three years ago.

Albanians felt comfortable in an Italian neighborhood because Albanians and
Italians are neighbors in Europe. They eat and drink similar foods, and they
look somewhat alike. But the two groups have not always mingled peacefully, as
shown by life on this corner. At Mike's Deli, an Italian specialty store inside
the Arthur Avenue market, three of the countermen are Italian and three are
Albanian. All the Albanian employees have adopted Italian-style nicknames --
Milane is Milano, Keno is Nino -- and each speaks some Italian.

"The Albanians get along fine with the Italian-Americans," David Greco, a
second-generation Italian-American, said. "But the Italians from Italy feel as
if the Albanians invaded Italy, so they're a bit hostile. One of my guys is
constantly calling them ignorant. If I wasn't there, there would be a fight
every day."

One combatant is Qamil Osmani, who goes by the nickname Ossie. Mr. Osmani, who
worked for his country's Ministry of Defense under a previous regime, came to
the United States in March to seek political asylum. He settled in Belmont
because he knew that Albanians lived there and he had come to know Italians when
he was serving in the Albanian Army a decade ago.

As for the Italian counterman who calls Albanians ignorant, he said: "I tell
him, I'm not coming from the street. I have stayed with much better people than
him."

Similar skirmishes are played out along Arthur Avenue between 186th and 187th
Streets, which has become home to half a dozen Albanian stores, including the
Kosova Commerce Corporation, which sells Albanian video and audio tapes and
specialty goods; the Gurra Cafe, which serves Albanian cuisine; and the All Star
Cafe, where the specials include typical Albanian dishes like chevapi and beef
sausage.

Even though many Italians have left the neighborhood, they return to buy their
prosciutto and osso buco. And some of the vendors of those items are now
Albanian. George Dedvukaj, who was born in a small town in Montenegro, owns and
runs Giovanni's Restaurant on Arthur Avenue near 186th Street, which serves
brick-oven pizza in the Italian style. He bought the business two years ago from
another Albanian.

"I think the Albanians helped the area," said Peter Servidio, an
Italian-American who owns Peter's Meat Market across the street but moved to
Westchester a few years ago. "They buy a lot, like the Italians used to, by the
bucket. And as far as business is concerned, Italians are going to be here for
years and years."


In Flushing,
Koreatown Becomes Chinese

The pungent scent of cilantro accompanied Sean Lee, wearing a cut-off T-shirt
and a baseball cap, as he wandered through Green Farm, a Korean-owned
greenmarket at Main Street and Maple Avenue in Flushing, Queens, furiously
directing the movement of crates of watermelons and okra.

During a break, Mr. Lee, who has lived in the neighborhood for 20 of his 32
years, pointed to the last vestiges of the old Koreatown at the edge of
Flushing's shopping district. "Rose Handicraft was the first Korean store," Mr.
Lee said, pointing toward a shop that rents traditional Korean kimonos. "Over
here, the pharmacy is Korean and the stationery store is Korean."

In the last five years, many of the names on businesses on the corner have
switched from Korean to Chinese, as Korean businesses have moved 10 blocks north
to Northern Boulevard.

"This has become like a second Chinatown," Mr. Lee said. "They're bringing a lot
of money from Hong Kong and China and investing it in this neighborhood."

Two factors are cited to explain the departure of Korean-owned stores.

"It's possible they've been pushed out because of the increase in Chinese
business," said Daeyoung Kim, who is studying Korean-Americans at the Center for
Urban Research at the CUNY Graduate Center. "But it also could be because the
Korean stores have become more diversified." As business owners diversified the
products they sold, Mr. Kim said, they needed more space, and moved to a part of
the neighborhood where larger, cheaper stores were still available.

Green Farm, which opened 20 years ago, is now encircled by Chinese businesses.
Across the street is China Trust Bank, housed in a modernistic glass structure.
Next door is Tai Pan Bakery. Just above Green Farm, restaurateurs from Hong Kong
are putting the finishing touches on East Buffet and Restaurant, an ornate,
17,000-square-foot restaurant and catering hall. The three-floor restaurant,
whose decor includes a sweeping marble staircase, a wrought-iron banister from
Greece and a 120,000-piece crystal chandelier, is the third establishment
created by the group, which also runs a wildly popular Chinese restaurant in
Huntington, N.Y.

"Most Chinese work late hours, and if you get off at 8 p.m., they can't get out
there before we are closed," said Betty Cheng, one of the partners, explaining
the decision to open in Flushing.

Although East Buffet will concentrate on Chinese food, it will also offer sushi,
Korean food and European specialties.

Local residents remember that East Buffet occupies a site that once housed a
successful Korean restaurant called South River, and that a Korean restaurant up
the block experienced what Ms. Cheng called "another Chinese takeover." But she
said she and her Korean neighbors, like those downstairs at Green Farm, get
along well.

"They speak in their language, which I don't understand," she said, "but they
eat at our places and we eat at theirs."

But Sung Soo Kim, president of the Korean American Small Business Service Center
of New York, is less sanguine.

"It is a bad thing that's happened here," Mr. Kim said. "Koreans have been
pushed out by other ethnic groups. Landlords kick them out to get higher rents.
We used to have 80 stores in that area. Now we have three or four."


In East Harlem,
Puerto Rican Into Mexican

Minutes after Mario Olmedo dropped his suitcase on the floor of his cousin's
apartment in East Harlem 15 years ago, he heard a knock at the door. When he
opened it, he said, three men assaulted him and robbed him of his watch, the
only valuable he had brought from his home in Mexico City. Based on the tint of
their skin and the cadence of their Spanish, Mr. Olmedo concluded that his
attackers were Puerto Rican.

Whether or not he was correct, the encounter left him feeling that he had
entered hostile territory. Until just about six years ago, Spanish Harlem was
just one kind of Spanish, Puerto Rican. The corner of 116th Street and Third
Avenue, where Mr. Olmedo opened a taco stand 13 years ago, was dominated by
Puerto Rican-owned bodegas.

Puerto Ricans, in turn, had supplanted Italians, who first settled in East
Harlem in the 1880's and numbered 80,000 by the 1930's. Conflicts erupted
between Italians and Puerto Ricans as early as the 1920's. By 1930, most of the
city's Puerto Ricans lived in the neighborhood, and the tensions between the two
groups were legendary. Efrain Suarez, owner of Made in Puerto Rico Products,
which sells CD's, books, coffee and other items from the island, stood on the
corner and pointed east toward Second Avenue.

"When the Italians were here, Puerto Ricans couldn't go down that block," said
Mr. Suarez, 55, who has worked in the neighborhood for three decades. "The
farther you went down the street, the worse it got. If you went past Second
Avenue, you were beaten up."

Until six years ago, it was Mexicans who had to confine their movements to the
blocks west of Third Avenue. In the early 1990's, Mr. Olmedo bought a bodega
owned by a Puerto Rican in the heart of the contested territory and replaced it
with a tacqueria, La Hacienda, possibly the first Mexican restaurant in the
neighborhood. "We used to see a lot of Puerto Ricans chasing Mexican guys down
the street to beat them up," he said.

Mr. Olmedo now owns a second Mexican restaurant, La Tacquicanda, just down the
block, as well as an apartment building. But it took time to catch on. "People
used to pass by and make nasty faces," said his teenage son, Omar, a younger,
Americanized replica of his father.

That has changed, and no one chases Mexicans away from the corner anymore. After
Mr. Olmedo opened his first restaurant, other Mexican immigrants started asking
for advice on starting their own. Along 116th Street between Second and Third
Avenue, Mexicans have made inroads. Amid 14 Puerto Rican flags hung from windows
and fire escapes are at least eight Mexican-owned stores, among them Mexico
Shoes, Azteca Unisex barbershop, Taco Mix taqueria and the Mexico Discount
Center, a 99-cent store.

A vast majority of recent Mexican immigrants to El Barrio came from Puebla, a
state in northern Mexico that has been battered by economic troubles and natural
disasters.

Mexicans feel more welcome today. As if to prove the point, Mr. Olmedo gestured
toward the back of his restaurant, where three men were eating together. "One is
Mexican, one is Dominican and one is Puerto Rican," he said.

But resentment still festers in the hearts of some Puerto Ricans, who feel they
have lost control.

"Puerto Ricans still consider El Barrio 'la cuna,' the cradle of Puerto Rican
experience," said Henry Calderon, president of the East Harlem Chamber of
Commerce.

Pepe Castillo, a Puerto Rican musician who works at Made in Puerto Rico, stood
at 116th Street and Third Avenue gazing east, his brow furrowed as he extolled
the virtues of "hard working Mexicans" who now dominate the block. "And it all
started with the guy selling tacos on the corner," he said, in a tone tinged
with loss.

Mr. Suarez sighed.

"What can you do?" he said. "The Puerto Ricans created a vacuum here. The
original Puerto Ricans who came here have now retired, moved to Rockland County,
Florida or back to Puerto Rico. Their children are professionals."

But, he added, "there is no decent housing here for them."

And though the mix on the corner has changed, the tension is nowhere near as
fierce as it was when Italians and Puerto Ricans were the two groups.

"There is the fact that we would prefer it to remain Spanish Harlem," Mr. Suarez
said. "And if the Mexicans keep coming, it will be Spanish Harlem. It will be a
different kind of Spanish, but still Spanish Harlem."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yakov Semichan, left, and Shabbir Hussain outside the
barbershop they share at Coney Island Avenue and Glenwood Road in Flatbush,
Brooklyn. Customers include both Russian Jews and Pakistanis.(James Estrin/The
New York Times)(pg. 1); EAST HARLEM -- Mario Olmeda and his son, Omar, in La
Hacienda, their Mexican restaurant at East 116th Street near Third Avenue, a
longtime Puerto Rican stronghold.; BELMONT, THE BRONX -- David Greco, left, an
Italian-American, and Qamil Osmani, an Albanian refugee, at Mike's Deli on
Arthur Avenue near 186th Street.; FLUSHING, QUEENS -- Betty Cheng, center, with
other owners of East Buffet, a Chinese restaurant at Main Street and Maple
Avenue, once a Korean enclave. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York
Times)(pg. 11)

Maps show various street locations.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              432 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 1, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

I.N.S. Cited for Poor Checks on Citizenship

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31


The Justice Department's inspector general issued a report today detailing the
litany of errors committed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service as it
rushed to naturalize one million citizens in 1995 and 1996.

The agency's eagerness to shorten its backlog of citizenship applications during
that time led it to naturalize at least 180,000 immigrants -- or 18 percent --
without proper criminal background checks.

The Justice Department has acknowledged that the errors allowed several hundred
immigrants with criminal convictions to obtain American citizenship, and that it
is in the process of reviewing many of those cases to determine if the
citizenship should be revoked.

The investigation, which the inspector general's office described as the largest
it had ever undertaken, found that the immigration agency ignored a number of
warnings, including its own, as it pressed to meet its goal of naturalizing one
million applicants by Sept. 30, 1996.

"I.N.S. failed to address known system weaknesses before implementing a program
that they knew would tax that system as it never had been taxed before," said
Robert L. Ashbaugh, acting inspector general. "The results were predictable."

Saying the agency has fixed much of what was broken, an observation that is
underscored in the report, the immigration agency played down the findings today
and called many of them outdated.

"There is nothing in this report that is new," said Maria Cardona, an agency
spokeswoman. "This is a report about a system that is no longer applicable. That
was then, this is now."

While the report chronicles a series of missteps by the immigration agency --
including hiring improperly trained workers and failing to wait for Federal
Bureau of Investigation background checks on applicants who had been
fingerprinted -- it cleared the White House of accusations that it manipulated
the citizenship program to boost voter rolls for the 1996 election. The agency
and its commissioner, Doris M. Meissner, "were not acting out of partisan
political motives," the report states.

The actions of Vice President Al Gore came under review because he and his
"reinventing government" operation had suggested ways for the immigration agency
to decrease the citizenship backlog. Jim Kennedy, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said
the report backs what the vice president and the White House have been saying
about the naturalization program all along, "namely that it was an effort
designed to reduce the backlog of citizenship applications and not to further
any inappropriate political end."

In written answers to questions from the inspector general, Mr. Gore denied any
political motive to the effort to reduce the backlog. But the report makes it
clear that the Clinton administration took an interest in the program's
progress.

"We found evidence that White House officials were interested in I.N.S.'s
naturalization program for a variety of reasons, including 'political' reasons
that related to the November 1996 election," the report states, "but from the
evidence we did not find those interests resulted in improper actions."

Those interests, however, "added to the significant pressure that already
existed on I.N.S.," the report states.

At least one White House aide, Douglas Farbrother, who was assigned to work on
Mr. Gore's reinventing government team, reported to the inspector general that
he was told by Elaine Karmack, Mr. Gore's senior policy adviser, that the
citizenship program was linked to the upcoming election.

Mr. Farbrother's own electronic mail messages to Mr. Gore and Ms. Karmack show
that he was keenly aware of the link as he criticized the agency for falling
down on the job of producing "a million new citizens before election day."

According to Mr. Farbrother, Ms. Karmack said President Clinton had heard about
a backlog in citizenship applications in Southern California. "The president was
interested in naturalization because he thought this group would mostly vote for
him," Mr. Farbrother said he was told.

Mr. Clinton then asked Mr. Gore to have the reinventing government program "take
a look" at the backlog, Mr. Farbrother said Ms. Karmack told him.

Ms. Karmack denied making these statements, the report says.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who chairs the subcommittee on
immigration, said he was troubled by the implications of the report and plans to
hold hearings on its findings when Congress reconvenes in September. "The
American people have a right to know that this agency will bow to political
pressure from the Clinton administration," Senator Smith said.

The report also chronicles how the immigration agency mishandled the job of
processing a million citizens, permitting unqualified people to become
naturalized. But the inspector general said it was impossible to come up with a
figure of how many citizens were wrongly approved or rejected.

An auditor hired by the government found in 1997 that 180,000 immigrants did not
undergo background checks, mostly because the system for fingerprinting people
and verifying the results was not working.

The agency said its own audit uncovered 8,400 immigrants who could have been
"wrongly naturalized" because they had criminal records or for other reasons. Of
those, the agency's general counsel winnowed the list to 600 who had criminal
convictions and had lied about them on their citizenship applications. So far,
140 have had their citizenship revoked. The rest are being reviewed.

While the report praises the agency for revamping its background check system,
it concludes that the I.N.S. must create uniform standards for citizenship
applicants. There are no standards for determining whether an applicant can
speak English or is of "good moral character," which leads to inconsistencies
and unfairness in the treatment of applicants.

The federal agency now faces a backlog of 1.1 million citizenship applications,
down from its high of nearly 2 million early last year.

"I.N.S. has made little progress toward ensuring that adjudicators, once they
have the requisite tools -- like the results of criminal history checks or the
applicant's file -- know how to use them," the report states.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2000, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about a Justice Department report on the Immigration
Service's 1996 citizenship program referred incorrectly in some copies to the
cases of immigrants with criminal convictions. Four such immigrants -- not 140
-- have lost their citizenship. The service says it has sent 140 cases -- out of
600 known -- to the Justice Department; the rest of the 140 are pending.




                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              433 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 4, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words



INTERNATIONAL   A3-11

First Formal Charges Are Filed Against Suharto
Former President Suharto was charged with corruption during his 32 years in
power in Indonesia. The charge involves only a small part of the corruption
imputed to him, but illustrates the effort to overhaul the economy and political
system.   A6


Sri Lanka Constitution Proposal
The governing coalition proposed in Parliament that a new Constitution be
adopted to give greater political autonomy to the minority Tamil population, in
an effort to help end the long war waged by separatist rebels for a Tamil
homeland. Opposition members booed the president as she introduced the document.

   A4

Patent Shared to Fight Hunger
Monsanto, an agricultural biotechnology firm, said that it would make patent
rights to genetically altered rice available in an effort to stave off
malnutrition in poor nations.   A11

Taiwan Warning on Jets
President Chen Shui-bian said Taiwan should begin considering new fighter
aircraft purchases, warning that in five years China could threaten Taiwan's
ability to control the skies over the Taiwan Strait.   A6

Hong Kong Fire Arrests
The police arrested 15 immigrants in connection with a fire set in a city
immigration tower by mainland immigrants whose requests for residency permits
had been denied. Hong Kong officials also said they would immediately deport
1,000 mainlanders.   A6

Barak and Mubarak Meet
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel met in Alexandria with President Hosni
Mubarak of Egypt to discuss peace negotiations with the Palestinians. Mr.
Mubarak met with Yasir Arafat on Wednesday.   A3

Canadians Board Ship
Canadian troops swung down from a helicopter to board an American merchant ship
that for almost three weeks had held hostage on the high seas three Canadian
soldiers and 10 percent of Canada's armored might over nonpayment of a shipping
bill.   A11

World Briefing   A11

NATIONAL   A12-24

Bush Accepts Nomination Promising 'Great Goals'
Gov. George W. Bush pledged to "confront the hard issues -- threats to our
national security, threats to our health and retirement security" that he said
the Clinton administration ducked, and he spelled out his agenda. Though much of
his text was upbeat, he also jabbed at the President and Vice President Al Gore.

   A1

Ford's Condition Improves
Doctors treating former President Gerald R. Ford said they were "very pleased"
with his progress since he was hospitalized Wednesday after a stroke, and they
expressed confidence for a full recovery.   A18

Combat Role for Army Guard
An Army proposal under consideration would give the National Guard a greater
role in combat, meaning thousands of part-time soldiers would almost certainly
be sent to fight if war broke out.   A1

Foggy Bottom Security Plan
State Department officials want $300 million to improve security at headquarters
and hire 900 new employees, mostly security agents.   A17

Alaska Air Grounds 18 Planes
Alaska Airlines decided to ground 18 of its MD-80 aircraft, the same model as
the plane that crashed off the California coast in January when a part in the
tail broke. The airline found that a measurement tool was producing inconsistent
results.   A12

Killer Admits Civil Liability
The parents of three Kentucky girls slain by a schoolmate, Michael Carneal,
accepted a settlement of their claims against him in which he acknowledged
liability. Damages were set at $42 million, though the families are unlikely to
collect. Mr. Carneal is serving a life sentence.   A1

Report on Dirty Beaches
Pollution-related beach closings and advisories increased by 50 percent
nationwide from 1997 to 1999, an environmental group said.   A12

Circumventing Maine Drug Law
SmithKline Beecham, responding to a Maine law on drug prices, said it was
shifting supply routes and would ship drugs directly only to wholesalers based
in other states.   A12

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-8

Kosher Inspection Law Is Ruled Unconstitutional
A federal judge in Brooklyn struck down the state's century-old kosher food
laws, saying their requirement that such food be prepared according to Orthodox
Jewish law violated the separation of church and state.   B1

Sewage Shuts Some Beaches
Health officials closed at least 20 beaches on Long Island Sound this week after
heavy rains inundated waste treatment plants in three Westchester towns and a
sewer main ruptured in Greenwich, spewing sewage into the sound. The Westchester
beaches reopened yesterday.   B1

Parade May Ban Some Rap
Organizers of the National Puerto Rican Day Parade are considering a ban on
floats carrying rap performers whose music, they say, glorifies violence and
attracts unruly throngs that hurt the march's image.   B1

Precautionary Power Cuts
Seven big customers complied with a New York Power Authority request to reduce
their electrical load voluntarily in preparation for hot muggy weather. But the
authority later canceled the request after the day remained overcast and cool.
   B2

WEEKEND   E1-30; E31-44

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Clue to Rise of Life
Scientists have developed a new way to analyze the chemical composition of
ancient rocks for hints about what the air was like billions of years ago.
Information derived from the technique indicates the rise of atmospheric oxygen
between 2.1 billion and 2.5 billion years ago, data that could help in
deciphering the evolution of Earth's earliest life forms.   A15

SPORTS   D1-8

OBITUARIES   C19

Uri Gordon
An Israeli official and Zionist leader who helped resettle thousands of
Ethiopian and Russian Jews in the 1980's and 90's, he was 65.   C19

BUSINESS DAY   C1-20

Changes to Ford Explorer
Ford said its next generation of Explorer sport utility vehicles, to go on sale
in January, would be extensively changed to reduce the danger to other motorists
in collisions and to decrease the risk of rollovers.   C1

Disclosure Rule to Be Revised
Regulators were said to be rewriting a proposed rule against selective
disclosure of corporate information, which faces an S.E.C. vote next week. The
rule has support among individual investors and consumer groups, but is opposed
by investment banks and brokerage firms.   C1

No More Altered Food
Novartis, a leading agricultural biotechnology company, said it had eliminated
genetically engineered ingredients from all of its food products. Novartis makes
Ovaltine, Gerber baby foods, Wasa crackers and various health foods.   C4

Technology Stocks Rally
The Nasdaq gained 101.42 points, or 2.8 percent, to 3,759.88; the Dow rose 19.05
points, to 10,706.58; and the S.& P. 500 advanced 13.86 points, or nearly 1
percent, to 1,452.56. In early trading, the technology-heavy Nasdaq was down 3.8
percent.   C6

Grant for Supercomputer
The National Science Foundation said it had made a $45 million award to the
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center to buy what the computer's maker, Compaq, says
will be the world's fastest nonmilitary supercomputer when fully installed.   C5


Business Digest   C1

EDITORIAL   A26-27

Editorials: The man from Midland; Kansas, evolving; check, please; ethical
museum exhibitions.
Columns: Gail Collins, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword   E43
TV Listings   E29
Public Lives   B2
Weather   D8


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              434 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 4, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Uri Gordon, 65, Dies; Aided Israeli Newcomers

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 760 words


Uri Gordon, an Israeli official and Zionist leader who played important roles in
the resettlement of thousands of Ethiopian and Russian Jews in Israel in the
1980's and 90's, died on Sunday in Israel. He was 65.

He had suffered for months from a number of illnesses, said Deborah Lipson, a
spokeswoman for the Jewish Agency, a quasi-governmental organization that
oversees immigration to Israel, The Associated Press reported.

The craggy-faced Mr. Gordon was long known as Mr. Aliya -- the Hebrew word that
in this context means immigration by Jews to Israel. The Jerusalem Post recalled
in 1998, when admirers gathered to pay tribute to him, that he had been behind
the airlifts "from the former Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Ethiopia, Yemen, Syria,
Albania and elsewhere."

David Sommer, a member of the World Zionist Organization's 20-member governing
body and a member of the board of the Jewish Agency, said, "In many ways he
believed in applied Zionism," meaning "to do anything possible to bring people
to come to Israel." Mr. Sommer added: "He always believed that the climax of
Zionism is to live in Israel. He was involved in people's lives. He participated
in the new immigrants' arrival."

Mr. Gordon played a central role regarding immigration on behalf of the Jewish
Agency after rising to prominence there in the 1970's. He was involved in the
planning the airlifting of tens of thousands of Ethiopian Jews in 1984 and 1993.
He also helped prepare for Israel to accommodate hundreds of thousands of
Russian Jews after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.

Mr. Gordon directed the Jewish Agency's immigration and absorption department
and its youth aliya department. For part of his career, he was active in Labor
Party work with young adults.

In the 1970's, while he was representing the Jewish Agency in the United States,
he founded an American youth organization, Telem, also known as the Movement for
Zionist Fulfillment, which required its members to commit themselves to emigrate
to Israel.

Mr. Gordon's intensity was recalled by Avi Granot, an Israeli Embassy official
in Washington. Mr. Granot described being in a Los Angeles hotel elevator with
Mr. Gordon one day in 1980. Mr. Gordon was then a Jewish Agency emissary to the
United States and Mr. Granot a consular official in New York. Both were involved
in developing Telem.

"With Uri, when he got to be talking about what should be done, he wouldn't
stop," said Mr. Granot, who is also a former Israeli ambassador to Ethiopia,
"and we ended up spending over two hours in the elevator going up and down, down
and up." They were discussing Zionism.

The Soviet influx was complicated and difficult. From 1989 through late 1994,
roughly 500,000 immigrants from the former Soviet Union had flooded into Israel,
at a time when its total population was only about four million .

By then, Israeli officials were acknowledging that an estimated one-third of the
immigrants were distant descendants of Jews who did not consider themselves Jews
and had non-Jewish spouses.

These immigrants had been allowed in because of an amendment to a 1950 measure
called the Law of Return. The law, which specified who could immigrate, was
altered in 1970 to extend immigration rights to any person with a single
grandparent who was Jewish, even if the connection to Judaism ended there.

"The amendment to the Law of Return, which was meant to deal with a few
exceptional cases, turned with time into an automatic entry ticket into Israel
for non-Jews in numbers beyond acceptable proportion," Mr. Gordon said in
October 1994.

In January 1992, the flow of Soviet immigrants to Israel sank to its lowest
level in almost two years, Israeli officials reported. Jewish Agency workers
said the drop was caused by acute problems facing those already in Israel --
lack of jobs and adequate housing. These troubles were reported back to
relatives and friends in the former Soviet Union.

"The government has no answer to the question of employment," Mr. Gordon said at
the time. "Until now it hasn't formulated a national plan for absorption."

Mr. Gordon was the author, with Menachem Michelson, of the 1998 book "Zionism Is
Not a Dirty Word."

Uri Gordon was born in Tel Aviv and later contracted polio. "He was a short
person who had a hard time walking," Mr. Granot recalled, but added that because
of his powerful personality, nothing stood in his way.

During the 1960's, Mr. Gordon led Labor Party Zionist youth groups.

He is survived by his wife and three daughters.


http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Uri Gordon

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              435 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Vincenzo Ancona, a Poet, Is dead at 84

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 508 words


Vincenzo Ancona, a Sicilian-born poet who was known in his homeland and among
Sicilian-Americans for his poems in his native tongue about the immigrant
experience, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 84.

Mr. Ancona was born and educated in Castellammare del Golfo, Sicily, worked as a
fisherman and farmer there and began composing poetry before moving to New York
in 1956 with his wife and their four children.

In his adopted city, he worked in a broom factory and a jewelry workshop,
learned very little English, and continued writing poetry in Sicilian, which
some enthusiasts consider a separate language but which most people consider a
dialect of Italian. He attracted a following in Canada as well as in the United
States and Sicily, admirers said. In one poem he wrote:

Immigrants, illegal aliens and tourists

Have found a place in this country.

In this great land you can find every blessing

Even if thorns at times will prick your hands.

Mr. Ancona also wrote poems that told "vivid tales of his life as a farmer,
stories of bandit folk heroes and humorous tales," said Dr. Joseph Sciorra, a
scholar of folklore who is assistant director for academic and cultural programs
of the John D. Calandra Italian-American Institute at Queens College.

Mr. Ancona delighted in a spoken poetry that is meant to be said, not read. His
poems follow rhyme schemes and meter from the original Sicilian.

In 1995 Mr. Ancona's 80th birthday was celebrated at a social club in
Bensonhurst, which he liked to call, in Sicilianized fashion, "Bensinosti,
Brucculinu."

During the party at the club (he was its poet laureate), he said through a
translator: "I like oral poetry. It's like music, it's alive. To understand the
poem, you must hear the voice."

Cassette recordings of recitals Mr. Ancona gave were copied and distributed
among Sicilian-Americans in New York City, Buffalo and Canada, Dr. Sciorra said.
Written renderings of Mr. Ancona's poems include the 1990 book "Malidittu la
Lingua" ("Damned Language"), a bilingual edition with translations by Gaetano
Cipolla and accompanying cassette recordings of Mr. Ancona reciting his work.

Mr. Ancona was also a folk singer and sculptor. He used salvaged telephone wire
to weave depictions of scenes like grape harvesting and threshing. His
telephone-wire sculptures were shown at the Museum of American Folk Art in a
1988 exhibition, "City Folk: Ethnic Traditions in the Metropolitan Area," and in
other shows.

He is survived by his wife, Virginia; two sons, Steve and Joseph, and two
daughters, Maria Guadagno and Josephina Navarra, all of Brooklyn; a brother,
Giuseppe, of Brooklyn; a sister, Maria Marchese of Holbrook, N.Y.; 6
grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.

A Sicilian-American friend, Nino Provenzano, who is also a poet, recalled that
Mr. Ancona, who used metric measurements back home in Sicily, used to say when
he saw native New Yorkers doing things he thought were strange: "What do you
expect? These are people who measure with their feet."


http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Vincenzo Ancona

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vincenzo Ancona in 1987 reciting his poetry at a social club in
Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. He came to the United States in 1956, but always wrote in
Sicilian, which some say is a language but most people call a dialect. (Martha
Cooper)

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              436 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

PUBLIC LIVES;
Standing Between Elian's Two Families

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 901 words


SINCE being separated from his son five months ago, Juan Miguel Gonzalez has
been judged and analyzed by people who have never met him, so it might be
instructive to see what a professional who spent two hours in a room with him
has to say.

The psychologist, Dr. Lourdes Rigual-Lynch, of the Children's Hospital at
Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, met with Mr. Gonzalez, his wife and
their infant son in Washington, D.C., this past Sunday, but not to assess Mr.
Gonzalez or to decide whether his son, Elian, should be returned to him. Dr.
Rigual-Lynch was part of a three-person team sent by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to help expedite the boy's return.

Still, one can't help forming an opinion and this week, between trips to
Washington and Miami, Dr. Rigual-Lynch said she and her team, on meeting Mr.
Gonzalez and his wife, were "very pleasantly surprised."

Play shrink with the shrink -- who, we warn you, does not give a lot of herself
away -- and ask her: What do you mean, "pleasantly surprised?"

"We did not know what to expect," Dr. Rigual-Lynch says. "You get nonverbal
cues. The father had his new baby on his lap, a cute baby, really cute, 7 months
old. He seemed very happy, there was age-appropriate behavior. We felt both the
father and stepmother were very open, very caring. They expressed a lot of
emotion. Even when talking about the natural mother's death, their eyes welled
with tears. He expressed how he feels his son is suffering. It was very
emotional. I felt it was genuine."

Elian Gonzalez was found floating in an inner tube in the Atlantic on
Thanksgiving Day last year, after an attempted crossing from Cuba in which his
mother and 10 other people drowned. Since then, the 6-year-old boy has been
caught in a personal and international tug of war, with his great-uncle, Lazaro
Gonzalez -- who is his father's uncle -- and many in the Cuban-American
community demanding that he remain in the United States.

When the courts decided Elian should be returned to Cuba, Dr. Rigual-Lynch, 49,
who was raised in Puerto Rico, was brought into the case.

"She's a highly respected bilingual Ph.D. psychologist, who has enormous
sensitivity to the needs of children in extremely difficult circumstances, the
homeless, the abused," said Dr. Irwin Redlener of Montefiore, who put together
the team. "She goes into the most desperate situations and puts together a
plan."


YESTERDAY, as Elian's Miami family stalled his return, Dr. Rigual-Lynch was in
the center of things, standing by to accompany Elian on the plane that was to
bring him to his father in Washington.

Between trips, Dr. Rigual-Lynch discussed the case at her Upper East Side
office. The impression she gives is of a hard-working and organized woman, who
prefers to keep her private life private. The office is filled with the toys she
needs for her work, but there are no family pictures. Dr. Rigual-Lynch's classic
brown pumps match her classic brown pantsuit; her pale blue eyeshadow matches
her pale blue sweater -- none of which portends well for rambling and
unchartered discourse.

Discussion of Dr. Rigual-Lynch's own family offers just a bit more than one
might offer on a questionnaire.

Her father, Luis Rigual, was a civil engineer as well as a well-known sports
commentator; her mother is an executive secretary. Lourdes Rigual was educated
in the United States, at Marymount College and at Adelphi University. College
work with an autistic child confirmed an interest in child psychology. She is
married to Dr. Arthur A. Lynch, the director of mental health services for the
city's Department of Correction. There is a daughter, Megan, 16.

There is also, it turns out, a loss in her own family after Dr. Rigual-Lynch was
grown -- her 25-year-old brother, who was also a sportscaster, died. She will
not discuss the circumstances. It is too painful.

She can, however, discuss some of what she has been told of the boy in the
country's most famous custody case.

Elian's mother had a half-dozen miscarriages before Elian was born. Elian was "2
or 3" when his parents' marriage broke up. He spent weekdays living in his
father's home, which was close to his school, and he spent weekends with his
mother. The Gonzalez family, even after the divorce, was close.

"The maternal and paternal grandparents all came to the father's house in Cuba,"
Dr. Rigual-Lynch says. "The natural mother and father continued to have a good
relationship, even the natural mother and the stepmother knew each other. That's
unusual and it was good for Elian; he didn't have that conflict."

Her visit with Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, this past Monday was
difficult. The elder Gonzalez "stalled" his meeting for several hours and it did
not appear to Dr. Rigual-Lynch that Mr. Gonzalez understood that the decision to
return Elian had been made.

"He does love the boy," Dr. Rigual-Lynch says. "But I think he is a man who has
too many other concerns with the community, so that perhaps he cannot decide for
himself what to do.

"As far as we can determine, this was a close family. Lazaro's family had
visited Cuba two years ago, they used to speak on the phone. When the mother
disappeared they were calling each other, they were all worried. In many custody
cases, you deal with far more complicated issues. We just don't have the extra
issue of political pressure."


http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Lourdes Rigual-Lynch

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2000, Monday

CORRECTION:

An article on Friday about mental health experts who met with the family of
Elian Gonzalez misstated the given name of his stepmother. (Similar errors
occurred in articles on Jan. 15, March 29 and April 7, 8 and 9.) She is Nersy
Carmenate Castillo, not Nercy or Nelsy.




GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Lourdes Rigual-Lynch is trying to expedite the return of
Elian Gonzalez to Cuba. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              437 of 437 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

W. J. Randall of Missouri, 90; Lawmaker Led Immigration Inquiry

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 296 words


Former Congressman William J. Randall, a conservative Democrat who represented
his native Independence, Mo., from 1959 to 1977, died there on Friday. He was
90.

Mr. Randall, a lawyer, was an unabashed champion of Independence, the hometown
of former President Harry S. Truman.

Mr. Randall, who represented Missouri's Fourth Congressional District, was sworn
in on Capitol Hill in March 1959 after winning a special election made necessary
by the death of his predecessor, Representative George H. Christopher, another
Democrat. After 16 years in the House, Mr. Randall decided not to seek
re-election in 1976.

He was a member of the House Armed Services Committee and the Government
Operations Committee. As chairman of the latter committee's Legal and Monetary
Affairs Subcommittee, Mr. Randall came to national prominence in the early
1970's when he conducted an inquiry into illegal immigration from Mexico and
charges of corruption in the Southwest region of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

In his last two years in Congress, Mr. Randall also headed a special Select
Committee on Aging, which conducted hearings on long-term health care for the
elderly.

William Joseph Randall graduated from the University of Missouri in 1931 and
from the University of Kansas City's law school in 1936. He served with the Army
in the Pacific in World War II.

Mr. Randall then served on a Jackson County administrative court for 12 years
until his election to Congress. When he left the House he worked as a railroad
lobbyist before returning to Independence, where he had a private law practice.

His wife of 47 years, Margaret Layden Randall, died in 1989. Mr. Randall is
survived by a daughter, Mary, two grandsons and a great-granddaughter.


http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: William J. Randall

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
