
                               1 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spitzer Grants Illegal Immigrants Easier Access to Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words


New York State, home to more than 500,000 illegal immigrants, will issue
driver's licenses without regard to immigration status under a policy change
announced yesterday by Gov. Eliot Spitzer.

The change rolls back rules adopted four years ago under the Pataki
administration that made it difficult, if not impossible, for tens of thousands
of immigrants to obtain  driver's licenses because they could not prove legal
status. Under the new rules, the Department of Motor Vehicles will accept a
current foreign passport as proof of identity without also requiring a valid
yearlong visa or other evidence of legal immigration.

The  policy, which does not require legislative approval, will be phased in
starting in December and will be tied to new antifraud measures, the governor
said. Those measures will include the authentication of foreign passports and
the use of photo comparison technology to ensure that no driver has more than
one license.

The governor called it a ''common sense change'' that will improve traffic
safety and lower insurance costs for all New Yorkers by ensuring that more
immigrants have valid licenses and auto insurance. Giving more immigrants
verifiable identification will also enhance law enforcement by bringing people
out of the shadows, he asserted.

''The D.M.V. is not the I.N.S.,'' Mr. Spitzer said, referring to the federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, now part of Homeland Security, by
its old initials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The move goes against the national trend. Many states, prodded by demands to
crack down on identity fraud, have added requirements that effectively prevent
illegal immigrants from obtaining  driver's licenses.

All but eight states now require drivers to prove legal status to obtain
driver's licenses, and those eight -- Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New
Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington -- have come under pressure to add such a
requirement.

To keep New York from becoming a magnet for people unable to obtain  driver's
licenses  elsewhere, the Spitzer administration will propose legislation to add
a residency requirement similar to one already in effect in 27 states, David J.
Swarts, the motor vehicles commissioner, said.

Mr. Swarts and other officials pointed to a study showing that unlicensed
drivers were almost five times more likely to be in  fatal crashes than people
with  valid driver's licenses. The State Department of Insurance estimates that
the new rules will save New York drivers $120 million each year by reducing
premium costs associated with uninsured motorists by 34 percent.

The change fulfilled a promise Mr. Spitzer made repeatedly last year in his
campaign,  and it was hailed by immigrant organizations and labor unions that
had pushed hard for it. Those groups said that the regulations imposed by the
Pataki administration had hurt about 250,000 immigrants who needed licenses to
drive to work, to hospitals or to schools.

''Immigrant communities throughout the nation can take heart that today's
victory may begin to turn the tide toward sensible and humane reforms at the
federal level,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York
Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group for more than 150 immigrant self-help
and advocacy organizations.

But the new policy drew immediate fire from groups that had welcomed the Pataki
administration rules as a needed crackdown on license fraud and as the kind of
national security measure demanded by the Sept. 11 attacks.

Peter Gadiel, the president of 9/11 Families for a Secure America, whose son
died in the World Trade Center, released a scathing  statement even before the
official announcement yesterday.

''Governor Spitzer will demonstrate abject stupidity and breathtaking disregard
for the victims of 9/11 if he hands these powerful ID's to people who sneak
across our borders,'' he wrote. ''Terrorists here illegally used licenses to
kill my son and thousands of others in the World Trade Center; if they do it
again using New York licenses issued by this governor, the blood of the victims
will be on Mr. Spitzer's hands.''

When that statement was read aloud by a reporter to Mr. Spitzer, he seemed taken
aback, then called the words inflammatory and ''way beyond'' the bounds of
appropriate discourse. He added that people who ignore the reality of illegal
immigrants only encourage the use of false Social Security numbers and driver's
licenses.

Michael A. L. Balboni, Mr. Spitzer's deputy secretary for public safety, said
the New York driver's license was one of the most secure documents in the nation
and that the new licensing regime would make it even better.

Social Security cards and birth certificates, which include no photos or other
biometric data, have also been prone to fraud, he said.

New York will join 18 other states in trying technology that will check a
driver's photo overnight against all other photos in the state's driver
database, to prevent people from holding multiple licenses, officials said. The
technology will be tested in a pilot project upstate.

The new policy will start with about 152,000 New Yorkers who have, or once had,
licenses but were unable to renew them under the Pataki rules, Mr. Swarts said.
This group will be notified by letter next week about how to begin a relicensing
process. It will start at the end of the year, and for some will involve a new
road test.

A second phase, to begin in April, will open the application process to all,
with as many as 500,000 people newly eligible for licenses. This will involve a
more rigorous screening, Mr. Swarts said, including a four- to six-week process
of authenticating foreign passports and other foreign identity documents.

Across the street from the Midtown office building where Mr. Spitzer delivered
the news, a throng of jubilant immigrants from community organizations waved
signs and shouted their approval.

One member of the group, who would identify himself only as Cesar, an immigrant
from Peru, said he had been afraid  of driving without authorization and had had
to depend on friends to drive him to work. ''Now, thank God, I won't have this
difficulty in my life,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Overhaul of Immigration Law Could Reshape New York

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words


Few places in the United States could be more deeply affected by the proposed
overhaul of legal immigration than New York, say scholars and demographers of
immigration.

The proposed law certainly would not end the flow of legal immigration to New
York. But it could profoundly alter the currents that have long fed the city's
mom and pop entrepreneurship, its kaleidoscopic diversity, and family networks
that nurture and help assimilate newcomers.

More of the city's newcomers, compared with immigrants in other parts of the
country, continue to gain entry through the very family visas that the pending
bill would restrict or abolish -- and that would be replaced with a point system
based on skills and education.

New York was front and center when Congress refashioned America's immigration
system in 1965, replacing quotas based on race and national origin with a system
centered on reunifying families. This time, with heated debate focused on
illegal immigrants who cross the Mexican border and settle mainly in the West
and South, New York's experience has received less attention.

Yet central to the city's storied comeback from the precipice of population loss
and bankruptcy in the 1970s, most agree, was the big influx of unexpected
immigrants -- an unintended consequence of the 1965 overhaul, sponsored by an
influential Brooklyn representative, Emanuel Celler.

These days, in a Lower East Side neighborhood that has been a cradle of family
chain migration to America for 200 years, the deli at Delancey and Allen Streets
is a 24-hour operation run by a man from Bangladesh -- one of about 70 relatives
to follow a Bangladeshi seaman who jumped ship here in 1941. In luxury
condominiums nearby, the newest residents include the affluent
great-grandchildren of the eastern and southern European immigrants whose
teeming poverty in the tenements prompted immigration quotas in the 1920s to
keep out their kind.

And when these newcomers need a key, they turn to Good Locksmith Inc. on Grand
Street, a business run by the Lai family from China, who finally unlocked their
door to America, relative by relative, after being unwelcome by law for a
century.

''I love what I have now, and everything I have now, I work on it,'' said Steven
Lai, 46, whose immigration at 23 depended not only on his mother's sponsorship,
but on a long line of male forebears who endured 20-year family separations and
exclusion from citizenship as they labored in the United States, first building
railroads in 19th-century California. ''Family is more important than everything
else,'' said Mr. Lai whose mother, Oilhang, 66, helps in the store.

Under the proposed point system, Mr. Lai would have been locked out. The measure
aims to reduce chain migration -- the practice of one immigrant sponsoring
others -- and to make room for those the federal government selects as the
world's best, brightest and most easily assimilated. It would end preferences
for the adult children and siblings of United States citizens, and eliminate a
citizen's right to sponsor parents. Instead, the government would admit
foreigners who scored highest on a scale that values advanced degrees, skills
approved by the Department of Labor, and fluency in English, much more than
family ties. Only those admitted on points could sponsor their spouse and minor
children.

Yet immigrants like Mr. Lai, who learned English and locksmith skills at night
school and opened his business 18 years ago with family savings, have been a
vital economic engine for the city, said Gary Gerstle, a historian of
immigration who teaches at Vanderbilt University. The city's record, he and
others say, casts doubt on the dichotomy being drawn in the debate between
family ties and other factors that might lead to economic success.

''The way that New York has come back is one of the great American success
stories of the last 40 years, and immigrants are absolutely central to it,''
Professor Gerstle said. '' Mom and pop stores in New York have been a very
dynamic force in the making of American society, and I would not want to see
that possibility foreclosed.''

Unlike the rest of the country, the city has experienced a plateau in its large
and diversified flow of legal immigrants since a peak in the early 1990s. Its
immigration accelerated in the 1970s through a classic pattern of daisy chain
migration with ''seed'' immigrants sponsoring close relatives who eventually
sponsored others. According to 2005 figures, the latest available, more than 72
percent of the city's 102,545 legal immigrants admitted that year came through
family ties, mostly as immediate kin of citizens, and only 11 percent through
employer sponsorship; in the nation, 58 percent came through family-based visas,
and 22 percent through employment.

Joseph Salvo, the city's demographer, cautions that such numbers are an
imperfect reflection of the scramble to find a way through the immigration maze,
not a measure of New York's family immigrants, who include large numbers of both
the highly educated and the low-skilled. And he is confident, he said, that New
York will remain a magnet.

To Jamal Hussain, 26, the Bangladesh-born owner of the deli at Delancey Street,
it seems obvious that families, which can be banks and safety nets, are the
foundation of success. He opened his deli with loans from relatives four years
ago, and he points out that families also provide a screening mechanism and an
incentive to succeed.

''They know I'm a hard worker, motivated,'' said Mr. Hussain, who has repaid the
loans, married, had a baby, and bought a house in the Bronx. ''Kids are going to
school, they're being doctors, lawyers,'' he added, citing a niece who is a
graduate student in science at New York University. ''Bottom line, instead of
bringing those people already educated from over there, we have the opportunity
to be homegrown Ph.D.'s.''

It is difficult to forecast the impact of the proposed changes on the mix and
number of future immigrants, experts say. The bill aims to reduce legal
migration in the future by eliminating family sponsorships outside the overall
numbers set by government, and ending the diversity visa, which brings thousands
of fresh ''seed'' immigrants by lottery to New York each year. But for the first
eight years, it would grant family visa applications already in the pipeline,
many stalled since the 1990s, when demand to sponsor foreign relatives far
exceeded the numbers allowed in categories like sibling of a citizen.

Many people in the pipeline might no longer want to come, however; others are
already here illegally. And if they overstayed temporary visas, like an
estimated 40 percent of illegal immigrants, they would not qualify for
legalization under the bill -- unlike illegal immigrants who crossed the border
surreptitiously.

''If it was just geared to skilled labor, New York would be in trouble,'' said
David Reimers, an emeritus immigration historian at N.Y.U. ''Like all big
cities, it depends on unskilled labor.'' If family members are left out, he
added, ''they're going to come in by hook or crook.''

For now, the proposed system grants up to 47 points for special occupations --
to be determined later -- and up to 28 for educational degrees. Only if a
would-be immigrant scores at least 55 points would additional points be awarded
for family ties: 8 to a citizen's adult son or daughter, 6 to the adult child of
a permanent resident, 4 to a citizen's sibling.

Such a scheme could affect New York disproportionately because among states with
the most foreign-born, it has the largest proportion of legal to illegal
immigrants, demographers say. Some of the city's immigrant groups, like Koreans,
Indians and Filipinos, have such high rates of education and professional skill,
however, that they could do well under a skills-based points system.

But Seung Jin Jung, 43, president of the board of the Young Korean American
Education and Service Center in New York, said he and his two sisters would have
flunked on points 20 years ago, after coming of age in South Korea during a
seven-year wait for visas while their parents worked in New York. The children
spoke no English and had no degrees when they arrived. Now he has his own
import-export business; one sister is a music therapist, he said, and the other
is a physical therapist -- and both are working on their Ph.D.'s.

''The current proposed immigration change views the families of immigrants as an
unnecessary burden,'' Mr. Jung said. ''That's the wrong approach. Take a look at
what's going on in New York -- once you are here with family members, you not
only become part of the work force in this country, you become part of the
social fabric.''

Cesar Gonzalez, 58, a Dominican immigrant whose family-run bookstore, Libreria
Caliope, echoed the sentiment, noting that he and his brother Jose had little
education when they were sponsored by an uncle and a sister. ''It's the same
story for most of the people in the neighborhood,'' he said. ''Lots of them
would be excluded. Only the well-to-do would qualify and people who already have
an education.''

Mexicans, mostly unskilled and illegal immigrants, are the newest group to
emerge as a large presence in the city, demographers say. They are now estimated
to be among the city's top three immigrant groups, joining Dominicans and
Chinese, Mr. Salvo said, with about 350,000 in 2006, up from about 200,000 six
years ago, including children born here. In dense and diverse city
neighborhoods, they generally have been absorbed as just one more immigrant
group, though in many communities in the metropolitan region, as elsewhere,
conflict has erupted over their rapid settlement.

Peter H. Schuck, a Yale professor of immigration law who supports a points
system to meet global competition, says most Americans do not want more
immigration, and want to improve immigrants' quality.

''We have a very valuable resource that we are distributing, and we ought to do
it in full consciousness of what we want to absorb in the way of immigrants,''
he said. ''The country can't simply throw up its hands and say, 'We've done it
this way for the past few generations, so we just should go on doing it.' ''

But Professor Gerstle points out that immigrant families who helped populate the
city over the last 40 years have become part of its lifeblood.

''They're New Yorkers, aren't they?'' he asked. ''A lot of Americans may think
that's not American, but it isn't foreign.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about the impact that a Senate proposal to
overhaul immigration law could have on New York misstated a provision of the
bill. Immigrants who are relatives of United States citizens and have overstayed
their temporary visas could indeed qualify for legalization on the same terms as
illegal immigrants who crossed the border surreptitiously. Also, the article
referred incompletely to another provision of the bill. While it would eliminate
the right of citizens to sponsor their parents -- a right that is now unlimited
-- it would create an annual quota of 40,000 visas for which citizens could
compete to bring parents into the country.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Lai, 46, a locksmith on the Lower East Side, immigrated
from China as a young adult, sponsored by his mother, Oilhang Lai, left, who
works in the store, too. Mr. Lai learned English and the locksmith trade in
America.
Jamal Hussain, 26, from Bangladesh, runs a deli on the Lower East Side, which he
opened four years ago with the help of relatives. (Photographs by Todd
Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Steven Lai, with his mother, Oilhang Lai, at their locksmith shop. Immigrants
like Mr. Lai have been a factor in the city's rebound since the '70s. (Photo by
Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


An article on Wednesday about the impact that a Senate proposal to overhaul
immigration law could have on New York misstated a provision of the bill.
Immigrants who are relatives of United States citizens and have overstayed their
temporary visas could indeed qualify for legalization on the same terms as
illegal immigrants who crossed the border surreptitiously. Also, the article
referred incompletely to another provision of the bill. While it would eliminate
the right of citizens to sponsor their parents -- a right that is now unlimited
-- it would create an annual quota of 40,000 visas for which citizens could
compete to bring parents into the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Panel Rejects Detention Center for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Oct. 16


A Virginia state panel on Tuesday rejected a controversial proposal to create
the country's first state-run facility where illegal immigrants arrested for
certain crimes could be held until federal officials deport them or while
awaiting trial.

Instead, the panel recommended that the state provide additional money so local
officials could build more jail space to house immigrants awaiting deportation.
It also called on local jail officials to check the immigration status of all
inmates and deny bail to most illegal immigrants who committed crimes.

In recent years, Virginia has become a testing ground for some of the strictest
policies in the nation to curb illegal immigration.

This week, officials in Prince William County, Va., were weighing proposals to
deny county services to illegal immigrants and to direct the police to jail
those immigrants who could not show documentation proving they were in the
United States legally.

This year, state lawmakers submitted a proposal to fine employers who hired
illegal immigrants $10,000 and to revoke the business licenses of anyone in the
state convicted of hiring illegal immigrants. In 2003, the state was the first
to pass a measure making it a crime to give illegal immigrants driver's
licenses.

''Residents of our state are really frustrated when an illegal alien commits a
crime and that person is let go after serving time, and we're trying to correct
that problem,'' said State Senator Ken Stolle, Republican of Virginia Beach, who
is chairman of the panel that acted on Tuesday, the Illegal Immigration Task
Force of the State Crime Commission. ''These measures are not targeting all
immigrants, just those who commit crimes.''

In Virginia, local jail officials keep only about 25 percent of the money that
federal immigration officials pay per bed for illegal immigrants waiting to be
deported, with the rest going to the state. The panel called for that amount to
be increased to 100 percent and to increase the amount the state provided to
counties to build new facilities. This extra revenue would enable local jail
officials to add jail beds for illegal immigrants and eliminate the need for a
centralized facility.

But immigration advocates say they worry that toughening immigration enforcement
would have a chilling effect on crime victims and witnesses who may be in the
country illegally, and they questioned whether increasing the amount of money
available to county officials would create a financial incentive to round up
people who are suspected of being illegal immigrants.

''Even without any new measures, this chilling effect is a problem,'' said
Jeanne L. Smoot, director of public policy for Tahirih Justice Center, an
advocacy group in Falls Church, Va., for battered women, adding that women were
more than twice as likely not to report violence against them if they were
illegal immigrants.

The proposals in Virginia are further indications of how state and local
officials are getting ahead of the federal government on the immigration issue
and sometimes pushing measures that federal officials are unwilling or unable to
support for legal, logistical or financial reasons.

Illegal immigrants who are arrested are currently placed in local jails, federal
facilities or private prisons, and once they finish their sentences, those
convicted of nonviolent offenses are often released because federal immigration
officials say they lack the resources to detain them.

Last year, the state police in Virginia notified federal immigration officials
of about 12,000 illegal immigrants in their jails. But the federal officials
only picked up about 690, according to state officials.

State Delegate David B. Albo, Republican of Fairfax County, who is co-chairman
of the state immigration task force, said that Virginia had an estimated 300,000
illegal immigrants.

Hope Amezquita, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union of Virginia,
testified before the task force that the proposal to deny bail to virtually all
illegal immigrants accused of committing crimes might be unconstitutional.

It would create a whole class of people who are exempted from due process, Ms.
Amezquita said, adding that the Constitution guaranteed that each criminal
defendant, regardless of status, get an individualized review of their case.

Before the panel's recommendations can be adopted, the Crime Commission, the
General Assembly and the governor must act on them.

Critics say the proposals are being driven by politics in a year when all 140
seats of the General Assembly are up for election.

''In Washington, here in the state Capitol, and even here in this building,
illegal immigration is a debating exercise,'' William Campenni, 67, a retired
engineer, said at the task force hearing. ''In towns like my Herndon, it is a
drive-by shooting, a D.U.I. fatality, a drug turf battle, a serial killing
sniper, a deteriorating neighborhood.''

Mr. Campenni added that though he had never been a victim of crime at the hands
of an illegal immigrant, his wife was afraid to go to areas of their town that
she used to visit regularly.

Mr. Albo said that illegal immigrants who committed violent crimes or felonies
usually received sentences of more than a year, which gave federal immigration
officials enough time to process their deportation. But illegal immigrants
convicted of lesser charges, like drunken driving or domestic violence, often
are released on bond and never return for their court date, or serve just days
or weeks and are released.

The panel wants to hold most illegal immigrants and only release them on bail if
lawyers can prove they are not a flight risk.

Asked why he had abandoned his idea of creating a centralized facility, Mr.
Stolle said that countless people had told him the idea sounded too much like
''a concentration camp'' for immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters yesterday in Manassas, Va., as county officials took
on illegal immigration issues. A state panel co-chaired by State Delegate David
B. Albo,  left, weighed in on them, too. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAY PAUL FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shattering Stereotypes About Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1152 words


AS immigration legislation slowly makes its way through Congress, the debate
about illegal immigrants' role in the economy has intensified. To some people,
they represent a black-market work force that is lowering the wages of legal
immigrants and native-born Americans. To others, they are an essential part of
several big industries. What's the truth?

Getting the whole truth is not easy, because illegal immigrants are not always
easy to find, interview or otherwise include in government or private surveys.
But some broad facts seem to be emerging, and they may shatter some preconceived
notions: illegal immigrants do not just pick fruit, they do not just work off
the books, they rarely earn less than the minimum wage and they may even be
raising employment without harming incomes.

For example, there are plenty of illegal immigrants who are not working on farms
along the West Coast, gardening or providing child care, according to figures
from the Pew Hispanic Center, a research group in Washington. About 20 percent
of illegal immigrants work in construction, 17 percent in leisure and
hospitality industries, 14 percent in manufacturing and 11 percent in wholesale
and retail trade.

In addition, illegal immigrants represent a substantial share of overall
employment in quite a few industries, some of which require extensive skills and
training. They may make up at least 10 percent of the work force in
construction, leisure and hospitality, and in agriculture and related
industries, according to figures calculated by the Pew Hispanic Center. But in
specific occupations like cooking, painting, washing cars, packaging by hand and
installation of carpets and floors, they may make up 20 percent or more.

Those industries badly need immigrant labor, far in excess of government quotas
for legal immigrants. ''We need a million-plus workers added to our work force
over the next five or six years, and that is associated with people leaving the
work force and obviously the forecasted growth in construction,'' said Wayne A.
Crew, executive director of the Construction Industry Institute, an
industry-sponsored research group at the University of Texas at Austin. ''The
numbers I've seen also indicate that about 60 percent or so of the new workers
coming into the industry are Hispanic or Latino. So you can start to understand
if you can expect that 600,000 of the new workers you're going to need are in
fact coming from somewhere else, then if they don't come, it puts a bit of a
stretch on your labor force.''

A shortage of immigrant labor picking fruit on farms in the West has indeed made
the news recently, but it disguises a much larger issue. Illegal immigrants also
help big agribusinesses to keep prices low by working in processing and
packaging, said Katherine A. Ozer, executive director of the National Family
Farm Coalition, a lobbying group in Washington. Though family farms may depend
on them to a lesser extent, she said, dairies and other operations do need
immigrant labor. Without them, she said, the structure of the industry would
have to change.

In many cases, the jobs held by illegal immigrants are far from the minimum- or
subminimum-wage stereotype, as well. Though the work itself is often unpleasant,
the pay rates are commonly in the range of $10 to $20 an hour, said Jeffrey S.
Passel, a senior research associate at the Pew center.

''There are some indications that the majority of these workers, maybe 55 to 65
percent, are not in the underground economy,'' Mr. Passel said. ''They're
getting paid the same wage rates as everybody else is in those companies. It's
written down, and if they work there long enough, they'll get health insurance
and everything else.''

The obvious question is how these immigrants' presence is affecting the overall
labor market, especially in these midlevel occupations.

Using Mr. Passel's figures, it seems likely that there are about eight million
illegal immigrants with jobs right now. That is quite a bit more than the
roughly 6.5 million unemployed people counted by the Census Bureau (some of whom
might actually be illegal immigrants). Even if all illegal immigrants were
deported overnight -- the current bill would instead offer them a path to legal
status -- the rest of the work force might not be able to fill their jobs.

Indeed, the presence of illegal immigrants may actually be increasing overall
employment, and at little cost to wages, suggested Robert J. LaLonde, a
professor of public policy at the University of Chicago. He said that these
immigrants increase the overall supply of labor. If demand remains the same,
their presence raises the number of jobs in the economy but lowers wages for
everyone. But Professor LaLonde said that demand for labor is likely to
increase, too, as investment money follows immigrant workers into the country.

''The evidence of the effect they have on labor markets in terms of depressing
the wages of native-born Americans is quite unclear,'' he said. ''Capital is a
much more mobile factor than labor is, so if labor's moving in, you better
believe that capital's not too far behind.''

Professor LaLonde added that the presence of illegal immigrants in some service
jobs makes it easier for Americans to participate in the labor force. The
immigrants act as complements to higher-wage workers, who can then participate
in greater numbers and become more productive. For instance, he said, ''it's
easier for women to work because you can hire more baby-sitters.''

Still, if illegal immigrants are often working side by side with native-born
Americans and legal immigrants, it is worth asking whether they are reducing
opportunities for others. Professor LaLonde dismissed that as unlikely, because
in many cases an illegal immigrant may offer a combination of skills and cost
that other workers simply cannot match.

Potential American competitors ''would like these jobs, but they don't want to
work at the lower price,'' Professor LaLonde said. ''Mexican day labor doesn't
get paid $5 an hour; they're getting paid $8 or $9 an hour. But if you're going
to try to beat them at their own game, given that you're not as qualified as
they are, you're going to have to undercut their price.''

IF illegal immigrants weren't present at all, Professor LaLonde conceded, others
might have more incentive to train for those occupations. ''But over all, the
U.S. would be poorer,'' he said. That is something for members of Congress to
think about as they amend the new bill.

Moreover, existing training programs have not necessarily resulted in a big
influx of native-born Americans into immigrant-heavy industries.

''The construction industry, at least, is viewed as an unattractive industry,''
Mr. Crew said. ''Other industries are competing for those same people, so the
wages in those industries are rising at the same time. It's a competition for
people.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Dallas, men gathered in hopes of being hired. Construction is
attracting many illegal immigrants, but so is manufacturing. (Photo by L. M.
Otero/Associated Press)  Chart: ''A Wider Range of Jobs'' Only a small
percentage of illegal immigrants work in agriculture, according to the Pew
Hispanic Center's estimates for 2005. Most work in service industries.  Percent
of the undocumented work force who work in:  Construction: 19.9% Manufacturing:
14.3 Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting: 3.9 Mining: 0.2  SERVICE
INDUSTRIES  Leisure and hospitality: 17.2 Professional and business services:
12.9 Wholesale and retail trade: 11.4 Education and health services: 5.6
Financial activities: 3.2 Transportation and utilities: 3.0 Information: 1.2
Other services: 7.2  (Source by Pew Hispanic Center, from Census Bureau data)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Opinions, Far Apart, Underscore Immigration Bill's Obstacles

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of the Bronx, objects to a recent
bipartisan proposal on immigration policy because, he says, it would create an
underclass of immigrant workers with few rights.

Representative Peter King, a Republican of Long Island, has a problem with the
plan, too, but for an altogether different reason. To him, it amounts to amnesty
for legions of illegal immigrants in the country.

And in the middle are lawmakers like Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who
calls the plan a ''fair starting point'' to deal with the question of what to do
about the millions of immigrants who are in the country illegally.

A survey of lawmakers from the New York metropolitan region shows that they are
every bit as divided about the comprehensive immigration bill now being
considered in Washington as many of their colleagues around the country are.

The measure, a result of negotiations between the White House and a group of
senators from both parties, would offer legal status to most of the nation's 12
million illegal immigrants, increase penalties for employers of illegal
immigrants and toughen border security.

But the diverging views of lawmakers from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
underscore the difficulties, even peril, the plan faces, particularly as it
comes under attack from grass-roots opponents on both the right and the left.

Mr. Serrano, for one, questions whether a compromise on the plan can be reached
in the current climate. ''Everybody seems dug in,'' he said in a recent
interview. ''Right now, I don't see how it will happen.''

On the other hand, ''it could turn overnight,'' Mr. Serrano added, referring to
the impasse. ''One never knows.''

The Senate, which began debating the bill in late May, is scheduled to resume
debate this week. Critics in both parties have proposed substantial amendments.

The legislation faces a more uncertain future in the House, which may take the
matter up later this summer. Democratic leaders have raised their own objections
to it and have said that Mr. Bush will need to deliver a significant number of
Republican votes to ensure its passage.

For many lawmakers in the region, particularly Democrats, one of the most
objectionable aspects of the Senate bill is that it would make it harder for
legal immigrants in the United States to bring over husbands, wives or children.

The bill in the Senate would instead give priority to immigrants with
specialized job skills, higher education levels and proficiency in English over
those with family ties.

Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, and Robert Menendez of New Jersey,
both Democrats, are among those who have criticized the change in priority. Mr.
Menendez, for instance, says that preserving family ties has been at the heart
of the nation's immigration policy for decades.

The two senators have proposed an amendment that would allow legal permanent
residents to bring their spouses and children younger than 21 to the United
States more quickly.

''We have a national interest in fostering strong families,'' Mrs. Clinton said
at a recent news conference announcing the amendment. ''While there is a big and
contentious debate in our country over immigration, this issue should unite us
all.''

Another major area of concern is a provision that would allow hundreds of
thousands of temporary foreign workers to be admitted to the country each year
without many of the benefits and protections enjoyed by other workers.

The protests have been especially strong among Democrats in the region,
particularly liberals like Mr. Serrano, who are voicing concern that the
temporary program creates a legion of workers who could be easily exploited.

''Any time you set up a guest-worker program with no prospect for residency, you
run the risk of creating an underclass of workers,'' Mr. Serrano said.

Mr. Schumer, the senior senator from New York, argues that Congress ought to act
on the issue and has voiced support for two major provisions of the bill: one
establishing a so-called path to citizenship for illegal immigrants and another
imposing tougher sanctions on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

But like others in the delegation, he questions the idea of limiting foreign
workers to two-year visas and then requiring them to leave the country for a
year once those visas expire. He contends that many immigrant workers might be
tempted to stay once their visas expired and, in the process, create yet another
new group of illegal immigrants, according to his office.

Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat whose district runs from the
mid-Hudson Valley to Lake Placid, raises a related concern about the temporary
worker program. Many farmers in her largely rural district depend on immigrant
laborers. She said that the provision limiting foreign workers to two-year visas
and then making them leave the country for a year would be burdensome for
employers.

Like Senator Schumer, she said it would also lead many immigrants to stay and
work illegally in the country once the visas expire. ''To me, it seems
unworkable,'' she said. ''You just create another problem.''

Perhaps the most contentious provision of the compromise bill in the Senate is
one offering legal status to most of the nation's illegal immigrants. To become
eligible for legal status, illegal immigrants would be required to pay fines,
pass background checks and, usually, hold jobs.

Some lawmakers say that this is nothing more than amnesty and that it would
encourage more illegal immigration. Mr. King, the Republican from Long Island,
has taken a much more conservative position on immigration than other members of
the region's delegation. He said his office had received as many as 400 phone
calls from people who were largely concerned about the legalization program.

''No matter how they try to define it, that is amnesty,'' he said, referring to
the bill and its supporters.

Mr. King said that before he would consider any legalization program, he would
want lawmakers to focus on strengthening border security more aggressively than
the compromise bill stipulates.

In fact, he said he was planning to introduce a bill in the coming weeks that
would focus strictly on beefing up border enforcement.

''We have to get much better control of our borders'' first, he said.

But Representative Christopher S. Murphy, a freshman Democrat from Connecticut,
rejected such a piecemeal approach. Though he objects to specific provisions of
the Senate bill, particularly the guest-worker program, Mr. Murphy said Congress
must devise a comprehensive plan that includes offering legal status to some
illegal immigrants.

Paradoxically, that puts Mr. Murphy, who attacked Mr. Bush relentlessly during
last year's campaign, in the president's camp on immigration.

''Realistically, we are going to have to make a decision about who can stay and
who we are going to force back to their country,'' Mr. Murphy said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rules on Hiring Illegal Workers Are Delayed

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 459 words


A federal judge in San Francisco yesterday temporarily barred the Department of
Homeland Security from carrying out  new rules to crack down on employers of
illegal immigrants, dealing a legal setback to a central part of the Bush
administration's effort to step up enforcement of the immigration laws.

The judge, Maxine M. Chesney of federal court for the Northern District of
California, also ordered the Social Security Administration to suspend a
mailing, scheduled to begin Wednesday, of some 140,000 letters to employers
advising them that some of their employees' Social Security information did not
match the agency's records. Illegal immigrants often apply for work with false
Social Security numbers.

The  mailings, known as no-match letters, were going to be accompanied  by a
two-page notice from the Homeland Security Department advising employers of the
new rules, which give them 90 days to fire any employee who cannot show valid
Social Security identification or risk civil and even criminal charges for
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. The rules were announced in August and were
expected to take effect on Sept. 10. Judge Chesney scheduled a hearing on the
matter for Oct. 1.

The ruling came in response to a lawsuit filed Wednesday by the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,
several California labor groups and  the American Civil Liberties Union. The
suit argues that because of  errors in the Social Security Administration's
database, many American citizen and legal immigrant workers could be dismissed
because of the new rules. The suit also claims the rules could lead to
discrimination against Hispanic workers.

''We are disappointed by the delay and expect to prevail once the court has the
benefit of full briefing and argument,'' said Laura Keehner, a spokeswoman for
the Department of Homeland Security.

The judge found that the lawsuit raised ''serious questions'' as to whether both
federal agencies had overstepped their authority, and also that delaying the
rules would cause less harm than putting them into effect before the court's
review.

The new rules were the centerpiece of a campaign by the administration to show
that it would push ahead with tough action against businesses that hired illegal
immigrants, even though the broader immigration legislation that President Bush
sought died in the Senate in June.

The rules brought an outcry from business and labor groups. On Monday, the
Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which represents major hotel,
restaurant, landscaping and meatpacking companies, asked Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff to postpone putting the rules into effect for six
months. Its request, in a letter, included 81 questions about aspects of the
rules that it said were confusing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican President Assails U.S. Measures on Migrants

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 2


President Felipe Calderon  harshly criticized the United States government on
Sunday for the recent crackdown on illegal immigrants, saying it has led to the
persecution of immigrant workers without visas.

The Bush administration has stepped up raids on factories and farms suspected of
hiring illegal workers, imposing heavy fines and deporting a record number of
illegal immigrants in 2006. The United States Congress this summer failed to
approve proposed legislation to revamp immigration laws to make it easier for
Mexican immigrants to gain citizenship or temporary work visas, disappointing
the Calderon administration.

''In the name of the government of Mexico, I again issue an energetic protest
against the unilateral measures taken by the Congress and the United States
government that exacerbate the persecution and the vexing treatment against
undocumented Mexican workers,'' Mr. Calderon said in his annual formal  address
to the nation.

''The insensitivity shown toward those who have contributed to the economy and
the United States society has been an inducement to redouble the struggle to
recognize the enormous contribution to the economy of both countries and to
defend their rights.''

As he has in the past, Mr. Calderon called on the United States Congress to pass
changes to immigration law that would grant legal status to about 12 million
Mexicans living and working illegally in the United States. He also reiterated
his strong opposition to plans to build more fences and other barriers along
much of the southern border. The assembled business executives and dignitaries
gave him a standing ovation.

Criticizing the United States for its treatment of illegal Mexican immigrants
has become routine for most Mexican politicians, including Mr. Calderon. Because
the immigrants send home about $20 billion a year and because the yearly
migration of more than 400,000 people relieves Mexico of masses of the poor, the
government here has little incentive either to stem the migration northward or
to support stricter measures making it harder for Mexicans to cross the border.

As the United States has stepped up enforcement efforts over the last two years,
it has sent more and more Mexican immigrants home, where they have little or no
work. Last year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents deported 183,431
people after raids nationwide.

The border patrol, meanwhile, has reported steep declines in apprehensions along
the border over the last year, suggesting that fewer people are trying to enter
illegally in light of beefed-up patrols and new physical barriers.

In his speech, Mr. Calderon, who has acknowledged that he has relatives who
migrated to the United States, suggested that the deportation of undocumented
immigrants bordered on a violation of human rights, and he vowed to help illegal
migrants.

''I have said that Mexico does not stop at its border, that wherever there is a
Mexican, there is Mexico,'' he said. ''And, for this reason, the government
action on behalf of our countrymen is guided by principles, for the defense and
protection of their rights.''

American employers who ignore immigration laws may face criminal charges and
higher fines under a new enforcement effort announced in August.

Last week, Mr. Calderon, a conservative, met with Elvira Arellano, 32, a Mexican
who entered the United states illegally and became famous among advocates for
Mexican immigrants for defying deportation orders and claiming sanctuary in a
Chicago church for a year. In a meeting in his Los Pinos residence, he promised
to help Ms. Arellano obtain a visa for the United States.

Mr. Calderon, who took office last December after a razor-thin victory, was
forced to deliver his annual state-of-the-nation speech to an invited audience
in the National Palace on Sunday because on Saturday leftist lawmakers refused
to let him deliver it to Congress, as presidents have done traditionally. He
sent it to Congress in writing instead.

Mr. Calderon also urged Congress to pass a tax reform bill, to open the  energy
sector to more foreign investment and to take other measures he maintains will
make Mexico more competitive and will create jobs. He said his goal as president
was to generate more wealth and distribute it more equally.

But he acknowledged that he must win over lawmakers to accomplish anything. ''It
is possible to transform Mexico, but it cannot be done by decree,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canada Arrests Worker Aiding Refugees

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Ian Austen contributed reporting from Ottawa.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 681 words


An American refugee aid worker accompanying Haitians seeking asylum in Canada
was charged by Canadian authorities this week with immigrant trafficking.

Canadian lawyers said it was the first time that a 2002 immigration law,
intended to prosecute organized criminal smugglers, had been used against
someone working for an immigrant assistance organization.

The aid worker, Janet Hinshaw-Thomas, is the founder and director of Prime  --
Ecumenical Commitment to Refugees, a two-decade-old refugee resettlement
organization in Pennsylvania. Ms. Hinshaw-Thomas, 65, was arrested on Wednesday
at the Canadian border station at Lacolle in Quebec. She was arraigned in a
court near Montreal on Thursday and released on $5,000 bail.

The Canadian prosecutor said in court on Thursday that the office of the
attorney general, Robert Nicholson, had approved the charges, as required by the
law. The crime carries a maximum life sentence.

''She is not running some kind of covert murky operation at all,'' Eric Sutton,
Ms. Hinshaw-Thomas's lawyer, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Montreal. ''She was doing this on a purely humanitarian basis to assist refugees
who are seeking asylum in a country where they have a right to present their
claims.''

The Department of Justice for Canada referred questions about Ms.
Hinshaw-Thomas's arrest to the Canadian Border Services Agency. Erik Paradis, a
spokesman for the Quebec regional office of the agency, said that its officers
had applied the law as they understood it.

This month, Canada has faced a surge of immigrants, primarily Haitians and
Mexicans, traveling to border stations to present claims for asylum. At least
200 immigrants requesting asylum, mostly Mexicans, turned up in recent weeks at
the station in Windsor, Ontario, across from Detroit. Many were sent by a group
in Naples, Fla., the Jerusalem Haitian Community Center, that collected fees
from some immigrants.

Ms. Hinshaw-Thomas said yesterday that she had not been aware of the border
dispute brewing in Ontario. In an interview by cellphone as she drove back from
Canada to her office in Landsdowne, Pa., she said that her group had made 19
trips to the Canadian border in the last five months, taking immigrants,
primarily Haitians, who had despaired of obtaining legal status in the United
States and feared deportation.

''We want to help people who are in really very dire need, who might even face
death upon return to their home countries,'' she said.

She said her trip this week was only the second time she had accompanied
immigrants to Canada. She arrived at the Lacolle border station on Wednesday
with the Haitians, five adults and seven children from four families. Following
a procedure her group had used on previous trips, Ms. Hinshaw-Thomas said, she
advised Canadian border authorities five days ahead of time by e-mail when she
would arrive and how many asylum-seekers she would bring.

In her e-mail message, she said, she included information showing that her
organization was a nonprofit assistance group, not a business. ''I wanted to
clarify that I am really not doing this for profit,'' she said.

Ms. Hinshaw-Thomas said that during her first trip, on Aug. 22, a Canadian
immigration officer warned her that she could be prosecuted for trafficking if
she was making any profit from the refugee trips. She said she told the officer
that she collected fees, about $250 per family, to defray travel expenses. Mr.
Paradis, the Border Services Agency spokesman, confirmed the warnings. ''If a
person has been notified that this method of working is illegal and they
continue, we're going to take action,'' he said.

Opposition lawmakers and immigrant advocates in Canada protested the arrest.
Marlene Jennings, a member of the opposition Liberal Party, accused Mr.
Nicholson of ''attempting to criminalize good Samaritans.''

Ms. Hinshaw-Thomas, a granddaughter of John Foster Dulles, the secretary of
state in the Eisenhower administration, and a niece of Cardinal Avery Dulles of
New York, is scheduled to return to court on Nov. 30.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Hinshaw-Thomas helps Haitian immigrants get to Canada to
seek asylum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rell Vetoes Local Benefit For Students Here Illegally

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 26


Gov. M. Jodi Rell vetoed a bill on Tuesday that would have provided state
tuition rates for illegal immigrants at state colleges and universities in
Connecticut, saying she did not want to encourage the flouting of federal
immigration laws.

''I understand these students are not responsible for their undocumented status,
having come to the United States with their parents,'' Governor Rell said, in a
statement issued by her office on Tuesday afternoon. ''The fact remains,
however, that these students and their parents are here illegally, and neither
sympathy nor good intentions can ameliorate that fact.''

The legislation was approved by a 21-to-15 vote in the Senate and a 77-to-68
vote in the House. Although Democrats hold the majority in both chambers, the
close votes make it unlikely that the two-thirds needed to override the veto
will be achieved.

The immigration bill is the second of two bills vetoed by the governor, a
Republican whose approval rating was about 69 percent in May. Each bill
challenged federal law.

Last week, Governor Rell vetoed a bill that would have decriminalized the
cultivation and use of marijuana for medicinal purposes. Although 12 other
states have adopted similar legislation, marijuana for medicinal purposes is
prohibited under federal law. Christopher Cooper, Mrs. Rell's spokesman, said
the governor would prefer that the change to the legislation occur at the
federal level for both medical marijuana and in-state tuition for illegal
immigrants.

Under a 1982 decision by the United States Supreme Court, any child, regardless
of immigrant status, can receive a free primary and secondary education.

But in 1996, the federal Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act tightened state residency requirements and tuition benefits for higher
education, affecting 50,000 to 65,000 students each year, according to the Web
site of the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Ten states, however, including California, Illinois and New York, have enacted
legislation to allow long-term illegal immigrant students to become eligible for
in-state tuition, if they meet certain requirements.

The Connecticut bill would have required that a student live in the state and be
a graduate of an in-state high school.

''We're not talking about someone who just stepped off a bus and is asking for
favorable treatment,'' said Senator Donald E. Williams Jr., a Democrat from
Brooklyn, Conn. ''We're talking about young students who exhibit the best of
what we expect from all of our children: academic success and the desire to
succeed even more.''

But Mrs. Rell said, ''The requirement that students file an application to
legalize their status would in essence be notification to the government that
they're here illegally, and it would greatly increase the likelihood that they
would be deported.''

Since the bill would have provided benefits to illegal immigrants, Mrs. Rell was
concerned that its passage would encourage ''others to come to Connecticut in
violation of federal immigration law,'' mentioning its possible impact on
national security.

The Senate majority leader, Martin M. Looney, a Democrat from New Haven, said he
expected that the bill would be passed and put on the governor's desk again next
session.

''These young people are the friends and classmates of our own children and
grandchildren,'' Mr. Looney said. ''They are Connecticut residents and are
American in every way except for the circumstances of their childhood. They
should not have to suffer for a decision that their parents made very long
ago.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clerks Balk At Proposal On Licenses

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Ray Rivera contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 27


Gov. Eliot Spitzer is facing a groundswell of opposition from Republicans to his
plan to allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, with some upstate
county clerks even balking at the policy in a prelude to a potential legal
showdown.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has also voiced opposition to the plan, prompting the
governor on Thursday to call the mayor ''wrong at every level -- dead wrong,
factually wrong, legally wrong, morally wrong, ethically wrong,'' The Associated
Press reported. And Steve Levy, the Democratic Suffolk county executive who has
been outspoken on immigration issues, said on Thursday there was ''intense,
passionate opposition'' to the policy among Long Island voters.

''It has hit a nerve,'' Mr. Levy said.

While Republican leaders across the state expressed concern that the new policy
could potentially give anyone, even a terrorist, access to a driver's license,
it is the opposition among county clerks that could lead to a legal battle.

In 51 of the state's 62 counties, county clerks operate Department of Motor
Vehicles offices as agents of the state, and many do not want to process
applications of illegal immigrants. In New York City, Long Island and
Westchester, the state operates the facilities. Frank J. Merola, a Republican
and  the county clerk of Rensselaer County, which borders Albany County, says he
will not carry out the policy.

''I'm not going to process a driver's license for someone who cannot prove they
are here legally,'' he said. Mr. Merola said he was not thinking about the legal
ramifications about whether he could defy the state, but added, ''I know I'm not
going to do it.''

Kathy Marchione, the clerk of Saratoga County, who is a Republican and president
of the New York State Association of County Clerks, said she was ''leaning
toward Mr. Merola's stand, but I will certainly check with our county
attorney.''

''We certainly have a responsibility to our county to obey the law,'' said Ms.
Marchione, who is holding a teleconference of clerks next week to discuss how to
proceed. ''I need to do some checking about our legal rights.''

The Spitzer administration is taking a firm line. Clerks are legally considered
agents of the commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles.

''The county clerks must respond and adapt to D.M.V. policy, and not doing so
would be a flagrant violation of state law,'' said Christine Anderson, the
governor's press secretary. Turning away eligible applicants, she added, ''would
violate his or her constitutional oath of office'' and make them ''subject to
suit by the state and license applicants.''

If nothing else, the controversy has helped the governor accomplish something he
has been unable to do for the last two and a half months: get Republicans to
talk about something besides the attorney general's finding that members of the
governor's staff misused the State Police in an effort to discredit Joseph L.
Bruno, the Senate majority leader. By tacking left, Mr. Spitzer is also shoring
up his support among Hispanic lawmakers.

The governor has said the plan is a ''common sense change'' to improve public
safety by bringing people out of the shadows. It would also lower insurance
costs, he said, if more immigrants had valid licenses and insurance.

The policy will be phased in starting in December. Under the rules, foreign
passports will be accepted as proof of identity without also requiring a valid
yearlong visa or other evidence of legal immigration. The policy runs counter to
trends in many other states cracking down on identity fraud by adding
requirements effectively preventing illegal immigrants from obtaining driver's
licenses.

Mr. Bloomberg and a number of county clerks said the new policy also conflicted
with changes to federal rules that will eventually require more secure driver's
licenses. Critics say the state's plan could mean that New Yorkers will
eventually have to use passports as identification to board planes.

''I'm really skeptical that we should be issuing driver's licenses
willy-nilly,'' Mr. Bloomberg said Thursday, adding that doing so ''leads to lots
of other problems, in terms of voter registration and other things, but it's the
governor's call, and if we have some problems we'll work with him and his
staff.''

Ms. Anderson said the mayor's comments ''reveal his misunderstanding of the law
in this area.'' The governor's harsh response suggested a surprisingly bitter
policy rift between the two men, who generally work closely together. New
Yorkers can still use their license to board planes until at least May of 2013,
Ms. Anderson said, and details of the federal regulations after that are not yet
clear.

Republicans announced an online petition drive on Thursday to fight the plan.
Joseph N. Mondello, the state Republican Party chairman, called the plan
''dangerous'' and ''misguided.''

Cheryl Dinolfo, a Republican who is clerk of Monroe County, which encompasses
Rochester, said, ''I do believe that the state D.M.V. is asking my office to
help illegal immigrants to break the law, and this policy is one that cannot
stand.''

John Woodward, the county clerk of Schenectady County and a Democrat, did not
take a position on the issue, but said, ''I'm going to follow the law.''

''I don't think we have much choice; we serve as agents of the Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles,'' he added.

Moves by Republican lawmakers to overturn the policy will face tough sledding in
the Legislature, where a two-thirds vote in each chamber would be needed to
override a veto. That would be unlikely in the Assembly, where the speaker,
Sheldon Silver, supports the policy and Democrats hold a substantial majority.

Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, a Manhattan Democrat and another supporter, said
''to implement measures that will further drive people underground does not
enhance public safety.''

Among Republicans, the only counter note came, oddly enough, from Mr. Bruno, who
said on Monday that he could ''understand the merits'' of the proposal. But by
Tuesday, he was closing ranks.

''This is a political move on the part of the governor to get these people
beholden to him,'' he said during an interview on WROW radio in Albany. ''And
when they go and vote, who are they going to vote for?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Eliot Spitzer announcing a plan last week to have  driver's
licenses issued without regard to immigration status. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANE
BONDAREFF/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spitzer's Plan On Licenses For Immigrants Finds Support

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 8


Opponents have decried Gov. Eliot Spitzer's move to grant driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants as a ''passport to terror'' and a ''frightening'' policy
shift that is ''dangerous and inconceivable.''

They suggest that the policy will shield illegal immigrants from scrutiny by law
enforcement and airport security personnel and make them appear to be in the
United States legally.

But the governor's policy is drawing support from some terrorism and security
experts, who, like Mr. Spitzer, regard it as a way of bringing a hidden
population into the open and ultimately making the system more secure, not to
mention getting more drivers on the road licensed and insured.

The success of the policy, they say, will rest on the reliability of new
technology that Mr. Spitzer wants installed in Department of Motor Vehicles
offices to verify the authenticity of passports and other documents that the
illegal immigrants will be required to submit when applying for licenses.

Some of the new security problems predicted by critics appear unlikely, several
security experts said. Having a driver's license should not make it easier to
board a domestic airplane flight, because foreign passports are already accepted
as identification at airports. Moreover, a spokeswoman for the Transportation
Security Administration said, neither a foreign passport nor an American
driver's license is among the criteria used to determine whether the bearer will
be subject to extra security screening.

Further, while critics have made much of the fact that several of the Sept. 11
terrorists used driver's licenses to rent vehicles and board airplanes, they
were able to obtain licenses as apparently legal immigrants, if in some cases by
presenting fraudulent documentation. As a result, the federal commission that
investigated the attacks specifically declined to make recommendations on
whether licenses should be granted to illegal immigrants, saying it was not
germane to their inquiry.

''If you talk to people in the intelligence and law enforcement communities,
when they're investigating terrorists or crimes or unlawful activity, they want
people to be in the system, because that's how you find them,'' said Margaret D.
Stock, an associate professor at West Point who also works for the Army as an
immigration lawyer.

''I'm a Republican,'' she added. ''I find it disturbing that people who claim to
be law and order types want to let hundreds of thousands of people run around
the country without any oversight when there's a war going on.''

But critics of the policy see it as a retreat.

''There will no longer be any security,'' said Frank J. Merola, a Republican and
the county clerk in Rensselaer County. A license, he said, ''will no longer be
different than a fraudulent document on the street.''

''When a police officer walks up to a routine traffic stop,'' he said, ''he
doesn't know if someone is here legally or illegally.''

Mr. Merola added that his concerns would have been allayed if the governor had
proposed creating a second class of driver's license for the illegal immigrants.
Chuck Canterbury, the national president of the Fraternal Order of Police, said
his group has generally opposed giving licenses to people who cannot prove they
are here legally. However, he said he would not necessarily object to a system
like the one Mr. Spitzer is proposing, as long as the verification technology
was adequate to prevent fraud.

''We just need to know who we're stopping, and have some degree of confidence
that the information is accurate,'' Mr. Canterbury said. ''As long as they have
proof of who they are, I don't think that we would object to something like
that.''

Under the new policy, someone applying for a license without a Social Security
number would need a valid, current foreign passport, in addition to other
documents that would aid in establishing the applicant's identity.

The passport's authenticity would be verified through new scanners installed at
all Department of Motor Vehicles offices or at a central location by a new unit
of specially trained personnel. In addition, under the policy, photo-comparison
software will be tested in hopes of keeping people from getting multiple
licenses under different names.

''If the photo-comparison technology works and if the D.M.V. uses effective
methods for authenticating and verifying foreign-source identity documents, the
future New York license will be more robust than today's driver's licenses, and
of much greater use in screening and investigations involving terrorism,'' said
Susan Ginsburg, a former staff member of the 9/11 Commission who is now a senior
fellow at the Migration Policy Institute and an adviser to the federal
Department of Homeland Security.

The most important thing for investigators and intelligence officials, she
added, was to be able to track suspects, legal or not.

''Consistency of identity is critical to law enforcement and counterterrorism,
and it's the consistency of identity that the New York system is designed to
increase,'' she said.

But James M. Staudenraus, an adviser to the groups 9/11 Families for a Secure
America and the Coalition for a Secure Driver's License, argued that forgoing a
requirement for Social Security numbers meant forgoing the only reliable method
for verifying someone's true identity. Foreign passports varied so widely in
quality and antifraud protection, he said, that it was dangerous to rely on
them.

''We can't rely on technology for verifying people's true identity,'' Mr.
Staudenraus said.

He worries that once would-be terrorists had access to valid state driver's
licenses, they would raise less suspicion. ''Everyone who sees it assumes that
the individual carrying it has gone under some sort of a background check,'' he
said.

The Spitzer policy means that New York driver's licenses are unlikely to meet
the federal guidelines being phased in by 2013 for a federally recognized
license known as a ''Real ID,'' which will require, among other things, proof of
legal residency. Under the federal law, at that time, the Real ID or a passport
would be needed to board an airplane in the United States. In that case, New
York and other states may opt to offer both Real IDs for those who want them, as
well as standard driver's licenses.

The dispute over the Spitzer policy appears headed for the courts.

In most upstate counties, county clerks operate centers for the Department of
Motor Vehicles, and a dozen Republican clerks have threatened to defy the
policy, even though they act as agents of the governor's administration.
Republican lawmakers have threatened to sue to block the policy, saying the
governor did not have the statutory authority to act on his own; the Spitzer
administration argues that previous litigation on the matter supports their
position.

Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, has called the response hysterical.

''We are not talking about letting more people into this country,'' he said,
''we are talking about being practical about those who are already here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Eliot Spitzer in the Columbus Day Parade yesterday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Dies, Views Divide and Immigrants Work On

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2335 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, June 29


Ediberto Perez pedaled his bicycle out of a canyon shantytown in this border
city's northern outskirts where he and other migrant workers scratch out a
living.

''So I won't get papers?'' he asked at  dawn on Friday, more curious than
deflated about the defeat in the Senate of an overhaul to immigration law.
''Well, I am just going to keep working. What more can I do?''

John Ladd, a rancher in southern Arizona, emerged at daybreak, too, to inspect a
fence that illegal crossers routinely damage. Once, he called in a civilian
patrol group to help deter illegal traffic but now he contemplated the
inevitable.

''Until they dry up the jobs, they're never going to secure the border,'' Mr.
Ladd said.

The day after the Senate failed to move on a proposal for the broadest change in
immigration law in two decades, it was a time to take stock of a debate that
played out something like a neutron bomb: blasts of rhetoric, of speeches,
marches and convulsing in Congress and on talk radio and television that has
left everything pretty much standing as is.

And now in the fallout, the mayor of a small city in Pennsylvania that passed
its own anti-immigrant ordinance found triumph in the federal government's
inertia. A disappointed New York conservative engaged in some wishful plotting
about what might come next. Townsfolk in a Mexican village worried that getting
into the United States would become more perilous. Mr. Ladd braced for more
crossers on his land.

And Mr. Perez pedaled off to work, as the daily churn of immigration across the
nation carried on. Farm work. Landscaping. Construction. Day jobs. It is all
here in northern San Diego, where the stirrings of immigration largely reflect
the national debate.

With the first light of day, they trickle out of canyons and hills here, mostly
men from the Mexican state of Oaxaca, their chattering in Spanish and Mixteco,
an Indian language, filling the air.

''I was in an apartment downtown when the agents came and took us all to
Tijuana,'' said Margarito Brito, describing his apprehension in March by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''But I came back in April. There is always
work here. I have been coming for 20 years.''

A crush of migrant workers and day laborers crowd street corners and parking
lots and, with a dearth of affordable apartments and farm-worker housing in the
area, they drag tarps, crates and spare wood into the hills and canyons for
makeshift housing.

At night they can see the glitter of million-dollar homes that brush against
tomato fields and hills and ravines less than a mile away, at a closeness that
has made some residents of those homes uncomfortable.

The migrant camps have been vandalized. Anti-immigration groups have protested
the migrant workers' presence.

But men like Mr. Brito keep coming, filling a demand for cheap, convenient
labor. He said he never thought legalization would happen for him or his
companions, but it is just as well.

''I have my wife and four children in Mexico,'' Mr. Brito said, sitting on a
roadside crate, waiting for work. ''It would be good to be legal, but I am not,
and I am still working.''

THE FRONT LINE

A Rancher Takes

His Daily Inventory

NACO, Ariz., June 29 -- It was 8 a.m., and John Ladd was taking a daily
inventory to see what illegal immigration had done the night before to his
14,000-acre cattle ranch on the border here in southeastern Arizona.

Mr. Ladd pulled his Dodge pickup out of his driveway, through a gate and onto a
dirt road leading into a rolling pastureland of desert grasses, mesquite scrub
and darting jackrabbits. A few hundred yards away, he pointed to a section of
cutaway fencing.

''They used to be somewhat responsible and just pull the fence apart,'' he said
of the estimated 200 immigrants who cross his property from Mexico every day.
''Now it's just, 'Let's go as fast as we can.' ''

Mr. Ladd has long been disappointed with Congress for not having solved the
problems on the border, and though only lukewarm about the Senate bill, he was
not particularly surprised that the politicians in Washington botched it again.

In recent years, tighter border security, including three camera towers that the
Ladds allowed the Border Patrol to install on the 111-year-old family ranch,
have only made human smugglers more frantic, as well as more organized, Mr. Ladd
said.

And as illegal immigration has become more lucrative, he suggested, the drug
cartels in the neighboring state of Sonora have taken a stepped-up role.

Mr. Ladd said he had seen it in the way that the vehicles from sleepy Naco,
Sonora, that used to shuttle illegal immigrants through the desert, had been
replaced by taxicabs from an organized-crime hotbed, Cananea, Sonora, 45 minutes
away on a bumpy dirt road.

And he has heard it from his Mexican rancher buddies, whom he meets at the
border fence to chat over a can of beer.

''I asked one guy about it, and he said, 'Oh, it's that darned cartel from
Cananea,' '' Mr. Ladd recounted.

Even so, Mr. Ladd said, he is more concerned with his cut fences than with the
people who send the fence cutters.

''That's what irritates me more than anything,'' said Mr. Ladd, who manages two
distinct herds on the ranch. ''I can't keep my cows separated anymore.''
JONATHAN CLARK

THE POST-MORTEM

Wishful Plotting

For the Next Round

After the Senate bill was stopped cold, Tamar Jacoby, a conservative Republican
who helped to organize the movement to support it, went for a stiff drink and a
few hours sleep. Then Ms. Jacoby returned for more Washington meetings for
gloomy post-mortems and a little wishful plotting about what might come next.

Ms. Jacoby, 52, went from desk-chair intellectual to phone-calling door-knocking
advocate in the last few years, after reading about illegal immigrants who died
in the Arizona desert trying to cross into the United States.

For her, defeat came at the hands of American voters from her conservative camp
who, she acknowledged, did better at galvanizing their forces.

''The polls show that the public supports a practical answer to immigration,''
she said. ''We just didn't tap into those sentiments as well to sell the
compromise.''

Ms. Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research
group in New York, helped organize business people, who are often hesitant to
come forward, into groups in 13 states supporting the Senate package. Their
button-down appeals were no match for the scorching radio, television and
Internet blitz by the opponents.

''Amnesty is a bumper sticker,'' she said, using the word that opponents used to
tar the bill as rewarding illegal immigrant lawbreakers. ''We had a complicated
compromise to defend. Some of us were ambivalent about it. They didn't have an
ounce of ambivalence.''

JULIA PRESTON

THE FACE-OFF

Disappointment

And Satisfaction

HAZLETON, Pa., June 29 -- Wyoming Street, the heart of the Hispanic business
district here, has been struggling because many customers are afraid. The fear
set in about a year ago when the City Council passed an ordinance intended to
crack down on illegal immigration.

It turned to despair on Thursday, as many illegal residents across the country
saw one of their few opportunities to become United States citizens evaporate.

''It's a tragedy for people in this situation that the Congress couldn't
agree,'' said Rudy Espinal, 39, a real estate agent who is a citizen. He came to
this city about 100 miles northwest of Philadelphia in 2001 from the Dominican
Republic and is president of the Hazleton Hispanic Business Association.

But one man's tragedy is often another man's triumph. Mayor Louis J. Barletta,
who championed the town's assertive approach to immigration, used a breakfast in
honor of Hazleton's 150th anniversary to welcome the demise of the legislation,
which he characterized as amnesty.

''I'm pleased that the American people's voice was heard loud and clear,'' Mr.
Barletta, a Republican, said at the breakfast, where organizers sold T-shirts
with the motto ''Hazleton: A City With Attitude.''

Mr. Barletta said the pressure was back on places like Hazleton to deal with the
country's illegal immigrants, a pressure he welcomes. The city's ordinance,
which is the subject of a federal injunction pending court challenges, would
penalize businesses that hire illegal immigrants, fine landlords who rent to
them and establish English as the  official language.

''We had no confidence the federal government would solve this problem,'' he
said.

About a third of Hazleton's 31,000 residents are immigrants from Central and
South America, many of whom have arrived in the last five years, drawn by
affordable housing and factory jobs. According to some estimates, before the
ordinance was passed, about a quarter of the immigrant population was illegal.
-- JON HURDLE

THE ANXIETY

The Asian Face

Of Immigration

Flushing is one of New York City's most heavily Asian neighborhoods, and the
immigrants who take job-training classes at the Chinese-American Planning
Council in the shadow of the Whitestone Bridge are either United States
citizens, like Jason Li, or green-card holders.

''I'm angry'' about the immigration bill, Mr. Li said in Mandarin as he took a
break from a class in interviewing skills. ''It's difficult for the undocumented
in America. They make their contributions to this country by working hard,
mostly overtime; they work harder than the people who live here legally.''

''I talked to them after hearing about the vote,'' Mr. Li, 37, said, ''and
they're scared. They're more scared than ever.''

A Chinese construction worker, who is 28 and did not want his name used because
he is in the United States illegally, agreed, but said he had never expected it
to pass.

''This bill was about politicians playing games,'' he said. ''They never paid
attention to what immigrants need. But my life won't be disturbed by the
decision. I will still work day and night, go home, cook dinner and start over
the next day. The main inconvenience is that I can't drive.'' KAI MA

THE NEXT STEP

Technology Prepares

To Go It Alone

SAN FRANCISCO, June 29 -- Lesson learned. Ralph Hellman, a lobbyist for the
technology industry, is now preparing to fly solo.

With a tone befitting someone who has endured his share of Congressional
battles, Mr. Hellman said technology companies had a better shot at getting what
they wanted on immigration by staying away from measures that offered too much
to too many.

''Some of the most hardcore opponents of the immigration bill are some of our
strongest proponents,'' he said of the failed Senate bill. ''They really
understand our issues, but they didn't support the comprehensive bill.''

Above all, Mr. Hellman and other technology lobbyists wanted a bill that would
have provided more temporary visas for scientists and engineers. Three years
ago, a law tripling the number of H1B temporary visas expired, reducing them to
65,000 from 195,000 a year.

The technology field never wanted the visas addressed in the comprehensive bill,
Mr. Hellman said. Although the bill would have raised the cap on H1B visas, it
did not adequately address the problems of workers who wanted to remain in the
United States after their visas had expired.

Looking ahead, Mr. Hellman said technology representatives would act fairly
quickly, perhaps creating a new bill for the fall. Where it goes from there, of
course, is anyone's guess.

''We're patient,'' said Mr. Hellman, a senior vice president at the Information
Technology Industry Council in Washington. ''We've been patient for three
years.''  LAURIE J. FLYNN

THE DISTANCE

Broken Dreams,

Broken Families

TULCINGO DEL VALLE, Mexico, June 29 -- On most every street corner in this
sun-baked town, dominated by a bright yellow church and a market cluttered with
fresh produce, there are stories of sundered families and twisted versions of
the American dream.

Almost every family here has sent someone to the United States to find work,
mostly in New York City.

Miguel Romero, 36, loitered outside a restaurant, looking as forlorn as a
deflated balloon. For 16 years, he had worked as a glazier in Brooklyn. He
married and was raising five children.

But earlier this year, immigration officials arrested him while he was
installing glass in a storefront in lower Manhattan, Mr. Romero said. He was
deported on May 21.

His wife, also in the United States illegally, decided not to join him, and he
says he does not blame her, since wages here average about $10 a day. He has no
idea where his family is living or how they are surviving. He does not dare
cross the border illegally again, for fear of getting caught and serving time in
jail.

''My whole life I spent up there, and it's hard for me to come back,'' he said
in perfect English. ''We have been up there so many years, and most of us don't
commit crimes. People that do nothing but work should get a break.''

He shook his head. ''It's never going to happen,'' he said.

Residents here are used to promises of change in United States immigration laws
that never pan out, just as they are accustomed to being separated from family
members and to lining up at money-transfer agencies to collect remittances from
far-flung relatives.

''It's the same that they have always done -- they say they will do it but they
don't,'' said Rene Leon, as he left a Western Union office where he had picked
up some money wired by his brothers in New York. ''It's a game to them.''

Palemon Gomez, a local hotel owner, said this town of 11,000 about 125 miles
southeast of Mexico City had been watching the Senate immigration bill's
fortunes with a mix of fear and hope. Many residents have relatives in the
United States who would have benefited from it.

''There were a lot of people betting that they were going to get their residency
papers through this law,'' Mr. Gomez said. ''If they had approved this law, the
whole world would be happy.''  JAMES C. McKINLEY JR.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: TULCINGO DEL VALLE, MEXICO: Many in this city, where most have
a family member in the United States, were let down. Silvester Sergio, 14,
seated with his cousin Anderson Valle, 6
they were born in the Bronx.(Photograph by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York
Times)(pg. A1)
SAN DIEGO: Day laborers hoping for jobs in construction, farming or landscaping,
gathering at dawn in the northern part of the city, whose immigration dynamics
reflect those of the nation, and where shantytowns exist less than a mile from
million-dollar homes. (Photograph by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A12)

NEW YORK CITY: Jason Li, a citizen, said he was angry the bill died. ''It's
difficult for the undocumented in America,'' he said. ''They make their
contributions to this country by working hard, mostly overtime
they work harder than the people who live here legally.'' (Photograph by Michael
Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 HAZLETON, PA.: Mayor Louis J. Barletta, who has led an assertive approach to
immigration was relieved that the legislation died. ''I'm pleased that the
American people's voice was heard loud and clear,'' he said at the city's 150th
anniversary celebration.(Photograph by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg.
A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seeks Rules to Allow Increase in Guest Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 820 words


Bush administration officials said yesterday that they were developing new rules
so the nation's farmers could bring in more foreign guest workers to prevent a
recurrence of problems like growers' letting their fruit rot because there were
not enough laborers for the harvest.

Farm groups have long pressed the administration to eliminate hurdles that make
it hard to bring in guest workers, saying they face a crisis because stepped-up
federal immigration enforcement has reduced the number of farm workers. By many
estimates, more than half of the nation's 2.5 million farm workers are illegal
immigrants.

Administration officials said they saw a need to make procedural changes and
larger regulatory changes in the guest worker program after Congress killed an
immigration overhaul last summer.

''The current temporary agricultural worker program has become too antiquated
and too cumbersome to be used effectively by producers,'' said a White House
spokesman, Scott Stanzel. ''The program needs to be updated to reflect today's
economy and to utilize technological and other advances.''

Under the H-2A program, farmers can bring in temporary workers after
demonstrating that American workers are not interested in the jobs and after
going through a lengthy application process. Currently, they bring in about
50,000 such  workers a year.

After President Bush called for changes in the program on Aug. 10, the White
House, the Department of Labor and the Department of Homeland Security solicited
recommendations from farm groups on how to streamline the program.

The administration is pressing ahead on that effort, first reported in The Los
Angeles Times, after some growers in the Northwest let their cherries and apples
rot because of a shortage of workers and after some growers in North Carolina
did not plant cucumbers this year because they feared not having enough workers
for the harvest.

The National Council of Agricultural Employers has written to the administration
to urge  changes like  speeding up the H-2A application process, easing housing
requirements for guest workers, reducing the required wage for these workers
and increasing the types of work they are allowed to do -- poultry processing
might be included,  for instance. Grower groups have also urged the
administration to ease requirements that they run newspaper advertisements to
determine whether American workers want the jobs.

The council's executive vice president, Sharon M. Hughes, said the application
process often took so long that by the time some farmers obtained guest workers
the harvest was over. Ms. Hughes  said the number of farm workers available was
down about 200,000, or nearly 10 percent, from last year because of more
aggressive border enforcement.

''Right now,'' she said, ''the H-2A program provides about 2 percent of the farm
work force and for us to try to double that number with the current government
infrastructure would cause it to collapse on itself unless we have these
reforms.''

The executive vice president of the Western Growers Association, Jasper Hempel,
said: ''We're caught in a vise. When labor isn't available, we have a legal
program using H-2A, but many farmers can't use that program because there are so
many impediments. They throw up double requirements. They don't process papers
when they say they will. There isn't enough staff.''

Grower groups say that even more than administrative changes, they would prefer
enacting stalled legislation that would greatly streamline the H-2A program and
create a path to citizenship for many undocumented farm workers.

A Labor Department spokesman, David James, said the administration was mindful
of the farmers' concerns.

''The Department of Labor,'' Mr. James  said, ''is now in the process of
identifying ways the program can be improved to provide farmers with an orderly
and timely flow of legal workers while protecting the rights of both U.S.
workers and foreign temporary workers.''

Advocates for farm workers have voiced dismay about the administration's plans
and the industry's recommendations.

''The industry's demands would amount to a cheap foreign labor policy,'' said
Bruce Goldstein,  executive director of Farmworker Justice. ''They would make it
easier for employers to bring in guest workers and slash wage rates and other
labor protections.''

The administration also faces criticism from conservative groups that dislike
bringing in more immigrants.

''If there is a demonstrable need for the workers, we have no objection to
bringing them in,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which opposes liberalizing immigration rules. ''But
here they're trying to tip the balance in favor of employers. The administration
wants not just to cut down on administrative procedures, but to bypass the whole
process that has been put in place to protect American workers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Coalition Of Christians Seeks Changes At Borders

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7


A new coalition of more than 100 largely evangelical Christian leaders and
organizations asked Congress on Monday to pass bills to strengthen border
controls but also give illegal immigrants ways to gain legal residency.

The announcement spotlights evangelical leaders' increasingly visible efforts to
push for what they say is a more humane policy in keeping with biblical
injunctions to show compassion for their neighbors, the weak and the alien.

The new group, Christians for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, includes members
like the Mennonite Church U.S.A. and the National Hispanic Christian Leadership
Conference, which represents Latino evangelicals.

It includes individuals like Dr. Joel C. Hunter, pastor of Northland, a
megachurch in Longwood, Fla., and Sammy Mah, president of World Relief, an aid
group affiliated with the National Association of Evangelicals.

The concerns of the coalition mirror those of many evangelical leaders who have
often staked out conservative positions on other social issues or who have
avoided politics entirely.

In late March, Dr. Richard Land, the conservative president of the Southern
Baptist Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, stood with Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, in supporting routes to legalization for
illegal immigrants.

The Rev. Joel Osteen, whose television ministry reaches millions but who steers
clear of politics, has also spoken out for compassionate changes.

Immigration ''for us is a religious issue, a biblical issue,'' said the Rev. Jim
Wallis, president of a liberal evangelical group, Call to Renewal, and a member
of the coalition. ''We call it welcoming the stranger.''

Christians for Comprehensive Immigration Reform does not back particular
measures, said Katie Barge, a spokeswoman for Faith in Public Life, the
organizers of a news conference about the group.

Rather, the coalition calls for bills that would push for border enforcement
while improving guest worker programs and offering chances for illegal
immigrants to obtain legal status, an approach similar to bills that Congress is
considering.

The group advertised in newspapers like Roll Call here on Monday and plans to
expand to other papers and radio. It is also trying to present at least 200,000
letters to Congress and the White House on immigration, the first 50,000 of
which arrived at the news conference.

The group plans to focus its initial efforts on the news media and church
members in Arizona, Florida, Kansas, Ohio and Pennsylvania, because of the high
visibility of the immigration debate in some of those states and the pivotal
role some of their members of Congress have in the debate.

Evangelical leaders have a delicate balance to strike among their rank and file.
A poll in March 2006 by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life found that
white evangelicals favored a more conservative policy toward immigrants than
other Americans. That position is largely based on concerns that immigrants
threaten the American way of life, rather than economic worries, the survey
said.

Immigrants, many of them illegal, have flocked to evangelical congregations, and
evangelical pastors understand that immigration changes increasingly affect
their congregants directly.

The Southern Baptist Convention passed a resolution last year calling for
improved border protection and financial and language tests for legalization
along with ministry to immigrants, a position most heartily backed, Dr. Land
said, by Hispanic Baptists.

John Green, senior fellow with the Pew Forum, said: ''There are risks coming out
with any positions for evangelical leaders. They risk taking a position that
many in their pews don't agree with.''

But given the great efforts that evangelicals have been making to reach out to
Asians and Hispanic immigrants, Mr. Green added, ''if they remain silent, there
are great risks as well.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Deal: A Step Forward?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 819 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Senators in Bipartisan Deal on Broad Immigration Bill'' (front page, May
18):

While I applaud the effort in the Senate to end the illegal immigration
stalemate, it is far too early to expect the measure to become law.

A year ago, the Senate passed the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006
to much fanfare. That bill also represented bipartisan compromise and promised a
realistic resolution to the chaotic situation, but failed in the House.

With a Democratic Congress, this latest attempt might survive opponents'
doomsday warnings of amnesty and the end of American culture. The danger is that
politicians, skittish about next year's partisan primaries in both presidential
and Congressional races, will bypass another opportunity for comprehensive
immigration reform.

Until the politicians emerge from the shadows of silence and indecision, the
American dream will resemble a pipe dream to millions of illegal immigrants.
Wayne Trujillo  Lakewood, Colo., May 18, 2007  The writer is the editor of
Latino Suave.   To the Editor:

The immigration reform negotiators in the Senate announced an unworkable deal.
Our elected leaders, in their politically expedient maneuvering, excluded from
the dialogue the millions of working-class, undocumented immigrants who came out
and marched all across the United States demanding a real, comprehensive reform.

Republicans and Democrats wanted to cater to both the conservative and liberal
voters, and thus paid more attention to the 2008 elections than the lives and
suffering of the immigrants who do not have a vote.

The so-called bipartisan move is a huge disappointment, because among other
flaws the proposal takes away a family-based immigration path, prevents
temporary workers from earning legalization, thereby perpetuating an indentured
servitude, and links national security with immigration reform, rationalizing an
increased border militarization, interior enforcement and national ID system.
Partha Banerjee Brooklyn, May 18, 2007  To the Editor:

It is commendable that the Senate finally seems to have reached a consensus on a
bipartisan proposal for immigration reform. But it is disheartening to see that
illegal immigrants would be given a path to citizenship, while people who have
gone through the impossible to stay here legally are not being offered a
naturalization program.

I have lived here for almost nine years. Four on a student visa that I duly
renewed every year, one on Optional Practical Training permit, two more years
doing my M.B.A. on yet another student visa and now on a H-1B working visa, for
which my company shelled out more than $1,500 in government fees and much more
in attorney fees.

In addition to paying all visa-related fees, I have dutifully paid government,
state and local taxes (even on a portion of my university scholarship), as well
as Social Security and Medicare while working. Am I not as entitled as an
illegal immigrant to a green card, senators?   Issidor Iliev-Wollitzer New York,
May 18, 2007  To the Editor:

The new immigration law smells, looks and walks a lot like the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986.

That act did not stop the flow of undocumented migration; rather, it created a
black market for false Social Security cards, hence shifting the burden and
criminal activity from business to the immigrant. In addition, the bureaucratic
hoops that immigrants would have to jump through for residency are out of reach
for many undocumented migrants since it requires time, money and information to
maneuver through our complicated system.

As immigrants have adapted to the Immigration Reform and Control Act, newcomers
and potential immigrants will do the same. It is naive to think that border
control and sanctions, which have not worked in the past, will change the deeply
embedded social and economic conditions that drive immigration in this country.
Sang Lee Oakland, Calif., May 18, 2007  To the Editor:

The new immigration bill misses the point entirely. It will not stop the flow of
illegal immigrants across our borders with Mexico. All the money spent so far to
build fences and hire new border agents has not stopped the flow of unemployed
poor people coming to a country that welcomes their lawbreaking with a job.

Employers get major advantages by hiring illegal workers. They don't have to pay
minimum wage, overtime pay, benefits and in many cases taxes because they pay
cash. This country needs to punish the real lawbreakers: employers who hire
illegal workers.

If the penalties were high enough and if repeat offenders were sent to jail, the
illegal workers would stop coming because no employer would hire them; then and
only then will the flow stop.

Most illegal immigrants are honest, hard-working people. As long as there are
jobs for them here, they will continue to come.  Mike Mitte Edmonds, Wash., May
18, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Gough)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should Immigration Be a Police Issue?

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2646 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J.


THE rumors have thinned the morning lines of immigrant men who gather on Morris
Street, looking for work. The news -- that the local police might have a hand
enforcing federal immigration policy -- has spread throughout this historic,
diverse town on the edge of New Jersey's horse country, and a few people have
even started to move away.

It started in early March with Mayor Donald Cresitello's proposal to enroll the
police in a small but growing federal program -- now in place in 10 states --
that trains local officers to help enforce federal immigration laws.

A grandson of Italian immigrants, Mayor Cresitello said he had the support of
most of the town's 18,000 residents, nearly a third of whom are Hispanic. An
estimated 1,500 undocumented immigrants live here, the mayor said, adding that
police officers, with the training, could break up the overcrowded houses where
many day laborers live and could stop contractors who hire them from coming to
Morristown.

But his approach has ignited protests and raised old questions about the role of
police departments in immigration matters, a thorny part of the rancorous
national debate.

In Suffolk County, the number of undocumented immigrants referred to federal
authorities has surged, from 44 people in 2004, when the county executive, Steve
Levy, took office, to 2,289 last year, Mr. Levy said. Police officers ask those
they arrest about their immigration status and refer undocumented individuals to
federal authorities.

''Many local governments take the point of view that they don't want to ask that
question,'' Mr. Levy said. ''I think it's ridiculous for localities to call
themselves sanctuaries.'' He called the notion that some people would stop
cooperating with the police ''silly.''

Mr. Levy said the federal government had promised to station immigration
officers in two county jails, in Yaphank and Riverhead, to process undocumented
criminals. And a recent local law will force businesses with county contracts to
verify the status of all employees.

LAST week in Westchester, County Executive Andrew J. Spano called a press
conference asking for more federal resources to speed up deportation proceedings
against an estimated 700 undocumented immigrants who are on probation.

Mr. Spano said it costs the county about $2 million to $3 million a year to
manage these probationers, who represent about 10 percent of the 7,000 people on
probation. Of the 700 convictions, about 459 were for misdemeanors, officials
said.

Beyond the cost, Mr. Spano said public safety was at risk. ''Having these
individuals in our communities is a serious and ongoing threat to the safety of
our residents,'' he said. ''Many of these people are serious, violent offenders,
and I want them out of our communities and in federal detention centers now.''

In the early 1900s, the growth in immigration was linked to an increase in crime
rates. While recent polls have shown that there is a perception that the influx
of illegal immigrants starting in the 1990s has driven up crime rates, several
recent studies show that is not the case and, in fact, some sociologists believe
the concentration of immigrants has kept the overall crime rate down in some
communities.

Dr. Ruben Rumbaut, a professor at the University of California at Irvine, who
has studied incarceration rates of immigrants, said it was impossible to measure
crime rates of immigrants directly, especially illegal immigrants. ''The
statistics aren't collected that way,'' he said.

But Dr. Rumbaut said incarceration rates of immigrants versus native-born people
seemed to indicate that immigrants get in much less trouble with the law.
Comparing native and foreign-born men between the ages of 18 and 39, he said,
shows that 3.5 percent of native-born men were in jail in 2000, compared with
fewer than 1 percent of foreign-born men.

''People come here to work and stay the heck out of trouble, away from the gaze
of authorities,'' he said.

In Morristown, the police chief, Peter Demnitz, has taken issue with the mayor's
plan, saying, among other things, that he was worried that aligning officers
with federal authorities might hurt cooperation between the police and parts of
the community.

After those comments, Mr. Cresitello ordered Mr. Demnitz to stop speaking with
reporters. ''He doesn't have the scientific precepts to confirm that,'' Mr.
Cresitello said.

Such a clash is not unique. ''Communities across the country are debating what
role, if any, their police should play in immigration policy,'' said Michael
Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who has represented organizations
lobbying for the rights of undocumented immigrants. In many cases, he said,
''the elected official asserts some kind of connection between crime and
immigrants, and law enforcement folks are saying, 'We have our hands full.' ''
Or in other cases, they say the community will lose trust in the police.

Gene Voegtlin, legislative counsel of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police, said more and more local police departments were considering the federal
program, in part because it offers training in the complex field of immigration
law; others are more skeptical. ''There are those who feel it's the proper
role,'' he said, ''and those who think it has a chilling effect on immigrant
communities in these towns.''

In interviews, a handful of police officials talked about the fluid line between
their duties and those of federal authorities, separate roles that blur or
sharpen because of shifting politics and demographics. Local authorities are
permitted but not required to check the immigration status of people they
arrest, a process that starts with asking for identification, followed by
sending a text message to a center run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The next step -- detaining a person for illegal presence in the United States --
now requires the participation of federal agents, and it is usually a civil
violation, not a criminal one. There are fewer than 6,000 federal immigration
agents, so advocates of giving local authorities limited immigration powers
describe such partnerships as ''force multipliers.''

Cities and towns, along with their police departments, have come up with varied
ways of dealing with issues that arise with an influx of immigrants.

Some have taken a harder line. In Danbury, Conn., a raid in January by federal
officers drew charges that local police officers had been involved. By contrast,
places like Hightstown, N.J., and New Haven have sought to reassure immigrants
-- documented or not -- that cooperating with local authorities is safe and
federal officers will not be alerted. In 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New
York signed an executive order that promised that no immigrant would be arrested
for immigration status alone.

In Westchester, Rocco A. Pozzi, commissioner of probation and corrections, said
that about 75 inmates out of the 1,550 now being held in the county jail are
undocumented immigrants. He said the county was focusing on those 700
undocumented immigrants on probation whose cases have been reported to federal
immigration officials, as part of the presentencing process.

''This is not an issue to be confused about complaints around day laborers,''
Mr. Pozzi said. ''We are focusing on the people who are not only committing
crimes but who have been convicted of crimes.''

In Morristown, Mr. Cresitello said his thinking was animated by the violent
killing of a 10-year-old boy, Walter Contreras Valenzuela, whose beaten body was
found by the Whippany River in May 2001. A few weeks later, an undocumented
36-year-old Honduran immigrant, Porfirio Jimenez, was charged with his murder.

Mr. Jimenez, who is still awaiting trial after various procedural delays, had
been arrested by the Morristown police at least three times before Walter was
killed, on charges including robbery and threatening a man with a knife.

After the death of Walter, the son of Guatemalan immigrants, a candlelight vigil
seemed to unify a town where the Hispanic population started growing in the
1980s. Now Spanish is spoken by more than a quarter of the town's residents.
Hispanic businesses line Speedwell Avenue, which leads to the Morristown Green,
site of one of George Washington's winter encampments and now a commercial
center.

Donations were made to the library in Walter's name, and the police hired more
Hispanics. Mr. Cresitello's predecessor also hired an adviser for Hispanic
affairs.

Two weeks ago, there was another sort of candlelight vigil. As the Town Council
discussed the mayor's proposal, immigrants and their supporters gathered in
protest on the steps outside town hall, saying the measure had sent fear
throughout the Hispanic community.

Inside, during a comment period, an eighth grader named Roel Flores-Pettiford
walked slowly to a microphone and read a statement.

''I was motivated to address you after hearing the concerns of my schoolmates,
who are now afraid of cops,'' she began, and presented a petition signed by
about 20 of her classmates. The mayor's plan, the petition said, ''targets the
Latino community of Morristown and instills fear in the children of this
community.''

Asked later about Roel's speech, Mr. Cresitello said, ''I admire her passion.''

THE program the mayor wants to join is known as 287(g), for a section of the
1996 Immigration and Nationality Act that allows local officers, after being
trained, to ''identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration
offenders they encounter during their regular, daily law-enforcement activity.''

Seventeen law enforcement agencies have joined the program, and about 40
applications are pending. Field officers receive five weeks of training with
immigration agents, including how to tap into immigration databases and process
aliens for deportation proceedings.

Some agencies have settled on a narrow focus. The Florida Department of Law
Enforcement, which has trained 62 officers, limited their scope to ''immigration
issues with a domestic security nexus,'' said Mark Zadra, an assistant
commissioner with the agency.

The department was one of the first to join the program, largely because so many
Sept. 11 hijackers had passed through the state. Local officers participate in
raids when they involve critical infrastructure, like airports, water treatment
facilities and cargo ports. But Mr. Zadra said they do not look for undocumented
workers in other places. ''If you're out picking tomatoes, we are not going to
use our 287(g) authority to do a sweep of the fields,'' Mr. Zadra said.

But Don Hunter, the sheriff of Collier County, in southwest Florida, plans to
apply on behalf of the county for a separate agreement with the immigration
authorities. Sheriff Hunter blamed illegal immigration for many local crime
problems, especially gang-related violence. Immigrant communities, including
Haitians and Mexicans, already have strained relations with the police, he said,
adding that he was not worried that closer cooperation between his officers and
immigration agents would make things worse.

''I haven't had that experience of people not coming forward in the most heinous
crimes, serious rapes, or a murder,'' he said. ''Our experience has been the
reverse.''

Officials from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or I.C.E., said this new
program has helped extend its reach. ''There is tremendous oversight in this
program,'' said Marcy Forman, who heads investigations for I.C.E., adding that
the agency would rescind agreements with any law enforcement agency that did not
manage the program properly.

In New Haven, the police chief, Francisco Ortiz, said: ''I don't want officers
on fishing expeditions. I want every citizen to be engaged.'' The town adopted a
policy of not asking about immigration status, unless officers are investigating
crimes.

''I have two undocumented individuals who are murder victims,'' Chief Ortiz
said. ''You need people to tell you about the lives of the victims.'' If his
officers were also charged with enforcing immigration policy -- no matter how
small the role -- witnesses would say, ''You're on your own,'' the chief said.

In many places, a reckoning on the role of the local police has centered on day
laborers. Last November, a federal judge ruled against officials in Mamaroneck
who had used checkpoints and ticketing to clear the town of day laborers. In
Freehold, N.J., borough officials settled a three-year-old lawsuit by agreeing
to stop fining laborers for seeking work in public.

The mayor of Edison, N.J., has been forced to navigate the tricky space between
residents and authorities. Last year, during a protest by the town's large South
Asian community against alleged police misconduct, federal authorities arrested
an Indian man who had argued with an Edison police officer. The man, Rajnikant
Parikh, was deported last month. There have also been federal raids on illegal
immigrants.

Those raids ''present challenges,'' Mayor Jun H. Choi said. He added, ''The
focus for us as a local government is protecting our residents, and making sure
there is greater trust, regardless of their background.''

MR. CRESITELLO, in a series of interviews, stressed that Morristown was still
early in the application process. (Federal officials say they have yet to
receive its application.) But in any agreement, he would ask the federal
government ''to include language for people harboring illegals,'' as a way to
deal with the problem of immigrants living in cramped housing. ''My position is
that federal law defines those things as crimes.''

He said the sight of day laborers in front of the train station was disturbing
to the community, but added that nothing would happen to them ''unless they were
arrested in commission of a crime.'' He added that he hoped contractors who hire
undocumented workers would stop coming.

To the police chief's concern that immigrants would stop cooperating with local
law enforcement -- as they were asked to do after the young boy was killed in
2001 -- Mr. Cresitello said: ''We can force them to cooperate. They would be
witnesses, not cooperating witnesses.''

Michael Fabrizio, executive director of the Morristown Partnership, a business
improvement group, said that for the most part the business community supported
the mayor's proposal, though there had been complaints. ''He's not
anti-immigrant,'' Mr. Fabrizio said of the mayor. ''Without the immigrant
community, we'd have no restaurants in Morristown. Isn't there a way for them to
come in legally?''

A councilman who supported the mayor's proposal, Dick Tighe, said: ''We're not
going to be having jackbooted troopers out searching for illegal immigrants.
We're not going to be arresting jaywalkers.''

Among those protesting the Morristown proposal on a recent Tuesday was Erick
Carreto, 26, a day laborer who used to wait in front of the train station. He
later worked as a busboy, learned English and now works for a nonprofit group
that provides services to the laborers.

He declined to talk in detail about his status, but said he was in the middle of
the long process of ''sorting it out.'' Mr. Carreto said he left Guatemala as a
teenager to seek work and is now able to send money back to his mother.

The mayor's proposal has made him fear random checks by the police, he said.

Mr. Cresitello said, ''I don't agree that anyone should be fearful.'' The mayor
has argued in recent weeks with church leaders, after he said they were doing
nothing to ease the hardships faced by immigrants. He also rejected a clergy
proposal to build a center for the day laborers. Misinformation about his
proposal, he said, has led to unnecessary hysteria in Morristown.

''They don't have anything to fear,'' he said. ''Unless they have something to
fear.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A TOWN DIVIDED -- At a vigil in Morristown, N.J., residents
protested a plan by Mayor Donald Cresitello, right, for the local police to
enforce federal immigration policy. The police chief, Peter Demnitz, left, has
objected to the plan. Above, Morristown Green. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for
The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 FEARS OF A CRACKDOWN -- Day laborers wait for work, above. At right, at a town
meeting, Roel Flores-Pettiford (center, in sweatshirt) spoke of children's
fears. At bottom, Erick Carreto of Wind of the Spirit, an immigrant resource
center. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should Immigration Be a Police Issue?

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2644 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN


THE rumors have thinned the morning lines of immigrant men who gather on Morris
Street, looking for work. The news -- that the local police might have a hand
enforcing federal immigration policy -- has spread throughout this historic,
diverse town on the edge of New Jersey's horse country, and a few people have
even started to move away.

It started in early March with Mayor Donald Cresitello's proposal to enroll the
police in a small but growing federal program -- now in place in 10 states --
that trains local officers to help enforce federal immigration laws.

A grandson of Italian immigrants, Mayor Cresitello said he had the support of
most of the town's 18,000 residents, nearly a third of whom are Hispanic. An
estimated 1,500 undocumented immigrants live here, the mayor said, adding that
police officers, with the training, could break up the overcrowded houses where
many day laborers live and could stop contractors who hire them from coming to
Morristown.

But his approach has ignited protests and raised old questions about the role of
police departments in immigration matters, a thorny part of the rancorous
national debate.

In Suffolk County, the number of undocumented immigrants referred to federal
authorities has surged, from 44 people in 2004, when the county executive, Steve
Levy, took office, to 2,289 last year, Mr. Levy said. Police officers ask those
they arrest about their immigration status and refer undocumented individuals to
federal authorities.

''Many local governments take the point of view that they don't want to ask that
question,'' Mr. Levy said. ''I think it's ridiculous for localities to call
themselves sanctuaries.'' He called the notion that some people would stop
cooperating with the police ''silly.''

Mr. Levy said the federal government had promised to station immigration
officers in two county jails, in Yaphank and Riverhead, to process undocumented
criminals. And a recent local law will force businesses with county contracts to
verify the status of all employees.

LAST week in Westchester, County Executive Andrew J. Spano called a press
conference asking for more federal resources to speed up deportation proceedings
against an estimated 700 undocumented immigrants who are on probation.

Mr. Spano said it costs the county about $2 million to $3 million a year to
manage these probationers, who represent about 10 percent of the 7,000 people on
probation. Of the 700 convictions, about 459 were for misdemeanors, officials
said.

Beyond the cost, Mr. Spano said public safety was at risk. ''Having these
individuals in our communities is a serious and ongoing threat to the safety of
our residents,'' he said. ''Many of these people are serious, violent offenders,
and I want them out of our communities and in federal detention centers now.''

In the early 1900s, the growth in immigration was linked to an increase in crime
rates. While recent polls have shown that there is a perception that the influx
of illegal immigrants starting in the 1990s has driven up crime rates, several
recent studies show that is not the case and, in fact, some sociologists believe
the concentration of immigrants has kept the overall crime rate down in some
communities.

Dr. Ruben Rumbaut, a professor at the University of California at Irvine, who
has studied incarceration rates of immigrants, said it was impossible to measure
crime rates of immigrants directly, especially illegal immigrants. ''The
statistics aren't collected that way,'' he said.

But Dr. Rumbaut said incarceration rates of immigrants versus native-born people
seemed to indicate that immigrants get in much less trouble with the law.
Comparing native and foreign-born men between the ages of 18 and 39, he said,
shows that 3.5 percent of native-born men were in jail in 2000, compared with
fewer than 1 percent of foreign-born men.

''People come here to work and stay the heck out of trouble, away from the gaze
of authorities,'' he said.

In Morristown, the police chief, Peter Demnitz, has taken issue with the mayor's
plan, saying, among other things, that he was worried that aligning officers
with federal authorities might hurt cooperation between the police and parts of
the community.

After those comments, Mr. Cresitello ordered Mr. Demnitz to stop speaking with
reporters. ''He doesn't have the scientific precepts to confirm that,'' Mr.
Cresitello said.

Such a clash is not unique. ''Communities across the country are debating what
role, if any, their police should play in immigration policy,'' said Michael
Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who has represented organizations
lobbying for the rights of undocumented immigrants. In many cases, he said,
''the elected official asserts some kind of connection between crime and
immigrants, and law enforcement folks are saying, 'We have our hands full.' ''
Or in other cases, they say the community will lose trust in the police.

Gene Voegtlin, legislative counsel of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police, said more and more local police departments were considering the federal
program, in part because it offers training in the complex field of immigration
law; others are more skeptical. ''There are those who feel it's the proper
role,'' he said, ''and those who think it has a chilling effect on immigrant
communities in these towns.''

In interviews, a handful of police officials talked about the fluid line between
their duties and those of federal authorities, separate roles that blur or
sharpen because of shifting politics and demographics. Local authorities are
permitted but not required to check the immigration status of people they
arrest, a process that starts with asking for identification, followed by
sending a text message to a center run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The next step -- detaining a person for illegal presence in the United States --
now requires the participation of federal agents, and it is usually a civil
violation, not a criminal one. There are fewer than 6,000 federal immigration
agents, so advocates of giving local authorities limited immigration powers
describe such partnerships as ''force multipliers.''

Cities and towns, along with their police departments, have come up with varied
ways of dealing with issues that arise with an influx of immigrants.

Some have taken a harder line. In Danbury, Conn., a raid in January by federal
officers drew charges that local police officers had been involved. By contrast,
places like Hightstown and New Haven have sought to reassure immigrants --
documented or not -- that cooperating with local authorities is safe and federal
officers will not be alerted. In 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York
signed an executive order that promised that no immigrant would be arrested for
immigration status alone.

In Westchester, Rocco A. Pozzi, commissioner of probation and corrections, said
that about 75 inmates out of the 1,550 now being held in the county jail are
undocumented immigrants. He said the county was focusing on those 700
undocumented immigrants on probation whose cases have been reported to federal
immigration officials, as part of the presentencing process.

''This is not an issue to be confused about complaints around day laborers,''
Mr. Pozzi said. ''We are focusing on the people who are not only committing
crimes but who have been convicted of crimes.''

In Morristown, Mr. Cresitello said his thinking was animated by the violent
killing of a 10-year-old boy, Walter Contreras Valenzuela, whose beaten body was
found by the Whippany River in May 2001. A few weeks later, an undocumented
36-year-old Honduran immigrant, Porfirio Jimenez, was charged with his murder.

Mr. Jimenez, who is still awaiting trial after various procedural delays, had
been arrested by the Morristown police at least three times before Walter was
killed, on charges including robbery and threatening a man with a knife.

After the death of Walter, the son of Guatemalan immigrants, a candlelight vigil
seemed to unify a town where the Hispanic population started growing in the
1980s. Now Spanish is spoken by more than a quarter of the town's residents.
Hispanic businesses line Speedwell Avenue, which leads to the Morristown Green,
site of one of George Washington's winter encampments and now a commercial
center.

Donations were made to the library in Walter's name, and the police hired more
Hispanics. Mr. Cresitello's predecessor also hired an adviser for Hispanic
affairs.

Two weeks ago, there was another sort of candlelight vigil. As the Town Council
discussed the mayor's proposal, immigrants and their supporters gathered in
protest on the steps outside town hall, saying the measure had sent fear
throughout the Hispanic community.

Inside, during a comment period, an eighth grader named Roel Flores-Pettiford
walked slowly to a microphone and read a statement.

''I was motivated to address you after hearing the concerns of my schoolmates,
who are now afraid of cops,'' she began, and presented a petition signed by
about 20 of her classmates. The mayor's plan, the petition said, ''targets the
Latino community of Morristown and instills fear in the children of this
community.''

Asked later about Roel's speech, Mr. Cresitello said, ''I admire her passion.''

THE program the mayor wants to join is known as 287(g), for a section of the
1996 Immigration and Nationality Act that allows local officers, after being
trained, to ''identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration
offenders they encounter during their regular, daily law-enforcement activity.''

Seventeen law enforcement agencies have joined the program, and about 40
applications are pending. Field officers receive five weeks of training with
immigration agents, including how to tap into immigration databases and process
aliens for deportation proceedings.

Some agencies have settled on a narrow focus. The Florida Department of Law
Enforcement, which has trained 62 officers, limited their scope to ''immigration
issues with a domestic security nexus,'' said Mark Zadra, an assistant
commissioner with the agency.

The department was one of the first to join the program, largely because so many
Sept. 11 hijackers had passed through the state. Local officers participate in
raids when they involve critical infrastructure, like airports, water treatment
facilities and cargo ports. But Mr. Zadra said they do not look for undocumented
workers in other places. ''If you're out picking tomatoes, we are not going to
use our 287(g) authority to do a sweep of the fields,'' Mr. Zadra said.

But Don Hunter, the sheriff of Collier County, in southwest Florida, plans to
apply on behalf of the county for a separate agreement with the immigration
authorities. Sheriff Hunter blamed illegal immigration for many local crime
problems, especially gang-related violence. Immigrant communities, including
Haitians and Mexicans, already have strained relations with the police, he said,
adding that he was not worried that closer cooperation between his officers and
immigration agents would make things worse.

''I haven't had that experience of people not coming forward in the most heinous
crimes, serious rapes, or a murder,'' he said. ''Our experience has been the
reverse.''

Officials from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or I.C.E., said this new
program has helped extend its reach. ''There is tremendous oversight in this
program,'' said Marcy Forman, who heads investigations for I.C.E., adding that
the agency would rescind agreements with any law enforcement agency that did not
manage the program properly.

In New Haven, the police chief, Francisco Ortiz, said: ''I don't want officers
on fishing expeditions. I want every citizen to be engaged.'' The town adopted a
policy of not asking about immigration status, unless officers are investigating
crimes.

''I have two undocumented individuals who are murder victims,'' Chief Ortiz
said. ''You need people to tell you about the lives of the victims.'' If his
officers were also charged with enforcing immigration policy -- no matter how
small the role -- witnesses would say, ''You're on your own,'' the chief said.

In many places, a reckoning on the role of the local police has centered on day
laborers. Last November, a federal judge ruled against officials in Mamaroneck,
N.Y., who had used checkpoints and ticketing to clear the town of day laborers.
In Freehold, borough officials settled a three-year-old lawsuit by agreeing to
stop fining laborers for seeking work in public.

The mayor of Edison has been forced to navigate the tricky space between
residents and authorities. Last year, during a protest by the town's large South
Asian community against alleged police misconduct, federal authorities arrested
an Indian man who had argued with an Edison police officer. The man, Rajnikant
Parikh, was deported last month. There have also been federal raids on illegal
immigrants.

Those raids ''present challenges,'' Mayor Jun H. Choi said. He added, ''The
focus for us as a local government is protecting our residents, and making sure
there is greater trust, regardless of their background.''

MR. CRESITELLO, in a series of interviews, stressed that Morristown was still
early in the application process. (Federal officials say they have yet to
receive its application.) But in any agreement, he would ask the federal
government ''to include language for people harboring illegals,'' as a way to
deal with the problem of immigrants living in cramped housing. ''My position is
that federal law defines those things as crimes.''

He said the sight of day laborers in front of the train station was disturbing
to the community, but added that nothing would happen to them ''unless they were
arrested in commission of a crime.'' He added that he hoped contractors who hire
undocumented workers would stop coming.

To the police chief's concern that immigrants would stop cooperating with local
law enforcement -- as they were asked to do after the young boy was killed in
2001 -- Mr. Cresitello said: ''We can force them to cooperate. They would be
witnesses, not cooperating witnesses.''

Michael Fabrizio, executive director of the Morristown Partnership, a business
improvement group, said that for the most part the business community supported
the mayor's proposal, though there had been complaints. ''He's not
anti-immigrant,'' Mr. Fabrizio said of the mayor. ''Without the immigrant
community, we'd have no restaurants in Morristown. Isn't there a way for them to
come in legally?''

A councilman who supported the mayor's proposal, Dick Tighe, said: ''We're not
going to be having jackbooted troopers out searching for illegal immigrants.
We're not going to be arresting jaywalkers.''

Among those protesting the Morristown proposal on a recent Tuesday was Erick
Carreto, 26, a day laborer who used to wait in front of the train station. He
later worked as a busboy, learned English and now works for a nonprofit group
that provides services to the laborers.

He declined to talk in detail about his status, but said he was in the middle of
the long process of ''sorting it out.'' Mr. Carreto said he left Guatemala as a
teenager to seek work and is now able to send money back to his mother.

The mayor's proposal has made him fear random checks by the police, he said.

Mr. Cresitello said, ''I don't agree that anyone should be fearful.'' The mayor
has argued in recent weeks with church leaders, after he said they were doing
nothing to ease the hardships faced by immigrants. He also rejected a clergy
proposal to build a center for the day laborers. Misinformation about his
proposal, he said, has led to unnecessary hysteria in Morristown.

''They don't have anything to fear,'' he said. ''Unless they have something to
fear.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: FEARS OF A CRACKDOWN -- Day laborers wait for work, above. At
right, at a town meeting, Roel Flores-Pettiford (center, in sweatshirt) spoke of
children's fears. At bottom, Erick Carreto of Wind of the Spirit, an immigrant
resource center. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 A TOWN DIVIDED -- At a vigil in Morristown, residents protested a plan by Mayor
Donald Cresitello, right, for the local police to enforce federal immigration
policy. The police chief, Peter Demnitz, left, has objected to the plan. Above,
Morristown Green. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should Immigration Be a Police Issue?

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2647 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J.


THE rumors have thinned the morning lines of immigrant men who gather on Morris
Street, looking for work. The news -- that the local police might have a hand
enforcing federal immigration policy -- has spread throughout this historic,
diverse town on the edge of New Jersey's horse country, and a few people have
even started to move away.

It started in early March with Mayor Donald Cresitello's proposal to enroll the
police in a small but growing federal program -- now in place in 10 states --
that trains local officers to help enforce federal immigration laws.

A grandson of Italian immigrants, Mayor Cresitello said he had the support of
most of the town's 18,000 residents, nearly a third of whom are Hispanic. An
estimated 1,500 undocumented immigrants live here, the mayor said, adding that
police officers, with the training, could break up the overcrowded houses where
many day laborers live and could stop contractors who hire them from coming to
Morristown.

But his approach has ignited protests and raised old questions about the role of
police departments in immigration matters, a thorny part of the rancorous
national debate.

In Suffolk County, the number of undocumented immigrants referred to federal
authorities has surged, from 44 people in 2004, when the county executive, Steve
Levy, took office, to 2,289 last year, Mr. Levy said. Police officers ask those
they arrest about their immigration status and refer undocumented individuals to
federal authorities.

''Many local governments take the point of view that they don't want to ask that
question,'' Mr. Levy said. ''I think it's ridiculous for localities to call
themselves sanctuaries.'' He called the notion that some people would stop
cooperating with the police ''silly.''

Mr. Levy said the federal government had promised to station immigration
officers in two county jails, in Yaphank and Riverhead, to process undocumented
criminals. And a recent local law will force businesses with county contracts to
verify the status of all employees.

LAST week in Westchester, County Executive Andrew J. Spano called a press
conference asking for more federal resources to speed up deportation proceedings
against an estimated 700 undocumented immigrants who are on probation.

Mr. Spano said it costs the county about $2 million to $3 million a year to
manage these probationers, who represent about 10 percent of the 7,000 people on
probation. Of the 700 convictions, about 459 were for misdemeanors, officials
said.

Beyond the cost, Mr. Spano said public safety was at risk. ''Having these
individuals in our communities is a serious and ongoing threat to the safety of
our residents,'' he said. ''Many of these people are serious, violent offenders,
and I want them out of our communities and in federal detention centers now.''

In the early 1900s, the growth in immigration was linked to an increase in crime
rates. While recent polls have shown that there is a perception that the influx
of illegal immigrants starting in the 1990s has driven up crime rates, several
recent studies show that is not the case and, in fact, some sociologists believe
the concentration of immigrants has kept the overall crime rate down in some
communities.

Dr. Ruben Rumbaut, a professor at the University of California at Irvine, who
has studied incarceration rates of immigrants, said it was impossible to measure
crime rates of immigrants directly, especially illegal immigrants. ''The
statistics aren't collected that way,'' he said.

But Dr. Rumbaut said incarceration rates of immigrants versus native-born people
seemed to indicate that immigrants get in much less trouble with the law.
Comparing native and foreign-born men between the ages of 18 and 39, he said,
shows that 3.5 percent of native-born men were in jail in 2000, compared with
fewer than 1 percent of foreign-born men.

''People come here to work and stay the heck out of trouble, away from the gaze
of authorities,'' he said.

In Morristown, the police chief, Peter Demnitz, has taken issue with the mayor's
plan, saying, among other things, that he was worried that aligning officers
with federal authorities might hurt cooperation between the police and parts of
the community.

After those comments, Mr. Cresitello ordered Mr. Demnitz to stop speaking with
reporters. ''He doesn't have the scientific precepts to confirm that,'' Mr.
Cresitello said.

Such a clash is not unique. ''Communities across the country are debating what
role, if any, their police should play in immigration policy,'' said Michael
Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who has represented organizations
lobbying for the rights of undocumented immigrants. In many cases, he said,
''the elected official asserts some kind of connection between crime and
immigrants, and law enforcement folks are saying, 'We have our hands full.' ''
Or in other cases, they say the community will lose trust in the police.

Gene Voegtlin, legislative counsel of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police, said more and more local police departments were considering the federal
program, in part because it offers training in the complex field of immigration
law; others are more skeptical. ''There are those who feel it's the proper
role,'' he said, ''and those who think it has a chilling effect on immigrant
communities in these towns.''

In interviews, a handful of police officials talked about the fluid line between
their duties and those of federal authorities, separate roles that blur or
sharpen because of shifting politics and demographics. Local authorities are
permitted but not required to check the immigration status of people they
arrest, a process that starts with asking for identification, followed by
sending a text message to a center run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The next step -- detaining a person for illegal presence in the United States --
now requires the participation of federal agents, and it is usually a civil
violation, not a criminal one. There are fewer than 6,000 federal immigration
agents, so advocates of giving local authorities limited immigration powers
describe such partnerships as ''force multipliers.''

Cities and towns, along with their police departments, have come up with varied
ways of dealing with issues that arise with an influx of immigrants.

Some have taken a harder line. In Danbury, Conn., a raid in January by federal
officers drew charges that local police officers had been involved. By contrast,
places like Hightstown, N.J., and New Haven have sought to reassure immigrants
-- documented or not -- that cooperating with local authorities is safe and
federal officers will not be alerted. In 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New
York signed an executive order that promised that no immigrant would be arrested
for immigration status alone.

In Westchester, Rocco A. Pozzi, commissioner of probation and corrections, said
that about 75 inmates out of the 1,550 now being held in the county jail are
undocumented immigrants. He said the county was focusing on those 700
undocumented immigrants on probation whose cases have been reported to federal
immigration officials, as part of the presentencing process.

''This is not an issue to be confused about complaints around day laborers,''
Mr. Pozzi said. ''We are focusing on the people who are not only committing
crimes but who have been convicted of crimes.''

In Morristown, Mr. Cresitello said his thinking was animated by the violent
killing of a 10-year-old boy, Walter Contreras Valenzuela, whose beaten body was
found by the Whippany River in May 2001. A few weeks later, an undocumented
36-year-old Honduran immigrant, Porfirio Jimenez, was charged with his murder.

Mr. Jimenez, who is still awaiting trial after various procedural delays, had
been arrested by the Morristown police at least three times before Walter was
killed, on charges including robbery and threatening a man with a knife.

After the death of Walter, the son of Guatemalan immigrants, a candlelight vigil
seemed to unify a town where the Hispanic population started growing in the
1980s. Now Spanish is spoken by more than a quarter of the town's residents.
Hispanic businesses line Speedwell Avenue, which leads to the Morristown Green,
site of one of George Washington's winter encampments and now a commercial
center.

Donations were made to the library in Walter's name, and the police hired more
Hispanics. Mr. Cresitello's predecessor also hired an adviser for Hispanic
affairs.

Two weeks ago, there was another sort of candlelight vigil. As the Town Council
discussed the mayor's proposal, immigrants and their supporters gathered in
protest on the steps outside town hall, saying the measure had sent fear
throughout the Hispanic community.

Inside, during a comment period, an eighth grader named Roel Flores-Pettiford
walked slowly to a microphone and read a statement.

''I was motivated to address you after hearing the concerns of my schoolmates,
who are now afraid of cops,'' she began, and presented a petition signed by
about 20 of her classmates. The mayor's plan, the petition said, ''targets the
Latino community of Morristown and instills fear in the children of this
community.''

Asked later about Roel's speech, Mr. Cresitello said, ''I admire her passion.''

THE program the mayor wants to join is known as 287(g), for a section of the
1996 Immigration and Nationality Act that allows local officers, after being
trained, to ''identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration
offenders they encounter during their regular, daily law-enforcement activity.''

Seventeen law enforcement agencies have joined the program, and about 40
applications are pending. Field officers receive five weeks of training with
immigration agents, including how to tap into immigration databases and process
aliens for deportation proceedings.

Some agencies have settled on a narrow focus. The Florida Department of Law
Enforcement, which has trained 62 officers, limited their scope to ''immigration
issues with a domestic security nexus,'' said Mark Zadra, an assistant
commissioner with the agency.

The department was one of the first to join the program, largely because so many
Sept. 11 hijackers had passed through the state. Local officers participate in
raids when they involve critical infrastructure, like airports, water treatment
facilities and cargo ports. But Mr. Zadra said they do not look for undocumented
workers in other places. ''If you're out picking tomatoes, we are not going to
use our 287(g) authority to do a sweep of the fields,'' Mr. Zadra said.

But Don Hunter, the sheriff of Collier County, in southwest Florida, plans to
apply on behalf of the county for a separate agreement with the immigration
authorities. Sheriff Hunter blamed illegal immigration for many local crime
problems, especially gang-related violence. Immigrant communities, including
Haitians and Mexicans, already have strained relations with the police, he said,
adding that he was not worried that closer cooperation between his officers and
immigration agents would make things worse.

''I haven't had that experience of people not coming forward in the most heinous
crimes, serious rapes, or a murder,'' he said. ''Our experience has been the
reverse.''

Officials from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or I.C.E., said this new
program has helped extend its reach. ''There is tremendous oversight in this
program,'' said Marcy Forman, who heads investigations for I.C.E., adding that
the agency would rescind agreements with any law enforcement agency that did not
manage the program properly.

In New Haven, the police chief, Francisco Ortiz, said: ''I don't want officers
on fishing expeditions. I want every citizen to be engaged.'' The town adopted a
policy of not asking about immigration status, unless officers are investigating
crimes.

''I have two undocumented individuals who are murder victims,'' Chief Ortiz
said. ''You need people to tell you about the lives of the victims.'' If his
officers were also charged with enforcing immigration policy -- no matter how
small the role -- witnesses would say, ''You're on your own,'' the chief said.

In many places, a reckoning on the role of the local police has centered on day
laborers. Last November, a federal judge ruled against officials in Mamaroneck,
N.Y., who had used checkpoints and ticketing to clear the town of day laborers.
In Freehold, N.J., borough officials settled a three-year-old lawsuit by
agreeing to stop fining laborers for seeking work in public.

The mayor of Edison, N.J., has been forced to navigate the tricky space between
residents and authorities. Last year, during a protest by the town's large South
Asian community against alleged police misconduct, federal authorities arrested
an Indian man who had argued with an Edison police officer. The man, Rajnikant
Parikh, was deported last month. There have also been federal raids on illegal
immigrants.

Those raids ''present challenges,'' Mayor Jun H. Choi said. He added, ''The
focus for us as a local government is protecting our residents, and making sure
there is greater trust, regardless of their background.''

MR. CRESITELLO, in a series of interviews, stressed that Morristown was still
early in the application process. (Federal officials say they have yet to
receive its application.) But in any agreement, he would ask the federal
government ''to include language for people harboring illegals,'' as a way to
deal with the problem of immigrants living in cramped housing. ''My position is
that federal law defines those things as crimes.''

He said the sight of day laborers in front of the train station was disturbing
to the community, but added that nothing would happen to them ''unless they were
arrested in commission of a crime.'' He added that he hoped contractors who hire
undocumented workers would stop coming.

To the police chief's concern that immigrants would stop cooperating with local
law enforcement -- as they were asked to do after the young boy was killed in
2001 -- Mr. Cresitello said: ''We can force them to cooperate. They would be
witnesses, not cooperating witnesses.''

Michael Fabrizio, executive director of the Morristown Partnership, a business
improvement group, said that for the most part the business community supported
the mayor's proposal, though there had been complaints. ''He's not
anti-immigrant,'' Mr. Fabrizio said of the mayor. ''Without the immigrant
community, we'd have no restaurants in Morristown. Isn't there a way for them to
come in legally?''

A councilman who supported the mayor's proposal, Dick Tighe, said: ''We're not
going to be having jackbooted troopers out searching for illegal immigrants.
We're not going to be arresting jaywalkers.''

Among those protesting the Morristown proposal on a recent Tuesday was Erick
Carreto, 26, a day laborer who used to wait in front of the train station. He
later worked as a busboy, learned English and now works for a nonprofit group
that provides services to the laborers.

He declined to talk in detail about his status, but said he was in the middle of
the long process of ''sorting it out.'' Mr. Carreto said he left Guatemala as a
teenager to seek work and is now able to send money back to his mother.

The mayor's proposal has made him fear random checks by the police, he said.

Mr. Cresitello said, ''I don't agree that anyone should be fearful.'' The mayor
has argued in recent weeks with church leaders, after he said they were doing
nothing to ease the hardships faced by immigrants. He also rejected a clergy
proposal to build a center for the day laborers. Misinformation about his
proposal, he said, has led to unnecessary hysteria in Morristown.

''They don't have anything to fear,'' he said. ''Unless they have something to
fear.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A TOWN DIVIDED -- At a vigil in Morristown, N.J., residents
protested a plan by Mayor Donald Cresitello, right, for the local police to
enforce federal immigration policy. The police chief, Peter Demnitz, left, has
objected to the plan. Above, Morristown Green. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for
The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 FEARS OF A CRACKDOWN -- Day laborers wait for work, above. At right, at a town
meeting, Roel Flores-Pettiford (center, in sweatshirt) spoke of children's
fears. At bottom, Erick Carreto of Wind of the Spirit, an immigrant resource
center. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should Immigration Be a Police Issue?

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2648 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J.


THE rumors have thinned the morning lines of immigrant men who gather on Morris
Street, looking for work. The news -- that the local police might have a hand
enforcing federal immigration policy -- has spread throughout this historic,
diverse town on the edge of New Jersey's horse country, and a few people have
even started to move away.

It started in early March with Mayor Donald Cresitello's proposal to enroll the
police in a small but growing federal program -- now in place in 10 states --
that trains local officers to help enforce federal immigration laws.

A grandson of Italian immigrants, Mayor Cresitello said he had the support of
most of the town's 18,000 residents, nearly a third of whom are Hispanic. An
estimated 1,500 undocumented immigrants live here, the mayor said, adding that
police officers, with the training, could break up the overcrowded houses where
many day laborers live and could stop contractors who hire them from coming to
Morristown.

But his approach has ignited protests and raised old questions about the role of
police departments in immigration matters, a thorny part of the rancorous
national debate.

In Suffolk County, Long Island, the number of undocumented immigrants referred
to federal authorities has surged, from 44 people in 2004, when the county
executive, Steve Levy, took office, to 2,289 last year, Mr. Levy said. Police
officers ask those they arrest about their immigration status and refer
undocumented individuals to federal authorities.

''Many local governments take the point of view that they don't want to ask that
question,'' Mr. Levy said. ''I think it's ridiculous for localities to call
themselves sanctuaries.'' He called the notion that some people would stop
cooperating with the police ''silly.''

Mr. Levy said the federal government had promised to station immigration
officers in two county jails, in Yaphank and Riverhead, to process undocumented
criminals. And a recent local law will force businesses with county contracts to
verify the status of all employees.

LAST week in Westchester, County Executive Andrew J. Spano called a press
conference asking for more federal resources to speed up deportation proceedings
against an estimated 700 undocumented immigrants who are on probation.

Mr. Spano said it costs the county about $2 million to $3 million a year to
manage these probationers, who represent about 10 percent of the 7,000 people on
probation. Of the 700 convictions, about 459 were for misdemeanors, officials
said.

Beyond the cost, Mr. Spano said public safety was at risk. ''Having these
individuals in our communities is a serious and ongoing threat to the safety of
our residents,'' he said. ''Many of these people are serious, violent offenders,
and I want them out of our communities and in federal detention centers now.''

In the early 1900s, the growth in immigration was linked to an increase in crime
rates. While recent polls have shown that there is a perception that the influx
of illegal immigrants starting in the 1990s has driven up crime rates, several
recent studies show that is not the case and, in fact, some sociologists believe
the concentration of immigrants has kept the overall crime rate down in some
communities.

Dr. Ruben Rumbaut, a professor at the University of California at Irvine, who
has studied incarceration rates of immigrants, said it was impossible to measure
crime rates of immigrants directly, especially illegal immigrants. ''The
statistics aren't collected that way,'' he said.

But Dr. Rumbaut said incarceration rates of immigrants versus native-born people
seemed to indicate that immigrants get in much less trouble with the law.
Comparing native and foreign-born men between the ages of 18 and 39, he said,
shows that 3.5 percent of native-born men were in jail in 2000, compared with
fewer than 1 percent of foreign-born men.

''People come here to work and stay the heck out of trouble, away from the gaze
of authorities,'' he said.

In Morristown, the police chief, Peter Demnitz, has taken issue with the mayor's
plan, saying, among other things, that he was worried that aligning officers
with federal authorities might hurt cooperation between the police and parts of
the community.

After those comments, Mr. Cresitello ordered Mr. Demnitz to stop speaking with
reporters. ''He doesn't have the scientific precepts to confirm that,'' Mr.
Cresitello said.

Such a clash is not unique. ''Communities across the country are debating what
role, if any, their police should play in immigration policy,'' said Michael
Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who has represented organizations
lobbying for the rights of undocumented immigrants. In many cases, he said,
''the elected official asserts some kind of connection between crime and
immigrants, and law enforcement folks are saying, 'We have our hands full.' ''
Or in other cases, they say the community will lose trust in the police.

Gene Voegtlin, legislative counsel of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police, said more and more local police departments were considering the federal
program, in part because it offers training in the complex field of immigration
law; others are more skeptical. ''There are those who feel it's the proper
role,'' he said, ''and those who think it has a chilling effect on immigrant
communities in these towns.''

In interviews, a handful of police officials talked about the fluid line between
their duties and those of federal authorities, separate roles that blur or
sharpen because of shifting politics and demographics. Local authorities are
permitted but not required to check the immigration status of people they
arrest, a process that starts with asking for identification, followed by
sending a text message to a center run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The next step -- detaining a person for illegal presence in the United States --
now requires the participation of federal agents, and it is usually a civil
violation, not a criminal one. There are fewer than 6,000 federal immigration
agents, so advocates of giving local authorities limited immigration powers
describe such partnerships as ''force multipliers.''

Cities and towns, along with their police departments, have come up with varied
ways of dealing with issues that arise with an influx of immigrants.

Some have taken a harder line. In Danbury, a raid in January by federal officers
drew charges that local police officers had been involved. By contrast, places
like Hightstown, N.J., and New Haven have sought to reassure immigrants --
documented or not -- that cooperating with local authorities is safe and federal
officers will not be alerted. In 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York
signed an executive order that promised that no immigrant would be arrested for
immigration status alone.

In Westchester, Rocco A. Pozzi, commissioner of probation and corrections, said
that about 75 inmates out of the 1,550 now being held in the county jail are
undocumented immigrants. He said the county was focusing on those 700
undocumented immigrants on probation whose cases have been reported to federal
immigration officials, as part of the presentencing process.

''This is not an issue to be confused about complaints around day laborers,''
Mr. Pozzi said. ''We are focusing on the people who are not only committing
crimes but who have been convicted of crimes.''

In Morristown, Mr. Cresitello said his thinking was animated by the violent
killing of a 10-year-old boy, Walter Contreras Valenzuela, whose beaten body was
found by the Whippany River in May 2001. A few weeks later, an undocumented
36-year-old Honduran immigrant, Porfirio Jimenez, was charged with his murder.

Mr. Jimenez, who is still awaiting trial after various procedural delays, had
been arrested by the Morristown police at least three times before Walter was
killed, on charges including robbery and threatening a man with a knife.

After the death of Walter, the son of Guatemalan immigrants, a candlelight vigil
seemed to unify a town where the Hispanic population started growing in the
1980s. Now Spanish is spoken by more than a quarter of the town's residents.
Hispanic businesses line Speedwell Avenue, which leads to the Morristown Green,
site of one of George Washington's winter encampments and now a commercial
center.

Donations were made to the library in Walter's name, and the police hired more
Hispanics. Mr. Cresitello's predecessor also hired an adviser for Hispanic
affairs.

Two weeks ago, there was another sort of candlelight vigil. As the Town Council
discussed the mayor's proposal, immigrants and their supporters gathered in
protest on the steps outside town hall, saying the measure had sent fear
throughout the Hispanic community.

Inside, during a comment period, an eighth grader named Roel Flores-Pettiford
walked slowly to a microphone and read a statement.

''I was motivated to address you after hearing the concerns of my schoolmates,
who are now afraid of cops,'' she began, and presented a petition signed by
about 20 of her classmates. The mayor's plan, the petition said, ''targets the
Latino community of Morristown and instills fear in the children of this
community.''

Asked later about Roel's speech, Mr. Cresitello said, ''I admire her passion.''

THE program the mayor wants to join is known as 287(g), for a section of the
1996 Immigration and Nationality Act that allows local officers, after being
trained, to ''identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration
offenders they encounter during their regular, daily law-enforcement activity.''

Seventeen law enforcement agencies have joined the program, and about 40
applications are pending. Field officers receive five weeks of training with
immigration agents, including how to tap into immigration databases and process
aliens for deportation proceedings.

Some agencies have settled on a narrow focus. The Florida Department of Law
Enforcement, which has trained 62 officers, limited their scope to ''immigration
issues with a domestic security nexus,'' said Mark Zadra, an assistant
commissioner with the agency.

The department was one of the first to join the program, largely because so many
Sept. 11 hijackers had passed through the state. Local officers participate in
raids when they involve critical infrastructure, like airports, water treatment
facilities and cargo ports. But Mr. Zadra said they do not look for undocumented
workers in other places. ''If you're out picking tomatoes, we are not going to
use our 287(g) authority to do a sweep of the fields,'' Mr. Zadra said.

But Don Hunter, the sheriff of Collier County, in southwest Florida, plans to
apply on behalf of the county for a separate agreement with the immigration
authorities. Sheriff Hunter blamed illegal immigration for many local crime
problems, especially gang-related violence. Immigrant communities, including
Haitians and Mexicans, already have strained relations with the police, he said,
adding that he was not worried that closer cooperation between his officers and
immigration agents would make things worse.

''I haven't had that experience of people not coming forward in the most heinous
crimes, serious rapes, or a murder,'' he said. ''Our experience has been the
reverse.''

Officials from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or I.C.E., said this new
program has helped extend its reach. ''There is tremendous oversight in this
program,'' said Marcy Forman, who heads investigations for I.C.E., adding that
the agency would rescind agreements with any law enforcement agency that did not
manage the program properly.

In New Haven, the police chief, Francisco Ortiz, said: ''I don't want officers
on fishing expeditions. I want every citizen to be engaged.'' The town adopted a
policy of not asking about immigration status, unless officers are investigating
crimes.

''I have two undocumented individuals who are murder victims,'' Chief Ortiz
said. ''You need people to tell you about the lives of the victims.'' If his
officers were also charged with enforcing immigration policy -- no matter how
small the role -- witnesses would say, ''You're on your own,'' the chief said.

In many places, a reckoning on the role of the local police has centered on day
laborers. Last November, a federal judge ruled against officials in Mamaroneck,
N.Y., who had used checkpoints and ticketing to clear the town of day laborers.
In Freehold, N.J., borough officials settled a three-year-old lawsuit by
agreeing to stop fining laborers for seeking work in public.

The mayor of Edison, N.J., has been forced to navigate the tricky space between
residents and authorities. Last year, during a protest by the town's large South
Asian community against alleged police misconduct, federal authorities arrested
an Indian man who had argued with an Edison police officer. The man, Rajnikant
Parikh, was deported last month. There have also been federal raids on illegal
immigrants.

Those raids ''present challenges,'' Mayor Jun H. Choi said. He added, ''The
focus for us as a local government is protecting our residents, and making sure
there is greater trust, regardless of their background.''

MR. CRESITELLO, in a series of interviews, stressed that Morristown was still
early in the application process. (Federal officials say they have yet to
receive its application.) But in any agreement, he would ask the federal
government ''to include language for people harboring illegals,'' as a way to
deal with the problem of immigrants living in cramped housing. ''My position is
that federal law defines those things as crimes.''

He said the sight of day laborers in front of the train station was disturbing
to the community, but added that nothing would happen to them ''unless they were
arrested in commission of a crime.'' He added that he hoped contractors who hire
undocumented workers would stop coming.

To the police chief's concern that immigrants would stop cooperating with local
law enforcement -- as they were asked to do after the young boy was killed in
2001 -- Mr. Cresitello said: ''We can force them to cooperate. They would be
witnesses, not cooperating witnesses.''

Michael Fabrizio, executive director of the Morristown Partnership, a business
improvement group, said that for the most part the business community supported
the mayor's proposal, though there had been complaints. ''He's not
anti-immigrant,'' Mr. Fabrizio said of the mayor. ''Without the immigrant
community, we'd have no restaurants in Morristown. Isn't there a way for them to
come in legally?''

A councilman who supported the mayor's proposal, Dick Tighe, said: ''We're not
going to be having jackbooted troopers out searching for illegal immigrants.
We're not going to be arresting jaywalkers.''

Among those protesting the Morristown proposal on a recent Tuesday was Erick
Carreto, 26, a day laborer who used to wait in front of the train station. He
later worked as a busboy, learned English and now works for a nonprofit group
that provides services to the laborers.

He declined to talk in detail about his status, but said he was in the middle of
the long process of ''sorting it out.'' Mr. Carreto said he left Guatemala as a
teenager to seek work and is now able to send money back to his mother.

The mayor's proposal has made him fear random checks by the police, he said.

Mr. Cresitello said, ''I don't agree that anyone should be fearful.'' The mayor
has argued in recent weeks with church leaders, after he said they were doing
nothing to ease the hardships faced by immigrants. He also rejected a clergy
proposal to build a center for the day laborers. Misinformation about his
proposal, he said, has led to unnecessary hysteria in Morristown.

''They don't have anything to fear,'' he said. ''Unless they have something to
fear.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A TOWN DIVIDED -- At a vigil in Morristown, N.J., residents
protested a plan by Mayor Donald Cresitello, right, for the local police to
enforce federal immigration policy. The police chief, Peter Demnitz, left, has
objected to the plan. Above, Morristown Green. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for
The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 FEARS OF A CRACKDOWN -- Day laborers wait for work, above. At right, at a town
meeting, Roel Flores-Pettiford (center, in sweatshirt) spoke of children's
fears. At bottom, Erick Carreto of Wind of the Spirit, an immigrant resource
center. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Migrants Dissect Details Of Senate Deal

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and JULIA PRESTON; Randal C. Archibold reported
from Tucson, and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, May 19


Under the shade of a mesquite tree here one morning this week, waiting for work
that did not come, Elias Ramirez weighed the hurdles of what could be the
biggest overhaul in immigration law in two decades.

To become full legal residents, under a compromise Senate leaders announced
Thursday, Mr. Ramirez and other illegal immigrants would have to pay a total of
$5,000 in fines, more than 14 times the typical weekly earnings on the streets
here, return to their home countries at least once, and wait as long as eight
years. During the wait, they would have limited possibilities to bring other
family members.

''Well, it sounds difficult, but not impossible,'' said Mr. Ramirez, 24, a
native of Chiapas, Mexico, who has been here a year. ''I would like to be here
legally in the future, so these things are what I might have to do.''

Another man among the group gathered outside a church here that serves as a
hiring site for day laborers overheard Mr. Ramirez and approached with disdain.

''It's almost impossible to bring your family,'' he said, rattling off
information he had gleaned from a Spanish-language newspaper. ''You have to go
back first, and what are you going to do in Mexico while you are there and there
is no work? I've been here 20 years and I still work and support my family, so
why would I do any of these things?''

The compromise bill has offered a glimmer of hope to illegal immigrants here, 60
miles from the border, and elsewhere. But they and others, through news reports,
advocates and lawyers, are just now learning the fine print.

Advocacy groups here said they would lobby lawmakers to reject the bill, saying
it would place onerous restrictions on illegal workers who want to win legal
status and also hurt efforts to unify immigrant families.

''This is an unprecedented shift from family unity being the cornerstone of our
immigration policy,'' said Isabel Garcia, a lawyer and a chairwoman of Derechos
Humanos, an advocacy group here. Ms. Garcia also objected to what she called
''insurmountable'' obstacles in the bill.

The compromise Senate bill proposes an initiative to give legal status to an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. It also portends a major shift in the
priorities and values of American immigration for the future. It would gradually
change a system based primarily on family ties, in place since 1965, into one
that favors high-skilled and highly educated workers who want to become
permanent residents.

In the future, low-skilled workers like the men waiting for work here would
largely be channeled to a vast new temporary program, where they would be
allowed to work in the United States for three stints of two years each, broken
up by one-year stays in their homeland.

''This is a different architecture,'' said Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at
the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, and
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1993 to 2000.

Illegal workers already here would gain a provisional legal status, known as a Z
visa, fairly quickly. But to become permanent residents they would have to pay
the big fines and get in an eight-year line behind others who have already
applied legally for green cards, as permanent resident visas are known.

Still, despite the outcry from immigrant advocates, a reading of the details of
the legislation suggests important benefits for relatives of legal immigrants
and naturalized American citizens who have been waiting for green cards for as
long as 22 years in some cases.

A first step is to eliminate, within eight years, the backlog of 4 million
people who have applied to come legally to the United States, allotting 440,000
visas a year for that purpose, according to summaries provided by the Department
of Homeland Security and the office of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the
Massachusetts Democrat who was a chief author of the bill.

''We are adding to our family-based system, we are not substituting merit for
family,'' said Laura Capps, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kennedy.

After the backlog is cleared, a slowly increasing number of permanent visas
would be approved through a merit system, based on points granted for English
language proficiency (an acute hurdle for the men waiting for work here, as none
spoke English), level of education and job skills, among other factors.

Siblings and adult children of legal immigrants will no longer be able to apply
for visas, and visas for parents of United States citizens will be limited to
40,000 a year.

In his weekly radio address on Saturday, President Bush said that the measure
''will improve security at our borders. It will give employers new tools to
verify the employment status of workers and hold businesses to account for those
they hire.''

Mr. Bush added, ''The legislation will clear the backlog of family members
who've applied to come to our country lawfully, and have been waiting patiently
in line. This legislation will end chain migration by limiting the relatives who
can automatically receive green cards to spouses and minor children. And this
legislation will transform our immigration system so that future immigration
decisions are focused on admitting immigrants who have the skills, education,
and English proficiency that will help America compete in a global economy.''

The immigration debate has long stirred politics, sometimes dividing members of
the same party and forcing lawmakers to reconsider positions. This bill is no
different.

Last year, as he sought re-election, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a Republican,
was critical of giving illegal immigrants legal status. But this week Mr. Kyl
stood with John McCain, Arizona's senior senator and a candidate for the
Republican presidential nomination, as the compromise was announced, saying
ideological sacrifices had to be made.

The proposal, though, divided the two Democratic members of Congress from here
in southern Arizona, Gabrielle Giffords and Raul M. Grijalva.

Ms. Giffords called it a positive step while Mr. Grijalva, whose father was a
migrant farm worker, told The Arizona Daily Star it was ''tentative and
unfinished.''

In south Tucson, outside the Southside Presbyterian Church, where immigrants --
mostly men -- have gathered for decades to find work, the immigration debate is
also playing out as the men wait for jobs.

There are people like Mr. Ramirez, who spent several years just over the border
in Sonora before finally coming to Arizona for construction and other work. He
has not seen his family, he said, for 10 years.

Sipping from a bottle filled with ice as the day's heat soared, Mr. Ramirez
occasionally broke away when pickup trucks and other vehicles approached,
joining others begging for a day's work.

The biggest obstacle, Mr. Ramirez said, would probably be paying the $5,000 in
fines on the way to permanent legal status. He does not have health insurance
now, which he would be required to provide for his family if he decided to
return to Mexico and come back as a temporary worker. ''I don't know who sells
that or what it costs,'' he said.

Still, all in all, ''the important thing is saving. The fines are similar to
what we pay polleros,'' Mr. Ramirez said, using a Spanish slang term for the
smugglers who guide people across the border.

Teoforo Valdes, 32, nodded in agreement. He has lived in and around Tucson for
10 years and still makes occasional trips home to Sonora, evading the Border
Patrol.

But Mr. Valdes has grown tired of the journey, he said, and, at least upon first
look at the proposal, sees reason for optimism.

''Right now, we have nothing, no real way to legalize ourselves,'' he said.
''This government is giving us steps and so we have to think how we can take
them.''

As the morning wore on, the number of potential employers driving past grew
thin. The workers began to disperse, though some stayed behind to use the
bathroom and a shower at the church.

Jesus Antonio Rodriguez, 49, who said he was a legal resident and acts as an
informal adviser to the men, summed up the dilemma.

''People do not believe it but we really do come to work,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.
''We are not delinquents here. We have to work. And we want to cooperate, but
everything is always so hard here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Immigration Bill Stalled, Advocates Push Forward

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1156 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 13


As officials in Washington discussed ways to revive an immigration bill stalled
in the Senate, immigrant advocates moved forward on Wednesday with a new round
of lobbying that they hope will lead illegal immigrants out of the shadows.

Two nationwide caravans supporting immigrant rights are on their way to
Washington, including members of a ''Dreams Across America'' campaign that left
Wednesday on a train here to tell their stories at several stops and through a
multimedia Web site. It is one of three Dreams Across America trains carrying
100 immigrants through different parts of the country.

The campaign is organized by many of the groups -- including labor unions and
the Roman Catholic Church -- that last year brought hundreds of thousands of
people into the streets in support of immigration changes. The campaign is
intended to counter concerns about border security and amnesty for illegal
immigrants that have dominated the debate in Washington.

''We want to create a dialogue with the public,'' said Fermin Vasquez, 20, a
college student from El Salvador who recently became a legal resident. ''We know
there are a lot of misconceptions about what an immigrant is and isn't.
Anti-immigrant people ignore the civil wars and disasters and economic
conditions that cause people to immigrate.''

Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, the archbishop of Los Angeles, attended the send-off.
He said there was a need to draw attention to recent public opinion polls that
have shown a majority of Americans in favor of comprehensive changes to
immigration law.

''Because a few have raised negative voices, strident voices, it is easy to
forget the majority of Americans are for immigration reform,'' he said.

The other caravan plans to deliver one million letters Thursday to a group of
senators in Washington from citizens and legal residents supporting passage of
the comprehensive bill.

But unlike the largely cohesive front lined up against the Senate bill, there is
some division among immigrant advocates about whether the legislation is worth
fighting for.

Some are pressing to get the bill approved by the Senate in hopes of making
changes when it goes before the House. Others denounce that strategy and call
for a process that would make it easier than the bill envisions for large
numbers of illegal immigrants in the United States to get legal status.

''Nothing will be worse in terms of the millions of individuals and families
that will be criminalized in perpetuity by the proposed Senate legislation,''
said lawyers for the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, an advocacy
group, in a statement.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, one of the
groups in a broad coalition backing the bill, said many supporters had problems
with aspects of the bill but supported the measure as a first step after years
of failure to get any overhaul.

That approach has left supporters of the bill in the awkward position of at once
holding their noses while beating the drums for it.

The Dreams Across America train reflects the changing tactics of some
supporters, deliberately shifting their energies away from another round of
demonstrations to lobby Congress. The cross-country public relations campaign
offered a softer note to the large, loud demonstrations that some of the people
behind the new move had backed last year.

Behind the scenes, pro-immigration lobbyists are peppering legislators with
calls and meetings, and everyone is operating with a sense that the next few
weeks are critical.

The bill ''is certainly not what we wanted,'' said Richard H. White, president
of the Arizona Interfaith Network, which promotes the legalization of illegal
immigrants. ''But our point is, because we have differences, that does not mean
that should stop the debate. There is just too much cost being borne
inordinately by Arizona and other border states.''

But other advocates disagree, saying supporters of an overhaul have given too
much ground. The bill, they argue, would do little to advance their goal of
granting citizenship or legal status to all 12 million illegal immigrants and
would not make it easier to unite divided families.

Antonio Gonzalez, a veteran immigrants' rights advocate who leads a coalition of
groups opposing the bill, said it would create an ''apartheid system'' of open
doors for the affluent and skilled and closed ones for less fortunate but
much-needed low-skilled workers.

''It does not legalize 12 million undocumented people because there are an
infinite number of obstacles in the legalization program that preclude 80 to 90
percent from making it through the system to permanent residency,'' he said.
''It does not solve future labor needs because of built-in deficiencies like
requiring temporary workers to go back for a year after two years. Nobody is
going to do that.''

He said it was misguided to think the House was the body to soften provisions so
that illegal immigrants and their families could get legal status quicker or
easier.

''The anti-immigrant right is driving this process, and the House is more
susceptible to their pressure than the Senate,'' said Mr. Gonzalez, president of
the William C. Velasquez Institute, an immigration policy center here.

Such splits were reflected here in California, where Senator Dianne Feinstein, a
backer of the bill, voted to cut off debate while a fellow Democrat, Senator
Barbara Boxer, considered more liberal, joined 11 other Democrats in voting not
to.

As the presidential primaries gets closer, senators will be less inclined to
make waves with an immigration bill, Mr. Sharry said, noting the minefield of
procedural tactics, horse-trading and political posturing that can kill
legislation.

''Immigration legislation in the Congress has the feel of an Indiana Jones
flick,'' Mr. Sharry said. ''It is so unpredictable and there are so many
trapdoors and bad guys and slithering snakes and huge boulders you don't see
until they are on you. To get to the 'grand bargain' was extremely time
consuming, extremely painful and extremely difficult.''

Still left in the lurch are millions of illegal immigrants. A group of church
leaders have begun a New Sanctuary Movement to house illegal immigrants facing
deportation in churches across the country. Law enforcement officers generally
do not enter church grounds to make arrests unless lives are at stake.

Last Friday, Liliana, who refused to give her last name, took up residence at
St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Long Beach, near Los Angeles. She has three small
children who were born in the United States and are citizens, but she has been
told she is ineligible for legal status because she entered the country with a
fraudulent birth certificate from her native Mexico several years ago.

''We are not criminals or bad people,'' she said in a recent interview. ''We
just want a way to work here and provide for our children.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Regla Soto, second from right, and other ''Dreams Across
America'' participants began their caravan yesterday. (Photo by Stephanie Diani
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Governor Signs Tough Bill on Hiring Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 294 words


Expressing frustration with the lack of a federal immigration law overhaul, Gov.
Janet Napolitano of Arizona signed a bill yesterday providing what are thought
to be the toughest state sanctions in the country against employers who
knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

Ms. Napolitano, a Democrat, called the bill flawed and suggested that the
Arizona Legislature reconvene to  repair problems with it, but she nevertheless
moved forward ''because Congress has failed miserably,'' she wrote in a
statement.

The bill requires employers to verify the legal status of their employees. If
they fail to do so, they risk having their business licenses  suspended. A
second offense could result in the ''business death penalty,'' a permanent
revocation of the state business license, effectively preventing  a business
from operating in the state.

Ms. Napolitano said she was concerned, among other  problems, that under the law
hospitals and nursing homes could end up shuttered because of hiring one illegal
immigrant. She also said the bill did not provide enough money for the state
attorney general to investigate complaints.

Although federal law already makes it a crime to hire illegal workers,
supporters of the Arizona bill have  said enforcement is lax.

Ms. Napolitano sent a letter to Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Arizona and the
majority leader, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, saying
Congressional inaction on immigration was forcing states to act.

Ms. Napolitano's decision had been anxiously awaited in Arizona, the state where
more people cross illegally into the United States than any other.

Last year, Ms. Napolitano vetoed an employer-sanctions bill, saying that its
language was flawed and that it would not achieve its goals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article yesterday  about the signing
of a bill in Arizona intended to crack down on the hiring of illegal immigrants
misstated the home state of Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, who was
told by Arizona's governor that more Congressional action was needed on
immigration. He represents Nevada, not Arizona.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After the Immigration Bill Fell Apart

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 678 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigrant Bill Dies in Senate; Defeat for Bush'' (front page, June 29):

Now that the immigration bill has died in the Senate, we can be assured that it
will become the wedge issue in the  2008 election. While immigration reform is a
worthy issue to discuss, recent history has shown that demagogy and divisiveness
are more likely to prevail.

Sadly, candidates elected based on their immigration stand may retreat further
from a pragmatic bipartisan center needed to solve such a complex issue.

Gary Nowak  Elmhurst, Ill., June 29, 2007

To the Editor:

Re ''The Grand Collapse'' (editorial, June 30):

You were right to label the Senate defeat of immigration reform as
''appalling,'' but for the wrong reasons. The legislation was simply not the
comprehensive reform our nation needs. Such reform should reflect the needs of
the nation, and not the illegal immigrants, who lawfully have no status
whatsoever.

We as a nation should prioritize and choose whom to allow in, and not be bullied
by those employers or illegals who would break the law for their own personal
gain. We cannot choose whom we allow in if we cannot somehow control illegal
influx; this must be the No. 1 priority.

Local ordinances prohibiting illegals from living and working in cities and
towns have been successful, but we need all cities and towns to do this, since
the federal government seems incapable of controlling the borders.

Jack F. Bukowski Marlborough, Mass., June 30, 2007

To the Editor:

I do not agree that the defeat of the immigration bill ''thwarted the
possibility of progress on border security.'' I think that the bill's defeat
made such progress more likely. This is because the politicians now know that
the American people no longer believe their promises concerning border security.
The American people want action, not more promises.

Eugene G. Windchy Alexandria, Va., June 30, 2007

To the Editor:

In spite of the best efforts of immigration bill supporters to label opponents
as racists or to blame talk radio, the level of frustration of the public was
twofold.

First, the public saw the results of the 1986 immigration bill and the
unwillingness of the government to enforce existing laws at the border or in the
workplace. Second, in an environment of stagnant worker wages and increased cost
of living, the last thing the public wants is additional desperate low-skilled
workers to compete with them.

While the illegals currently here are mostly hard-working fine people and
normalizing their status would be the humane thing to do, the public will not
accept additional incentives for more illegals or low-skilled immigrants to
arrive until they see that current laws will be enforced.

Michael Bass Upland, Calif., June 30, 2007

To the Editor:

The immigration debate fails to address the effect of immigration on United
States population growth.

The current population of the United States is about 300 million people. The
population in the year 2050 could  be about 500 million and in the year 2100
about one billion. You do not need a crystal ball to predict the environmental
and social catastrophe that will be caused.

We cannot prevent this from happening unless we limit the present rates of legal
and illegal immigration.

George Moss Columbus, Ohio, June 30, 2007

To the Editor:

Some of the blame for the failure of current attempts at immigration reform must
be ascribed to past and present administrations (Republican and Democratic) that
failed to enforce key provisions of the 1986 immigration act. In light of this
history, why should anyone believe the proposed legislation would be treated
differently if enacted?

Lawrence R. Foster San Ramon, Calif., June 30, 2007

To the Editor:

Concerning the defeat of immigration reform, let's begin by ending amnesty for
employers who have been breaking the law and hiring illegal immigrants with
impunity for years. Once employer amnesty is ended, other aspects of this
complex issue might be easier to address.

Judy Jensvold  Ithaca, N.Y., June 30, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing by Patrick Leger

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Plans Immigration Crackdown

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 638 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9


The Bush administration plans to announce numerous steps on Friday to secure the
border with Mexico, speed the expulsion of illegal immigrants and step up
enforcement of immigration laws, administration officials say.

The effort stems, in part, from White House frustration with the failure of
Congress to approve President Bush's proposals to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws and grant legal status to most of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants. In debate on that legislation, many Republicans said Mr.
Bush should first enforce existing laws more aggressively.

Carlos M. Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, and Michael Chertoff, the
secretary of homeland security, have invited employers to attend a briefing on
the new initiatives on Friday.

Under the most significant change, disclosed earlier this week, many employers
could be required to fire employees who used false Social Security numbers. At
the same time, federal officials would crack down on companies employing
substantial numbers of illegal immigrants.

Administration officials told members of Congress on Thursday night that they
would speed up construction of fences along the Mexican border, hire more Border
Patrol agents and detain more of the immigrants caught illegally crossing the
border.

Moreover, administration officials said they would try to match up records of
the arrival and departure of noncitizens entering and leaving the United States.
Members of Congress say this exit-control system, required under a 1996 law, is
essential to securing the nation's borders, but many lawmakers say the
administration has been slow in carrying out the law.

In addition, administration officials said they would train more state and local
law enforcement officers to help enforce federal immigration laws. Since 2002,
the federal government has trained more than 300 police and correctional
officers. But members of Congress say the administration could do much more.

Administration officials said they were also planning to step up efforts to
arrest and deport illegal immigrants who were members of street gangs. And they
said federal agents would fan out across the country to hunt down ''alien
fugitives'' who had been ordered to leave the United States but failed to
comply.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, has repeatedly urged the
administration to take action against such ''alien absconders.''

Under a 1986 law, employers must ask job applicants for documents to verify that
they are  United States citizens or immigrants  authorized to work here.
Administration officials said they wanted to simplify this process for employers
by limiting the  documents that could be used.

Mr. Bush's immigration proposals collapsed on the Senate floor on June 28, after
three weeks of debate. Mr. Bush had repeatedly promised tougher enforcement, but
many lawmakers said they did not trust him to fulfill his promises.

''The federal government has failed and has rightfully lost the trust of the
people'' on this issue, said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma.

In debate on the Senate bill, Mr. Coburn proposed an amendment that would have
required the administration to enforce all existing immigration laws and
demonstrate ''operational control'' of the Mexican border as a precondition to
granting legal status to illegal immigrants.

Rosemary E. Jenks,  director of government relations at Numbers USA, a major foe
of illegal immigration, said the steps being taken by the administration were
''long overdue.''

But Laura Foote Reiff,  a lawyer who advises companies on immigration issues,
said employers might have to dismiss many workers whose Social Security numbers
could not be verified.

''People will be leaving the work force in droves,'' Ms. Reiff said. ''It will
be like a hurricane hitting the country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Tells Police To Check Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and KAREEM FAHIM; David W. Chen reported from Trenton
and Camden, and Kareem Fahim from Newark.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Aug. 22


The New Jersey attorney general, Anne Milgram, on Wednesday ordered local law
enforcement agencies to inquire about the immigration status of criminal
suspects and notify federal authorities whenever they believe someone arrested
is in the country illegally.

The directive comes amid growing debate across the state over the role of local
officials in immigration questions since the Aug. 4 schoolyard slayings of three
friends in Newark. One of the prime suspects in the murders, Jose Lachira
Carranza, is an illegal immigrant from Peru who was out on bail despite three
prior felony arrests, in part because the authorities never checked his
immigration status.

''There's a need that was brought home to us all recently with the tragic events
in Newark for a uniform state policy,'' Ms. Milgram, the state's top law
enforcement officer, said at a news conference here, promising random compliance
checks to ensure that local officials are following the policy, effective
immediately.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency, praised
the new policy Wednesday, saying, ''We welcome this newly expanded cooperation
throughout the State of New Jersey.''

Ms. Milgram has talked often about helping local law enforcement officials deal
with illegal immigrants in a manner that promotes public safety without treading
on human rights. That has become more precarious for politicians since the
shooting.

On the one hand, Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark has repeatedly said that he
opposes the notion of involving city police in immigration matters, and Paula T.
Dow, the Essex County prosecutor -- whose office was one of several that did not
check Mr. Carranza's immigration status -- was even more pointed, saying her
policy was to notify immigration officials only upon conviction.

On the other hand, a growing chorus of officials -- including the State Senate
president, Richard J. Codey, a Democrat, and Assemblyman Alex DeCroce, the
Republican minority leader -- have recently urged the state to adopt a tougher
stance. And on Monday, Representative Tom Tancredo, a Republican from Colorado
who is running for president on a conservative immigration platform, accused
Newark officials of being complicit in the murders because of their lax
approach.

Until now, local law enforcement agencies had broad discretion -- and widely
divergent practices -- on whether to check immigration status or report
suspicious candidates to federal authorities. The Hudson County prosecutor's
office, for example, already routinely does so; the West Orange Police
Department, which had arrested Mr. Carranza for assault last fall, has no set
procedures for contacting the immigration service.

There has been a similar patchwork of policies around the country.

After a Kentucky judge jailed 17 Hispanic immigrants without bail last year for
traffic infractions, the state's attorney general, a Democrat, issued an
advisory telling local police officers to consult a national database to check
the status of people they arrest, and to report illegal immigrants to federal
authorities.

When Mitt Romney, a Republican presidential candidate, was governor of
Massachusetts, he signed an agreement with the federal immigration agency giving
specially trained state police officers the authority to enforce immigration
law. But in January, the new governor, Deval Patrick, a Democrat, rescinded the
agreement and restricted the training to corrections officials charged with
finding illegal immigrants convicted of crimes in the state's jails.

There are now 26 local agencies around the country that have signed formal
agreements with the federal government to deputize correctional officers to
check the immigration status of prisoners.

Under Ms. Milgram's directive, local law enforcement officials are to ask about
any arrested person's citizenship, nationality and immigration status, and
notify the immigration service of anyone believed to be here illegally.

The local officers cannot, however, ask immigration questions of victims or
witnesses to a crime, because, Ms. Milgram said, it is vital that the
authorities retain the trust and cooperation of the public in conducting
criminal investigations.

The United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, who stood
with Ms. Milgram at the news conference, said bluntly that racial profiling
would not be tolerated and that any police officer believed to be abusing the
directive would be dealt with ''very, very seriously.''

Michael Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who has represented
immigrant-rights groups, said that while the New Jersey directive appeared to be
a measured response to ''the politics of the moment,'' it still raised concerns.

''One of the problems with police doing status inquiries even after serious
offenses is it encourages people to flee,'' Mr. Wishnie said, adding that it
might not be easy for local officers to sort out the roles between victims,
witnesses and criminals. Sometimes, he said, ''You bring everyone back to the
station house, and sort it out there,'' he noted. ''The reality of police
practice is, the distinctions are often too finely drawn to protect victims and
witnesses.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Anne Milgram ordered a policy change.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anxiety in the Land of the Anti-Immigration Crusader

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1025 words


PARKER, Colo.

IT'S hardly news that illegal immigrants lead fitfully uncertain, insecure
lives. The storm winds of capitalism, uneven immigration-law enforcement and
international border politics can blow unpredictably and fiercely at any time.

But very similar tones of anxiety about the universe and its curveballs can be
easily found in this upper-middle-class suburb southeast of Denver  -- in the
home district of Representative Tom Tancredo, the man waging a one-note
anti-immigration campaign  for the Republican presidential nomination.

Mr. Tancredo's district is the richest, best educated and most family friendly
in Colorado (the latter based on numbers of children counted by the census).
Housing prices are high and there are few immigrant-based industries like
manufacturing, meat-packing or agriculture. Nearly 9 of every 10 residents are
white, while less than 1 in 10 are Hispanic. In several dozen interviews across
the district, most people said they didn't even know an illegal immigrant.

So why would illegal immigration be a cause celebre in a place like this, the
whitest Congressional district in Colorado?

Residents and local political leaders say the answer comes down, at least
partly, to words like ''order'' and ''stability.'' Those concerns may mask a
certain amount of bigotry or bias. But the residents say they are motivated by
concerns about borders they consider broken,  leaving America open and
vulnerable, especially in the post-9/11 world. Government, which many people
here talk about with far more scorn and rage than they do about immigrants, has
become a puppet to economic forces that demand cheap and mobile labor, they say.

In short, local residents and immigration experts say, beneath the anger about
immigration is great anxiety about a global economy that has made people feel
less in control of their lives, their country and the culture they grew up with
-- wherever they work, and however nice their house is.

''Globalization causes Mexicans to come because the jobs in their country are
going to China,'' said Chris H. Lewis, a senior lecturer at the University of
Colorado who teaches Western immigration history and globalization. ''And
globalization makes the middle class in this country feel we don't have a voice,
that our future is being created somewhere else.''

Both illegal immigrants and many here in Mr. Tancredo's district endure
transience and isolation, albeit in different ways  -- from corporate relocation
and outsourcing on the one hand, to old-fashioned immigrant job insecurity on
the other. And both sides see the hard truth of the global job market: jobs flow
downhill toward lower wages.

''I've got all kinds of people in my district  -- engineers, computer-science
people especially  --  whose jobs have been eliminated by H1B,'' Mr. Tancredo
said in a telephone interview, referring to the federal visa program aimed at
attracting foreign technical workers. ''They believe, and I believe, it's
because the company found a source of cheaper labor.''

Yet jobs created Parker, which had only a few hundred people as recently as
1980, and now has 45,000. The nearby Highlands Ranch area grew from literal
ranch land in that same period to more than 130,000 people today. While some
people surely came for the climate or to take advantage of Colorado's outdoor
lifestyle  -- far more came for a job, especially in the high-tech industries in
Denver, to which many people commute. Illegal immigrants have followed, as well,
typically commuting to work here from enclaves in Denver where rents are
relatively cheap.

Stanley A. Renshon, a psychoanalyst and a professor of political science at the
City University of New York, said Americans have developed what he calls a ''de
facto identity'' that allows for diversity and individualism as long as a few
core beliefs and values are shared, like personal responsibility and respect for
the country. If people don't assimilate into the broader culture, he said, then
the idea that communities can coalesce is challenged  -- especially in new
places like Mr. Tancredo's district where cohesion is still weak.

''I've done a lot of review of the public-opinion polls, and Americans are
foursquare against illegal immigration and foursquare for immigrants becoming
Americans,'' he said. ''When people talk about becoming an American, that to me
is the hidden core of the immigration debate.''

Some Mexican immigrants  -- legal and illegal  -- cling to their old culture and
language because they say that American life, whether in the new suburbs or the
cities, is fragmented and rootless, lacking the richness of their traditions and
culture. Equally protective of their culture, many in Mr. Tancredo's district
say illegal immigrants who don't assimilate and learn English are in fact a
major contributing cause of the cultural fragmentation.

''Portugal is Portugal because of the Portuguese language; Spain is Spanish;
France is  --  God knows  -- France is French; Germany is Germany, all because
of language,'' said Dick Hanson, 71, a retired Navy man who came to Parker in
the 1980s. ''That, to me, is the thing that holds, that builds a country.''

Mr. Tancredo makes much the same point. ''The impact of immigration  -- legal
and illegal  --  on jobs, schools, health care, the environment, national
security, are all very serious problems,'' he said. ''But more serious than all
of them put together is this threat to the culture. I believe we are in a clash
of civilizations.''

Bill Lieb, a 52-year-old business-owner and Republican from Highlands Ranch,
said he generally supported Mr. Tancredo. He said nonetheless that the American
economy had become dependent on immigrants, both legal and illegal, and that the
challenge was to come up with a policy to provide for those labor needs and fix
what he said was ''unregulated, uncontrolled chaos'' at the borders.

He said his business trips to Mexico and China have made him more sympathetic to
the plight of illegal immigrants. The Mexican government supports only the rich,
he said.

''If I lived there, I'd want to get the hell out, too,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The skyline of Highlands Ranch, a booming suburb of Denver that
is largely white.(PHOTOGRAPH BY Marc Piscotty/Polaris, for The New York Times)
CHART: A Slice Of America: Here is how Colorado's Sixth Congressional district,
represented by Tom Tancredo, compares with the nation as a whole. Chart details
statistics within a for Colorado suburb. (Source: Census Bureau 2005 survey of
households (excludes those living in institutions, college dormitories or other
group quarters)
 percentages may not add up to 100 because of rounding)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

NATIONAL BRIEFINGMIDWEST; Illinois: Illegal Immigrant Leaving Sanctuary

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 97 words


An illegal immigrant who took refuge in a Chicago church a year ago to escape
deportation said she planned to leave her sanctuary soon to lobby Congress for
immigration changes, even if that means risking arrest. The immigrant, Elvira
Arellano, 32, has said she feared being separated from her 8-year-old son, Saul,
when she asked the Adalberto United Methodist Church for help, but she said she
planned to leave on Sept. 12 to travel to Washington. Ms. Arellano came to the
United States illegally from Mexico in 1997, was deported, but then returned.
She moved to Illinois in 2000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Use Social Security to Seal the Border

BYLINE: By PETER D. SALINS.

Peter D. Salins, professor of political science at the State University of New
York, is the author of ''Assimilation, American Style.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: Stony Brook, N.Y.


CONGRESS failed to pass an immigration reform bill last week largely because
sponsors, including the president, could not convince the American people that
the legislation would end illegal immigration. In the debate that preceded the
collapse of the bill in the Senate, the rallying cry of opponents was
''enforcement first.'' Perhaps by taking the critics' slogan seriously,
President Bush can salvage a comprehensive immigration policy this year.

Supporters of immigration reform need to demonstrate that they are serious about
stopping illegal immigration through stringent enforcement at work places.
Keeping new illegal immigrants from being employed is far and away the best
strategy for deterring them from entering the country, easily trumping border
guards and fences.

Although the failed Senate bill included provisions for worksite enforcement,
Congress actually doesn't need to pass new legislation to achieve it. The Social
Security Administration has for seven decades maintained a comprehensive
employment database that can keep track of every single employee, legal or not,
in the United States. The Social Security database, combined with laws already
on the books, provides a way to catch unauthorized workers almost as soon as
they are hired.

The Senate bill proposed nationwide expansion of something called the Employment
Eligibility Verification System, which is now a pilot program of the Department
of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration. The idea was to
create a database for an ''instant background check,'' similar to the database
that gun dealers must consult before selling firearms to potential buyers. Any
American employer, facing a job applicant, would be required to enter the
applicant's information into a new national electronic database. The employer
would receive instant -- or at least timely -- verification that the job
applicant was in the country legally.

Skeptics didn't buy this plan for several reasons. Federal agencies, even in the
wake of 9/11, have a poor track record in installing comprehensive new computer
data systems. More important, numerous caveats buried in the bill would have let
employers off the hook if Congress failed to authorize sufficient money for the
new program. Even if that loophole were closed, the ambitious new employment
enforcement database could easily be undermined by future Congresses faced with
budget shortfalls, or merely the hostility of the coalition of immigrant
advocates and employers that favor lax enforcement.

Political pressure from this coalition has for years prevented the government
from deploying the enforcement system that is already in place. If it wanted to,
here is how the Social Security Administration could run an employee
verification system right now.

Under current employment law, every legal permanent resident of the United
States is required to have a Social Security number. Further, employers must
register their employees' status and Social Security numbers with the Social
Security Administration and make contributions to the system on their behalf.
These two features together can serve as a dragnet for identifying all illegal
workers.

Companies or individuals employing illegal workers ''off the books'' are
breaking the law, as are those that submit false or stolen Social Security
numbers. Admittedly, tracking down workers with no documents is a daunting task,
but that would also be true under the proposed system in the stalled immigration
reform bill. But the vast majority of American workers -- legal and illegal --
are actually working ''on the books.'' Their status does come to the attention
of the Social Security Administration.

Illegal immigrant workers can be identified by the government in several ways.
Nearly 40 percent of them, or approximately 3.5 million, may have valid Social
Security numbers but have overstayed their visas. Their identities can easily be
established by matching Social Security Administration data against the visa
expiration dates in the files of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The other illegal immigrants working on the books have submitted fraudulent
identification that, when logged by the government, shows up as being either
non-existent or duplicative of existing Social Security accounts. When a
fraudulent Social Security number is sent to Washington, the government deposits
the accompanying money in an ''earnings suspense file,'' a kitty that by last
October had grown to $586 billion. The Social Security Administration does not,
however, determine the reasons for the discrepancy (which could be a clerical
error or a legitimate name change) or alert Homeland Security and the employer
that something is amiss.

Social Security administrators assert, erroneously, that they are not permitted
to aid immigration law enforcement or to share data with the Department of
Homeland Security. The real reason for their reticence is their fear that more
aggressive electronic enforcement might invite political outrage. In 2002, the
Social Security Administration chose merely to inform employers of Social
Security number discrepancies by sending 950,000 ''mismatch'' letters. That
action so angered businesses and immigration advocates that a year later the
modest bureaucratic effort was largely ended.

After last week's legislative failure, it should be clear that the passage of
immigration reform requires more enforcement of immigration law, not less. Given
the country's cynical approach to worksite enforcement until now, supporters of
comprehensive immigration reform who claim they intend to curtail future illegal
immigration need to make sure that, for once, all government agencies
participating in worksite enforcement really have the resources, the will and
the political support to give it teeth. By directing the Social Security
Administration to use its database to enforce our existing immigration laws,
President Bush can do this now without waiting for Congress to pass a bill.

If he does, then perhaps the United States will have truly entered a promising
new era in immigration policy. If he doesn't, we will be revisiting this
contentious issue a decade from now, when we face a vastly larger illegal work
force.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Is at Center Of New Laws Around U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 634 words


State legislatures, grappling with the failure of the federal government to
overhaul the immigration laws, considered 1,404 immigration measures this year
and enacted 170 of them, an unprecedented surge in state-level lawmaking on the
issue, according to a report by the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Spurred by rising resentment in the country over illegal immigration and by the
collapse of a broad immigration bill in the Senate in June, state legislators
nationwide adopted measures to curb employment of unauthorized immigrants and to
make it more difficult for them to obtain state identification documents like
driver's licenses.

While the political tide ran generally against illegal immigrants, some states
adopted measures to help them by protecting them from exploitation and by
extending education and health care to their children. Fifteen states adopted
laws intended to punish immigrant smugglers, especially if their victims were
foreigners coerced into prostitution or other sexual commerce.

State lawmakers have introduced about two and half times more immigration bills
this year than in 2006, and the number that have become law is more than double
the 84 bills enacted last year, according to the conference, a nonpartisan
organization that includes all the state legislatures. The report was scheduled
to be released today.

''States will act in a vacuum,'' said Leticia Van de Putte, a Democratic state
senator from Texas who is the president of the conference this year. ''The
states are stepping up to the plate and doing what they can, because not to act
would be irresponsible.''

Every state debated immigration issues, and 41 states adopted immigration laws.
A large number of new laws cracked down on employers who hire illegal
immigrants. The broadest measure was passed in Arizona and signed into law by
Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, in July. Arizona employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants face suspension of their business license for the first
offense and the permanent loss of their license for a second offense within
three years. The law requires employers to verify the status of job applicants
with a federal immigration database known as Basic Pilot.

''The message loud and clear from our constituents was their frustration that
the federal government has not taken the necessary action to secure the
border,'' Timothy S. Bee, a Republican who is the president of the Arizona
Senate, said in a telephone interview yesterday.

Tennessee made it a criminal offense, rather than a civil one, to ''recklessly
employ'' an illegal immigrant, with fines up to $50,000. Several states passed
laws denying state contracts to employers of illegal immigrants, and other laws
barred those immigrants from collecting unemployment benefits. In all, 26 laws
on employing immigrants were passed in 19 states -- covering the nation from
Hawaii to Arkansas to Georgia -- with most of the measures intended to curb
illegal immigrants' access to jobs.

But in Illinois, lawmakers barred the state from requiring employers to verify
job applicants through the Basic Pilot system. The legislators called the system
unreliable and error-prone.

Several states -- including Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Montana and Nevada --
passed new laws or hardened existing ones to bar illegal immigrants from
obtaining driver's licenses. The toughest law was adopted in Louisiana, which
now requires applicants' names to be checked against a federal immigration
database as well as the Department of Homeland Security's terrorism watch list.

Eleven states enacted 15 laws on public benefits, most of them denying state
assistance to illegal immigrants. In May, Minnesota passed a version of a
federal law that makes illegal immigrants ineligible for most medical aid.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of errors in a report by the National Conference of State
Legislatures, an article on Aug. 6 about new immigration laws inaccurately
described laws in three states. In Tennessee, a law provided for administrative,
not criminal, procedures against employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants, including temporary suspension of their business licenses. The bill
did not create a new criminal offense of recklessly employing illegal immigrants
or any new fines for prohibited hiring. Louisiana required drivers license
applicants presenting foreign passports as proof of identity to provide
documents showing they are authorized to be in the United States for at least
180 days, or 60 days for agricultural workers. It did not require applicants'
names to be checked against federal immigration or terror lists. Minnesota's ban
on illegal immigrants receiving its general assistance medical care has not
changed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

GOVERNMENT SET FOR A CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGAL HIRING

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words


In a new effort to crack down on illegal immigrants, federal authorities are
expected to announce tough rules this week that would require employers to fire
workers who use false Social Security numbers.

Officials said the rules would be backed up by stepped-up raids on workplaces
across the country that employ illegal immigrants.

After first proposing the rules last year, Department of Homeland Security
officials said they held off finishing them to await the outcome of the debate
in Congress over a sweeping immigration bill. That measure, which was supported
by President Bush, died in the Senate in June.

Now administration officials are signaling that they intend to clamp down on
employers of illegal immigrants even without a new immigration law to offer
legal status to millions of illegal immigrants already in the workforce.

The approach is expected to play well with conservatives who have long demanded
that the administration do more to enforce existing immigration laws, but it
could also lead to renewed pressure from businesses on Congress to provide legal
status for an estimated six million unauthorized immigrant workers.

''We are tough and we are going to be even tougher,'' Russ Knocke, the spokesman
for the Department of Homeland Security, said yesterday. ''There are not going
to be any more excuses for employers, and there will be serious consequences for
those that choose to blatantly disregard the law.''

Experts said the new rules represented a major tightening of the immigration
enforcement system, in which employers for decades have paid little attention to
notices, known as no-match letters, from the Social Security Administration
advising that workers' names and numbers did not match the agency's records.

Illegal workers often provide employers with false Social Security numbers to
qualify for a job.

Employers, especially in agriculture and low-wage industries, said they were
deeply worried about the new rules, which could force them to lay off thousands
of immigrant workers. More than 70 percent of farmworkers in the fields of the
United States are illegal immigrants, according to estimates by growers'
associations.

''Across the employer community people are scared, confused, holding their
breath,'' said Craig Regelbrugge, co-chairman of the Agriculture Coalition for
Immigration Reform, a trade organization. ''Given what we know about the
demographics of our labor force, since we are approaching peak season, people
are particularly on edge.''

The expected regulations would give employers a fixed period, perhaps up to 90
days, to resolve any discrepancies between identity information provided by
their workers and the records of the Social Security Administration. If workers'
documents cannot be verified, employers would be required to fire them or risk
up to $10,000 in fines for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants.

Immigrant rights groups and labor unions, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O., predicted
the rules would unleash discrimination against Hispanic workers. They said they
were preparing legal challenges to try to stop them from taking effect.

Some Republican lawmakers welcomed the administration's stance. ''If they shut
off the jobs magnet in the workplace in a way that shows they are serious about
restoring the rule of law, then I'm encouraged,'' said Representative Steve King
of Iowa.

The new rules codify an uneasy partnership between the Department of Homeland
Security, which enforces the immigration laws, and the Social Security
Administration, which collects identity information from W-2 tax forms of about
250 million workers each year, so it can credit the earnings in its system.

Mark Hinkle, a spokesman for Social Security, said the agency expected to send
out about 140,000 no-match letters to employers this year, covering more than
eight million workers. After the rules are announced, the agency is anticipating
a surge in requests from employers seeking to clarify workers' information, Mr.
Hinkle said.

Social Security issues letters only to employers who have more than 10 workers
whose numbers do not match, when those workers represent at least one-half of 1
percent of the company's workforce, Mr. Hinkle said.

The agency cannot verify which mismatches came from immigrants who presented
false Social Security numbers when they applied for jobs, he said. Mismatches
also occur because of clerical errors, or when workers marry and forget to
inform Social Security that they changed their names. Several federal studies in
recent years have found significant error rates in the Social Security database.

''We don't know and we don't speculate'' about the reasons for mismatches, Mr.
Hinkle said.

The new rules will clarify steps employers can take to avoid being accused of
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants, officials said. According to the draft,
employers would be given 14 days after receiving a no-match letter to check for
clerical errors and consult with the employee to correct mistakes. If the
discrepancies are eliminated and new, valid work papers are filed within the
fixed period, employers would enjoy a ''safe harbor'' from penalties.

The rules proposed last year brought a storm of criticism from both employers
and workers groups. In a formal comment, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said the rules would
''harm all workers regardless of immigration status.''

''The enforcement is only on the immigration side,'' Ana Avendano, associate
general counsel for the A.F.L.-C.I.O, said yesterday. ''They don't do any labor
inspection. So they are just giving employers another tool to repress workers'
rights.''

Even large companies that do not hire many low-skilled immigrants would be
affected by the rules, lawyers said.

''It's going to be a big change for almost every company,'' said Cynthia J.
Lange, an immigration lawyer in California.

Muzaffar A. Chishti, a director of the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan
research group, said, ''If this is strictly enforced there could be massive
layoffs of workers.'' But Mr. Chishti said that illegal immigrant workers might
not leave the labor force but would apply for jobs at other businesses using the
same invalid documents. He predicted the market for forged documents would grow.

''A lot of employers are saying, 'We just can't handle this,' '' said Laura
Reiff, co-chairwoman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which
represents employers in low-skilled industries. She said the rules might lead to
new pressure from business on Congress to reconsider measures granting legal
status to illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; ; CORRECTIONS: FOR THE RECORD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words


Because of errors in a report by the National Conference of State Legislatures,
an article on Aug. 6 about new immigration laws inaccurately described laws in
three states. In Tennessee, a law provided for administrative, not criminal,
procedures against employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants, including
temporary suspension of their business licenses. The bill did not create a new
criminal offense of recklessly employing illegal immigrants or any new fines for
prohibited hiring. Louisiana required drivers license applicants presenting
foreign passports as proof of identity to provide documents showing they are
authorized to be in the United States for at least 180 days, or 60 days for
agricultural workers. It did not require applicants' names to be checked against
federal immigration or terror lists. Minnesota's ban on illegal immigrants
receiving its general assistance medical care has not changed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Measure Would Offer Legal Status to Illegal Immigrant Students

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


A bill to offer legal status to illegal immigrant students who have graduated
from high school was revived this week in the Senate, the first effort to
advance a piece of broad immigration legislation that failed in June.

Senator Richard J. Durbin, the Illinois Democrat who is an author of the student
measure, said Wednesday that he would try this week to offer it as an amendment
to the military authorization bill under debate in the Senate. The measure would
provide a path to permanent legal status for illegal immigrant students who came
to the United States before they were 16 years old, graduated from high school
in good standing and agreed to serve in the military or attend college for at
least two years.

Both supporters and opponents of the measure said it would serve as a test on
whether legislation giving legal status to illegal immigrants can pass Congress
this year, in light of the strong opposition from conservative voters who
defeated the larger bill. Opponents rejected that bill as an amnesty that would
reward immigrants who broke the law.

Mr. Durbin, speaking Tuesday on the Senate floor, described his measure as
''narrowly tailored'' and said it would help resolve ''a very serious
recruitment crisis'' for the military.

Supporters, who called the measure the Dream Act, said it could pass the Senate
because it is intended to benefit young people who grow up in the United States
and are illegal immigrants as a result of decisions by their parents.

But Steve Elliott, president of Grassfire.org, a conservative Web site whose
members mobilized against the June bill, sent out an alert last week calling the
student measure a ''blatant deception on the part of the Senate to get a massive
amnesty passed.''

In coordinated action, high school and college students who support the Senate
measure staged ''teach-ins'' and visited lawmakers' offices today  in Florida,
Idaho, New York, Oregon and Wisconsin. Twenty illegal immigrant students from
California came to Washington to lobby for the bill, dressed in white coats and
business suits to signify the medical and legal careers they hope to pursue.
They held a news conference offering only their first names.

One high school graduate who said he was encouraged by the Senate debate to
publicize his situation this week was a 20-year-old illegal immigrant from
Venezuela named Carlos. In telephone interviews in recent days, from Miami,
where he lives, Carlos said his parents brought him to the United States when he
was 2, originally entering on legal visas.

Although his father had inherited property in the United States, Carlos said,
his father's attempts to gain legal residence had failed. Carlos asked that his
last name not be published after his lawyers told him he could face deportation.

Carlos said he first approached military recruiters while he was a student at G.
Holmes Braddock Senior High School in Miami. Later, he learned from military Web
sites that being a legal United States resident was a requirement for
enlistment.

Carlos said his life stalled after he graduated from high school in 2005. He
could not apply for scholarships or admission to Florida colleges at tuition
rates for state residents. Although he has skills in basic engineering, Carlos
said, he has difficulty applying for jobs because he does not have a Social
Security number and cannot get a driver's license.

Frustrated, Carlos said he started again to look for ways to enlist, setting his
sights on the Air Force, which he hoped might help him finish his college
education in engineering.

''I'm the ideal guy you want for the military,'' Carlos said. ''I know the
dangers, but I would actually like to do it.''

Although Mr. Durbin in his speech cited several other cases of immigrant
students hoping to join the armed forces, most of the illegal immigrant students
who were in Washington yesterday said that if the measure passed, they hoped to
finish their college education, not join the military.

Another illegal immigrant student, Juan Sebastian Gomez, received an indefinite
delay of his deportation this week as a result of a private bill on his behalf
introduced in the Senate by Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlos, an illegal immigrant student in Miami, holds his
passport showing his first entry into the United States as a 2-year-old boy.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Asks Florida Graduates To Back Immigration Change

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 28


President Bush used a speech to mostly Hispanic graduates of Miami Dade College
on Saturday to press for an overhaul of immigration law, calling for changes
that ''resolve the status of those who are already here without amnesty, and
without animosity.''

Mr. Bush urged the 1,500 students, many of whom were born in other countries, to
join the national debate on immigration policy, saying they ''see every day the
values of hard work and family and faith that immigrants bring'' and so should
make their voices heard.

Nearly 80 percent of graduates at the college's campus in Kendall, where Mr.
Bush spoke, are Hispanic; many are Cuban-American. Mr. Bush got a standing
ovation and fervent applause, even as hundreds of protesters waved signs along
the perimeter of the suburban campus opposing the war and calling for the
president's impeachment.

Mr. Bush's younger brother, former Gov. Jeb Bush, came to hear him speak, along
with Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, and several Cuban-American
members of the state's Congressional delegation.

Earlier in the day, Mr. Bush discussed immigration in his weekly radio address,
calling on Congress to reach agreement on the ''critical challenge'' of
improving immigration laws. Administration officials estimate that 12 million
illegal immigrants are in the United States, and that the number has been
growing by an average of 400,000 a year.

Mr. Bush is trying to bring both parties together on immigration legislation,
even as he is fighting with Democrats over Iraq. He wants to create a temporary
worker program and a way for some illegal immigrants already here to legalize
their status, while stepping up border patrol.

''We need a system where our laws are respected,'' Mr. Bush told the graduates.
''We need a system that meets the legitimate needs of our economy. And we need a
system that treats people with dignity and helps newcomers assimilate into our
society.

''We must address all elements of this problem together, or none of them will be
solved at all. And we must do it in a way that learns from the mistakes that
caused previous reforms to fail.''

Miami Dade is the largest community college in the nation, and only the second
community college where a sitting president has given a commencement address.
Christopher Miles, president of the student government association at the
Kendall campus, told Mr. Bush the school was nicknamed ''Democracy's College,''
and said more than half the graduates were the first in their families to enter
higher education.

Though Mr. Bush received the warmest of welcomes, some faculty members wore
green and white ribbons on their robes to advocate an end to the war.

Before Mr. Bush spoke, the names of every nation that the graduates hailed from
were announced, with Cuba, Colombia, Nicaragua and Venezuela drawing some of the
heartiest cheers.

As he has often done when visiting Miami, Mr. Bush criticized Cuba, where he
said ''the opportunity to participate in an open debate does not exist.'' He
also alluded to Fidel Castro's recent illness, saying the day is nearing when
''the light of liberty will shine'' on Cuba.

''The reign of every tyrant comes to an end,'' Mr. Bush said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Near Agreement On New Immigration Rules

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16


Senators from both parties said Wednesday that they were close to agreement on a
new system of selecting immigrants that would give greater weight to education
and to job skills deemed helpful to the economy.

Under the proposal, the government would adopt a point system to evaluate the
qualifications and claims of many people seeking permission to immigrate.

Family ties would remain an important factor, but would have less weight than
under current law.

The point system is one element of a comprehensive bill that calls for the
biggest changes in immigration law and policy in more than 20 years. The full
Senate plans to take up the legislation next week.

Although Democrats now control the Senate, the bill incorporates many ideas
advanced in some form by President Bush. A draft of the legislation says that
Congress intends to ''increase American competitiveness through a merit-based
evaluation system for immigrants.''

Moreover, it says, Congress will ''reduce chain migration'' by limiting the
number of visas issued exclusively on account of kinship.

Democrats insisted, and Republicans agreed, that some points be awarded to
people who had close relatives in the United States or could perform low-skill
jobs for which there was a high demand.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, one of the more optimistic
negotiators, said, ''There's a 90 percent chance that we will get a deal this
week.'' Mr. Graham added that the legislation ''would free up thousands of green
cards in the future for people who meet our economic needs, while still allowing
members of the nuclear family to come to this country.''

Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell University, said:
''The legislation taking shape in the Senate represents a major philosophical
shift. It tells the world that we are emphasizing characteristics that will
enhance our global competitiveness, like education and job skills. We would not
rely as much on family background as we have in the past.''

Under the proposal, Mr. Yale-Loehr said, ''foreign-born spouses and minor
children of United States citizens could still get green cards, but foreign-born
siblings and adult children of citizens would be hurt.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said lawmakers had
narrowed their differences on some issues.

''This is not the architecture of an immigration bill that I would have
initially liked to see,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''But this is a legislative process.
A lot of different interests are at work. For the sake of this legislation, we
had to come back to a point system. It will recognize a number of elements: high
skills, low skills and family relationships. There are always differences about
what the proportions ought to be.''

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, had set a test vote
for Wednesday. But after learning that negotiators had made progress, he
deferred it to Monday, to allow more time for talks.

The bill would offer legal status to most of the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States. But they would not automatically qualify for
citizenship. The proposal would require them to ''touch back'' in their home
countries and apply for green cards, like other immigrants seeking permanent
residence in the United States.

Some conservatives still dislike the idea of a large legalization program. But
Mr. Graham said the bill struck a realistic balance.

''We are not going to put 12 million people in jail,'' Mr. Graham said. ''Nor
should we give them an advantage over those who played by the rules to become
citizens.''

Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, said he had doubts about this
approach, but said Congress had to do something because his constituents were
telling him that ''they feel they are being overrun with uncontrolled
immigration.''

The legislation also calls for major increases in the Border Patrol and tougher
enforcement at the border and in the workplace.

Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, one of the negotiators, said he
wanted the new point system to be equitable. ''We do not want to create a system
that is just for the wealthiest and most educated immigrants,'' Mr. Salazar
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Months of Tense Talks Led to Immigration Deal

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1157 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18


Hours before a bipartisan deal on immigration policy was to be announced
Thursday, a tenuous compromise was threatening to unravel, and tempers flared
once again.

Just off the Senate floor, Senators John McCain of Arizona and John Cornyn of
Texas, both Republicans, exchanged sharp words, with Mr. McCain accusing his
colleague of raising arcane legal issues to scuttle the deal. Mr. Cornyn
retorted that he was entitled to his view and noted that Mr. McCain had spent
more time campaigning for president than negotiating in recent weeks.

The senatorial dust-up, described by witnesses, was just one of the tense
moments in remarkable negotiations over the last three months that resulted in
this week's accord. Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who
oversaw the talks, compared them to a floating craps game, with a changing cast
of characters and shifting sites.

Lawmakers and staff members who participated said passions occasionally ran high
in the dozens of meetings, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, sometimes using his temper as a negotiating tactic. Senators who
had spent hours anguishing over the smallest details had little patience for
colleagues who made brief appearances to offer their views.

''New people came in and wanted to revisit the whole deal,'' Mr. Specter said.
''That happened all the time. It was very frustrating.''

In the end, negotiators overcame political divisions and some level of distrust
to produce the agreement that will be debated in the Senate beginning next week.
Lawmakers said they forged bonds partly through the telling of personal stories
about their own family roots, as well as long hours spent together and the
prospect that the bill might be a last chance at reaching consensus on a major
national problem.

''It was like waiting for a baby to be born,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina, about the negotiations. ''On occasion, it was like
being in mediation with a divorced couple. It was like being at camp with your
buddies. It was feeling like a part of history.''

As difficult as the negotiations were, they might ultimately seem tame compared
with the fight the authors of the plan now face. Before the language of the bill
was even published, the proposal -- a major domestic objective of the Bush
administration -- was under attack from the right for allowing illegal
immigrants to earn citizenship and from the left for dividing families. The
offices of the negotiators were under siege from critics who had the phones
ringing endlessly.

''It is real easy to demagogue this thing, and some people probably won't be
able to help themselves,'' said Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida and
another key participant in the talks. ''We are going to have to stick together
on the fundamentals of this agreement.''

The talks had their genesis in last year's failure on immigration after House
Republicans essentially chose to ignore a bill passed by the Senate that
conservatives derided as amnesty since it would have allowed some of the 12
million illegal immigrants in the United States to remain and eventually qualify
to be citizens.

President Bush helped plant the seeds of this year's negotiations on Jan. 8, at
a White House event celebrating the fifth anniversary of the No Child Left
Behind Act. Mr. Bush pulled aside Senator Kennedy, and they went into a room off
the Oval Office to talk about immigration.

A month later, Senator Jon Kyl, a conservative Republican from Arizona who would
become an important figure in striking the deal, began meeting with other
Republicans and administration officials to explore ways to find a legislative
response to an issue with potent political and humanitarian ramifications.

When those talks progressed far enough, the Republicans on March 28 invited in
Democrats like Mr. Kennedy, a longtime advocate of immigration changes, and
Senators Ken Salazar of Colorado and Robert Menendez of New Jersey. What
followed was a series of meetings around the Capitol, typically on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday nights, as the lawmakers, staff members, White House
officials and two or three cabinet secretaries immersed themselves in
immigration rules as part of unusually direct high-level negotiations.

''To take an issue and basically start from scratch and write it from the bottom
up is something I haven't seen done in a really long time,'' said Candida Wolff,
chief of Congressional relations for the White House.

The first big hurdle was cleared a few weeks ago when the negotiators settled on
what they called the grand bargain, the main outlines of the issues they were
going to address. Major elements included border security improvements and other
measures that would have to be undertaken before new citizenship programs were
put in place; potential legal status for millions of illegal immigrants; new
visas for hundreds of thousands of temporary workers; and clearing a backlog of
family applicants for residency.

Republicans also won support for a new ''merit-based system of immigration,''
which would give more weight to job skills and education and less to family
ties. The negotiators decided to adopt a point system to evaluate the
qualifications of foreign citizens seeking permission to immigrate to the United
States.

No question was too small for the senators. They asked: How many points should
be awarded to a refrigerator mechanic with a certificate from a community
college?

The negotiations were a roller coaster ride that continued until the deal was
announced Thursday, with negotiators expressing despair one day and optimism the
next.

''Wednesday evening was one of the most important moments,'' Mr. Kennedy said in
an interview. ''The mood and the atmosphere were good. You got a feeling that
maybe this would all be possible. But on Thursday morning, it suddenly
deteriorated again.'' He told his colleagues that ''it's imperative that we
announce an agreement'' on Thursday afternoon, or else they could lose momentum.
The announcement was made.

In some respects, the lawmakers benefited from the Congressional focus on the
Iraq war as they were able to negotiate below the radar, avoiding the disclosure
of every twist and turn in the talks and pressure from influential interest
groups. Those involved also said the deep participation of Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff was vital.

The senators who put together the bill say they have their own reservations
about aspects of it. And some of the regular participants, including Senators
Cornyn and Menendez, have backed away from endorsing it. But those who have
embraced the bill say they intend to see it through.

''We made a pact,'' said Mr. Specter, who was referred to as Mr. Chairman even
though Democrats control Congress. ''We will stick together even on provisions
we don't like. We are a long way from home in getting this through the Senate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Winning Card

BYLINE: By Doris Meissner and James Ziglar.

Doris Meissner, the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
under President Bill Clinton, is a senior fellow at the Migration Policy
Institute. James Ziglar, the commissioner under President George W. Bush, is the
president and chief executive of a biometric technology company.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 726 words


PRESIDENT BUSH has once again started speaking out for comprehensive immigration
reform, and a draft plan to rally Republican senators on the issue is
circulating just as Congressional hearings on the issue approach. Members of
Congress recognize that voters are looking for real reform that rests on
resolute, effective enforcement of our immigration laws.

The only serious legislative proposal on the table -- a bill recently introduced
by Representatives Luis Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, and Jeff Flake,
Republican of Arizona -- offers such enforcement, because it focuses on making
employers accountable for their hiring practices. To that end, the bill
incorporates lessons learned from the largest immigration enforcement operation
ever undertaken. Last December, Department of Homeland Security agents descended
on meat processing plants run by Swift & Company in six states, arresting more
than 1,200 unauthorized workers.

The arrests were astonishing because Swift participates in Basic Pilot, a
voluntary Department of Homeland Security program that allows employers to
electronically verify the work eligibility of newly hired workers against
department and Social Security databases. The program is seen as the precursor
for a verification system that would become mandatory with comprehensive
immigration reform. Since Swift was using the department's system, how did it
end up with illegal workers?

The Basic Pilot program has a fatal flaw, which is that it requires only
electronic verification of employment eligibility. An effective program should
also insist on tamper-proof identification documents for job-seekers,
incorporating biometrics like digital photographs and fingerprints to prove
identity. Only then would it be possible to establish not only that job
applicants are authorized to work, but also that they are who they say they are.
Otherwise, valid Social Security numbers can be presented to employers, and
Basic Pilot will verify them, but the numbers may not belong to the workers who
present them.

In fact, if the Basic Pilot program as now constructed becomes mandatory for
employers, the incentive for generating documents with real but stolen Social
Security numbers will significantly increase. Document vendors will charge
ever-heftier fees to those seeking ''papers,'' employers will hire them with
impunity, and the availability of work for unauthorized workers will continue to
be a powerful stimulus for illegal immigration, this time seriously compromising
the integrity of Social Security numbers and records.

As former commissioners of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, we
grappled with the same issues that confront today's Department of Homeland
Security. Since then, we have worked together on the Independent Task Force on
Immigration and America's Future, which recommended secure, biometric Social
Security cards. There is no other known method for linking a Social Security
number to its rightful owner. By requiring the government to develop and issue
such cards, the Gutierrez-Flake bill addresses a gaping hole in earlier
proposals and current procedures. (Disclosure: one of us runs a company that
could benefit from the adoption of this technology.)

To insist on secure documents with biometric identifiers is not a call for a
national ID. Green cards, temporary work permits and passports are secure and
reliable for hiring purposes. Adding Social Security cards to this list,
establishing a single standard for their security features, and replacing old
cards over a designated period would resolve the problem on a national scale.

Only then would employers be able to comply reliably with verification
requirements as the basis for sound enforcement and, by extension, border
control. Legal immigrants and American citizens could prove their identities and
eligibility to work without facing discrimination based on appearance or
language. Scarce enforcement resources could be spent on apprehending real
criminals and addressing national security threats. And a new system of
enforcement would at last have a chance to win back public confidence in the
nation's immigration policies.

After more than 20 years of failed efforts, Congress must not bake half a loaf.
Secure biometric Social Security cards are an essential ingredient in any
comprehensive immigration reform.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Kupperman)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Rights Rallies Smaller Than Last Year

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting was contributed by Sarah Abruzzese in
Washington, Ana F. Contreras in Los Angeles, Cassi Feldman in New York, Dan
Frosch in Denver, Paul Giblin in Phoenix and Libby Sander in Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 979 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 1


Tens of thousands of people pressing for immigrants' rights demonstrated on
Tuesday in dozens of cities. But with advocates splintered over tactics, the
crowds paled in comparison with the turnout last year.

The protests, with some of the largest gatherings here and in Chicago and
Phoenix, took aim at recent raids by immigration agents and stalled negotiations
in Congress over proposals for the most sweeping changes in immigration law in
20 years.

''I came here like everyone else to make sure we get a just immigration reform
law passed,'' said Abel Corona, 34, who described himself as an illegal
immigrant from Mexico, as he marched here. ''We are not going anywhere. We are
not criminals. We came here to work and even to help this country
economically.''

Talking over the din of drums and chanting at the Chicago march, Esmeralda
Marin, 30, a Mexican-American, said she was demonstrating to denounce the
government raids, which have led to an increase in deportations in the last
year.

''If we have seen anything since last year, we have seen more families torn
apart,'' Ms. Marin said.

The Chicago march drew 150,000 people, the police said, below the nearly
half-million of last year.

Martha Martinez, 27, who said she was a legal resident, marched in Denver
against the raids and on behalf of a family who she said was afraid of being
arrested if they participated.

''It's not right to separate families, but that's what has happened,'' Ms.
Martinez said, as her 6-year-old son held a sign reading, ''I refuse to live in
fear.''

Some organizers faulted the raids as lowering the turnout of illegal immigrants.
Organizers nonetheless claimed success in drawing attention to immigrants'
concerns.

''We have already injected ourselves into the national immigration debate,''
said Javier Rodriguez, a march organizer in Los Angeles.

Although sizable in some places, the demonstrations were for the most part
peaceful. At an evening rally, however, the Los Angeles police arrested several
people they said threw rocks and bottles at officers, who scuffled with some
protesters as they tried to disperse the crowd. Police fired rubber cartridges
and used batons to push the crowd out of the street, The Associated Press
reported, but no arrests were made.

The demonstrations seemed to underscore how much the protest movement has
struggled in the last year. More than 500,000 people turned out here last year.
This year, the police estimated that 25,000 attended the largest of three
rallies.

In Denver, where 75,000 people participated last year, an estimated 10,000
demonstrated, organizers said. The police put the number at no more than 2,000.

Unlike the protest last year, nobody called for a ''day without an immigrant.''
No widespread business boycotts materialized. For the most part, students did
not pour out of schools.

Last year, a bill in Congress proposed, among other measures, making it a felony
to be in the United States illegally, providing a sharp and clearly defined
rallying point that fueled protests. Just as that proposal fizzled, so did the
protests, with subsequent rallies smaller and smaller as organizers turned to
voter registration and lobbying.

''The political climate last year was passionate, energetic, dramatic,'' said
Armando Navarro, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California,
Riverside, who helped organize marches here last year. ''This year, it is one of
uncertainty, doubt, fear, things that are not encouraging of participation and
impede in many ways people from participating.''

Reflecting on the last year, Professor Navarro said: ''We could not agree on
what needed to be done next. Some moved on to the assumption we had to impact
the November elections to get Democrats elected in Congress. So there was a
major gap between the May 1 demonstration and the voter registration drives that
summer and fall. But after November, there was nothing in motion.''

After the Democrats won Congress, some advocates of immigration rights expressed
hope that they might find a way to make citizens out of some or all the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Many of those Democrats won election taking a hard line on immigrants, and as
presidential election politics heat up, doubts are growing that an immigration
bill will be passed this year.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which says illegal immigrants
drain the economy and opposes their legalization as an amnesty, said the marches
only made clear the need for more enforcement.

''May Day 2007 is likely to draw a small fraction of the participants who
marched on behalf of amnesty for illegal aliens in 2006, but it is certain to
serve as a reminder to law-abiding Americans that Congress and the Bush
administration have still not taken the necessary steps to secure the nation's
borders or protect American workers,'' the group said in a statement.

A group of counterdemonstrators made a similar point as they confronted the
thousands of advocates of immigration rights outside the Arizona Capitol in
Phoenix.

In Washington, several hundred people demonstrated at Republican and Democratic
Party headquarters.

In New York, demonstrations were modest compared with some elsewhere. Thousands
gathered on Union Square, and demonstrators at an interfaith service at the
Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village taped leaves on a mural depicting a
tree to symbolize families separated by deportation.

Jacqueline Sayago, 42, of Ridgewood, Queens, a janitor who said she emigrated
illegally from Venezuela, said she feared deportation and having to find
somewhere for her daughter, 8, who was born in the United States, to stay.

''I am scared one day they will separate us,'' Ms. Sayago said. ''I want
everybody in America to know that I work, I work hard. I pay I.R.S. money. I'm
doing everything right.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Chicago, Juan Aguilar, 16, and Bianca Rodriguez, 17, whose
schools let students miss classes, attended a rally in Union Park in the West
Loop. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)
 Stores along the usually busy Broadway shopping area in central Los Angeles
were closed yesterday for a demonstration on immigration. (Photo by Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Castro Foe's Indictment Is Thrown Out

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 116 words


A federal judge in El Paso threw out an indictment accusing an anti-Castro Cuban
militant of lying to immigration authorities about how he entered the United
States. The judge, Kathleen Cardone, said the government's interpretation of an
April 2006 interview with the defendant, Luis Posada Carriles, was ''so
inaccurate as to render it unreliable as evidence of defendant's actual
statement.'' Mr. Posada, a 79-year-old former C.I.A. operative, was to stand
trial next week in Texas on immigration fraud charges. Cuba and Venezuela want
him extradited in the 1976 bombing of a Cuban airliner that killed 73 people,
but the United States has refused. Mr. Posada has denied involvement in the
bombing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Veteran Facing Deportation Wins Hearing for Freedom

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 674 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 22


A veteran of the Persian Gulf war of 1991 who has been in custody for three
years while United States immigration officials have tried to deport him has
been granted a hearing to determine if he is being held legally.

The veteran, Warren Joseph, 40, has been detained by immigration officials since
2004 after serving six months in Fort Dix for violating his probation on a
weapons charge.

Judge Jose L. Linares of Federal District Court here ruled Tuesday that Mr.
Joseph -- who has had permanent legal immigration status since moving to the
United States from Trinidad in 1987 -- was entitled to a hearing about whether
he has been held too long in violation of his rights. The hearing is scheduled
for June 19.

''This is very same country that I served, that I fought for, and called me an
American while I was in the military,'' Mr. Joseph said in a phone interview
from the Hudson County Correctional Center in Kearny, N.J.

Referring to his long detention, he said, ''For me, it is like a slap in the
face. I love this country.''

Mr. Joseph has been fighting his case on two fronts. His lawyers have argued
that the crime he committed is not a deportable offense. At the same time, they
have said that Mr. Joseph should be set free.

Mr. Joseph came to the United States when he was 20 to join his mother. He was
living in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn when he joined the Army in 1988,
serving for eight years and fighting in Iraq, where he was injured during the
war to oust Saddam Hussein's forces from Kuwait. After receiving commendations
and an honorable discharge in 1996, Mr. Joseph returned to Brooklyn, suffering
from post-traumatic stress disorder, hearing loss, depression and other
war-related ailments, his lawyers have said in court papers.

In 2001, he pleaded guilty in federal court to transporting or receiving
firearms without a license after he bought guns for people to whom he owed
money, said one of Mr. Joseph's lawyers, Amrit Singh of the American Civil
Liberties Union of New Jersey. He was sentenced to four years of probation.

According to the court papers, Mr. Joseph was ''suffering from partial paralysis
and debilitating depression'' in 2003 when he moved into his mother's house
without telling his probation officer, a violation of his probation. He was
sentenced to six months in jail, and when he completed that sentence in 2004,
Mr. Joseph was taken into custody by immigration officials, who are seeking to
deport him on the firearms conviction.

Mr. Joseph's lawyers have argued that his conviction was not severe enough to
require his deportation. In October, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit agreed, ruling that the crime was not an ''aggravated felony''
that would require automatic deportation. But another section of federal
immigration law requires the detention of immigrants convicted of certain
crimes, even if they are not considered a danger to society.

''The government's claim is they can lock him up without a hearing indefinitely
while his removal proceedings are pending in court,'' Ms. Singh said.

Marc Raimondi, acting press secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Washington, said in a statement, ''His detention is mandated under law based
upon a past criminal conviction.''

Referring to federal law in general, and not to Mr. Joseph's case in particular,
Mr. Raimondi pointed to a provision in the Immigration and Nationality Act that
says any immigrant convicted of buying, selling, owning or carrying a weapon
''in violation of any law is deportable.''

Mr. Joseph said that he had twice applied for citizenship, first in 1994 and
again a year later. On one occasion, he said, the military did not forward his
discharge papers in time; in the other, he was $20 short on his application fee.
Had he obtained citizenship, he could not be deported.

Jim Benson, a spokesman for the Department of Veterans Affairs, said that in his
eight years with the agency he had not heard of any other veterans in danger of
being deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 30, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article last Wednesday about a legal
immigrant and Persian Gulf war veteran who has been detained in a New Jersey
jail for three years while immigration authorities try to deport him for a
firearms conviction misstated his surname at one point in some copies. He is
Warren Joseph, not ''Mr. Warren.''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Law Is Renegotiated, Immigrant Families Are on Edge

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1075 words


Amir Nikpouri was struck by love at a family gathering on the first trip he had
made in many years to his home country, Iran.

''I never thought I could have so much in common with someone, especially with
me living here and her in Tehran,'' said Mr. Nikpouri, who is 30 and a longtime
legal immigrant in the United States.

Five months after they met, the couple were married, in August 2005 in Tehran.
Then Mr. Nikpouri came home to Chicago and read the immigration law that
determines when he will be able to bring his new wife from Iran to live with
him. He discovered that they would have to wait at least four years, and in the
meantime she could not come to the United States even once to visit.

Mr. Nikpouri is one of an estimated 1.5 million legal immigrants in the United
States who have been waiting as long as seven years to bring husbands, wives and
small children to live with them. Instead of giving them new hope, a bipartisan
compromise bill now under debate on the Senate floor would only make their
plight worse, senators, lawyers and immigrants said yesterday.

While the bill's supporters say it would put legal immigrants ahead of illegal
ones, immigrant advocacy groups and lawyers who have studied the measure say it
is a minefield for those who have been waiting for years in the bureaucratic
labyrinths of the immigration system. If the bill passes, they said, millions of
foreigners already in the legal pipeline could face even longer waits than they
do now.

For future immigrants, priorities would shift to favor those with specialized
job skills, higher education levels and English language ability over the family
ties that have been the foundation of the system for four decades, making it
even more difficult for relatives to immigrate.

Supporters of the bill, including the White House, Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
the Massachusetts Democrat, and Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania
Republican, say it would help aspiring legal immigrants by eliminating the
backlog of about four million visa applications within eight years. A total of
440,000 green cards -- as visas for legal permanent residents are known -- will
be set aside during each of the eight years to reduce the backlog. But by a
quirk of the bill, legal immigrants who are seeking to bring spouses would be
left out of the backlog reduction and the number of visas allotted to them would
be slightly reduced.

''This bill is a disaster for nuclear families, especially if they have obeyed
the law,'' said Paul Donnelly, an adviser to American Families United, an
advocacy group for legal immigrants. ''If you talk about family unification and
you don't talk about nuclear families, what do you mean?''

Currently, there is no limit on the number of green cards for foreign spouses
and children of American citizens. When foreigners are granted green cards, they
too are entitled to bring their spouses and minor children to live in the United
States.

But legal immigrants who marry foreigners living abroad after they have become
permanent American residents have to get in line to bring them in, and the line
is at least four years long.

Mr. Nikpouri moved with his Iranian parents to the United States when he was 13.
His parents have become naturalized American citizens and run a family
automobile auction business in Chicago. Because of problems in his legal
paperwork, Mr. Nikpouri did not receive his green card until 2004.

Under current law, if he applies for a green card for his wife, she cannot come
to the United States until it is granted -- in 2011, if he is lucky. His other
option is to wait until 2009 to apply for American citizenship. Mr. Nikpouri
asked -- because his wife remains in Iran -- that her name not be published.

''I work like a citizen, I pay taxes, but I cannot bring my wife,'' Mr. Nikpouri
said. ''We want to live together. It's the most basic human possibility.''

Romance found Hans Buwalda, a software engineer who is a legal permanent
resident from the Netherlands, when he met a woman from Singapore over the
Internet in April 2006. Mr. Buwalda said he pioneered sophisticated software
tests at home and brought them to California, where he now lives, to build a
business.

Mr. Buwalda says he hopes to remain in this country, but cannot marry his
girlfriend if he wants to see her. Marriage to him would preclude her from even
visiting the United States until her green card is granted. ''Someone like me
who is very law abiding, there is no way I can marry, unless I want to postpone
my honeymoon for five years,'' he said.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Senator Robert Menendez of New
Jersey, both Democrats, and Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, a Republican,
introduced an amendment to the bill yesterday that would eliminate the numerical
limits on green cards for spouses and young children of legal immigrants.

More broadly, people who have battled the overburdened and often arbitrary
immigration system were skeptical of the bill because of the immense new
workload it would bring.

Among them are Curtis and Glenys Old, who have been fighting a deportation order
for her son, Michael Head, a British citizen. Mrs. Old, who was born in Britain,
had an Internet romance with Mr. Old, an American, that led to their marriage in
July 2002. During their engagement, Mrs. Old brought Mr. Head, who was 19, and
her daughter Sarah, then 13, on temporary legal visas to live with her. The
family settled in Wardensville, W.Va., and Mrs. Old and her daughter became
American citizens.

After Michael applied to become a permanent resident, months dragged by while
the immigration service processed his petition. By the time he was called in for
an interview, he had turned 21. Immigration officers told him he was no longer
eligible for a child visa and ordered him to leave the country.

''Just because it took them so long to process a piece of paper is why we are
being torn apart,'' said Mr. Old, a computer system administrator. Mrs. Old said
she had sold her home in England and that her son had no family to return to
there.

Under the Senate bill, all adult children like Michael, who is now 24, would not
be eligible to join their parents, even if the parents were American citizens.
''To me, Michael will always be my child, my son, no matter how many years you
put on him,'' Mrs. Old said.

Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amir Nikpouri, above, a legal immigrant from Iran, has tried
since 2005 to gain entry to the United States for his wife. Hans Buwalda, a
Dutch software engineer in California, has delayed marriage because of current
immigration law. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 (Photo by

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Reaffirms His Support for Gonzales

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 809 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24


President Bush said Thursday that he would correct any problems uncovered in the
investigations of last year's dismissals of federal prosecutors, but he added
that nothing had undermined his support for Attorney General Alberto R.
Gonzales.

''If there's wrongdoing, it will be taken care of,'' Mr. Bush said at a Rose
Garden news conference, speaking of internal Justice Department inquiries into
the dismissals of the United States attorneys and whether politics influenced
how lower-level jobs were filled.

Democrats said that Mr. Gonzales's credibility had been further eroded by the
testimony on Wednesday of Monica M. Goodling, a former aide to the attorney
general. Testifying under a grant of immunity from prosecution, Ms. Goodling
said she had ''crossed the line'' in using inappropriate political
considerations to screen applicants for nonpartisan legal jobs at the Justice
Department.

Justice Department officials said Thursday that the investigation into
potentially improper hiring practices involving Ms. Goodling had been broadened
to include her role in helping to appoint federal immigration judges.

Some 75 of the 226 immigration judges have been appointed during the Bush
administration. Forty-nine of them were appointed during the tenure of Mr.
Gonzales, and it was during part of that period that Ms. Goodling was involved.

These immigration judges, stationed throughout the country, handled more than
300,000 cases last year on matters like deportation proceedings and political
asylum requests.

Unlike federal judges, immigration judges are civil service employees, to be
appointed by the attorney general based on professional qualifications, not
their politics.

In Ms. Goodling's tenure, vacancies were apparently not always posted and she
selected lawyers to be considered for interviews based in part on their loyalty
to the Republican Party and the Bush administration, she said in her testimony
on Wednesday.

The judges appointed during her tenure include Mark H. Metcalf, a former Justice
Department lawyer and Republican Congressional candidate in Kentucky.

Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said new procedures had already been
put into place, including the advertising of vacancies and the initial review of
applicants by the office of the chief immigration judge.

''There is no disagreement within the department, including between the civil
division and the office of legal counsel, about whether the civil service laws
apply to the appointment of immigration judges,'' Mr. Boyd said in a statement,
disputing a claim by Ms. Goodling that political views of the applicants could
be considered. ''They do apply.''

The president's comments came as Senate Democrats seeking Mr. Gonzales's ouster
unveiled the text of their nonbinding no-confidence resolution, which they said
would be offered next month when Congress reconvenes after a weeklong recess.

The one-sentence resolution says, ''It is the sense of the Senate that Attorney
General Alberto Gonzales no longer holds the confidence of the Senate and the
American people.''

Though a number of Democrats and five Republicans have already called for Mr.
Gonzales to step down, Mr. Bush said Thursday that he had not wavered in his
support, declaring, ''I've got confidence in Al Gonzales doing the job.''

Expressing his belief that the Congressional inquiry into the prosecutor
dismissals was taking too long, Mr. Bush said, ''I would hope the Senate and the
Congress would move expeditiously to finish their hearing and get on the
business of passing legislation.''

But Democrats continued to denounce Mr. Gonzales. Senator Dianne Feinstein,
Democrat of California, said: ''The simple truth is Attorney General Gonzales
has lost the confidence of many of us in the United States Senate. He is clearly
not a strong leader in charge of this large and critical department.''

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has led the investigation
into the dismissals, said the no-confidence vote was justified. ''When a
situation becomes so serious that there's a crisis of leadership of this
magnitude,'' Mr. Schumer said, ''a Congress not only has the right to weigh in,
we have a responsibility to take action.''

The Democrats said Ms. Goodling's testimony about Mr. Gonzales had further
fueled their complaints. She told the House Judiciary Committee about a private
conversation with Mr. Gonzales in mid-March, shortly before she resigned, which
she said left her feeling ''uncomfortable'' that he might have been trying to
coach her into agreeing with his version of events related to the dismissals.

Justice Department officials said that Mr. Gonzales was not seeking to shape her
recollections, but was trying to comfort Ms. Goodling at a difficult moment when
she was upset at the prospect of giving up her job on his staff.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Sheldon Whitehouse, Charles E. Schumer and Dianne
Feinstein, all Democrats, announcing the details yesterday of a planned
no-confidence resolution on Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales. (Photo by Doug
Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and Politics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 745 words


A piece of advice for progressives trying to figure out where they stand on
immigration reform: it's the political economy, stupid. Analyzing the direct
economic gains and losses from proposed reform isn't enough. You also have to
think about how the reform would affect the future political environment.

To see what I mean -- and why the proposed immigration bill, despite good
intentions, could well make things worse -- let's take a look back at America's
last era of mass immigration.

My own grandparents came to this country during that era, which ended with the
imposition of severe immigration restrictions in the 1920s. Needless to say, I'm
very glad they made it in before Congress slammed the door. And today's would-be
immigrants are just as deserving as Emma Lazarus's ''huddled masses, yearning to
breathe free.''

Moreover, as supporters of immigrant rights rightly remind us, everything
today's immigrant-bashers say -- that immigrants are insufficiently skilled,
that they're too culturally alien, and, implied though rarely stated explicitly,
that they're not white enough -- was said a century ago about Italians, Poles
and Jews.

Yet then as now there were some good reasons to be concerned about the effects
of immigration.

There's a highly technical controversy going on among economists about the
effects of recent immigration on wages. However that dispute turns out, it's
clear that the earlier wave of immigration increased inequality and depressed
the wages of the less skilled. For example, a recent study by Jeffrey
Williamson, a Harvard economic historian, suggests that in 1913 the real wages
of unskilled U.S. workers were around 10 percent lower than they would have been
without mass immigration. But the straight economics was the least of it. Much
more important was the way immigration diluted democracy.

In 1910, almost 14 percent of voting-age males in the United States were
non-naturalized immigrants. (Women didn't get the vote until 1920.) Add in the
disenfranchised blacks of the Jim Crow South, and what you had in America was a
sort of minor-key apartheid system, with about a quarter of the population -- in
general, the poorest and most in need of help -- denied any political voice.

That dilution of democracy helped prevent any effective response to the excesses
and injustices of the Gilded Age, because those who might have demanded that
politicians support labor rights, progressive taxation and a basic social safety
net didn't have the right to vote. Conversely, the restrictions on immigration
imposed in the 1920s had the unintended effect of paving the way for the New
Deal and sustaining its achievements, by creating a fully enfranchised working
class.

But now we're living in the second Gilded Age. And as before, one of the things
making antiworker, unequalizing policies politically possible is the fact that
millions of the worst-paid workers in this country can't vote. What progressives
should care about, above all, is that immigration reform stop our drift into a
new system of de facto apartheid.

Now, the proposed immigration reform does the right thing in principle by
creating a path to citizenship for those already here. We're not going to expel
11 million illegal immigrants, so the only way to avoid having those immigrants
be a permanent disenfranchised class is to bring them into the body politic.

And I can't share the outrage of those who say that illegal immigrants broke the
law by coming here. Is that any worse than what my grandfather did by staying in
America, when he was supposed to return to Russia to serve in the czar's army?

But the bill creates a path to citizenship so torturous that most immigrants
probably won't even try to legalize themselves. Meanwhile, the bill creates a
guest worker program, which is exactly what we don't want to do. Yes, it would
raise the income of the guest workers themselves, and in narrow financial terms
guest workers are a good deal for the host nation -- because they don't bring
their families, they impose few costs on taxpayers. But it formally creates
exactly the kind of apartheid system we want to avoid.

Progressive supporters of the proposed bill defend the guest worker program as a
necessary evil, the price that must be paid for business support. Right now,
however, the price looks too high and the reward too small: this bill could all
too easily end up actually expanding the class of disenfranchised workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Adds Fuel to Flames In a Divided Border State

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1100 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, May 23


Here in Arizona, where fighting over immigration comes as naturally as the
desert heat, the Senate bill to overhaul immigration laws has ignited a
particularly ardent round of fire breathing.

While cultural and economic ties to Mexico run deep in Arizona, the country's
fastest-growing state, it is also where more people cross illegally from Mexico
than anywhere else along the 2,000-mile border.

Republicans are fighting openly among themselves, Democrats are taking
conflicting positions on the bill -- or hoping to stay beneath the radar by
taking none at all -- while nonpartisans are wondering if, really, anything will
come of it all.

''These splits are a harbinger of things to come at the national level, because
Arizona is on the front lines,'' said Rodolfo Espino, an assistant professor at
Arizona State University who studies ethnic politics. ''It shows this issue is
not going to fall cleanly on party lines, especially here.''

While the political class in many other states also wrangle over immigration,
when it comes to Arizona, the state motto might as well be Only More So.

In the past week alone, the chairman of the state Republican Party rebuked the
two United States senators from his own party, John McCain and Jon Kyl, for
their support and lobbying for the bill. The chairman, Randy Pullen, part of a
vocal band of conservatives, said Mr. Kyl in particular had betrayed
conservatives with his sudden support for granting legal status to some of the
millions of illegal workers in the country.

Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who has little executive authority over
immigration matters but has relied on support from Republicans and independents
to win two terms, wrote an opinion article in The Arizona Republic urging
federal lawmakers to act on the bill, whatever the flaws.

''Washington, you need to multitask,'' wrote Ms. Napolitano, who told reporters
she was commenting as ''someone who has dealt with this issue probably more than
any governor in the U.S. in the last four years.''

She added, ''I think I would accept what they have on the table compared with
the status quo.''

And two Democratic members of Congress representing the border region are hardly
walking in lockstep. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who took office this
year, called the legislation an ''excellent first step,'' and Representative
Raul M. Grijalva is objecting to much of it.

Crucial pieces of the national debate are playing out in microcosm here.

Republicans must contend with business interests seeking to ensure a steady
supply of cheap labor while placating nationalists concerned about the changing
culture and faces.

''The Democrats have to appeal to the Hispanic community but also labor
interests concerned about immigration's effect on wages,'' Professor Espino
said.

It can make for lively discourse.

Turn the radio dial to KFYI-AM and hear J. D. Hayworth, a recently ousted
Republican congressman and talk show host, tear into Ms. Napolitano, Mr. McCain
and Mr. Kyl, almost in the same breath, ''for embracing this amnesty deal.''

Representative Harry E. Mitchell, meanwhile, the Democrat who replaced Mr.
Hayworth in a Republican-leaning district, has remained largely silent on the
bill. A spokesman explained that while Mr. Mitchell ''supports comprehensive
immigration reform,'' he had not commented because the bill had not made its way
out of the Senate yet, something that has not constrained his House colleagues.

Ms. Napolitano, who is mentioned in political circles as a candidate for a
cabinet job if a Democrat wins the White House in 2008 or for the Senate if Mr.
McCain prevails in his run for the presidency, told reporters at her regular
news media briefing Wednesday that the divisions reflected a ''tough issue.''

As if to remind her, the Arizona Senate moved forward Wednesday with a bill that
would prohibit employers from knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. The fact that
federal law already proscribes that did not stop the sponsors, who complained
that the federal government was not enforcing its own laws.

Ms. Napolitano said she would not take a position because the bill had not yet
made it to her desk, but last year she vetoed an immigration bill that included
employer sanctions, saying they lacked teeth.

State voters have shown an inclination to crack down on illegal immigrants. Last
year, a ballot initiative was approved denying in-state tuition fees for illegal
residents.

A telephone poll of 600 registered voters by the Arizona State University
journalism school and KAET-TV found that 65 percent of respondents supported
changing state laws to allow illegal immigrants to be charged with criminal
trespass. A majority also backed criminal charges for employers who hire illegal
workers. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.

Mr. Kyl rode such sentiments to victory in a re-election campaign last year and
so he has endured the scorn. His advocacy for the Senate bill has prompted once
solid supporters to denounce him, as did State Senator Jack Harper when he
joined other lawmakers to announce an effort to unite state legislatures across
the country to enact anti-illegal-immigrant measures.

''Jon Kyl is a friend, but this bill has destroyed the Republican base,'' Mr.
Harper said. ''Precinct captains are grumbling about people changing parties
because they feel betrayed.''

As Mr. Harper and others spoke, a few dozen Kyl supporters massed behind them,
waving placards.

''We admire him putting this coalition together at the risk of his job,'' said
Sharron Gill, one of the supporters. ''He just might lose it. But I think there
is silent majority behind him that is not as noisy as this group of
legislators.''

Edward J. Williams, an emeritus professor of political science at the University
of Arizona, said Mr. Kyl's ''conversion is as mysterious to me as to other
people. But he has always been close to the president, and the president is
committed to this issue.''

Other lawmakers, such as Ms. Giffords and Mr. Mitchell, must tread carefully,
Mr. Williams said, ''because they are in a more precarious position and need
some Republican support.''

For all the oratory, there are people clearly paying little heed to the debate.

Stacy Murphy, a homemaker chatting with friends at a coffee shop here, summed it
up.

''You look around and there are illegals everywhere,'' said Ms. Murphy, who
described herself as an independent voter. ''So how is any of this going to
change that? They keep coming and people keep hiring them, and that's just life
here, I guess.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I think I would accept what they have on the table compared
with the status quo,'' Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, said of the bill.
 Day laborers waited outside a gas station in Chandler, Ariz. Residents of the
state have come down on all sides of the Senate immigration bill. (Photographs
by Laura Segall for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle Of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, May 29


It sounded good enough to be a dream come true, yet practical enough to be
possible. The illegal Irish immigrants were eager to get their papers, and
someone at Yale Law School was eager to help them.

The process seemed simple and straightforward: file some paperwork, get a
medical exam and be fingerprinted. Write a check for $5,000. Ralph Cucciniello
at the Yale Immigration Law Clinic would take care of the rest.

But there is no such thing as the Yale Immigration Law Clinic. Mr. Cucciniello,
according to university officials and law enforcement authorities, was not a
lawyer, but a research assistant with prior convictions on fraud charges who was
running an extensive swindle out of the Yale Law School library.

Over the last two years, the authorities say, he collected millions of dollars
from at least 200 illegal immigrants and provided nothing in return. He was
arrested on May 1 in Manhattan on charges of a scheme to defraud and grand
larceny. The charges were filed in New York because many of the immigrants live
there and because Mr. Cucciniello is accused of collecting some of the payments
there. Prosecutors in Connecticut are also investigating the case.

''He had Yale attached to his name; what more could we ask for?'' said Donald,
33, who, like others who say they sent Mr. Cucciniello money, did not give his
last name because he is in the country illegally. ''Everything he did had a
purpose. He played it all just like a lawyer.''

Mr. Cucciniello, 55, who was released on his own recognizance, is scheduled to
appear in court on Aug. 15. His lawyer, George Goltzer, declined to discuss the
case on Tuesday.

It is not clear exactly how Mr. Cucciniello obtained a university e-mail address
and access to law school buildings. Jan Conroy, a spokeswoman for the law
school, said that Mr. Cucciniello had never been an employee of the university,
but that he had ''on occasion served as a volunteer research assistant for a
particular professor at the law school.''

''He has not been authorized by the law school or the clinics to undertake any
activities or to represent any clients,'' Ms. Conroy said in a statement. ''Upon
learning of his arrest, the law school suspended his access to all law school
facilities.''

Ms. Conroy would not say which professor Mr. Cucciniello worked for, but said
the research was not for any project directly related to the law school. A
private investigator working for the immigrants who had paid Mr. Cucciniello
identified the professor, who did not respond to telephone messages left on
Tuesday.

Like other law schools, Yale runs several law clinics staffed by students,
including one that works on behalf of illegal immigrants trying to seek asylum
and another that focuses on human rights violations.

The Yale reputation was all Mr. Cucciniello needed to establish his credibility.

Many of the well-off Irish immigrants who paid Mr. Cucciniello travel in the
same social circles, and routinely assured one another that they were getting
the right treatment from a bright assistant at one of the finest universities in
America. They never suspected anything was awry until the news of Mr.
Cucciniello's arrest was reported in The Irish Voice this month.

Several immigrants said he had his story worked out smoothly.

He would explain over the telephone or via e-mail that he had set up the clinic
on behalf of the law school dean and was using a loophole through the Department
of Homeland Security to obtain green cards for people here illegally. Typically,
he would summon the immigrants to a desk or office in the Yale Law School
library, where he conducted extensive interviews, asking about everything from
parking tickets to bank-account balances. He warned them that once they were
issued green cards, the federal government would probably try to collect back
taxes, perhaps as a way to prepare them to hand over more money down the road,
the immigrants said.

After directing them to complete several government forms, Mr. Cucciniello would
say it would take several months for the government to run a background check.
He would routinely call, the immigrants said, to update them on the progress of
their case or ask for more details.

And each time, he would begin the conversation with an official-sounding
disclaimer: This conversation is protected by attorney-client privilege.
Everything you say will be kept private.

He reassured them that while the process was often long, it was progressing
smoothly.

''Every time you had a question, he had an answer; he always seemed to care what
was going on,'' said Andrew, 25, who was living in New York for several months
before he met Mr. Cucciniello. ''There were all kinds of specific little bits
and pieces that sounded too exact to be made up. Every time I might have gotten
nervous, there was a reason not to be.''

For instance, several immigrants said, Mr. Cucciniello routinely assured them
that he had spoken with government officials and they were free to travel
outside of the country -- often to Ireland -- and return to the United States
without a problem. In several instances, it worked, though it was likely only a
lucky coincidence.

But after one young man who was ''in the program,'' as the immigrants called Mr.
Cucciniello's ''clinic,'' was detained at the border in Canada this year, others
became suspicious. One woman contacted Olwyn Triggs, an Irish immigrant who runs
a New York private investigation firm, P. I. Network, who quickly uncovered Mr.
Cucciniello's criminal record.

In 1996, he was convicted of defrauding several people in Passaic, N.J., of more
than $250,000 in a business scheme. Newspaper reports show that he was sentenced
to 30 years in prison, but did not serve time because he was placed in the
federal witness protection program. He was convicted and indicted on other
charges of fraud dating to the 1970s, but apparently did not serve any time.

Ms. Triggs contacted officials in the New York Police Department and the
Manhattan district attorney's office, which filed charges against Mr.
Cucciniello on May 2.

''Clearly he knew to prey on a group of people who could afford this and would
do almost anything to get it,'' Ms. Triggs said.

In recent weeks, Ms. Triggs spent hours trying to persuade the immigrants to
tell law enforcement officials about their dealings with Mr. Cucciniello, but
many are loath to do so for fear of being deported.

''Now I feel like my head has a flashing light on it screaming 'I'm illegal' ''
said one 32-year-old man who lives in Florida. ''And I tried to pay a lot of
money and do a lot of things so that wouldn't be true anymore.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the day of his arrest in Manhattan, Ralph Cucciniello, 55, on
a video from a private investigator who had been contacted by an immigrant.
(Photo by Olwyn Triggs)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

WIDE DISPARITIES FOUND IN JUDGING OF ASYLUM CASES

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words


Asylum seekers in the United States face broad disparities in the nation's 54
immigration courts, with the outcome of cases influenced by things like the
location of the court and the sex and professional background of judges, a new
study has found.

The study, by three law professors, analyzes 140,000 decisions by immigration
judges, including those cases from the 15 countries that have produced the most
asylum seekers in recent years, among them China, Haiti, Colombia, Albania and
Russia. The professors compared for the first time the results of immigration
court cases over more than four years, finding vast differences in the handling
of claims with generally comparable factual circumstances.

In one of the starker examples cited, Colombians had an 88 percent chance of
winning asylum from one judge in the Miami immigration court and a 5 percent
chance from another judge in the same court.

''It is very disturbing that these decisions can mean life or death, and they
seem to a large extent to be the result of a clerk's random assignment of a case
to a particular judge,'' said an author of the study, Philip G. Schrag, a
professor at Georgetown University Law Center.

The study offers an unusually detailed window into the overburdened and often
erratic immigration courts. Though the immigration bill now being considered
does not propose major revisions in asylum laws, those courts serve as the
judicial backbone of the immigration system that would take on an immense new
workload if the bill becomes law.

The legislation would offer a road to legal status to an estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants, eliminate backlogs of legal immigration cases and step up
enforcement, among other measures. Experts predict countless legal snags that
would land before the immigration judges.

Officials at the Executive Office for Immigration Review of the Department of
Justice, which oversees the immigration courts, declined to allow interviews
about the study with David L. Neal, the chief immigration judge, citing a policy
that immigration judges do not speak with the news media about their rulings.

The study found that someone who has fled China in fear of persecution and asks
for asylum in immigration court in Orlando, Fla., has an excellent -- 76 percent
-- chance of success, while the same refugee would have a 7 percent chance in
Atlanta. Similarly, a Haitian seeking refuge from political violence is almost
twice as likely to succeed in New York as in Miami.

Immigration lawyers acknowledge that the judges have difficult work, with huge
dockets of cases that must be decided speedily on the basis of scant or
subjective information. Often the asylum seeker is the only witness to crucial
events.

But because immigration law is federal, the study's authors argued, some
uniformity could be expected in judges' asylum rulings across the country,
particularly in cases of people fleeing a country, like China or Colombia, where
the conditions of political oppression or civil violence are publicly known.

''It's such a high-volume system where the participants have so little time to
test cases and make decisions, you become much more subject to the general
viewpoint of the judge,'' said Bo Cooper, a lawyer at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &
Walker who is a former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. That has created a risk, Mr. Cooper said, that ''the system will not be
good enough at providing refuge to those in need or identifying the claims of
those who are not in need.''

The wide discretion exercised by immigration judges can be disheartening to
lawyers and disastrous for immigrants facing threats to their lives if they are
forced to return home, immigration lawyers said.

''Oftentimes, it's just the luck of the draw,'' said Cheryl Little, a lawyer and
executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, a legal assistance
group in Miami that represents many asylum seekers. ''It's heartbreaking,'' Ms.
Little said. ''How do you explain to people asking for refuge that even in the
United States of America we can't assure them they will receive due process and
justice?''

While immigration officers at Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal
agency, can grant asylum, the majority of asylum cases are decided by the
immigration judges. Under the immigration system, refugees are foreigners coming
from abroad who win residency in the United States for protection from religious
persecution or political threats. Asylum is granted to foreigners who apply for
refuge when they are already in the United States.

The study is based on data on judges' decisions from January 2000 through August
2004. It will be posted today on the Web site of the Social Science Research
Network, www.ssrn.com, and published in November in the Stanford Law Review.

In addition to Professor Schrag, the authors are Andrew I. Schoenholtz, also a
professor at Georgetown University Law Center, and Jaya Ramji-Nogales, a
professor at Beasley School of Law at Temple University.

According to the study, great differences also prevail among judges sitting on
the same court and hearing similar asylum cases. In the Miami immigration court,
one judge granted 3 percent of the asylum cases, while another granted 75
percent.

One of the most significant factors determining whether a judge would be likely
to approve asylum petitions was sex, the study found. Female immigration judges
grant asylum at a 44 percent higher rate than their male colleagues.

The study by the three professors did not examine the judges' political
affiliation or the administration that appointed them.

The study suggests that the different willingness to grant asylum between male
and female judges may in part have to do with their backgrounds. Of 78 female
judges in the study, 27 percent had previously worked for organizations that
defended the rights of immigrants or the poor, while only 8 percent of 169 male
judges had similar experience. .

Though the study does not identify judges by name, profiles of immigration
judges were drawn up separately by the Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse, a research group at Syracuse University. They show that the 24
judges who sit today in Miami (21 in court and 3 based in a detention facility)
include some of the most likely and least likely to grant asylum.

According to the Clearinghouse profiles, one immigration judge currently on the
Miami court, Mahlon F. Hanson, granted 3 percent of the asylum cases he heard.
He was the second-toughest judge in the nation on asylum issues, the group
found. Judge Denise N. Slavin, who hears cases at the Krome North detention
center in Miami, granted 59 percent of the asylum claims she considered, placing
her in the top 15 percent of judges approving such claims.

Lawyers said the variations may in part have to do with the cases particular
courts are handling. Miami immigration courts see a large number of asylum
claims from Haiti, and the judges may have differing outlooks and disagree about
the possibilities for Haitians to face persecution in their country.

The variations between courts and among judges were particularly troubling, the
authors of the study argued, because of the impact of procedural changes
introduced by the Bush administration in 2002 at the Board of Immigration
Appeals, the appellate body that reviews decisions by the immigration court
judges.

Those changes led to a ''sudden and lasting decline'' in appeals that were
favorable to asylum seekers, the study found, raising doubts as to whether the
board was providing fair appeals.

In 2002, Attorney General John Ashcroft made streamlined the work of the appeals
board, reducing the number ofboard members to 11 from 23 and encouraging more
decisions by single members and without explanation.

The study looked at 76,000 decisions by the appeals board from 1998 through
2005. Asylum applicants who were represented by lawyers received favorable
appeals decisions from the board in 43 percent of cases in 2001, the year before
the changes took effect. By 2005, asylum seekers with lawyers won their appeals
in 13 percent of cases.

''The judges handle a very large caseload, they're human, they are not going to
catch every detail,'' said Mary Meg McCarthy, director of the National Immigrant
Justice Center, a legal assistance group in Chicago. ''But once they streamlined
the Board of Immigration Appeals,'' Ms. McCarthy said, ''there was a failure of
the board to review those cases, to check on what the immigration judge had
found. When that failed, we had a real crisis in the system.''

As a result of the trends at the appeals board, there has been a new surge of
asylum appeals to the federal circuit courts, in practice the last resort for
immigration cases. Over all, the number of people winning asylum in the United
States has declined, dropping by about 12 percent from 28,684 in 2003 to 25,257
in 2005, the last year when complete figures are available.

The immigration courts have been in the spotlight after Justice Department
officials said last week that the investigation of Monica M. Goodling, a former
aide to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, has been expanded to include her
role in helping to appoint immigration judges.

Ms. Goodling testified last week that she had ''crossed the line'' in applying
political considerations to candidates for nonpartisan legal jobs. Immigration
judges are appointed by the attorney general, and 49 of 226 current judges were
appointed during the tenure of Mr. Gonzales.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Chances of Asylum'' The nation's busiest immigration courts
grant asylum at widely varying rates, according to a study of people fleeing the
15 countries with the most asylum seekers.  IMMIGRATION COURT  Atlanta
PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 12%  Detroit PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES
WINNING ASYLUM* -- 19  Miami PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 23  San
Diego PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 30  Arlington, Va. PERCENTAGE OF
REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 37  Dallas PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* --
37  Houston PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 37  Chicago PERCENTAGE OF
REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 38  Philadelphia PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING
ASYLUM* -- 39  Boston PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 40  Memphis
PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 40  U.S. average PERCENTAGE OF
REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 40  Baltimore PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM*
-- 41  Los Angeles PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 41  Newark
PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 42  Orlando PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES
WINNING ASYLUM* -- 49  New York PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 52
San Francisco PERCENTAGE OF REFUGEES WINNING ASYLUM* -- 54  *From all countries.
(Source by Andrew I. Schoenholtz, Philip G. Schrag and Jaya Ramji-Nogales)(pg.
A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Candidates at Odds Over Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and MARC SANTORA; Patrick Healy reported from New York,
and Marc Santora from Goffstown, N.H. Robert Pear contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1301 words


The Republican presidential candidates waged verbal combat last night in the
Congressional battle over a proposed immigration overhaul, with Senator John
McCain, an author of a pending compromise plan, defending the controversial
proposals in a Republican debate in Goffstown, N.H., and demanding that his
competitors offer ''a better idea.''

Mr. McCain found himself at odds with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New
York and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who each criticized the
Senate plan as woefully lacking in border security and immigration enforcement
measures, including a uniform method to identify immigrants and limits on
certain types of visas.

''It's a typical Washington mess,'' Mr. Giuliani said in his first heated
face-off of the campaign with his past political ally, Mr. McCain. ''Everybody
compromises, four or five compromises, and the compromises leave you with the
following conclusion. The litmus test you should have for legislation is, is it
going to make things better? And when you look at these compromises, it is quite
possible it will make things worse.''

Mr. Romney, who has been accused by Mr. McCain of ''pandering'' to voters by
criticizing the immigration proposal, passed up an invitation by the moderator
of the debate, Wolf Blitzer of CNN, to hit back.

''Well, he's my friend,'' Mr. Romney said of Mr. McCain, downplaying their
recent feud. ''He campaigned for me two times.'' Then Mr. Romney pivoted to
criticize the plan's ''Z visas'' as a hole that would allow many illegal
immigrants to stay in the United States ''for the rest of their lives.'' Under
the Z-visa provision, if immigrants paid fines and passed background checks,
they could obtain a visa that would be valid for four years and could be
repeatedly renewed.

But Mr. Romney was not completely correct in saying illegal immigrants would be
put ahead of all people who have been waiting to come to this country legally.
If they wanted permanent-residence visas, or green cards, they would have to
wait in line behind people who have already applied.

Mr. McCain forcefully defended the plan, citing its employment-verification
system and its strict citizenship rules for illegal immigrants. And he pointedly
took on Mr. Giuliani. ''Rudy, you just described our legislation, so I'd be glad
to have a further conversation with you,'' Mr. McCain said.

After months of introducing themselves to voters, the leading candidates came
into their third televised debate, at St. Anselm Collge, with increasingly
well-formed political identities, though polls suggest that none yet have
captivated wide swaths of the Republican electorate.

Mr. Giuliani again portrayed himself as the tough-minded, blunt-speaking
protector of a nation in danger, saying it would have been unthinkable for the
United States not to have invaded Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein from power. Mr.
McCain again showed himself willing to buck party orthodoxy, not just on
immigration but, to some degree, on whether English should be the national
language (he noted that Navajos in Arizona have a proud culture and use their
own language). And Mr. Romney again portrayed himself as a tax-cutter and a
conservative, despite his moderate positions on social issues in the past.

Not on the stage here but creating his own mighty buzz because of his relatively
clear conservative positions, was a Republican preparing to enter the race,
former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee. Mr. Thompson appeared on Fox News
immediately after the debate, and was asked about criticism he is already facing
as a potential candidate.

''It's a badge of honor to get attacked by some of these bozos,'' he said.

More so than in previous appearances, the candidates were willing to criticize
President Bush and his administration. Representative Duncan Hunter of
California ripped the immigration legislation, calling it the ''the
Bush-McCain-Kennedy'' plan; Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado said Mr.
Bush would ''never darken the doorstep of the White House'' if Mr. Tancredo were
elected president because of the candidate's anger over White House immigration
and education policies and the Medicare prescription drug benefit.

But the Republicans appeared downright eager to focus their collective attention
on the Democrats and in particular Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Former Gov.
Mike Huckabee of Arkansas even introduced himself by tweaking former President
Bill Clinton, saying: ''I'm from the small town of Hope. You may have heard of
it. All I ask you is, give us one more chance.''

Mr. McCain, meanwhile, questioned Mrs. Clinton as a potential commander in chief
by challenging her statement, in the Democratic debate Sunday night, that the
Iraq war was the responsibility of the Bush administration.

''When Senator Clinton says this is Mr. Bush's war, that this is President
Bush's war -- when President Clinton was in power, I didn't say that Bosnia, our
intervention there was President Clinton's war,'' he said. ''When we intervened
in Kosovo, I didn't say it was President Clinton's war.''

At another point, Mr. McCain and another candidate, Senator Sam Brownback of
Kansas, acknowledged that they did not read the classified national intelligence
estimate, which was made available to all senators, before they voted to go to
war. Mr. Hunter, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee, said he did
read the report.

The Republican candidates were also asked if they would support pardoning I.
Lewis Libby Jr. and while none of the top candidates said, outright, that they
would take such a course if president, they also voiced dismay at his sentence
of 30 months in prison. Mr. Giuliani was the most outspoken of the lead
candidates, calling the sentence ''way out of line.'' Citing his experience both
as a prosecutor and recommending pardons while working in the Justice Department
under President Ronald Reagan, he said he would seriously consider it,
especially in light of the harsh sentence.

When Mr. Blitzer tried to cut him off, Mr. Giuliani stopped him, saying, ''A
man's life is at stake.'' He said that it was an ''incomprehensible'' situation
made all the more disturbing because there was no underlying crime, and that he
had a real problem with the sentence.

Mr. Romney, following Mr. Giuliani, also criticized the sentence and left the
door open for a pardon. Mr. McCain, who answered first, said that because the
case was being appealed he did not think it proper to comment.

On climate change, a matter that divides many Republican voters, Mr. Giuliani
said that Americans had to ''accept the view'' of scientists that global warming
is real and caused by human activity. He said it was ''frustrating and really
dangerous for us to see money going to our enemies'' in the form of payments for
foreign oil.

Several candidates were also asked about ways they, in office, would put
President Bush to work as a former president. Former Gov. Tommy Thompson of
Wisconsin quipped, ''I certainly would not send him to the United Nations,''
which stirred some slightly awkward laughter from the audience and blank stares
from his rivals. (The other participants in the debate were former Gov. Jim
Gilmore of Virginia and Representative Ron Paul of Texas.)

Mr. Giuliani also injected a moment of humor into the debate when he was asked
about the writings of a Catholic bishop who was critical of Mr. Giuliani's
support of abortion rights. As Mr. Giuliani began to defend himself, there were
crackles of lightning outside the debate hall -- prompting other candidates to
step away from Mr. Giuliani, as if a bolt were about to strike him.

''For someone who went to parochial schools all of his life,'' he said, ''this
is a very frightening thing that is happening right now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Sam Brownback, Mitt Romney, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Senator
John McCain and Mike Huckabee at a Republican candidates' debate. (Photo by
Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Washington Can't Get Much Done

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


MEMBERS of Congress -- with the possible exceptions of Senator Robert C. Byrd
and Representative John D. Dingell -- come and go. So do presidents and even
Supreme Court justices.

But some big issues come to the nation's capital and never leave, despite the
politicians' best efforts to wrap them up and send them packing. Immigration is
one.

Efforts to craft a grand compromise on the perennially nettlesome issue of how
to deal with the millions who want to settle in this country collapsed in the
Senate in spectacular fashion Thursday night, even though President Bush and the
Senate leadership desperately wanted a deal. Almost everyone in Washington
believes that America's immigration laws are an unenforceable mess. But
confronted with real legislation built on real compromises, the Senate sank
beneath murderous political, geographic and ideological crosscurrents. Despite
vows of senators to resuscitate the bill, it may be months -- or years -- before
Congress again comes close to passing a major overhaul of immigration law.

But immigration is only one of several major policy matters on which virtually
all Americans agree that something has to be done, even as Washington seems
mired in dysfunction. What will happen when Congress turns next to energy
legislation? Or global warming? Health care? Social Security?

It sometimes seems that it takes a catastrophe to create consensus. The Great
Depression, Pearl Harbor and Sept. 11 all shattered partisan divisions and led,
at least for a time, to enhanced presidential power and a rush of bipartisan
lawmaking (some of which political leaders later came to regret). Today,
however, the partisan chasm in Washington is deeper than it has been in 100
years, according to some academic studies, as moderate blocs in both parties
have all but vanished.

''Remember,'' said Thomas E. Mann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution,
''these are really big problems and they're really tough. Solving them is going
to involve some major changes in the way we live, the way we tax ourselves, the
way we get our health care and the way we transport ourselves.''

He added: ''Many of these questions are caught up in ideological differences
that really are quite fundamental. On all of them right now there is no
consensus in the country and therefore the political system has to try to create
one where none now exists.''

A sign of how hard it is to fashion a compromise on these big questions is the
length of time between major legislative actions on them. It took almost a
decade from the collapse of the Clinton administration's health care initiative
in 1994 to the passage of the new Medicare prescription-drug benefit. The
federal minimum wage went unchanged for 10 years until this spring. The last
major overhaul of immigration law passed in 1986. The most recent significant
revision to Social Security came in 1983.

Even the relatively new issue of global warming has been batted around since
1988, when Al Gore began talking about its potentially dire effects. Now,
despite a foot-high stack of proposed legislation on the subject, virtually
nothing has been done.

Mr. Gore said it was extremely difficult to move the political system when it is
paralyzed by partisan passion and beset by well-financed and well-organized
interests. He refers to the combination of the oil, coal and automobile
industries as the ''carbon lobby,'' which he said is very difficult to defeat.

Washington, he said, has also failed to act on global warming for much the same
reason that it has not tackled the possible future insolvency of Social Security
or the problem of 45 million Americans who lack health insurance. ''There's just
garden-variety denial,'' he said. ''It's unpleasant to think about and easy to
push it off.''

Washington often serves as a trailing indicator of public sentiment on an issue,
following action in state capitals or responding belatedly to a growing public
outcry. Congress and the White House did not seriously begin to move on
immigration until two years ago, after the Minutemen, a civilian group, started
patrolling the borders and Southwestern state governors declared states of
emergency to deal with hundreds of thousands of undocumented migrants stealing
in from Mexico.

Given the failure of the 1986 immigration legislation to stem the illegal flow,
the public is wary of any new government effort to control the borders, said
Merle Black, a professor of political science at Emory University in Atlanta.
And many lawmakers fear that if they support the current legislation they will
be blamed if it fails to live up to its promises. After all, the Medicare drug
benefit, too, was a much-heralded attempt to lower the costs of medicines for
the elderly, but it created mountains of burdensome paperwork and huge
unanticipated costs for the government.

''The public has seen a whole series of performance failures, whether it was the
war in Iraq or the response to Katrina,'' Professor Black said. ''It makes
different groups of individuals very skeptical about politicians offering
solutions. On top of that, Bush's approval ratings are so low that he can't
exert any leadership even within his own party.''

Government stasis was not unintended. The Founding Fathers designed the American
system of government to cool public passions and created numerous impediments to
rash action. They might not be surprised that two decades passed between
significant action on immigration law or government old-age pensions. But they
might have had trouble conceiving the complexity of the issues facing modern
Washington, like global warming or the need to find a way to provide even basic
medical care to one in seven Americans.

''It was a pretty simple world Madison was dealing with when he wrote the
Federalist Papers,'' said Morris P. Fiorina, professor of political science at
Stanford University. ''His focus was on land, labor and commerce. He was clearly
aware of the need to defend the borders, but he was more concerned that you had
to limit the reach of government and insure that transitory majorities can't
have their way.''

The molasses pace of governance in America is frustrating to many in and outside
Washington. But the framers recognized that the dangers of succumbing to
fleeting enthusiasms are often far greater than the slow process of fashioning a
consensus from the competing interests of a sectional country.

''I agree that it is a bad thing for it to take an extraordinarily long time to
deal with problems,'' said Mickey Edwards, a former Republican representative
from Oklahoma and now a vice president of the Aspen Institute and a lecturer in
government at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton. ''But I think it is a
worse thing to rush into solutions when you're dealing with a nation of 300
million people.''

He cited Prohibition and the Medicare drug benefit as examples of laws that
carried large and unintended consequences.

''I don't suggest that given enough time you can make everything perfect,'' Mr.
Edwards said. ''But you do need enough time to make sure all views are heard and
you can avoid the unforeseen circumstances that plague so many things.''

''You don't just want them to act,'' he said. ''You want them to act
responsibly.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Immigration Debate, Menendez Sees Opportunity

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ and DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24


The moment that Senator Robert Menendez has craved may have finally arrived.

At 53, he has spent 14 years in Washington, most of it as a member of the House
who was largely unknown outside of northern New Jersey or political circles in
Washington.

But Mr. Menendez, who was elected to his first full Senate term last fall, has
long chafed at the image that emerged of him during those years: that of a
hardened and wily politician who mastered the insider's game on Capitol Hill and
in Hudson County, N.J., a brutal political incubator.

Now, several of his close associates say, Mr. Menendez, the junior senator from
New Jersey, wants to move beyond that, and the opportunity is here. As the
debate over immigration policy has intensified in Washington and the Latino vote
has swelled, Mr. Menendez, a Cuban-American who is one of the nation's
highest-ranking Hispanic legislators, finds himself in demand.

He has been courted by Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, leading
rivals in the Democratic presidential race, who have sought his endorsement as
well as his imprimatur on their immigration initiatives. And Senator Chuck
Hagel, a maverick Republican from Nebraska who is also considering a
presidential bid, teamed up with Mr. Menendez in support of legislation that
would help legal immigrants bring their families to the United States.

On the Senate floor and in appearances before national groups, Mr. Menendez has
tried to position himself as the Democratic Party's conscience on immigration.
He has refused to lend his support to a sweeping plan devised by a bipartisan
coalition of senators, denouncing, for example, a provision to shift immigration
preferences from family ties to a merit system based on skills. He also has
fought Republican proposals that would all but force entire families of illegal
immigrants to return to their home countries before they could apply for
permanent resident visas.

The test will be whether Mr. Menendez can attain the kind of gravitas he desires
on the national stage as he tries to extricate himself from the murky politics
of northern New Jersey, a place where he has been both politically nurtured and
embarrassed.

Representative Albio Sires, a Democrat who has known Mr. Menendez for years and
inherited his House seat, said the senator seems more than eager to put his days
in Hudson County politics behind him. ''He said it was like playing Russian
roulette,'' Mr. Sires said.

In an interview at his Senate office on Capitol Hill last week, Mr. Menendez
made it clear that he did not miss his role as the Democratic boss in his old
political stamping grounds. At one point, when asked about Hudson County, he
playfully exclaimed, ''Where?'' and then said, ''I am out of it.''

And in a claim that might strike some of his allies and adversaries as
remarkable, he said that he did not enjoy politics nearly as much as others have
presumed. ''It's not that I have disdain for it,'' Mr. Menendez said. But
rather, he said, he viewed politics as necessary to advance his policy
objectives. ''If I could have the role of the United States senator and not
pursue the political process, I'd be tickled pink,'' he said.

Yet there are risks for Mr. Menendez in disengaging from his leadership role in
the politics of Hudson County, one of the largest and most reliably Democratic
voting blocs in New Jersey and the heart of his political base. His absence was
felt there during the Democratic primary campaign this spring, during which
rival factions engaged in all-out warfare.

Nicholas Acocella, the editor and publisher of the newsletter Politifax and a
longtime observer of Hudson County politics, said that had Mr. Menendez still
been involved, the internal feud might have been avoided.

''He had the force of personality to say, 'Hold it, guys, let's calm down,'
because a lot of it is just being a master psychologist, knowing what people
want,'' Mr. Acocella said. ''The problem is that when you have a feudal system
-- and that's what this has always been -- the barons are going to erupt against
the central authority every now and then, and there's absolutely nothing you can
do about it.''

Mr. Menendez has come a long way since last fall, when he was locked in a battle
to keep the Senate seat he was appointed to in 2005 by Jon S. Corzine, who
relinquished the position after being elected governor.

Mr. Menendez was considered the most vulnerable Senate Democrat in the nation,
with his Republican opponent, Thomas H. Kean Jr., the son and namesake of a
popular former governor, raising questions about his ethics and political
associations.

Mr. Kean's attacks were bolstered by an investigation by Christopher J.
Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, into Mr. Menendez's real
estate dealings with a nonprofit agency in his former Congressional district.

His situation seemed so bleak that Democratic leaders in Washington were
privately criticizing Mr. Corzine for making them spend money to defend a seat
that should have been a lock in the Democratic-leaning state.

In the end, Mr. Menendez won by 53 percent to 45 percent. But associates said
the experience shook the normally confident Mr. Menendez and, one of them said,
led to a sober realization: his victory had as much to do with dissatisfaction
with President Bush as it did with his own popularity.

In the months that followed, Mr. Menendez went into a period of relative
isolation, these associates said, deliberately lowering his profile. ''Everyone
is tired after an election,'' said one Democrat who is close to him. ''But he
had a particularly brutal election.''

Yet as Mr. Menendez tries to remake his image, he finds it hard to avoid being
pulled back into what he is known for doing best: playing politics and raising
money.

Bracing for competitive elections next year, Senate Democratic leaders recently
enlisted him as deputy chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee,
a job that will require him to raise money for the party and recruit candidates
for Senate races.

The presidential candidates from his party have looked to him for support, too.
After being wooed by at least two of them, Senators Obama and Clinton, Mr.
Menendez decided this month that he would back the former first lady.

It was a coup for Mrs. Clinton, whose advisers went so far as to arrange a news
conference with Mr. Menendez at which he announced his decision. Mr. Menendez
will campaign and raise money for Mrs. Clinton, particularly in South Florida,
where he has connections to wealthy Cuban donors who are wary of Democrats.

''What it's going to get Hillary is at least a receptive ear, as opposed to
'no,' '' Mr. Menendez said. ''I'm going to get her through the door. She is
going to have to do her own sales job.''

Even as he finds himself in demand nationally, the ghosts of his past continue
to hover, chiefly the federal investigation into his relationship with the North
Hudson Community Action Corporation, an antipoverty agency whose former director
was a major contributor to Mr. Menendez.

In December, a federal grand jury began hearing testimony from witnesses
associated with the agency. People familiar with the case said they had not
heard from the United States attorney's office in recent months, raising the
prospect that the investigation had run its course.

But in an interview, Mr. Christie warned that nothing should be read into the
public silence. ''We always operate quietly,'' he said. ''We operate best when
we operate quietly.''

Democrats have contended that the investigation has been motivated by politics,
since Mr. Christie, a Republican, is widely expected to run for governor in
2009.

For his part, Mr. Menendez said he was not concerned about the investigation,
adding that it was incumbent on Mr. Christie to publicly announce its
conclusion.

''I think it's only right, not only by me as an individual citizen, but also to
the people of the state of New Jersey,'' he said.

To the degree that Mr. Menendez, the son of Cuban immigrants, has stood out on
any policy initiative, it has been on immigration, an issue that touches him
personally.

Mr. Menendez recently challenged a colleague on the floor of the Senate for
referring to immigrants as ''those people'' and said he was personally insulted.

''I've heard 'those people' before,'' he said. ''I understand what that means.
It's not abstract.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Robert Menendez, whose parents were born in Cuba and
emigrated in the early 1950s, says he has felt personally insulted by some of
the Senate debate about immigration. (Photograph by Stephen Crowley/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Labor Coalitions Divided On Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 763 words


Now that President Bush has rallied Republicans to try again to reshape the
immigration laws, supporters of the effort have a new worry. When the bill
returns to the Senate floor, probably next week, opposition from labor unions
could doom the bill's prospects by putting pressure on many Democrats to vote
against it.

The threat that labor poses to the bill has gone largely unrecognized in part
because three prominent unions -- the service employees, the farm workers, and
the hotel, restaurant and apparel workers -- have backed the legislation. But
that support, advocates say, has been outweighed by opposition from the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. and virtually all other unions, including auto workers, Teamsters,
food and commercial workers, and construction unions.

''The labor opposition on this bill is extremely important,'' said Tamar Jacoby,
an immigration expert at the conservative Manhattan Institute. ''For this bill
to pass, we probably need 80 percent of the Democrats, if not more, to support
it, and if unions are what pull them off the bill or make their support soft,
that is a serious threat to the bill.''

The split between the three unions and the rest of labor reflects fundamentally
different views of what is best for the future of the labor movement.

Supporters of the bill say that the A.F.L.-C.I.O., in opposing the legislation,
is focused on protecting the gains that its mostly middle-class members have
made in pay and benefits over the decades. To the labor federation, the big
worry is that the bill's guest worker provision will pull down wages, take away
jobs from Americans and exploit immigrants.

The three unions that favor the bill also dislike the guest worker program but
are willing to support the bill to pursue a larger goal: a path to legalization
for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in this country. The three
unions, which represent many janitors, farm laborers and hotel housekeepers,
have high percentages of members who are immigrants. They also recognize that it
will be far easier to unionize immigrants -- perhaps the most fertile ground for
labor's growth -- when illegal immigrants are given legal status.

The three unions argue that the best strategy to help the nation's immigrants is
to push forward with the bill, however flawed, in the hope that it will be
improved by the House. ''We think burying the issue and ignoring it would be a
terrible mistake for the country and the economy,'' said John W. Wilhelm,
president of the hospitality division of Unite Here, which represents hotel,
restaurant and apparel workers. ''We don't support the bill in its present form,
but we think that the process is best served if the bill passes out of the
Senate and the legislative process continues.''

But the A.F.L.-C.I.O. asserts that the bill is so flawed that it should be
killed.

''We really have major concerns, and the concerns increase each day because the
bill is getting worse instead of better,'' said John J. Sweeney, the labor
federation's president, who called the bill overly punitive. ''The bill's guest
worker provisions pit workers against other workers. It creates a new underclass
of workers.''

The federation continues to battle the bill despite amendments proposed to
address labor's objections. The Senate voted to halve the guest worker program,
to 200,000 workers a year, and to phase it out after five years.

''The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s hostility surprises me,'' said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, a liberal group that supports the
bill. The service workers' union and Unite Here, Mr. Sharry said, ''are forward
looking, they're trying to figure out how do you improve workers' rights in an
era of globalization and do more than protect aging members.''

Labor's split over the bill reflects tensions between the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the
breakaway Change to Win labor federation; the three unions backing the bill
belong to the rival federation.

Eliseo Medina, an executive vice president of the Service Employees
International Union, said the bill would help not only immigrants, but also
labor unions.

''We have thousands of members who are undocumented who would have legal
status,'' said Mr. Medina, the son of a bracero worker from Mexico. ''Second, it
will allow workers who want to organize to do so without the fear of
deportation, and that helps unionization drives. It's not just a question of
helping us as labor; it helps all workers because if you have a significant
number of workers without any rights, that suppresses wages for everybody.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Withdraws Offer of 60,000 Job-Based Visas, Angering Immigration Lawyers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 481 words


Immigration lawyers raised unusually irate protests yesterday after the State
Department and the immigration service abruptly withdrew tens of thousands of
job-based visas they had offered last month to foreign professionals hoping to
become permanent residents in the United States.

The outcry was provoked by a terse announcement on Monday in which the State
Department said it would not grant any more visas for the 2007 fiscal year to
foreigners applying to become permanent residents based on their job skills.
That notice reversed one the department had issued on June 13 announcing a
two-month window starting July 2 for aspiring, high-skilled immigrants from
around the world to present applications for visas known as green cards.

The State Department said the 60,000 visas it had expected to offer would no
longer be available because of ''sudden backlog reduction efforts'' by
Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency that processes
applications for the visas offered by the department.

In a statement yesterday, the American Immigration Lawyers Association accused
the two agencies of perpetrating a ''hoax'' and a ''bait and switch'' against
hopeful legal immigrants who played by the book.

''Here people followed the rules and did everything right, yet without warning
or explanation the door was slammed in their faces,'' said Kathleen Campbell
Walker, the president of the association.

To apply, immigrants must undergo medical examinations and assemble documents to
prove their job skills and show that a United States employer has sponsored
them. Foreigners must be in the United States when they present their
applications, which are processed on a first-come, first-served basis.

Because of backlogs for employment-based visas, foreigners have had to wait many
years just to be allowed to file their applications.

Thousands of medical and technology professionals, including many working here
on temporary visas, scrambled for weeks to get their documents together, in some
cases canceling travel plans, in order to file their applications on Monday, the
first day of the window. The State Department and the immigration agency closed
the window without accepting a single application.

''I am concerned that such action may violate the law and could threaten the
integrity of our immigration system,'' Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of
California who is chairwoman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration,
wrote in letters yesterday to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland
security, and Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state. Ms. Lofgren warned that
the federal government could face costly litigation because of its change of
course.

The State Department said it would begin accepting applications on Oct. 1 for
2008 visas. On July 30, the immigration agency will raise its processing fees by
an average of 66 percent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Floral Protest Over Job-Based Visas

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 284 words


In a Gandhi-inspired protest, foreigners working legally in the United States
sent thousands of flowers to a top immigration official yesterday to draw
attention to their complaints about job-based visas.

The official, Emilio Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services,
arranged for trucks to haul the bouquets of roses, carnations and other flowers
to Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington and the National Naval Medical
Center at Bethesda, Md.

''The reaction from the patients, family and staff was overwhelming,'' said
Michael Briggs, an American Red Cross employee at Walter Reed who helped
distribute the flowers. ''They were very appreciative, and they were excited.''

The flower protest was staged by temporary workers, many from India, who felt
jilted by the immigration agency's decision last week to withdraw tens of
thousands of job-based visas. The State Department announced last month that
green cards would be available starting July 2 for applicants across the range
of high-skilled categories, but the immigration agency later said there had been
a misunderstanding and no visas would be available.

With a more typically American form of protest under way in the courts -- the
first lawsuits over the about-face were filed last week -- an agency spokesman,
Dan Kane, would not discuss the complaints behind the flowers.

Vikas Chowdhry, a software developer who helped coordinate the protest, said the
flowers had served a good purpose.

''We are overjoyed that these flowers brightened the day of our injured service
brethren,'' Mr. Chowdhry said. ''It is their sacrifice for American freedom that
has made this country great and such a desirable destination.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Without Guns or Raids, a Tiny Squad of Officers Homes In on Visa Fraud

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words


It was the kind of Brooklyn neighborhood where an unmarked car with government
plates drew hostile stares, and a badge emblazoned with the words ''immigration
officer'' could cause a panic.

''Just keep smiling,'' Tamika Gray, an immigration officer, said aloud to
herself as she steered the car under the elevated tracks in Bushwick, meeting
the suspicious gaze of a young man hanging out between Dominican Hair and Myrtle
Live Poultry. ''I'm not here to drag you anywhere.''

Ms. Gray, the rookie in the tiny Fraud Detection and National Security unit at
federal immigration headquarters in Lower Manhattan, was pursuing the unit's
distinctive kind of law enforcement. No guns. No raids. Just a little New York
street smarts and shoe leather to uncover all types of deception, case by case,
in the endless stream of visa applications.

Deceivers come in many guises. The ''multinational corporation'' sponsoring a
foreign manager to handle nonexistent millions. The ''lawyer'' specializing in
fleecing desperate immigrants. Bogus newlyweds, would-be citizens hiding
criminal records, churches that are really developers' construction sites, or
''condos for Christ,'' in the officers' wry shorthand.

The fledgling fraud detection unit is one of the first in a nationwide operation
started three years ago by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services,
the visa-issuing arm of the immigration authority recreated in 2003 under the
Department of Homeland Security.

The work of the unit's investigators -- who are not part of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the branch identified with raids, detention and deportation
of illegal immigrants -- is a new approach to detecting trends in fraud among
the six million applications made nationally each year. But the investigators
are so few, and so far down the bureaucratic chain, that the payoff from their
efforts can be hard to see.

On a recent visit behind the unmarked steel doors of the fraud unit's office at
26 Federal Plaza, one wall was stacked high with suspect files -- part of the
flow of some 150,000 applications annually in New York alone. The unit
supervisor, Joseph T. Knipper, cast a quizzical look from the stacked files to
his investigators -- all six of them.

''We used to have a saying: 'The fraud never sleeps,' '' he said, exaggerating
his gravelly voice and hangdog expression for comic effect. ''And after a while
we said, 'We don't either.' ''

Still, Mr. Knipper, 60, a Brooklyn-born Navy veteran, ex-cop and longtime
refugee asylum officer, said he saw his work as a boon to legitimate applicants.
''By going after fraud,'' he said, ''you're helping the good people.''

At any given time, the unit has more than 500 open cases, some involving
multiple files flagged during processing, some chosen through random sampling.

Since October, the unit has referred 187 cases to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement for possible criminal investigation. Very few ever move on to
prosecution by the United States attorney's office, however. More typically,
after a 60-day review, the cases bounce back to the fraud unit. Suspect
applications can be denied and the holder of a fraudulent visa can face
deportation.

The operation is a work in progress, cautioned Andrea J. Quarantillo, director
of the New York district office of Citizenship and Immigration Services, who
keeps her Sicilian grandfather's Ellis Island certificate on her office wall.
Nationwide, the fraud detection division has a staff of only 375, scattered in
more than 70 offices around the country.

''The work they do is work we wanted to do for years,'' she said, especially
systematic sample audits that measure fraud in various visa categories, allowing
administrators to spot patterns and close loopholes. ''We're not there yet.''

So far, the mother lode of fraud has turned up in visa petitions for religious
workers, made by organizations of every size and denomination. In reviewing a
representative sampling, the agency found that one in three approved petitions
were phony in New York and nationwide. In contrast, the rate of fraud found in
petitions to replace a lost green card was less than 1 percent.

This year, rules were changed to require visits by an agent in all petitions for
religious workers. One result is a ballooning workload that outpaces the
shoestring budget.

While computer databases are often used in fraud detection, spot inspections are
just as important. The territory of the six investigators in Mr. Knipper's
office ranges from the city's roughest neighborhoods to upstate villages like
Walden,  where Ms. Gray recently paid an unannounced visit to a Buddhist temple.
She was glad to find it bona fide after a chat over chai tea and cookies, she
said.

Ms. Gray, 31, who joined the fraud unit in October, is herself an immigrant. She
still remembers her first whiff of cold New York air when she arrived from
Jamaica at 6, she said. Her first job, in 1997, was as an airport immigration
inspector. Now, having shed gun and uniform, she said, ''I use all my good
mornings, all my how-are-yous.''

Sweet talk, not a search warrant, is the officers' passport into polyglot
neighborhoods where they must ask strangers for information about, say, the
shuttered Hempstead restaurant that had sponsored an immigrant accountant full
time, or the seedy Queens apartment house that had been listed in visa paperwork
as the headquarters of a multinational corporation.

In a city where 60 percent of residents are either foreign-born or the children
of immigrants, just showing up as an immigration officer takes nerve, said one
of the unit's charter members, who asked that only his first name, Mel, be used,
to spare his teenage daughter possible harassment. Several other team members
declined to be interviewed.

''It seems overwhelming sometimes, the size of the work that we've got to do,''
said Mel, 57, who became an immigration officer in the 1980s  and describes
himself as Jewish, Brooklyn-educated and a devotee of Nathan's hot dogs.

But the satisfactions can be overwhelming, too, he added, citing the unit's role
in the prosecution of a Long Island woman who had defrauded a dozen
unsophisticated immigrants desperate to become legal. The woman, Clementina
McDermott, had boldly called a news conference to denounce her prosecution.

''Brazen!'' he said. ''Not only was she not a citizen, she was an out-of-status
alien who had a 30-year criminal record.'' Investigating her case required
retrieving her misplaced file from what immigration officers call ''the cave''
-- a former limestone mine in Missouri that serves as storage. She was sentenced
to three years in prison and is to be deported to Colombia. Sometimes finding
fraud is all too easy, Mel added, saying, ''You're looking for a religious
temple and you're finding a candy store, a Laundromat or a hole in the ground.''

''Hole in the ground'' was not just a figure of speech. Mel led Mr. Knipper and
a reporter back to the address of a Jewish organization that had petitioned for
an immigrant to be trained as a mashgiach, or supervisor of kosher food
production. Where the religious building should have been, a vast foundation was
being dug for condos. ''You pull up and see this. Hey, maybe this ain't right.
It ain't here!'' Mr. Knipper exclaimed, surveying the scene, in Borough Park,
Brooklyn.

Ukrainian construction workers stopped for a smoke beside the excavation;
nearby, men in Hasidic dress passed women in hijabs. Asked about the likelihood
that some of the workers might be illegal immigrants, Mr. Knipper shrugged. Not
his job.

''There's a lot of illegals in New York,'' he noted, describing day laborers
outside the 7-Eleven store that he passes daily on his commute from Suffolk
County. ''I don't drive by and say, 'Maybe I should get a bigger car and load
them up.' ''

Mr. Knipper said site checks even in cases that prove legitimate help fight
fraud, too. ''This is a neighborhood where people think, 'Immigration,
shmimmigration, nobody checks,' '' he explained over sesame chicken in a local
deli. ''Then a guy comes around and knocks on the door. Word goes around. Rather
than 'Immigration never checks nothing,' word is: 'They're checking.' ''

At Metro Ministries, based in Bushwick, reaction to a recent visit by Ms. Gray
supported that view. Penny Hollenbeck, the executive director, said she was a
bit intimidated, but impressed, when two officers showed up to verify the
organization's sponsorship of a German religious worker. ''Firm but gentle,''
she concluded. ''A great representation of our government.''

As for Ms. Gray, she finds special rewards in checking religious groups, where
petitioners often take her hands and pray.

''I don't mind,'' she said. ''I let them pray for me no matter what religion.
You can never have enough coverage driving around these streets.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tamika Gray displays her badge. By going after fraud, the
squad's leader says, ''you're helping the good people.''
Ms. Gray, her supervisor, Joseph T. Knipper, center, and a colleague looked over
files at the unit's office. (pg. B5)
 Tamika Gray, an investigator with the Fraud Detection and National Security
unit, in Brooklyn. She is one of the fledgling unit's six officers working in
New York. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Skilled Workers Win Reversal Of Decision On Green Cards

BYLINE: By JACQUELINE PALANK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17


The immigration agency announced Tuesday that public opinion had caused it to
reverse an earlier government decision that prevented thousands of legal
immigrants from obtaining work-based permanent visas.

On June 12, the State Department encouraged highly skilled immigrants here on
temporary employment visas to apply for permanent employment visas, known as
green cards, to become permanent residents. The department said the visas would
be available starting July 2. But on that date, the department announced that
all available employment-based visas had been distributed for the year.

On Tuesday, however, the immigration agency, Citizenship and Immigration
Services, said it would accept applications for these visas if they were filed
by Aug. 17.

''The public reaction to the July 2 announcement made it clear that the federal
government's management of this process needs further review,'' Emilio T.
Gonzalez, the agency's director, said in a statement. ''I am committed to
working with Congress and the State Department to implement a more efficient
system in line with public expectations.''

State Department officials have said the alert in June was meant to speed visa
processing, to make sure no visas went unused. Both agencies have tried to
reduce green-card application backlogs.

Applicants for these employment visas are required to submit certified
documents, among them employer sponsorship forms and federal certification that
no American workers are available for their jobs, and must also undergo medical
examinations. Many of them have a long work history in the United States.

The American Immigration Law Foundation, a group that advocates for immigrants'
legal rights, said in a statement that it had prepared, and had been poised to
file, a class-action lawsuit to oppose the government's July 2 decision. Bill
Wright, a spokesman for the immigration agency, would not comment on whether the
threat of litigation had prompted the agency's reversal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unrest and Arrests at Immigration Rally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 231 words


Five people were arrested and two people were slightly injured yesterday at a
rally in Morristown, N.J., that attracted hundreds of demonstrators both for and
against stricter immigration law enforcement, the police said yesterday.

Morristown police officers,  in riot gear and using a fence to separate the
rival demonstrators, broke up several fights at the rally,  held in front of the
Morristown town hall.

In the most serious clash, a man threw two small metal cylinders at a pickup
truck. When the driver of the truck and his female companion confronted the man,
they were set upon by about 10 other men, said Lt. David Ackerman of the
Morristown police.

Three men were arrested and charged with assault, disorderly conduct and other
charges. The rest fled, Lieutenant Ackerman said.

The woman was treated at Morristown Memorial Hospital, he said. The injured man
had been one of the speakers at the rally, organized by the ProAmerica Society,
which urges stricter enforcement of immigration laws.

Also arrested were a man and a woman who had jumped on the stage. They were
charged with disorderly conduct and trespassing.

Morristown has attracted controversy because the mayor, Donald Cresitello, has
applied for a federal program that would deputize police officers to enforce
immigration laws.

Mayor Cresitello spoke at the rally, protected by a phalanx of police officers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.N. Worker Is Accused Of Falsifying Visa Letters

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 689 words


A Russian citizen working in New York for the United Nations was arrested
yesterday on charges of using the organization's letterhead to create fake
documents that allowed several Uzbek citizens to illegally obtain visas to enter
the United States.

The  worker, Vyacheslav Manokhin, was accused in a federal complaint of
conspiracy to commit fraud by using his position to make it seem as though the
organization supported the visa applications of about a dozen visitors who were
ostensibly entering the United States to attend  nongovernmental  or  United
Nations conferences.

Federal prosecutors said that either the visitors did not attend the meetings or
the conferences did not exist. Mr. Manokhin was also accused of trying to help
six Ukrainian citizens  illegally get visas to enter France.

Mr. Manokhin, 45, who lives in Greenwich, Conn., pleaded not guilty yesterday at
a hearing in Federal District Court in Manhattan. He was held in $310,000 bail.
He could face up to five years in prison. His lawyer, Robert Sikorski, declined
to comment.

Two other men -- Vladimir Derevianko, 44, a Russian who was granted political
asylum in the United States in 2004, and Kamiljan Tursunov, 44, a native of
Uzbekistan who lives in Florida -- were also charged. They pleaded not guilty to
charges of immigration fraud. Mr. Derevianko was released on $57,500 bail; Mr.
Tursunov remained in custody.

To enter the United States for United Nations conferences, foreigners must apply
for a visa, usually by obtaining what immigration officials call a ''letter of
request.'' The letters are typically written by officials for the United Nations
or whatever other agency may be sponsoring the conference.

According to the complaint, Mr. Manokhin and Mr. Derevianko  sent fake letters
of request  beginning in 2005 to both a United Nations office in Uzbekistan and
the United States Embassy in Tashkent, the Uzbek capital. The letters were often
signed ''Leonardo Brackett'' or ''Greg Smith,'' who were identified as United
Nations officials but who did not exist, the complaint said.

In June 2005, for instance, Leonardo Brackett's name appeared on a letter sent
on Mr. Tursunov's behalf to the office of the United Nations Development Program
in Uzbekistan, prosecutors said. The letter sought a visa that would allow Mr.
Tursunov to attend an annual United Nations conference in New York, though Mr.
Tursunov later told federal officers that he had never attended  the conference,
according to the complaint.

In an interview with officers this year, Mr. Tursunov -- still in the United
States -- said that while he was living in Uzbekistan, he was approached by an
associate who told him he could get a United States visa for $15,000, the
complaint said. He gave the man his passport and  $8,000, the complaint added,
and three months later he received a letter signed by Leonardo Brackett. He then
used the letter to obtain a visa application from the United Nations, paid the
man an additional $7,000 and, soon thereafter, received his passport with a
visa, prosecutors said.

In January, the complaint said, Mr. Manokhin sent a letter to the United States
Embassy in Tashkent requesting a visa for an Uzbek citizen, who was not named in
the complaint, to attend a law conference in New York. The conference -- which
did not exist, prosecutors said -- was described  as ''a round table''
concerning ''alternatives to pretrial incarceration,'' complete with
''representatives of charitable organizations'' and ''specialists who work in
the field.'' Sessions would take place from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily, the letter
said, ''except Saturday and Sunday.''

As part of its investigation of Mr. Manokhin, federal officers visited the Lower
Manhattan law firm where the conference was supposed to have taken place and
interviewed the receptionist. She said that no conference had been scheduled,
according to the complaint. The officers also interviewed a lawyer at the firm
who was one of the founding directors of the agency that had supposedly arranged
the round table. He, too, had never heard of such a thing, the complaint said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newark Killings Fuel Debate Over Local Officials' Role in Immigration
Enforcement

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1064 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 17


The radio advertisement, released after the killings of three young people here,
starts with a few notes of music and an anonymous voice-over before Rudolph W.
Giuliani speaks.

''It frustrates me that if someone comes here illegally,'' Mr. Giuliani says as
the music swells, ''if they commit a crime, we don't throw them out of the
country.''

Among the motivations for the 60-second spot, part of Mr. Giuliani's
presidential campaign, was the revelation that a suspect in the Newark
shootings, Jose Lachira Carranza, is an illegal immigrant from Peru who could
have been detained by federal immigration authorities after he was arrested
three times on criminal charges.

A national chorus reacted with horror to the Aug. 4 killings at a playground
here, and Mr. Giuliani's advertisement speaks for a prominent subset: those who
have cited the shooting deaths to bolster their argument that the criminal
justice system treats illegal immigrants too leniently.

Besides Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor and Republican presidential candidate,
the critics have included Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker.
(''Far more Americans are being killed by violent, evil people here in America
than in our official military 'combat zones' overseas,'' he wrote in the
National Review.)

And Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, is bringing his
immigration-themed presidential campaign here on Monday for a news conference
''to denounce the sanctuary city policy of Newark.''

Some of the loudest arguments have been over whether local law enforcement
officials should check the immigration status of people they arrest and then
report those who are here illegally to the federal authorities.

The question has become a flashpoint for municipal officials who are grappling
with immigration. Some of them say routine immigration checks are among the few
tools they have to deal with what is largely a federal issue. Others herald
their cities as immigrant sanctuaries.

The mayor of Newark, Cory A. Booker, has tried to keep the public discussion
focused on his main goal: reducing the crime rate. Mr. Booker said he was
frustrated that Mr. Carranza had been freed, but, responding to the debate
surrounding the suspect's illegal status, has come out firmly against involving
city police in immigration matters.

He said such a role would hurt relationships with what he called ''the most
marginalized and vulnerable people within our community.''

''My Police Department does not play an I.N.S. function,'' Mr. Booker said. ''We
are not to be running around doing interrogations about whether someone is
documented or not.''

Two reviews -- one by New Jersey's attorney general, the other by a retired
judge appointed by the state's chief justice -- are looking at Mr. Carranza's
journey through the criminal justice system and examining whether mistakes were
made; the immigration question is only one factor.

Mr. Carranza was first arrested in October 2006, in West Orange, N.J., on
aggravated assault charges after a bar fight, and again twice earlier this year
on charges that he raped a child in his care. After the October arrest, he was
freed on $20,000 bail.

After the second arrest, in Orange, N.J., bail was set at $150,000, and Mr.
Carranza was freed after posting it through a bondsman. Arrested again in May,
in Newark, on additional sexual assault charges in the child rape case, bail was
set at $300,000 but then lowered to $150,000, which Mr. Carranza had already
posted.

In neither case did the arresting officers report Mr. Carranza's immigration
status to an Immigration and Customs Enforcement center that acts as a liaison
with local officers. Neither did the prosecutors who were handling the two
cases; their policy is to contact the immigration service only when cases are
completed.

James M. Porfido, a former Morris County prosecutor who ran the county's sex
crimes unit and who is now a criminal defense lawyer, said that while the most
violent offenders were usually held without bail, several of his clients who had
been charged with first-degree sexual assault -- as Mr. Carranza was -- were
held without bail.

Of Mr. Carranza, he said, ''If I'm the prosecutor, he's not going anywhere.''

It was only after his arrest on murder charges on Aug. 9 that Mr. Carranza's
immigration status was reported. After an employee in the Essex County Sheriff's
Office learned that Mr. Carranza's Social Security number was fake, the
immigration service issued a ''detainer,'' which gave federal agents the right
to hold Mr. Carranza if and when local officials set him free.

The Carranza case involves two distinct issues: the release of Mr. Carranza on
bail and the fact that local authorities did not notify federal officials about
his immigration status. Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey has tried to untangle
the issues.

''The issue of proactive immigration law enforcement is different than how you
might deal with an individual that is, for some other reason, in the criminal
justice system,'' Mr. Corzine said at a news conference last week with Mr.
Booker.

The debate, the governor added, is whether the Newark police should ''be having
people out enforcing the immigration laws and jamming the jails even more than
what we have now, versus the issue of when someone has committed a felony and
you have them in custody checking out their documentation.''

Asked whether the state would start checking immigration status, Mr. Corzine
deferred to his attorney general, Anne Milgram. She has said that she will speak
publicly about the issue soon.

In the New York City area, some leaders -- including the mayor of Morristown,
N.J. -- have embraced a federal program known as 287 (g). The program, named for
a section of the 1996 Immigration and Nationality Act, allows local officers to
be deputized as immigration agents.

In other cities, mayors have moved in the opposite direction, formally declaring
that local officials, including the police, will not ask about immigration
status.

In Newark, the Municipal Council has adopted a nonbinding resolution that
commits the city to being a ''sanctuary'' for immigrants.

But since the shootings, Ronald C. Rice, a councilman who is allied with Mr.
Booker, has proposed an ordinance that would require the police to contact
federal authorities about illegal immigrants in custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A suspect, Jose Lachira Carranza, is an illegal immigrant.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY MIKE DERER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Voice Concerns Over a Directive on Immigrants

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and DAVID W. CHEN; Kareem Fahim reported from Newark and
David W. Chen from Trenton.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 23


One local police chief called it a publicity stunt. In a sheriff's office, the
directive was passed out at roll call, by officials anxious to quickly comply.
And another  chief -- one of many who spoke on the condition he not be named for
fear of ruffling the feathers of the state's top law enforcement officer -- said
it seemed like a recipe for racial profiling.

A day after New Jersey's attorney general, Anne Milgram, ordered local law
enforcement agencies to start inquiring about the immigration status of the
people they arrest, local officials and advocates for immigrants across the
state began grappling with how the edict would change the already complicated
relationship between the authorities and immigrants on the streets they patrol.

In Englewood, where the police estimate that up to a fifth of the population of
26,000 are illegal immigrants, the authorities have long asked about immigration
status, so ''this doesn't change things at all,'' according to Arthur O'Keefe,
the deputy police chief. But in Freehold, where a lawsuit recently ended
attempts by borough officials to fine day laborers, a  new police chief, on the
job for only seven weeks, said he was still trying to divine what Ms. Milgram's
instructions actually meant.

''I'm not sure how we're going to go about enacting it on the local level,''
said the chief, Mitchell E. Roth, adding that his 34 full-time officers do not
routinely ask about immigration status. ''We have special-interest groups. We
have to be very diplomatic.''

Ms. Milgram's order was motivated by the arrest of an illegal immigrant who was
out on bail, his status unknown to the authorities, in a brutal triple homicide
here  this month. It brings immigration authorities more forcefully into local
law enforcement matters.

For a list of offenses, ranging from theft to murder and including drunken
driving, local police are supposed to ask about the immigration status of people
they arrest. If they suspect that the person is in the country illegally, they
are supposed to contact representatives from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

But concerns are already being raised about the potential fallout on immigrants'
cooperation with the authorities, despite Ms. Milgram's order that victims and
witnesses should not be questioned about their status. Many expressed particular
concern about the consequences for victims of domestic violence, who are often
already reluctant to report their partners to the police.

Immigration advocates said Thursday that many calls had started coming in from
people worried about whether the new directive would be implemented fairly.

Shai Goldstein, executive director of the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network,
said that members of his coalition were calling it ''the law of unintended
consequences.''

''A mutual assault situation: Who's the victim?'' Mr. Goldstein asked. ''How do
you ferret that out? A domestic abuse situation -- one spouse may want the other
punished, but not deported. Is it going to have a chilling effect on reporting
domestic violence?''

And what if a suspect is arrested and does not want to answer questions about
immigration status? ''The directive doesn't address that,'' Mr. Goldstein noted.

Mr. Goldstein also said he is concerned about people who are falsely arrested,
or arrested and cleared before charges are brought, and hopes the directive will
be amended so federal authorities are notified about immigration status only on
indictment.

Lt. David Ackerman, the domestic violence response coordinator in Morristown,
said he has seen some hesitance to report abuse by victims who think either they
or their spouse will be deported. In New Jersey, he said, there are several
situations that require mandatory arrests, including if there are signs of
injury, or if a weapon -- even a dinner plate -- has been used.

''I do get a lot of people coming forward,'' Lieutenant Ackerman said, ''but I
don't know how many people are out there who are not.''

Many questioned how federal authorities would handle all the new calls the
directive was sure to bring. Chief O'Keefe, who called his department's
relationship with Immigration and Customs Enforcement a good one, said that the
federal agency's ability to respond to local calls about illegal immigrants was
spotty at best.

''They are so overloaded, unless it's someone serious, they do not respond,'' he
said, adding that when the Englewood police  reported 40 or so illegal
immigrants from Iran living in crowded housing, federal immigration agents came
quickly.

At a meeting of the state's assignment judges in May, the notification of
federal immigration authorities by the judges was discussed, according to the
minutes of the meeting. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials admitted
to a court administrator that they were ''not really set up to receive
notifications on a large scale.''

Scott Weber, the field office director for Immigration and Customs Enforcement's
Office of Detention and Removal in Newark, said: ''We're doing everything we can
to be as accessible as we can.''

Wayne R. Rupert, of the Ocean County Sheriff's Office, said it was ''high time''
for guidance on the arrest of illegal immigrants. His office, which patrols from
Lakewood to Little Egg Harbor Township, already worked closely with federal
immigration authorities, he said.

''This may create some more work. But I don't see any way around it,'' he said.
He added that it would be a while before his officers know for sure.

''We haven't arrested anyone yet,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anne Milgram, the New Jersey attorney general, directed local
police to question suspects about their immigration status. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH
ADDIS/THE STAR-LEDGER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Mexico Wants

BYLINE: By Jorge G. Castaneda.

Jorge G. Castaneda, Mexico's foreign minister from 2000 to 2003, is the author
of the forthcoming ''Ex Mex: Migrants to Immigrants.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Who Likes the Immigration Bill?;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


NO nation is as involved in United States immigration as Mexico, and no
government's cooperation will be as necessary as Mexico's if immigration reform
is to succeed.

Fortunately, most of the reform proposals represent a very good deal for Mexico,
however questionable they might appear to the Latino community in the United
States. The current Senate package greatly resembles what President Vicente Fox
and I proposed back in 2001, in meetings with President Bush and former
Secretary of State Colin Powell.

First, the Senate plan would legalize almost all of the roughly six million
Mexicans in the United States today without papers. This will allow them to get
better wages and working conditions, to become eligible for mortgages and
driver's licenses, to travel back home and to have an immensely better everyday
life.

Yes, the road to citizenship is a long one -- up to 13 years -- but that is
essentially an American issue. We Mexicans cannot encourage or discourage our
fellow countrymen from seeking naturalization.

Second, the bill provides for a guest worker program that will include several
hundred thousand Mexicans: exactly what we always wanted. The requirement that
they return home for a year after working across the border for two, while
cumbersome and perhaps unenforceable, would actually help Mexico. It would
ensure the continued flow of money back to workers' families here; and the
returning workers would bring the skills they acquire in the United States to
demonstrate to others and use to start businesses here.

And as for complaints that these guest workers could not take their families
with them, the roughly 75,000 Mexicans who legally emigrate to the north every
year can't do so either.

There are three Mexican objections to the bill as it stands.

First, it has unduly harsh enforcement provisions at the border and the
workplace, which will undoubtedly generate abuses and mistreatment. Still, if
every Mexican in the United States who arrived before Jan. 1, 2007, is
legalized, enforcement inside the United States, including discriminatory raids,
will become redundant. And if nearly everyone who wants to go north can obtain a
guest-worker visa, there will be no need to cross illegally and face rough
treatment at the border.

A second objectionable feature is the steep fines and fees in the Senate bill:
up to $5,000. While this is not cheap, it's also not much more than the
''coyote'' charges to smuggle a migrant across the border.

The last objection is more substantive; it is, in fact, a potential deal
breaker. The Senate voted last week to cut the number of guest worker slots to
200,000 from 400,000. The earlier figure would have allowed roughly the same
number of workers who now cross illegally to obtain guest status. But if the
final law has too few slots, it will not end illegal immigration, but simply
perpetuate the status quo.

What's good for Mexico is probably good, in the long term, for the United States
as well; on this one, at least, Mexican and American interests coincide.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Two-Year Solution

BYLINE: By Michael Lind.

Michael Lind is a fellow at the New America Foundation.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Who Likes the Immigration Bill?;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WITH the new immigration package already beginning to unravel, it would be
wonderful if we could find one element of reform that everyone involved in the
immigration debate can agree on.

Here's my candidate: lower the residency requirement for legal immigrants who
seek to become citizens from five years to two.

This is not a new idea. In fact, it's 217 years old. In 1790, Congress passed
the first naturalization act, which imposed a two-year residency requirement for
legal immigrants. Alarmed by the French Revolution, Congress subsequently
changed the residency requirement to five years with the Naturalization Act of
1795. Growing fear of foreign infiltration during the wars of the French
Revolution inspired Congress to enact the Naturalization Act of 1798, which
increased the residency requirement to 14 years and permitted the president to
deport dangerous aliens.

In addition to worrying about subversive Frenchmen, Federalist Party lawmakers
wanted to deny suffrage to Irish immigrants, who tended to vote for their
rivals, the Jeffersonian Republicans. After Thomas Jefferson was elected
president, his allies in Congress in 1802 reduced the residency requirement. And
that's why, 200 years later, legal immigrants cannot become naturalized citizens
unless they reside for five years in the United States, with at least half of
that time spent physically on United States soil.

Why, one might ask, should we shorten the residency requirement now? Think of it
this way. There are roughly 10 million foreign-born legal permanent residents in
the United States today -- nearly as many as the estimated number of illegal
immigrants. Shortening the residency requirement would accelerate their
naturalization.

This, in turn, would make amnesty or earned citizenship for most of the illegal
immigrants already living here easier down the road. It would be unfair suddenly
to grant citizenship to those who have broken the rules, allowing them to
leapfrog over those who have waited patiently in line to become citizens.
Solution: make the law-abiding immigrants citizens more quickly, in order to
clear the way for an enforceable amnesty later.

This wouldn't be a boon just for legal immigrants and many illegal immigrants --
all Americans would benefit from a speeded-up naturalization process that
rapidly shrinks the number of non-citizens living and working on American soil.
We don't want a two-tier labor market in this country, with non-citizen workers
with limited rights pitted against citizen-workers with full rights.

The Congress of 1790, which included many of the founders, got it right. We can,
too -- especially now that the French Revolution is over.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

PRESIDENT'S PUSH ON IMMIGRATION TESTS G.O.P. BASE

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and CARL HULSE; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from
Des Moines.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


President Bush's advocacy of an immigration overhaul and his attacks on critics
of the plan are provoking an unusually intense backlash from conservatives who
form the bulwark of his remaining support, splintering his base and laying bare
divisions within a party whose unity has been the envy of Democrats.

It has pitted some of Mr. Bush's most stalwart Congressional and grass-roots
backers against him, inciting a vitriol that has at times exceeded anything seen
yet between Mr. Bush and his supporters, who have generally stood with him
through the toughest patches of his presidency. Those supporters now view him as
pursuing amnesty for foreign law breakers when he should be focusing on border
security.

Postings on conservative Web sites this week have gone so far as to call for Mr.
Bush's impeachment, and usually friendly radio hosts, commentators and
Congressional allies are warning that he stands to lose supporters -- a
potentially damaging development, they say, when he needs all the backing he can
get on other vital matters like the war in Iraq.

''I think President Bush hurts himself every time he says it is not amnesty,''
said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, referring to the bill's
legalization process for immigrants. ''We are not all that stupid.''

This week, after Mr. Bush's suggestion that those opposing the Congressional
plan ''don't want to do what's right for America'' inflamed conservative
passions, Rush Limbaugh told listeners, ''I just wish he hadn't done it because
he's not going to lose me on Iraq, and he's not going to lose me on national
security.'' He added, ''But he might lose some of you.''

Such sentiments have reverberated through talk radio, conservative publications
like National Review and Fox News. They have also appeared on Web sites
including RedState.com and FreeRepublic.com, where postings reflect a feeling
that Mr. Bush is smiting his own coalition in pursuit of a badly needed domestic
accomplishment, and working in league with the likes of Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, a co-author of the legislation.

White House officials said it had led them to engage the blogosphere in a
concerted way for the first time, posting defenses on liberal and conservative
sites.

The tensions, which have rippled through the Republican presidential field, are
intensifying just as the Senate is preparing to renew debate on the measure next
week. Opponents are seeking significant changes -- or outright defeat of the
legislation -- and raising the specter of a filibuster. The battle has pitted
the White House against a group that includes even Mr. Bush's reliable
supporters from his home state of Texas, Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John
Cornyn, both Republicans.

White House officials said it was a debate they welcomed in pursuit of a
long-sought presidential goal, but in interviews this week, they expressed
frustration at what they described as ill-informed criticism that the bill
provided amnesty for illegal immigrants when it in fact traded legal status for
fines and fees -- more than $6,000 for green card holders, officials said. They
also noted that the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll showed 66 percent
of Republicans supported its legalization provisions.

Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top political adviser, said Friday he was confident that
the White House would win over its critics as it explained the details of the
bill and the administration's continuing efforts to enforce existing border
control laws.

Mr. Rove said he did not think that anger over immigration within the party
would affect support for the president on the war and other national security
issues. ''People are able to say, 'I don't need to agree with anyone 100 percent
of the time to be with them on the most important issue facing America,' '' he
said.

But that same day, Peggy Noonan, the Wall Street Journal opinion writer and
former Reagan speechwriter who has supported Mr. Bush, said, ''What
conservatives and Republicans must recognize is that the White House has broken
with them,'' in a column under the heading, ''President Bush has torn the
conservative coalition asunder.''

Democrats have their own serious differences on immigration, with many worried
that the Senate plan is too punitive. Others who are closely allied with labor
are fearful about the impact on job opportunities, and still others oppose any
plan that allows illegal immigrants to earn citizenship. But the Democratic
divisions have been all but lost in the loud and volatile clashes among
Republicans.

Reflecting the division between the business wing, Congressional moderates and
the rest of the party, the editorial board of National Review, which opposes the
legislation, has issued a debate challenge to The Journal's business-minded
editorial board, which is more supportive.

Opposition to Mr. Bush's immigration plan, which calls for a way to legalize
illegal workers who are here now, has been stiff for years. But last year, when
similar legislation was under debate, opponents were rightly confident that
Republican leaders who controlled Congress would not let it progress. Mr. Bush,
not wishing to intensify the fight in an election year, stayed behind the scenes
and relented when the legislation died.

Not so this year, when Mr. Bush's personal involvement in brokering a bipartisan
immigration deal, and his clear determination to push for its passage, has
intensified criticism from grass-roots and legislative leaders of his own party
to the highest levels of his presidency. The criticism reflects a central
tension between Mr. Bush's pursuit of a defining domestic policy accomplishment
and the party's concerns about its 2008 prospects when base voters are so angry
about immigration.

Mr. Bush's comments to federal law enforcement trainees in Georgia on Tuesday,
in which he took the rare step of going after conservative critics in terms
usually reserved for Democrats, has charged the Republican ferment, specifically
his suggestion that those opposed to the plan ''don't want to do what's right
for America.''

Presidential aides said later that Mr. Bush did not mean to impugn anyone's
patriotism, and that he had ad-libbed the line during a passionate address on an
issue he holds dear.

But days later, Mr. Cornyn still seemed rankled. ''I honestly don't know whether
it was scripted or unscripted,'' he said. ''But I think it was uncalled for.''

In its online editorial in which it challenged The Wall Street Journal to a
debate, National Review referred to an Internet video on The Journal's Web site
of an editorial board meeting in which Paul Gigot, the editorial page editor,
referred to what he calls ''the degree to which the right isn't even rational
about this anymore.'' National Review wrote, ''It shouldn't be a problem for The
Journal's editors to take up this challenge, since opponents of the bill aren't
'rational' on the question.''

The debate has bled into the campaign for the Republican presidential
nomination, providing fodder for one of the sharpest exchanges so far, between
Senator John McCain of Arizona, who supports the bill, and former Gov. Mitt
Romney of Massachusetts, who has come out against it.

Caught in the middle of the broader fight, the Republican National Committee has
seemed to have taken less of a supporting role than on other White House
initiatives, though Senator Mel Martinez, chairman of the committee and a strong
backer of the compromise, said its support was unwavering.

(Republican Party officials disputed parts of areport in The Washington Times
linking a decision to fire dozens of phone bank employees to a decline in small
donations that the paper reported was partly caused by disaffection over
immigration.)

The Republican vs. Republican debate has also played out intensively for
lawmakers back home. Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, a critic of the
measure, said he had heard from people who were upset not only with the
legislation, but also with his Republican colleague from the state, Senator
Lindsey Graham, one of the measure's architects. ''I discourage that kind of
talk,'' Mr. DeMint said. ''We are good friends, and he is a great senator. We
are just in disagreement on this particular issue.''

The Republican and conservative critiques on the Internet are not so polite.
''Bush has turned on his own people, his political supporters,'' wrote a visitor
to a message board on the conservative Web site FreeRepublic.com. Another
visitor wrote, ''Why have I cared that liberals not attempt to impeach this man?
He's gone crazy.''

Mr. Rove and Dan Bartlett, the White House counselor, said officials would
continue trying to persuade critics.

And some White House allies were trying to cool tensions. Mr. McCain, who had a
salty clash with Mr. Cornyn over the legislation when it was being drafted, said
Friday, ''The president, and all of us, feel frustrated sometimes by the
criticism and the level of the dialogue,'' adding, ''I wish we could lift up the
level of discourse and dialogue.''

The president's brother, Jeb Bush, and his former campaign manager, Ken Mehlman,
wrote an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal pleading the case for the
legislation, saying that the debate, ''has led many close personal and
ideological friends -- people we respect and whose criticism we take seriously
-- to oppose new rules governing how people enter this country and how we handle
those who are here illegally. But we hope our friends reconsider.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, right, says, ''I
think President Bush hurts himself every time he says it is not amnesty.''
(Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
 President Bush arriving Friday at a briefing on the immigration overhaul, which
has pitted stalwart Congressional supporters against him. (Photo by Andrew
Councill for The New York Times)(pg. 34)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRANT BILL, LACKING 15 VOTES, STALLS IN SENATE

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ROBERT PEAR; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from
Midland, Tex.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


The sweeping immigration overhaul endorsed by President Bush crumbled in the
Senate on Thursday night, leaving the future of one of the administration's
chief domestic priorities in serious doubt.

After a day of tension and fruitless maneuvering, senators rejected a Democratic
call to move toward a final vote on the compromise legislation after Republicans
complained that they had not been given enough opportunity to reshape the
sprawling bill. Supporters of cutting off debate got only 45 of the 60 votes
they needed; 50 senators opposed the cutoff.

''We are finished with this for the time being,'' said Senator Harry Reid,
Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, as he turned the Senate to work on
energy legislation.

Mr. Reid did, however, leave the door open to revisiting the immigration issue
later this year and said he would continue to explore ways to advance a plan.
''We all have to work, the president included, to find a way to get this bill
passed,'' he said.

The outcome, which followed an outpouring of criticism of the measure from core
Republican voters and from liberal Democrats as well, was a significant setback
for the president. It came mainly at the hands of members of his own party after
he championed the proposal in the hope of claiming it as a major domestic policy
achievement in the last months of his administration.

The collapse of the measure came as Mr. Bush was in Europe for an international
economic summit, and it was not immediately clear how hard he would fight to
resurrect the bill upon his return next week.

Scott Stanzel, a White House spokesman, said the White House still held hope
that a bill could be passed.

''We are encouraged that the leadership of both parties in the United States
Senate indicated that they would bring this legislation back up for
consideration,'' Mr. Stanzel said. ''And we will continue to work with members
of the United States Senate to make sure this process moves forward.''

The defeat was also crushing for a bipartisan group of about a dozen senators
who met privately for three months to broker a compromise that tried to balance
a call for stricter border enforcement with a way for many of the 12 million
people who are illegally in the country to qualify for citizenship eventually.

''The vote was obviously a big disappointment, but it makes no sense to fold our
tent, and I certainly don't intend to,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts and a chief author of the bill. ''Doing nothing is
totally unacceptable''

Other proponents said they still saw life in the legislation despite the blow in
the Senate.

''This matter is on life support, but it is not dead,'' said Senator Arlen
Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and another central architect of the plan.

Senate conservatives fought the legislation from the start, saying it rewarded
those who broke the law by entering the country illegally. After winning a few
important changes in the measure, Republican critics demanded more time and drew
support for their calls for more opportunity to fight it out on the Senate
floor.

''I simply do not understand why some of my colleagues want to jam this
legislation through the Congress without a serious and thorough examination of
its consequences,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas.

Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican who was another leading opponent,
said he believed lawmakers responded to constituent complaints about the flaws
in the measure ''I was not going to support a piece of legislation that will not
work,'' Mr. Sessions said.

Mr. Reid said the critics were simply stalling and would never be satisfied.
Noting the Senate had considered more than 40 amendments and held 28 roll call
votes, he attributed the failure of the bill to Republican recalcitrance.

In the end, 38 Republicans, 11 Democrats and one independent voted not to shut
off debate; 37 Democrats, 7 Republicans and one independent voted to bring the
issue to a head.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said he believed
Republicans would have eventually relented had they been given more time to work
out an agreement on what amendments would be considered. ''I think we are giving
up on this bill too soon,'' Mr. McConnell said.

The vote was the second attempt of the day to cut off a debate that had gone on
for nearly two weeks, interrupted by the Memorial Day recess. On the initial
showdown in the morning, the Senate fell 27 votes short of the 60 required;
every Republican and 15 Democrats opposed the move.

The morning vote sent Senate leaders and backers of the legislation scrambling,
trying to reach an agreement to salvage the measure with the help of
administration officials. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff was also
consulted by phone.

The progress of negotiations was uncertain throughout the day. As late as 6:30
p.m., Mr. Kennedy was still uncertain where many senators stood on the call to
force an end to the debate. ''It's touch and go,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''It's
extremely close at this time. Republicans have held their cards.''

The compromise legislation was announced on May 17 by authors who hailed it as a
''grand bargain.'' It held together through much of the debate because the
negotiators -- embodied on the right by Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a
Republican, and on the left by Mr. Kennedy -- agreed to block proposals they
thought would sink the measure. That led to such odd moments as when Mr. Kyl on
Wednesday opposed an amendment he had helped write for last year's unsuccessful
immigration measure.

But the legislation began running into problems late Wednesday night and early
Thursday morning as the Senate approved a Democratic proposal to limit a
guest-worker program sought by business interests and backed by Republicans.
Backers of the bill hoped to reverse that result if the measure moved forward.

''It is indispensable to have a guest-worker program to take care of the needs
of the economy,'' said Mr. Specter. ''If we don't, we will just encounter more
people coming over illegally.''

At the same time, some Democrats were growing increasingly uneasy.

Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said the bill had become ''more
punitive and more onerous'' because of amendments adopted in the last few days.
Mr. Menendez pointed, for example, to one that denied the earned-income tax
credit to illegal immigrants who gain legal status under the bill.

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, the Hispanic
rights group, said she had similar concerns. Changes approved by the Senate this
week make the bill ''not only more punitive, but also less workable,'' Ms. Munoz
said.

Trying to bolster Democratic support, the Service Employees International Union
urged senators Thursday to vote for a limit to the debate. In a letter to the
Senate, Anna Burger, secretary-treasurer of the union, listed many serious
objections to the bill, but said, ''The time to move forward is now.''

The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, a coalition of civil rights groups,
also backed cloture, saying, ''A small handful of immigration restrictionists'
in the Senate should not be allowed to prolong the debate indefinitely.''

In addition to the limit on the guest worker program, supporters of the bill
said they would also try to change an amendment that gives law enforcement and
intelligence agencies access to certain information in unsuccessful applications
filed by illegal immigrants seeking legal status. Despite the strong Republican
vote against ending debate, party leaders said throughout the day they wanted to
reach some accommodation. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the No. 2
Republican, urged his colleagues to stiffen their spines and try to resolve one
of the nation's most pressing problems.

''Are we men and women or mice?'' Mr. Lott asked. ''Are we going to slither away
from this issue and hope for some epiphany to happen? No. Let's legislate. Let's
vote.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference yesterday, seated from left, Senators
Charles E. Schumer
Harry Reid, majority leader
Richard J. Durbin
 and Patty Murray. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Failure of Leadership

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 524 words


The immigration compromise collapsed on the floor of the Senate Thursday night.
Many of its hard-line foes are celebrating, but their glee is vindictive and
hollow. They have blocked one avenue to an immigration overhaul while offering
nothing better, thwarting bipartisanship to satisfy their reflexive loathing for
amnesty, which they define as anything that helps illegal immigrants get right
with the law.

The tragedy is that the compromise bill was written to bring these
restrictionists along, with punitive, detestable provisions that many supporters
of comprehensive reform agreed to endorse for the sake of a ''grand bargain.''
The bill was badly flawed but fixable, as long as there was the possibility of
leadership and courage in Congress.

But obstruction happened. Republican amendments, designed to shred the
compromise, happened.

Jeff Sessions wanted to deprive legalized immigrants -- yes, legal residents --
of the earned income tax credit, a path out of poverty for millions.

John Cornyn wanted to strip confidentiality protections for immigrants who apply
for legal status, making them too frightened to leave the shadows.

Jim DeMint just wanted to kill the bill, so he voted for a volatile amendment
whose substance he disagreed with. ''If it hurts the bill, I'm for it,'' he
said.

Leadership was desperately needed to stop Republicans from dragging the bill off
one of its pillars -- the one that would put 12 million people on a path to
legal status. It didn't show up. Republicans who should have been holding their
party and the deal together -- President Bush, minority leader Mitch McConnell,
Senator John Kyl -- failed utterly.

The anti-immigrant hard-core -- no amnesty today, no amnesty tomorrow, no
amnesty ever -- must not be allowed to hold the nation hostage. Like nativists
of generations past, they think the country is being Latinized, and they fear
it. The country is changing, but the way it always has, absorbing newcomers,
shaping and being shaped by them, inexorably turning them, their children and
grandchildren into Americans. Globalization has accelerated and complicated that
upheaval, and decades of federal dithering have made things messy and chaotic.

Restoring order will be wrenchingly difficult, but it must be done. The country
cannot leave an unlawful, chaotic system to fester, with legal immigration
channels clogged, families split apart, crops rotting and state and local
governments dreaming up ways to punish 12 million people whose identities are
unknown to the authorities, and who aren't leaving, no matter what Congress
does. We cannot simply fortify a wall while continuing to extract cheap labor
from cowering workers who risk death to get here. Inaction on immigration
carries a brutally high price, but those on the phobic right are willing to
mortgage their country's future to pay it.

A core group of lawmakers has shown a greater faith in their country than that.
They must keep fighting, knowing that on the central principles -- restoring the
rule of law, enhancing security, easing the pressure on the border and giving
immigrants hope -- Americans are with them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kennedy Plea Was Last Gasp for Immigration Bill

BYLINE: This article was reported by Carl Hulse, Robert Pear and Jeff Zeleny and
written by Mr. Hulse.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1813 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


It was the moment of truth for legislation that would make the most profound
changes in immigration policy in more than 20 years.

Desperate to salvage a measure in which he and others had invested months,
Senator Edward M. Kennedy headed to the secluded Capitol suite of Senator Harry
Reid, the majority leader, to make one last personal plea.

Mr. Kennedy, an immigration advocate since his first days in the Senate nearly
45 years ago, hoped to persuade Mr. Reid to delay a procedural vote that could
kill the measure. As the two met shortly after 7 p.m. on Thursday in the
well-appointed office that overlooks the Mall, Mr. Reid told Mr. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, that Republicans would just endlessly stall the bill
and that it was time to move on. Mr. Reid had already granted enough extensions.

Just minutes before that meeting, Senate Republicans in the middle of the
immigration fight had ended an hours-long huddle at which they argued over what
demands they would make in exchange for agreeing to cap the debate time. But
they could not see eye to eye among themselves and ultimately filed empty-handed
out of the office of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.

Within two hours, the centerpiece of President Bush's remaining domestic agenda
and what many people saw as the best chance to get a handle on the worsening
immigration problem, was yanked from the floor. Two weeks of debate had failed
to stem attacks from critics on the right and left; 38 Republicans, 11 Democrats
and 1 independent rejected Mr. Reid's call to limit debate and head toward a
resolution.

This account is based on interviews with senators, administration officials and
others who spent much of the week in the Capitol as the Senate debated the bill.

''People on opposite sides of the political spectrum, in effect, banded together
to defeat the middle,'' said James G. Gimpel, a professor at the University of
Maryland who has written a book on the politics of immigration.
''Restrictionists on the right were always against the bill because they opposed
any legalization for illegal immigrants.

''Business groups and their allies, including advocates for immigrant rights,
lost much of their ardor for the bill because of changes made in the legislative
process.''

That vote might have been the telling blow for the measure. Lawmakers, officials
and activists engaged in creating and -- at least for the moment -- unraveling
the bill say it was undone for complex and interrelated reasons.

The leaderships of both parties kept their distance from the start. Mr. Reid,
Democrat of Nevada, was ambivalent about the policy and political merits of the
approach. Mr. McConnell, his counterpart, found himself caught among diehard
Republican opponents, lawmakers open to persuasion and a president eager for a
victory.

President Bush found himself at odds with many in his own party. And there was
little appetite in the House for the bills among Democrats or Republicans, hence
adding little pressure on the Senate to produce.

The creation of the bill, too, was highly unorthodox. Even participants in the
private negotiations that led to the so-called grand bargain say their very
approach created problems, producing contentious legislation embraced by the
participants but met with skepticism by other lawmakers, the public and groups
like organized labor and conservative research organizations.   ''The chance to
create meaningful immigration reform legislation was lost the moment the bill
emerged from its closed-door meeting with an immediate path to amnesty for
anywhere from 12 million to 20 million illegal immigrants,'' Senator James M.
Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, said in hailing the defeat of the bill.

''This agreement was reached between a handful of senators,'' said Senator Jeff
Bingaman of New Mexico, one of the Democrats who balked and voted against
limiting debate. ''That should not be considered a substitute for deliberation
by the full Senate.''

As lawmakers began to contend with the collapse of the bill, the effort to
distribute blame picked up where the debate left off.

The office of Mr. Reid, who had emphatically sought to hold Republicans
accountable for sabotaging a presidential priority, distributed a document
titled ''Republicans Brought Down the Immigration Bill.''

It listed news reports and Republican statements that put the onus on the
president's party. ''Last night, Republicans torpedoed comprehensive immigration
reform,'' the statement said.

Republicans fired back, saying Mr. Reid never embraced the bill and had, rather
skillfully in some people's opinion, set up Republicans to take the fall.

Republican officials insisted that they could have reached an accord within days
on a limited number of about 12 amendments if Mr. Reid had given them more time.

They said the argument that the Senate had more pressing business was refuted by
the fact that the chamber was not in session on Friday and was scheduled to vote
on Monday on a nonbinding resolution of no confidence in Attorney General
Alberto R. Gonzales.

''Harry Reid was not willing to let this thing run its course,'' said Senator
John Cornyn, Republican of Texas.

Members of the bipartisan coalition that wrote the measure promised that they
would continue to press their case and would urge Mr. Reid to return to the
debate at some point, perhaps as quickly as next week.

''When it is recognized by the American people that the Senate has not acted, I
believe there's going to be a wave of support for what we've been trying to
do,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, another author of
the plan.

President Bush, who will meet Republican senators at the Capitol for their
weekly Tuesday luncheon in an appearance scheduled before the bill stalled, used
his radio address to ''urge Senator Reid to act quickly to bring this bill back
to the Senate floor for a vote, and I urge Senators from both parties to support
it.''

He called Senate Republican leaders on Friday from Air Force One while traveling
in Europe to discuss the bill.

Senior Senate officials and lawmakers said they believed that the bill had less
than a 50-50 chance of being resurrected and that there was already talk about
considering separately some of the more popular provisions like allowing
agricultural workers and education aid for certain immigrant children. ''The
White House has so far failed to rally Senate Republicans behind tough, fair and
practical immigration reform,'' Mr. Reid said in a statement Friday. ''I will
bring the immigration bill back to the Senate floor as soon as enough
Republicans are ready to join us in moving forward on a bill to fix our broken
immigration system.''

Throughout the course of the proceedings, the majority leader was lukewarm. As
the floor debate opened two weeks ago, Mr. Reid delivered a tepid endorsement,
though few senators were present as he cataloged his concerns.

''The bill impacts families in a number of ways that I believe are unwise,'' Mr.
Reid said. Requiring guest workers to go back and forth to their home countries
every few years was ''impractical both for the workers and for the American
employers who need a stable, reliable work force,'' he said. He also feared that
the bill would create ''a permanent underclass of people who are here to work in
low-wage, low-skill jobs but do not have a chance to put down roots.''

Yet, Mr. Reid let the measure proceed. He urged the bipartisan coalition
tosmooth over disagreements quickly. He did not want the bill to linger beyond
week's end.

In the hours leading up to the collapse, Mr. Reid looked weary, with dark
circles surrounding his eyes. As he walked back to the Senate floor at 4:30, his
voice carried barely a trace of optimism. ''We've done more than our share,'' he
said, pausing for a moment. ''We've sent all the signals we can to get the
president to help. It's his bill.''

It was that mindset that helped contribute to the failure, aides who have been
enmeshed in the bill for months said in interviews.

Some proponents began to worry on Tuesday, when Mr. Reid sought to end the
debate and move to a final vote. That action took Mr. Kennedy and others by
surprise, Senate aides said. On Wednesday, Mr. Kennedy confronted Mr. Reid.

For the bill to succeed, Mr. Kennedy argued, making major changes to immigration
laws could not be expedited. Already, opponents of the measure had done a better
job of defining the bill, and proponents said more time was needed to explain
it, particularly the parts on border security.

Mr. McConnell had his hands full, as well. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 3
Republican, was an architect of the compromise. Others, like Mr. Cornyn, were
critical but professed willingness to consider the measure if it were revised.
Some, like Senators Jeff Sessions of Alabama and Jim DeMint of South Carolina,
saw little hope of repairing the plan. Mr. DeMint even objected to Republican
amendments on Thursday on the floor.

As those lawmakers and a handful of others clustered in Mr. McConnell's rooms,
they were unable to resolve the demands of the chief opponents for votes on
their amendments.

As the meeting stretched on, party aides shot updates to Democratic members of
the immigration coalition via BlackBerry devices. Officials said Mr. Reid also
called Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, to encourage him to
come up with a finite list of amendments.

''We kept asking them to give us a set number of amendments and a deadline to
finish and they would never do it,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat
of New York.

Although they rarely publicly voiced their opposition, the muscle of organized
labor worked vigorously behind the scenes to defeat the measure. A key concern
was the guest worker program.

Although dozens of amendments from senators were never called, Senator Byron L.
Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, had three chances to offer amendments to
eliminate or set an end date on guest workers, because the leadership wanted to
balance the scales after the Republicans had won major changes.

The proposal to end the guest worker program after five years passed just after
midnight on Thursday morning.

Criticism from high-tech figures stunned authors of the bill who had set out to
help companies recruit top scientists, engineers and mathematicians. E. John
Krumholtz, director of federal affairs at Microsoft, said senators ''really
wanted to help us'' find skilled foreign professionals.

Mr. Krumholtz said the agreement was ''worse than the status quo, and the status
quo is a disaster.''

The outcome left many lawmakers frustrated. Mr. Kyl noted that senators mingled
on the floor for more than an hour after the decision, ''because there seemed to
be a sense that it couldn't end with that vote.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The minority leader, Mitch McConnell, tried to encourage
Republicans to see eye to eye. The majority leader, Harry Reid, right, wanted to
move on the measure. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images)
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, center, joined three Republican supporters of an
immigration compromise yesterday -- from left, Senators Lindsey Graham, Jon Kyl
and Arlen Specter -- to discuss the failure of the bill. (Photo by Doug
Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gitmos Across America

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 516 words


Toughness is the watchword in immigration policy these days. When you combine
the new toughness with same-old bureaucratic indolence and ineptitude, you get a
situation like that described by Nina Bernstein in The Times yesterday. She
wrote about how the boom in immigration detention -- the nation's
fastest-growing form of incarceration -- ensnares people for dubious reasons,
denies them access to medicine and lawyers and sometimes holds them until they
die.

Sandra M. Kenley, a legal permanent resident who had high blood pressure and a
bleeding uterus, died in a rural Virginia jail after not receiving her
medication. Returning home from a trip to Barbados she was locked up because of
two old misdemeanor drug convictions. Abdoulai Sall, an auto mechanic, had no
criminal record, but was still seized during an immigration interview. He had a
severe kidney ailment and he, too, complained about not getting his medicine. He
got sicker and died in another Virginia jail last December.

Sixty-two immigrants have died since 2004 while being held in a secretive
detention system, a patchwork of federal centers, private prisons and local
jails. Advocacy groups and lawyers say that the system not only denies detainees
the most basic rights but also lacks the oversight and regulations that apply to
federal prisons. Instead of fixing this broken system, the Senate bill that is
lumbering toward final passage -- after surviving a crucial procedural vote
yesterday -- is overloaded with provisions that will make it even harsher and
more unfair.

One of the worst amendments comes from Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of
South Carolina. It would impose mandatory detention of all people who overstay
their visas. It's a huge overreach that threatens to swamp the detention system,
filling already-strapped prisons at great expense and inevitably leading to more
abuses and deaths. And because it takes away the power of officials to decide
who poses a genuine threat and who doesn't, it would undermine efforts to catch
and deport the truly dangerous.

The cells would be full of people who shouldn't be there: asylum seekers, the
elderly, pregnant women, the sick and those ensnared in paperwork mistakes.
Children, like the kindergartners in inmate scrubs walking the halls of a
federal detention center outside Austin, Tex. Day laborers, like those in
suburban Brewster, N.Y., whose arrests were hailed by a mayor who spoke proudly
of his community's ''zero tolerance'' for people unlawfully playing soccer in a
schoolyard.

The country already detains some 230,000 immigrants a year, at an annual cost of
$1.2 billion. Under the current immigration bill, it would build tens of
thousands more beds to hold detainees. And it would need many more -- Guantanamo
Bays across America -- if Mr. Graham's zero-tolerance vision is fully realized.

Noncitizens are subject to our laws and to being deported if they do bad things.
But this doesn't mean the country must detain or deport everybody, or relinquish
basic decency or even basic sense to achieve some imagined ideal of toughness.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canada's Policy On Immigrants Brings Backlog

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MASON and JULIA PRESTON.

Christopher Mason reported from Toronto, and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 26


With an advanced degree in business management from a university in India and
impeccable English, Salman Kureishy is precisely the type of foreigner that
Canada's merit-based immigration system was designed to attract.

Yet eight years went by from the time Mr. Kureishy passed his first Canadian
immigration test until he moved from India to Canada. Then he had to endure nine
months of bureaucratic delays before landing a job in his field in March.

Mr. Kureishy's experience -- and that of Canada's immigration system -- offers a
cautionary tale for the United States. Mr. Kureishy came to this country under a
system Canada pioneered in the 1960s that favors highly skilled foreigners, by
assigning points for education and work experience and accepting those who earn
high scores.

A similar point system for the United States is proposed in the immigration bill
that bounced back to life on Tuesday, when the Senate reversed a previous stand
and brought the bill back to the floor.  The vote did not guarantee passage of
the bill, which calls for the biggest changes in immigration law in more than 20
years.

The point system has helped Canada compete with the United States and other
Western powers for highly educated workers, the most coveted immigrants in
high-tech and other cutting-edge industries. But in recent years, immigration
lawyers and labor market analysts say, the Canadian system has become an
immovable beast, with a backlog of more than 800,000 applications and waits of
four years or more.

The system's bias toward the educated has left some industries crying out for
skilled blue-collar workers, especially in western Canada where Alberta's busy
oil fields have generated an economic boom. Studies by the Alberta government
show the province could be short by as many as 100,000 workers over the next
decade.

In response, some Canadian employers are sidestepping the point system and
relying instead on a program initiated in 1998 that allows provincial
governments to hand-pick some immigrant workers, and on temporary foreign-worker
permits.

''The points system is so inflexible,'' said Herman Van Reekum, an immigration
consultant in Calgary who helps Alberta employers find workers. ''We need
low-skill workers and trades workers here, and those people have no hope under
the points system.''

Canada accepts about 250,000 immigrants each year, more than doubling the
per-capita rate of immigration in the United States, census figures from both
countries show. Nearly two-thirds of Canada's population growth comes from
immigrants, according to the 2006 census, compared with the United States, where
about 43 percent of the population growth comes from immigration. Approximately
half of Canada's immigrants come through the point system.

Under Canada's system, 67 points on a 100-point test is a passing score. In
addition to education and work experience, aspiring immigrants earn high points
for their command of languages and for being between 21 and 49 years old. In the
United States, the Senate bill would grant higher points for advanced education,
English proficiency and skills in technology and other fields that are in
demand. Lower points would be given for the family ties that have been the basic
stepping stones of the American immigration system for four decades.

Part of the backlog in Canada can be traced to a provision in the Canadian
system that allows highly skilled foreigners to apply to immigrate even if they
do not have a job offer. Similarly, the Senate bill would not require merit
system applicants to have job offers in the United States, although it would
grant additional points to those who do.

Without an employment requirement, Canada has been deluged with applications. In
testimony in May before an immigration subcommittee of the United States House
of Representatives, Howard Greenberg, an immigration lawyer in Toronto, compared
the Canadian system to a bathtub with an open faucet and a clogged drain. ''It
is not surprising that Canada's bathtub is overflowing,'' Mr. Greenberg said.

Since applications are not screened first by employers, the government bears the
burden and cost of assessing them. The system is often slow to evaluate the
foreign education credentials and work experience of new immigrants and to
direct them toward employers who need their skills, said Jeffrey Reitz,
professor of immigration studies at the University of Toronto.

The problem has been acute in regulated professions like medicine, where a
professional organization, the Medical Council of Canada, reviews foreign
credentials of new immigrants. The group has had difficulty assessing how a
degree earned in China or India stacks up against a similar degree from a
university in Canada or the United States. Frustrated by delays, some doctors
and other highly trained immigrants take jobs outside their fields just to make
ends meet.

The sheer size of the Canadian point system, the complexity of its rules and its
backlogs make it slow to adjust to shifts in the labor market, like the oil boom
in Alberta.

''I am a university professor, and I can barely figure out the points system,''
said Don J. DeVoretz, an economics professor at Simon Fraser University in
British Columbia who studies immigration systems. ''Lawyers have books that are
three feet thick explaining the system.''

The rush to develop the oil fields in northern Alberta has attracted oil
companies from around the world, unleashing a surge of construction. Contractors
say that often the only thing holding them back is a shortage of qualified
workers.

Scott Burns, president of Burnco Rock Products in Calgary, a construction
materials company with about 1,000 employees, said he had been able to meet his
labor needs only by using temporary work permits. Mr. Burns hired 39 Filipinos
for jobs in his concrete plants and plans to hire more. He said that many of the
temporary workers had critically needed skills, but that they had no hope of
immigrating permanently under the federal point system.

''The system is very much broken,'' Mr. Burns said.

Mr. Kureishy, the immigrant from India, said he was drawn to Canada late in his
career by its open society and what appeared to be strong interest in his
professional abilities. But even though he waited eight years to immigrate, the
equivalent of a doctoral degree in human resources development that he earned
from Xavier Labor Relations Institute in India was not evaluated in Canada until
he arrived here. During his first six months, Canadian employers had no formal
comparison of his credentials to guide them.

Eventually, Mr. Kureishy, 55, found full-time work in his field, as a program
manager assisting foreign professionals at Ryerson University in Toronto. ''It
was a long process, but I look at myself as fairly resilient,'' Mr. Kureishy
said.

He criticized Canada as providing little support to immigrants after they
arrived.

''If you advertised for professors and one comes over and is driving a taxi,''
he said, ''that's a problem.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Salman Kureishy said Canada provided little support to
immigrants. (Photograph by Jim Ross for The New York Times)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Bill Dies in Senate; Defeat for Bush

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and CARL HULSE.

Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28


President Bush's effort to overhaul the nation's immigration policy, a
cornerstone of his domestic agenda, collapsed Thursday in the Senate, with
little prospect that it can be revived before Mr. Bush leaves office in 19
months.

The bill called for the biggest changes to immigration law in more than 20
years, offering legal status to millions of illegal immigrants while trying to
secure borders. But the Senate, forming blocs that defied party affiliation,
could never unite on the main provisions.

Rejecting the president's last-minute pleas, it voted, 53 to 46, to turn back a
motion to end debate and move toward final passage. Supporters fell 14 votes
short of the 60 needed to close the debate.

Mr. Bush placed telephone calls to lawmakers throughout the morning. But members
of his party abandoned him in droves, with just 12 of the 49 Senate Republicans
sticking by him on the important procedural vote that determined the fate of the
bill.

Nearly one-third of Senate Democrats voted, in effect, to block action on the
bill.

The vote followed an outpouring of criticism from conservatives and others who
called it a form of amnesty for lawbreakers.

The outcome was a bitter disappointment for Mr. Bush and other supporters of a
comprehensive approach, including Hispanic and church groups and employers who
had been seeking greater access to foreign workers.

Supporters and opponents said the measure was dead for the remainder of the Bush
administration, though conceivably individual pieces might be revived.

The vote reflected the degree to which Congress and the nation are polarized
over immigration. The emotional end to what had been an emotional debate was
evident, with a few senior staff members who had invested months in writing the
bill near tears.

''The bill now dies,'' said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California,
who helped write the measure.

The outcome also underscored the challenge that Mr. Bush faces in exerting
authority and enacting an agenda as members of his party increasingly break with
him and Democrats no longer fear him. Having already given up on other ambitious
second-term plans like overhauling Social Security, the administration has
little prospect of winning any big new legislative achievements in its final
months.

The collapse also highlighted the difficulties that the new Democratic
leadership in Congress has had in showing that it can address the big problems
facing the nation. In this case, Democratic leaders asserted that the failure of
the immigration bill reflected on Mr. Bush, and not on their party.

Senator David Vitter, the Louisiana Republican who helped lead opposition to the
bill, said: ''The proponents did not get even a simple majority. The message is
crystal clear. The American people want us to start with enforcement at the
border and at the workplace and don't want promises. They want action. They want
results. They want proof, because they've heard all the promises before.''

In voting to end the debate, the 12 Republicans were joined by 33 Democrats and
one independent. Voting against the motion to end the debate were 15 Democrats,
one independent and 37 Republicans, including the minority leader, Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky.

''I had hoped for a bipartisan accomplishment,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''What we
got was a bipartisan defeat.''

Among the Democrats voting no were several up for re-election next year,
including Senators Max Baucus of Montana, Tom Harkin of Iowa and John D.
Rockefeller IV of West Virginia.

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said he spoke to Mr.
Bush after the vote and thanked him for his work in support of the bill.

But, Mr. Reid said, ''There just was not enough Republican support for the
president's approach.''

Mr. Bush, in Rhode Island for a visit to the Naval War College, said: ''Legal
immigration is one of the top concerns of the American people, and Congress's
failure to act on it is a disappointment. A lot of us worked hard to see if we
couldn't find common ground. It didn't work.''

In the end, many groups that had supported segments of the bill urged the Senate
to pass it in the hope that it could be ''improved'' in the House.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of the
House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said: ''The Senate vote effectively
kills comprehensive immigration reform for this Congress. It's a vote for the
status quo, which most Americans are not satisfied with.''

Supporters of the bill agreed with opponents on one point, that many Americans
believe that the government lacks the ability to carry out the huge
responsibilities it would have had. ''People look out and they see the failures
of government, whether it's Hurricane Katrina or the inability to get enough
passports out for people, and they say, 'How is the government going to
accomplish all of this?' '' Mrs. Feinstein said.

Opponents of the bill were elated.

Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, said: ''The American people
won today. They care enough for their country to get mad and to fight for it.
Americans made phone calls and sent letters and convinced the Senate to stop
this bill.''

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, a leading opponent of the bill,
said talk radio was ''a big factor'' in derailing it.

Supporters of the bill wanted to pass it quickly, ''before Rush Limbaugh could
tell the American people what was in it,'' Mr. Sessions said.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, chief Democratic architect of the
bill, said many senators ''voted their fears, not their hopes.''

Referring to opponents, Mr. Kennedy said: ''We know what they don't like. What
are they for? What are they going to do with the 12 million who are undocumented
here? Send them back to countries around the world? Develop a type of Gestapo
here to seek out these people that are in the shadows? What's their
alternative?''

Without a new immigration law, Mr. Kennedy said, ''The situation is going to get
worse and worse and worse.''

As the vote was conducted, several House members of Hispanic descent gathered on
the Senate floor, and tourists in the gallery listened to the final arguments
with rapt attention.

A bipartisan group of 12 senators working closely with the administration wrote
the bill in closed sessions over three months. After two weeks of debate, it
appeared to die on June 7, when the Senate voted, 50 to 45, against ending
debate.

Mr. Reid pulled the bill off the floor, but later agreed to return it under a
procedure that bundled 27 proposed amendments into one package.

Opponents and some supporters said Senate leaders had made a mistake in taking
the bill directly to the floor without hearings or review by the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

Not just conservatives voiced reservations. Senator Susan Collins, a moderate
Republican from Maine who is running for re-election, said: ''I just don't think
the bill struck the right balance. People were troubled by the proposed solution
for the 12 million people here illegally. We did not get that part right.''

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a co-author of the bill,
said a majority of Americans supported it when told of other provisions like
increased money for border security, a new employee verification system, a guest
worker program and a new merit-based system to select immigrants.

But Senator Harkin said, ''The bill, as a whole, has evolved into an unworkable
mess, and I cannot support it.''

Guest workers could drive down wages for Americans ''on the lower rungs of the
economic ladder,''  Mr. Harkin said, and under the employee verification system,
some citizens could have been denied jobs ''because of errors in a government
database.''

Among important early backers who fell away was Senator Pete V. Domenici,
Republican of New Mexico, who said he received two calls from Mr. Bush in recent
days. Mr. Domenici said the secrecy surrounding the bill's drafting had left
people confused and ''caused it to flop.''

Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska and another recipient of a call from
Mr. Bush, concluded that the bill was beyond repair after having backed efforts
to advance it.

''This bill is not only hopelessly flawed, it is unsalvageable,'' Mr. Nelson
said. ''We have to start over.''

Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic rights
group, predicted that ''the growing and increasingly energized Latino
electorate'' would hold lawmakers accountable for failing to pass a
comprehensive bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laborers from the Washington region in the Senate Reception Room
yesterday awaiting the vote on overhauling immigration laws.  (Photograph by
Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Grand Collapse

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 725 words


The defeat of immigration reform in the Senate this week was appalling, not so
much because an ambitious bill died, but because of how stubbornly, to the
bitter end, the process remained disconnected from reality. The bill crumpled on
the Senate floor on Thursday in a procedural vote, with two-thirds of
Republicans swarming to kill it. They shrouded their act with the same
rhetorical distortions and ritual incantations -- death to amnesty! -- that have
polluted the debate all along.

Two Republicans, Jeff Sessions and Jim DeMint, hailed the demise of an attempt
at immigration reform as a victory for the American people. Victory, maybe, if
you favor semiporous borders, rotting crops and millions of people growing old
overseas as they wait to enter legally. If you want federal officials to keep
thimble-dipping the immigrant ocean with raids and detentions that shatter
families and cripple businesses, and state and local governments to go on
erecting a ramshackle grid of disjointed immigration policies, then this debacle
was for you.

The bill's defeat also thwarted the possibility of progress on border security,
stricter employment laws and an orderly future flow of workers. To top it off,
by foreclosing legitimacy for millions of illegal immigrants, Republicans
brusquely told Hispanic-Americans what they can do with their votes and hopes.

There was pretending on the other side, too. Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
defending the teetering bill, likened it to the great acts of civil rights days.
With respect to Mr. Kennedy and his allies, the bill was not even close. Its
good provisions were anchored to bedrock delusions: that fixing immigration is
simply a job of building fences and punishing illegal workers. The fishy ''grand
bargain'' began to rot as soon as it was unwrapped, as advocates for immigrants
kept accepting one bad amendment after another in the hope that this bill -- or
any bill, please -- was better than nothing, and that bad things would somehow
be removed later.

Their desperation showed, and when talk radio got a frenzy going -- Capitol
phones crashed as the crucial vote loomed -- nothing good could withstand the
hot wind blowing across the Hill.

What to do now? Pick up pieces. Congress will likely get back to what its dim
imagination can handle, building fences. It should expand legal immigration,
too, with more visas to clear the backlogs. The pro-immigrant side can try to
improve things incrementally, with visas for farm workers and tuition breaks for
immigrant children, although without the cover of a comprehensive bill, such
modest measures might easily be picked off by right-wing sniping. The House
could offer a bill, but the Senate's grim results would dampen anyone's
optimism.

The debate will surely dominate the presidential campaign, where the odds of
reasoned discussion and principled leadership are mighty slim. (Example: Senator
Sam Brownback, a Republican candidate, was for keeping the bill alive before he
was against it, switching his ''yes'' vote to ''no'' in his eagerness to follow
the elephant herd.)

Reasonable voices on the left and right, like Robert Menendez, Lindsey Graham,
Mr. Kennedy and John McCain, must keep pressing for comprehensive reform. The
candidates should confront the issue with courage and candor. Everyone could
look to Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, who has survived and thrived as an
immigration moderate in a state that comprises the multitudes and hot extremes
of the debate -- Anglos and Latinos, day laborers and Minutemen, a surging
population and a wide desert border with Mexico. She is a big fan of declarative
sentences and of building up from consensus. Are we all in favor of illegal
immigration? No. O.K., let's figure out what to do about that.

It's that crucial turn -- from analysis to action -- that Congress failed to
make, as its bloated bill toppled into a ditch like a fat S.U.V. on a curve. At
some point it will have to revisit the issue. Its solutions will have to
correspond with the complex realities of global economic change, of a workforce
that needs immigrants, of immigrants who need and deserve a clear, sure path to
citizenship and of a nation that needs to be true to its laws and to its decent,
welcoming self.

That's the reality, and reality could not care less what Congress does or
doesn't do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unrest and Arrests at Immigration Rally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 231 words


Five people were arrested and two people were slightly injured yesterday at a
rally in Morristown, N.J., that attracted hundreds of demonstrators both for and
against stricter immigration law enforcement, the police said yesterday.

Morristown police officers,  in riot gear and using a fence to separate the
rival demonstrators, broke up several fights at the rally,  held in front of the
Morristown town hall.

In the most serious clash, a man threw two small metal cylinders at a pickup
truck. When the driver of the truck and his female companion confronted the man,
they were set upon by about 10 other men, said Lt. David Ackerman of the
Morristown police.

Three men were arrested and charged with assault, disorderly conduct and other
charges. The rest fled, Lieutenant Ackerman said.

The woman was treated at Morristown Memorial Hospital, he said. The injured man
had been one of the speakers at the rally, organized by the ProAmerica Society,
which urges stricter enforcement of immigration laws.

Also arrested were a man and a woman who had jumped on the stage. They were
charged with disorderly conduct and trespassing.

Morristown has attracted controversy because the mayor, Donald Cresitello, has
applied for a federal program that would deputize police officers to enforce
immigration laws.

Mayor Cresitello spoke at the rally, protected by a phalanx of police officers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharp Rise Seen In Applications For Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Dennis Blank contributed reporting from Orlando, Fla.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words


The number of legal immigrants seeking to become United States citizens is
surging, officials say, prompted by imminent increases in fees to process
naturalization applications, citizenship drives across the country and new
feelings of insecurity among immigrants.

The citizenship campaigns have tapped into the uneasiness that legal immigrants,
especially Hispanics, say is a result of months of debate over an immigration
bill that failed last week in the Senate. Although illegal immigrants were the
center of attention in the debate, it prompted many legal immigrants who have
put down roots here to seek the security of citizenship, as well as its voting
power, immigrants' advocates said.

The numbers of new naturalized citizens have steadily grown, to 702,589 last
year from 463,204 in 2003. A big jump occurred this year, with the number of
applications increasing every month, to 115,175 in May compared with 65,782 last
December.

More than 4,000 new Americans were sworn in yesterday in tradition-steeped --
and some not so traditional -- Fourth of July ceremonies. About 1,000 people
from 75 countries took their oaths together under the turrets of Cinderella's
Castle at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., as Gloria Estefan sang
''The Star-Spangled Banner.''

In Iraq, 325 foreign-born soldiers who are fighting in the United States
military took the oath of allegiance in two ceremonies.

For many legal immigrants, worry about their futures in the United States turned
into action after an announcement on Jan. 31 by Citizenship and Immigration
Services that it would increase application fees.

Under the new fees, which take effect on July 30, it will cost $675 to become a
naturalized citizen, up 69 percent from $400.

Immigrants have also been mobilized to press naturalization applications by a
television and radio campaign that Univision, the national Spanish-language
network, began in January in California.

The campaign, promoted by personalities like Eduardo Sotelo, a radio host in Los
Angeles known as El Piolin, or Tweety Bird, has directed immigrants to 350
workshop centers run by churches and other community organizations in 22 cities.
At the centers, immigrants receive English lessons and advice on meeting
requirements and filling out forms.

One radio listener was Angel Ivan Alvarez, 24, a legal immigrant from Mexico who
said he had never thought of becoming a citizen until last week when the Senate
bill failed.

The measure, a bipartisan compromise supported by President Bush, would have
created a path to legal status for illegal immigrants, among other actions.

After it failed, Mr. Alvarez, a real estate agent from Whittier, Calif., took
down information from El Piolin's show and registered in a citizenship workshop.

''I realized that I want to be able to vote and speak up for my people, because
they are not getting enough support,'' Mr. Alvarez said yesterday in a telephone
interview. ''I want everybody to be able to come out of the shadows.''

Federico Gutierrez, 53, a longtime legal resident of Chicago who was born in
Mexico, said large protests in March 2006 in support of an immigration overhaul
made him decide that it was time to engage in American politics.

When the debate turned angry, Mr. Gutierrez said, he wanted to be able to
influence lawmakers who he believed favored immigrants.

He prepared his application and brushed up on his English and American history
in classes offered by the New Americans Initiative, a citizenship campaign
financed by Illinois. He became a citizen in May.

''Now if I don't like the way things are going, I can let the government know my
opinion,'' Mr. Gutierrez said in a telephone interview.

Some legal immigrants, particularly Hispanics, have said they were unfairly
tarred in the debate over the Senate bill, which failed in part because of
vehement opposition from conservatives who said it offered blanket amnesty to
illegal immigrants.

''A lot of people who are here legally are made to feel like lepers,'' said
Rachel Duverge, 24, a Florida resident born in the Dominican Republic who was
among the new citizens sworn in yesterday at Walt Disney World.

Ms. Duverge said she became a citizen in part because she was eager to vote in
the presidential election next year. President Bush, she said, ''has not handled
immigration well.''

To become citizens, immigrants have to be legal permanent residents who have
lived continuously in the United States for five years. They cannot have a
criminal record and must pass tests to show proficiency in English and a basic
knowledge of American history and government.

Advocates for immigrants say the increase in fees has been a decisive incentive
for working-class immigrants to take action, especially when more than one
family member is eligible to be a citizen.

''Before they said, 'I can do it anytime,' '' said Catherine Salgado, a
spokeswoman for the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights in
Chicago. ''Now it's not anytime anymore.''

Ms. Salgado said the $675 fee was a week's wages for many immigrants who had
applied for naturalization through workshops organized by the coalition.

The immigration agency is also remaking its civics and English tests, and many
immigrants say they fear that the tests will be more challenging.

The Univision campaign had greater effects than its organizers expected,
especially in California, said Maryam Banikaram, chief marketing officer for the
company. Ms. Banikaram said the effort was part of its regular nonpartisan
public service efforts of the company.

''If you become a U.S. citizen, you have better opportunities,'' she said.
''We're just giving you the tools to make that a reality.''

The campaign took off after the immigration debate became major news for
Univision and Mr. Sotelo, or El Piolin, used his racy comic radio show as a
soapbox to support legal status for illegal immigrants.

Other immigrants are concerned about locking in economic gains that they have
made as legal residents.

''A prime motivator is security for the family and for employment,'' said Javier
Angulo, director of civic education for the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, which organized workshops in
connection with the Univision campaign. ''People don't feel that being permanent
residents is enough to secure their future in this country. They would just feel
more secure as citizens.''

In Chicago, Mr. Gutierrez said he started life in a corn-growing village in
central Mexico and had worked in factories most of the time since entering the
United States in 1979. He has two adult children who are United States citizens.

''I will always have Mexican blood,'' Mr. Gutierrez said, enjoying a day of rest
on his first Fourth of July as an American citizen. ''But my heart is here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2007



CORRECTION: A front-page picture caption on Thursday with an article about an
increase in the number of legal immigrants seeking to become United States
citizens referred incorrectly to the group of service members shown being sworn
in at a naturalization ceremony in Baghdad on Wednesday. They were all members
of the United States Army; no members of the Marine Corps were shown, nor were
any marines naturalized during the ceremony.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Main Street at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla.,
after a naturalization ceremony at Cinderella's Castle at the far end of the
street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A10) CHARTS: ''Surge in
Citizenship Applications'': Applications to become a naturalized citizen have
grown markedly in recent months. Mexicans make up the largest group of
applicants. (Source: Department of Homeland Security)  Bar chart show monthly
applications from 2005 to 2007.  Bar chart shows percentages of nationalities
applying fiscal 2006.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Humanity v. Hazleton

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 451 words


A federal judge has dealt what we can only hope is a decisive blow against a
dangerous trend of freelance immigration policies by local governments. Judge
James M. Munley of the central Pennsylvania district, struck down ordinances in
the town of Hazleton that sought to harshly punish undocumented immigrants for
trying to live and work there, and employers and landlords for providing them
with homes and jobs.

The ruling was a well-earned embarrassment for Mayor Louis J. Barletta and his
proclaimed goal of making Hazleton ''one of the toughest places in the United
States'' for illegal immigrants. In doing so, Judge Munley laid down basic
truths that every American should remember.

First, immigration is a federal responsibility. State and local governments have
no right to usurp or upend a vast, ''carefully drawn federal statutory scheme''
that governs who enters the country and the conditions under which immigrants
stay, study, work and naturalize. Congress may be botching the job, but it has
not delegated it.

Second, the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection applies to all persons,
not just citizens. The presumption that the 14th Amendment can be set aside
while immigrants are hunted down and punished is widespread but false. The judge
wrote: ''We cannot say clearly enough that persons who enter this country
without legal authorization are not stripped immediately of all their rights
because of this single illegal act.''

It is not yet clear when or whether Hazleton's vigilantism will finally be
stifled. Mr. Barletta says he will appeal. He and others across the country can
be expected to keep concocting ever-more-inventive strategies to deliver pain to
immigrants.

But that is a legal and moral dead end. As long as people like Mr. Barletta
persist in misusing the law to serve their prejudices, they will make the
immigration system an ever more incoherent muddle. They will thwart reasonable
efforts to grapple with the opportunities and problems borne in with the influx
of newcomers. And they will continue to dehumanize not only their victims, but
themselves.

Mayor Barletta says he is angry at the federal failure to control immigration.
Good for him; he should join the club. But he should realize that it was his
side -- his restrictionist soul mates in the United States Senate -- that last
month took the most ambitious attempt in a generation to restore lawfulness and
order to immigration, loaded it with unworkable cruelties, then pushed it into a
ditch. They celebrated their victory, but their shortsighted insistence on
border enforcement above all else will leave places like Hazleton to grapple
with a failed immigration policy for years to come.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Misery Strategy

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 603 words


The path the country has set on since the defeat of immigration reform in the
Senate in June enshrines enforcement and punishment above all else. It is
narrow, shortsighted, disruptive and self-defeating. On top of that, it won't
work.

What it will do is unleash a flood of misery upon millions of illegal
immigrants. For the ideologues who have pushed the nation into this position,
that is more than enough reason to plunge ahead.

The latest phase of the crackdown, expected to be announced this week, would
require employers to resolve discrepancies between their employee records and
those of the Social Security Administration. If the data don't match, presumably
because a worker is an illegal immigrant using a false number, the worker must
be fired. There are millions of people in thousands of workplaces who could be
caught in that net, and the government is promising to start dragging it
zealously, with stepped-up raids around the country. ''We are tough, and we are
going to be even tougher,'' said a spokesman for the Department of Homeland
Security.

Toughness is now the mantra at every level of government. The Senate had
struggled for years to erect the immense framework of bipartisan, comprehensive
immigration reform, coupling stricter enforcement with a citizenship path and an
orderly future flow of workers. But restrictionists pushed the unwieldy
structure over, and now even its architects have fled the scene.

Senator John McCain, trying to keep his presidential hopes aloft by jettisoning
his courage and good sense, has leapt to the enforcement barricades, joining
Senators Jon Kyl and Lindsey Graham in sponsoring a bill that is essentially a
Minuteman's to-do list of fence-building and punishments. He has shamefully
repudiated his commitment to giving illegal immigrants a way to get right with
the country. Senator Arlen Specter, meanwhile, wrote an op-ed article in The
Washington Post titled ''A Less Ambitious Approach to Immigration,'' in which he
endorsed the creation of a permanent noncitizen immigrant underclass, saying it
is the best we can hope for until ''a more hospitable America'' emerges.

The federal government's abandonment of comprehensive reform has been matched by
unprecedented crackdowns at the state and local level. Lawmakers this year have
introduced more than 1,400 immigration-related bills in all 50 states, according
to the National Conference of State Legislatures, and enacted 170 of them. Many
of the bills severely restrict where immigrants can live and work, and leave
them vulnerable to exploitation and fearful of the police. It's the federal
approach of raids and aggression, metastasized across the continent.

The country will have a long time to watch this approach as it fails. The
politicians who killed the Senate bill for offering ''amnesty'' have never
offered a workable alternative. Their one big idea is that harsh, unrelenting
enforcement at the border, in the workplace and in homes and streets would dry
up opportunities for illegal immigrants and eventually cause the human tide to
flow backward. That would be true only if life for illegal immigrants in America
could be made significantly more miserable than life in, say, rural Guatemala or
the slums of Mexico City. That will take a lot of time and a lot of misery to
pull that off in a country that has tolerated and profited from illegal labor
for generations.

The American people cherish lawfulness but resist cruelty, and have supported
reform that includes a reasonable path to earned citizenship. Their leaders have
given them immigration reform as pest control.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agency Is Swamped By Requests For Visas

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 633 words


Immigration authorities have received about 300,000 applications for
high-skilled-employment visas since July 1, federal officials said yesterday, a
deluge unleashed after the federal government first said it would not accept any
applications for those visas during July and then reversed course.

Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency, was still receiving
applications for employment visas yesterday, the last day of a special period it
announced on July 17 for immigrants with professional skills to file petitions
for permanent residence visas, known as green cards. As a result, the total
tally of applications received in the last six weeks was not available.

The agency admitted it was swamped by the applications it had already received,
which was more than double the annual limit of 140,000 employment visas.

According to official figures, in the three months before July the agency
received an average of 54,700 applications a month for all green cards,
including employment visas and those based on family ties. Applications were
already surging then as foreigners sought to file papers before higher
processing fees took effect on July 30.

''That is a fantastically high number,'' said Carl Shusterman, an immigration
lawyer in Los Angeles. Mr. Shusterman said he thought 300,000 was the highest
number of employment applications the immigration agency had received in the 31
years he had practiced immigration law.

Presenting their applications did not guarantee that immigrants would receive
their green cards quickly, since the annual limit remains the same. All the
applications did was ensure the immigrants places on the list for green cards.

The visa roller coaster ride began on June 12, when the State Department
announced that visas would be available in July for a variety of professional
immigrants. The State Department offers visas, and Citizen and Immigration
Services processes applications for them.

Immigrants eligible for employment visas include doctors, nurses and people with
advanced degrees and technology skills. Before they can apply, they must obtain
certification from the federal government that no American workers are available
for their jobs.

After thousands of foreigners hurried to prepare applications, the State
Department said abruptly on July 2 that no visas would be available after all
because the immigration agency had accelerated its processing and claimed them.
After a nationwide outcry from lawyers, at least one lawsuit and a reprimand
from Representative Zoe Lofgren, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of
an immigration subcommittee, the federal agencies relented on July 17, saying
applications would be received for four weeks.

Inundated, Citizenship and Immigration Services has not even been able to notify
applicants that their petitions have been received,  said Bill Wright, a
spokesman for the agency.

The about-face was a relief for thousands of high-skilled immigrants seeking
green cards after working in the United States on temporary visas. Once their
applications have been officially received, they will have more job mobility and
their spouses can apply for work authorization.

''It reinforced my belief in the American way of government,'' said Satish
Kumar, 31, a visa applicant who is a software programmer from India working for
a California technology company.

But because of annual limits, the new green card applications will vastly
increase backlogs. Most new applicants will still face waits as long as five
years before they receive their green cards.

''The root of the problem is the arcane and ridiculous limit on visas for
skilled immigrants whom the United States wants,'' said Murtuza Bahrainwala, 38,
an Indian doctor in Decatur, Ill., who applied last month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a rush of applications for high-skilled
employment visas paraphrased imprecisely the comments of Bill Wright, a
spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services. He said that because of the
high volume of applications, the agency could not acknowledge them immediately
but was working to send out receipts and was updating weekly a public list of
applications received. He did not say that the agency had not been able to
notify applicants that their petitions had been received.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a New Jersey Town, an Immigration Fight Pits Brother Against Brother

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words


Bryan Lonegan, a prominent immigrant rights advocate, gets the question all the
time. Is he related to Steven M. Lonegan, the Republican mayor of Bogota, N.J.,
who demanded last year that McDonald's remove a billboard written in Spanish and
who then pushed to make English the town's official language?

The answer prompts chuckling comments like, ''You must have great Thanksgiving
dinners!'' They are indeed brothers, living three blocks apart in Bogota
(pronounced Bo-GO-da), where 21 percent of the 7,900 residents are Hispanic.

Steven Lonegan, who is 51 and is known as Steve, is the leader of the New
JerseyRepublican Party's most conservative wing. His campaign against the
McDonald's billboard thrust him into the national spotlight of talk television
and Internet debate about immigration. Now, he is pushing to use the local
police to ferret out illegal immigrants.

Bryan Lonegan, 48, an outspoken lawyer who until recently worked for the Legal
Aid Society of New York's Immigration Law Unit, is known for exposing abuses in
detention and deportation. He is now developing an immigrant workers' legal
clinic at Seton Hall University School of Law.

But no, they do not trade views over family dinners. After years of mutual
support that defied their political differences, the Lonegan brothers abruptly
stopped speaking to each other in February 2005. And no one is more upset about
the rift than their 74-year-old mother, Marie.

''It's breaking my heart,'' said Mrs. Lonegan, a widow who lives in neighboring
Ridgefield Park, in the  house on Main Street where she raised Steve and Bryan
with the help of her parents, who were Italian immigrants.

''My family being split by politics -- I resent that,'' she added, sitting at
the kitchen table where her two sons, their wives and their children used to
gather. ''That's not what this country's all about. That's not what family's all
about. I didn't raise them to be enemies; I raised them to be brothers.''

Maybe only brothers could take politics so personally. Maybe family values go
only so far. Yet for years, the Lonegan brothers managed to bridge the political
gap that opened when they were teenagers, when Steve put a poster of Gerald Ford
in his bedroom and Bryan countered with one for Jimmy Carter.

In 1995, Bryan, a Democrat who had become disenchanted with the Clinton
administration, even joined the Republican Party at the request of his older
brother, who is legally blind, in order to serve as manager of his mayoral
campaign.

A decade later, the brothers became estranged when Bryan quietly quit the
Republican Party -- because of opposition to the Bush administration -- in the
middle of Steve's losing primary campaign for New Jersey governor.

Since the rift, their political differences have widened, as immigration became
a wedge issue in communities across the country.

''For the last two years, my brother's been on an anti-immigrant kick,'' said
Bryan, reacting to Steve's recent suggestion that the Bogota police be deputized
as federal immigration agents. ''He's playing a very dangerous game, and he's
doing it for political points, not because it makes sense in the community, but
because this is a way for conservative politicians to hold on to what they're
losing.''

Steve, a big, brusque, ruddy-faced man who was an all-state lineman at William
Paterson University, seemed momentarily nonplussed when his brother's views were
relayed. But he quickly recovered his stride.

''People who are pro-illegal immigration say you're fanning the flames if you
don't shut up and go along with what they want,'' he said. ''I'll stand up for
legal immigrants instead of abandoning our principles to let illegal aliens in
the country to shoot people in the head.'' He was alluding to the recent
schoolyard killings in Newark, in which two of the men accused in the three
murders were suspected of being in the country illegally.

To some people, how these brothers ended up on opposite sides of the immigration
debate may seem like less of a mystery than how they stayed close for so long.

Their falling-out breached a bond forged in adversity. Steve was 17 and Bryan 14
when their father died suddenly of an aneurysm at age 42. Steve, a high school
track star, was losing his sight to a degenerative eye disease, retinitis
pigmentosa. For a time, their mother worked three jobs.

Both say they were strongly influenced by their maternal grandfather, Salvatore
Trapani, a staunch Republican who rose from sweeping floors in the garment
industry to making a small fortune in real estate, and who despised the social
programs of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Bryan, a history buff, would
argue fiercely in defense of Roosevelt.

''I don't know where he went wrong,'' Steve said dryly of his brother,
suggesting that he might have been born a liberal.

Bryan dates his political awakening to a day in 1974 when he was cleaning string
beans with his grandmother and heard President Richard M. Nixon resign.
''Suddenly I had a revelation that history wasn't a separate topic, history was
current events,'' he said. And as he began following the news of abuses by
intelligence agencies, his grandfather's antigovernment views resonated in a
whole new way.

Steve earned an M.B.A., married into an Italian-American family in Bogota and --
shunning what he called ''the quicksand of the entitlement state'' -- turned a
failing kitchen cabinet business into a financial success before selling it in
2001.

Bryan graduated from New York University, where he studied journalism. He later
went to Vermont Law School after pursuing antipoverty work that included
building clinics in Mali, inWest Africa, with the Peace Corps, where he met his
wife, Mary.

''Growing up, I thought the whole world was Irish and Italian Catholic,''
recalled Bryan, the smaller, leaner, darker-haired brother, who said he almost
traded law for art. Now his neighbors in Bogota, founded by Dutch settlers who
displaced Lenape Indians, include families from Egypt, Pakistan, Africa and
Latin America.

Bogota has no day laborers, said Steve, who directs the New Jersey chapter of
Americans for Prosperity, which promotes free-market policies. But illegal
rental units have popped up, he warned, and ''the cost to taxpayers of running
our school system, if you throw in a couple of illegal immigrant students at
$15,000, $16,000 a student, that adds up.''

Moreover, he added, ''There are some people who trash Main Street, and they seem
to be foreign born.''

That remark drew a howl when relayed to Bryan. ''Teenagers on the way to high
school are trashing Main Street,'' he said. ''They're white, they're black,
they're brown, they're yellow, and you know what? They're all slobs.''

''It's demagoguery,'' he added. ''It's disingenuous to say, 'We're just
concerned with the illegal immigrants.' Trying to make English the official
language -- what does it say to immigrant families? ''

It says assimilate, Steve maintained, noting that his grandparents would not
speak Italian at home -- though his daughter Brooke is now in Florence learning
it.

Responses to his billboard battle were  3 to 1 in his favor, he said. Those he
saved included a note written on a Dunkin' Donuts napkin -- ''Thank G-d for you
I need not be subjected to learning their language'' -- and an e-mail message
that read, ''It's not just billboards, but every Spanish sign in every store
that needs to go.''

Steve said he saw no inconsistency between championing the free market and
opposing advertising in Spanish. In a book that he is soon to publish himself,
he writes, ''McDonald's should realize that in promulgating bilingualism, they
are empowering the left wing that sees bilingualism as one more arrow to the
heart of our democracy.''

To Bryan, his brother's new rhetoric, and their estrangement, is a frightening
sign of the times. ''My family's situation reflects the political reality in
this country now -- that civil political discourse and the democratic agreement
to disagree has broken down in favor of polarizing invective,'' he said.

Against his brother's file of congratulatory e-mail messages, Bryan said, ''I've
got six boxes sitting in Legal Aid representing some 2,000 people I've spoken to
in the last few years whose lives have been completely dashed, whose families
have been completely destroyed by our crazy immigration system.''

After the Sept. 11 attacks, Bryan took calls from the families of hundreds of
Muslim immigrants who were rounded up at the Metropolitan Detention Center in
Brooklyn.

''The feds knew they weren't suspects,'' Bryan said, citing a subsequent report
by the Justice Department's inspector general.

''This was John Ashcroft's effort to manipulate public opinion,'' he said,
referring to the former attorney general. ''And then conservatives questioned my
patriotism because I questioned them.''

Bryan argued that the episode showed the threat to due process when immigration
enforcement replaces criminal law enforcement. ''You're just steps away from the
same thing if you set this up in New Jersey,'' he said of proposals like his
brother's to deputize local police as immigration officers.

Yet the Lonegans still praise each other -- within limits. Said Steve: ''My
brother's doing great work. He stands up for people's rights under the
Constitution. It has nothing to do with making public policy.''

Said Bryan: ''My brother's a brilliant businessman and a gifted administrator.
He turned this town around.'' But he added: ''Before, his conservatism was his
business. Now he's on my turf.''

At her kitchen table, Mrs. Lonegan recalled the days when the brothers played
army with neighborhood children. One afternoon Bryan came in with a question,
''Ma, how come Steve always gets to be the general?''

''I personally respect them both for sticking to what they believe, which may
sound crazy,'' she said, hoping for reconciliation, but ready to serve yet
another round of separate lasagna dinners.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bryan Lonegan, near right, supports immigrant rights. Steve
Lonegan, the mayor of Bogota, N.J., wants to crack down on illegal
immigrants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 Bryan, left, and Steve Lonegan in the early 1960s.(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Social Security Warns of Logjam From Immigration Ruling

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 584 words


The Social Security Administration says a federal judge's ruling last week
suspending a crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants could cause a
major disruption in its processing of millions of routine retirement and
disability claims.

In papers filed late Wednesday in federal court in San Francisco, David A. Rust,
an acting Social Security deputy commissioner, said a vast bureaucratic logjam
would result unless the agency was allowed this month to mail about 141,000
already-prepared letters advising employers of discrepancies between workers'
Social Security information and agency records. Government lawyers said any
delay in the mailing -- or any requirement that the mailing be revised -- would
cause ''significant harm'' to the agency and ''interfere with its ability to
carry out its core functions.''

The plea came after the judge, Maxine M. Chesney of federal court in San
Francisco,  issued a ruling Friday temporarily barring the Social Security
agency from sending  the mailings, known as ''no-match'' letters. The latest
letters, which refer to the records of more than eight million workers, include
a Department of Homeland Security notice advising employers about new rules to
follow after receiving them. If the workers in question cannot show within 90
days that they have valid Social Security numbers, employers must fire them or
risk prosecution.

In her ruling, Judge Chesney temporarily halted the new rules from taking effect
and set a hearing for Oct. 1. The government asked in its new filing that the
hearing be moved up to Sept. 19. In papers filed yesterday, the plaintiffs
opposed that change.

The dispute stems from a lawsuit filed last week by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., several
California labor groups and the American Civil Liberties Union asserting that
the new rules would lead employers to fire thousands of legal workers, including
American citizens, and to discriminate against Latino employees.

Illegal immigrants often provide false Social Security information. Previously,
employers have not been required to take action against workers cited in Social
Security letters. The new rules are a cornerstone of the Bush administration's
campaign to curb illegal immigration by punishing employers who hire
unauthorized workers.

In a statement, Mr. Rust said the Social Security Administration had already
delayed sending the letters to employers for several months this year as
officials negotiated with immigration authorities over the new rules and the
Senate debated an immigration bill, which failed in June.

Although Judge Chesney did not bar the agency from sending the letters if
references to the new rules were removed, Mr. Rust said it would take 30 days to
fix the mailing. He said any delay past mid-September would cause a backlog that
would spread into the first half of 2008, when he said the agency was expecting
a ''significant increase'' in its workload, though he did not say why. He said
the agency was facing ''severe budgetary constraints'' and a staffing shortage.

In addition, based on a 28 percent increase in calls from employers in the first
three months of this year -- before the new rules were announced -- the agency
expects a surge of work clarifying its records after the latest letters go out,
Mr. Rust said.

The lawsuit cites a December report by the Social Security inspector general
that said 17.8 million of the agency's 435 million records contained errors that
could result in a discrepancy about who is legal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum for Woman Who Miscarried During Effort to Deport Her

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 649 words


It was a case that galvanized protests in Chinese-American communities around
the United States last year and drew international attention: the pregnant
Chinese woman who miscarried twins soon after she was taken by federal
immigration officers from Philadelphia to New York to be deported.

This week the woman, Zhenxing Jiang, 33, was granted political asylum by an
immigration judge in New York after the government unexpectedly dropped its
longstanding opposition to her request.

The decision, made without elaboration on Tuesday by the immigration judge,
Barbara Nelson, means that Ms. Jiang and her husband will be allowed to stay in
the United States with their children, sons 8 and 5 and a newborn boy, all
United States citizens.

''I am very happy,'' said Ms. Jiang, who ran a restaurant in South Philadelphia
for a decade with her husband, Tian-Xiao Zhang, 36, whose own asylum case is
still pending.

They had entered the country illegally in the mid-'90s and each applied for
political asylum, with Ms. Jiang eventually contending that under China's
one-child policy, she could face forced abortion or sterilization if she were
made to return with two American-born children.

Hundreds of such applications have been made and few granted. Ms. Jiang's was
denied in 2002 by Judge Nelson, who ruled it ''untimely.''

After the ill-fated effort to deport Ms. Jiang on Feb. 7, 2006, Judge Nelson
also denied a motion to reopen the case.

But last September, the Board of Immigration Appeals ruled that reconsideration
was warranted ''under the particular circumstances of this case, including the
current investigation into the treatment of the applicant'' while in the custody
of the Department of Homeland Security, ''and the humanitarian concerns
present.''

Ms. Jiang and her lawyers contend she suffered physical and mental abuse by
immigration officers when they took her to Kennedy International Airport from
the Philadelphia immigration office, where her husband and two sons were waiting
in the lobby, unaware of what was happening.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials vigorously deny the lawyers'
account that Ms. Jiang was manhandled, denied food for eight hours and ridiculed
when she first pleaded for medical care.

It is not disputed that shortly before her flight, an ambulance took her to
Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, where doctors found that the two fetuses she
was carrying had died.

The lawyers who handled Ms. Jiang's case without fee -- Theodore N. Cox in New
York, and Richard Bortnick in Philadelphia -- said the judge had little choice
but to grant asylum when the lawyer for the Department of Homeland Security said
that the government no longer opposed it. The shift was unusual, they said, and
reflected how politically embarrassing the Jiang case had become both
domestically and overseas.

''The Chinese government used this as a political issue to castigate us on human
rights,'' said Mr. Bortnick, with the Philadelphia law firm Cozen O'Connor.
''The shoe was on the other foot.''

The government's about-face, Mr. Cox added, ''was tantamount to acknowledging
that she was mistreated.''

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, rejected
that characterization.

Charles Miller, speaking for the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which
is part of the Justice Department, said agency policy was not to comment on
immigration court decisions ''because the decision speaks for itself.''

Helen Gym, a member of the board of Asian Americans United, a Philadelphia
group, which organized rallies on Ms. Jiang's behalf, said satisfaction over the
outcome in this case was dampened by the knowledge that no such resolution was
available to many others in similar straits.

''We still have not been able to gain accountability,'' she said, ''or promises
that immigration will abide by humane practices.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Union Sues Over Raids

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
21

LENGTH: 154 words


A union representing workers at six Swift & Company meatpacking plants sued
federal immigration authorities, accusing agents of violating the workers'
rights during raids by roughly handling even those not suspected of crimes. The
union, the United Food and Commercial Workers International, and the eight
workers named as plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and an order to stop
Immigration and Customs Enforcement from conducting what the union says are
illegal raids. Immigration officials investigating identity theft arrested 1,297
workers at the plants in December. Of those arrested for being in the country
illegally, 649 had been deported as of March 1, according to the most recent
numbers available. The suit, filed in federal court in Amarillo, Tex., names as
defendants Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Assistant Secretary
Julie Myers, the two agencies and unnamed agents who conducted the raids.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigrants Rally at Capitol to Protest Backlog

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18


About 1,000 highly skilled legal immigrants, carrying placards  and wearing
T-shirts emblazoned with American flags, rallied Tuesday at the Capitol to
protest long delays and vast bureaucratic backlogs in the immigration system.

The immigrants, including doctors, medical technicians and computer engineers
from India and China, came from as far as California and Washington State to
call on Congress to provide more permanent visas for highly educated immigrants
and more resources for the overburdened immigration system. They said the plight
of foreigners living in this country legally had been unfairly eclipsed by the
polarized debate over illegal immigration that led to the defeat of an
immigration overhaul in June.

While the rally's numbers were not large, immigration policy advocates said it
was very unusual for legal immigrants, traditionally cautious since their visa
applications and their futures are in the hands of the federal government, to
stage public protests. The immigrants, who are living in the United States on
temporary student or high-skilled employment visas, said they were nearing
despair with waits lasting as long as a decade to obtain visas giving them
permanent residence, which are known as a green cards.

''When I heard about this rally I immediately made the decision to come,'' said
Paul Wang, 37, a computer scientist from China who lives and works in Virginia.
''I like the freedom and the safety in this country. I want to send a request
signal to Congress to bring more efficiency to the process for us to get a green
card.''

Paul Donnelly, a consultant to American Families United, a legal immigrant
advocacy group, who said he had been working on immigration policy in Washington
for more than 25 years, called the rally ''a genuinely new phenomenon.'' ''It is
a significant thing to have foreign-born people, who are notoriously hard to
organize, organizing themselves,'' Mr. Donnelly said.

Since Congress reconvened this month, more and more calls have come for
lawmakers to revisit the immigration issue by first fixing the foundering system
for legal immigration. On Sept. 11 a bipartisan group of 13 governors, including
those from the states with the largest immigrant populations, sent a letter to
the leaders of Congress asking for increases in the number of temporary visas
and green cards for highly educated immigrants.

Saying there was a ''critical shortage'' of professionals in math and the
sciences, the governors wrote, ''We must recognize that foreign talent has a
role to play in our ability to keep companies located in our state and
country.'' The governors included Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Rick
Perry of Texas, both Republicans; and Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Eliot
Spitzer of New York, who are Democrats.

Despite soaring demand from immigrants and high-tech businesses, an annual limit
of 140,000 on employment-based green cards has not been altered since 1990. A
study published in August by the Kauffman Foundation of Kansas City, Mo., found
that 1.1 million highly skilled immigrants and their family members were
languishing in backlogs in 2006, waiting for green cards. Temporary visas for
immigrants with special skills, known as H1B visas, are limited to 65,000 a
year, plus 20,000 visas for immigrants who earn advanced academic degrees in the
United States.

The Kauffman study reported that some immigrant professionals were becoming
discouraged by the prospect of bureaucratic delays. One in three new, skilled
immigrants working here said they were uncertain whether they would remain,
according to the study, conducted by researchers from Harvard, Duke and New York
University. This raised the possibility of reverse brain drain, as immigrants
who came to the United States for advanced studies might decide to return to
their home countries.

The immigrants at the rally were clearly committed to staying in the United
States, pausing from their speeches to listen to one of their leaders sing ''The
Star-Spangled Banner.''

Dr. Sridhar Narra, 34, a physician born in India, said his effort to gain a
green card had lasted almost eight years, including a two-year forced separation
from his wife, also from India. After coming to the United States in 1999, Dr.
Narra has practiced medicine under a special visa for doctors who serve in areas
where medical personnel are scarce. He has worked with low-income and uninsured
patients at a clinic in Benton Harbor, Mich., fulfilling a five-year
requirement, and applied for his green card two years ago.

''I've been waiting, law abiding, tax paying,'' Dr. Narra said. ''How long is
long enough?''

Temporary immigrants who want green cards must obtain a Labor Department
certification that no American workers are available for their jobs. It can take
more than a year to get that certification. And in a June report, the ombudsman
for Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that handles green card
applications, found that more than 100,000 F.B.I. background checks of
immigrants, also part of the application, had been in process  for more than a
year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Legal immigrants gathered yesterday in Washington to protest
long delays for green cards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Hated Law, And Now It's Repealed

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE, N.J., Sept. 18


Facing mounting legal costs and declining public outcry, the Township Committee
here has rescinded the tough immigration law it passed last year but never
enforced.

By a 3-to-1 vote on Monday, the Committee ended what had been known as the
Illegal Immigration Relief Act, which carried fines, jail sentences and possible
loss of business licenses for anyone who knowingly housed or employed an illegal
immigrant. The rules were never enforced, however, as several human rights and
business groups sued after the law was enacted in July 2006.

''They did the wrong thing, and they fixed it,'' said Cesar Perales, the
president and general counsel for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund, who helped represent the groups suing the town. ''The wrong thing was for
a local government on its own try to manage and control immigration.''

Although no fines were levied, the impact was severe on this former industrial
town, which in recent years has seen an influx of Portuguese and Brazilian
immigrants. Residents and business owners said that many in the immigrant
population scattered in fear when the law was passed, leaving vacant storefronts
in a once-thriving downtown.

''This is a pretty busy day,'' Ed Robins, the owner of Scott Street Music, said
on Tuesday afternoon. He was pointing to a nearly empty Scott Street,
Riverside's main business district. ''It took $50,000 a week off our streets.
That's what was being spent by the Brazilians and Spanish.''

The law threatened the town in other financial ways. The township administrator,
Meghan Jack, said Riverside, a community of 8,000, had amassed close to $100,000
in legal fees in the preliminary preparation for the legal fight.

''Part of the reason the committee acted was on the advice of the township
solicitor, who told them that from here on out is where we would spend large
amounts of money fighting these lawsuits,'' Ms. Jack said.

Indeed, James Katz, the lead counsel for those suing the town, said Riverside
would have been asked to reimburse him for his work had the town lost the case.
He was not billing the groups for his services.

Deputy Mayor Lorraine Hatcher said the Township Committee's vote was also
influenced by a case in Hazleton, Pa., where a judge ruled in July that a
similar local anti-illegal immigration ordinance was unconstitutional.

''When you have residents looking for better parks and better streets, and in
the meantime you have these legal fees rising, you have to conclude that this is
a situation that should be handled by the federal government, not local towns,''
Ms. Hatcher said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pass the Dream Act

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 441 words


A small but worthy step toward immigration reform is returning as an amendment
to the defense authorization bill. As the Senate debates that fat holiday wish
book for the Pentagon, it should rescue this sliver of bipartisan good sense
from the wreckage of last summer's failed immigration debate.

It's called the Dream Act, and it offers a path to citizenship to illegal
immigrants' children after they graduate from high school and complete two years
of military service or college. Its Senate sponsors, including Richard J. Durbin
of Illinois and Richard Lugar of Indiana, have championed it as a way to open a
future to talented children whose opportunities are closed because of their
parents' decision to immigrate here illegally. They also see it as giving a
needed boost to the military by opening a new stream of high-quality recruits.

The idea is modest and smart, but modest and smart usually don't get very far
these days. The anti-immigrant forces that buried the Senate's comprehensive
reforms under a wave of faxes and phone calls are at it again over the revival
of this small part of that much bigger bill. They are convinced that giving a
break to blameless young men and women -- maybe about a million -- who want to
earn a college degree or serve in the military weakens the country instead of
strengthening it. Their hostility to nurturing a new cohort of American
citizens, their reflexive ''no'' even to this limited attempt at immigration
decency, lays bare the bankruptcy of their self-defeating passions.

Passing the Dream Act would do more than give deserving young people a path
beyond dead-end jobs and lives in the shadows. It would honor the thousands of
immigrant soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The lengthening list of
those who have given their lives includes Cpl. Juan Mariel Alcantara, a
22-year-old New Yorker who was born in the Dominican Republic. The official date
that he became an American was Aug. 6, the same day that a bomb killed him and
three fellow soldiers in Baquba, north of Baghdad. He was the 103rd immigrant to
become a citizen posthumously in this war.

Passage would also give encouragement to the budding activists on college
campuses around the country who have rallied behind the Dream Act for themselves
and their schoolmates. And it would give a small dose of hope to those who
watched in dismay as Congress's attempts at serious immigration reform last year
and this year were demonized, disfigured and finally killed. It would show that
the country has not entirely lost its ability to recognize, with grace and
gratitude, the great potential in the immigrants among us.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

David Carliner, 89, Lawyer And Immigration Advocate

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 773 words


David Carliner, an influential left-leaning lawyer whose work for clients
ranging from scholars and scoundrels to cooks and cabdrivers helped define
modern immigration law, died  Wednesday in Washington. He was 89.

The cause was a heart attack, his grandson Jacob Remes said.

Mr. Carliner was also a driving force behind achieving home rule for the
District of Columbia, the chairman of a human rights group now called Global
Rights and a founder of the Washington chapter of the American Civil Liberties
Union.

Mr. Carliner's legal legacy emerged from the cases he took on. One was that of
Carlos Marcello, the New Orleans racketeer whom the federal government deported
in 1961. Another client, Staughton Lynd, was a Yale professor whose passport was
canceled after he made an unauthorized   trip to North Vietnam when the United
States was at war with that country.

His representation of a Chinese immigrant, Hay Say Naim, in a complicated case
involving Virginia's anti-miscegenation law drew national attention in the early
1950s. In 1979 and 1980, Mr. Carliner fought legal battles for Iranian students
studying in the United States who were trapped between the new fundamentalist
government in their own country and the American authorities.

In the 1980s, he separately represented a self-acknowledged member of a death
squad in El Salvador and a Nicaraguan illegal immigrant who feared being drafted
by the Sandinista government if forced to return to his own country.

When Garry Davis returned from 30 years of wanderings using a world passport he
had issued himself, Mr. Carliner won him the right to live in the United States.

But Mr. Carliner's battles were part of an overall effort to change and
liberalize immigration policy. He fought the Reagan administration's efforts to
restrict the power of federal courts in immigration and asylum cases and in the
1990s campaigned against Congressional efforts to tighten immigration severely.
In 1977, he published ''Rights of Aliens,'' which became a popular handbook on
changes in immigration policy. In 1990, he and several colleagues came out with
''The Rights of Aliens and Refugees,'' (Southern Illinois University Press).

Abraham David Carliner was born on Aug. 13, 1918, in Washington. His father
bought, operated and sold grocery stores. His own anti-authoritarian streak
emerged as a teenager when he led a protest against the cancellation of a
football game after a fight in a previous game. He told his grandson he did not
even like football.

''I was just trying to make trouble,'' Mr. Carliner told him.

In 1934, when he was 16, he was arrested outside the German embassy, where he
was protesting Nazism.

He attended American University, the University of Virginia and National
University, where he earned his law degree. In 1954, National University merged
with George Washington University. forming what became the National Law Center
of George Washington University. While a student in Virginia, Mr. Carliner
joined with the activist Virginia Durr and others to fight the poll tax and
other elements of racial discrimination in the South.

He enlisted in the Army in 1941 and completed Officer Training School. Years
later he told his family he had been denied a commission because of his
left-wing politics.

Not all of Mr. Carliner's cases involved immigration. In 1964, he represented a
vending company against Robert G. Baker, the Senate aide and longtime friend of
President Lyndon B. Johnson, in a dispute over a commercial contract. The case,
which drew wide publicity, was settled out of court.

In 1965, Mr. Carliner represented Bruce C. Scott, a federal employee who sued
the  government  after being fired for being gay. He won the landmark case in
the United States Court of Appeals in Washington.

In 1967, he led the successful drive to get a mayor and a city council for
Washington. Although he expressed discontent at the time over the limited nature
of this ''home rule,'' it culminated a fight he had begun as a young man.

Mr. Carliner's wife, the former Miriam Kalter, died in 1994. He is survived by
their son, Geoffrey, of Newton, Mass.; their daughter, Deborah Carliner of
Washington; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.

In 1993, Mr. Carliner, as an expert on immigration, was asked about Judge Kimba
M. Wood's hiring of an illegal immigrant as a baby sitter. He said that in his
opinion Judge Wood, President Bill Clinton's nominee as attorney general, had
violated no law because she had hired her nanny eight months before the law
prohibiting such hiring went into effect. But the judge had already withdrawn
her name.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: David Carliner

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Worker Solidarity Doesn't Have to Stop at the Rio Grande

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 803 words


Comprehensive immigration reform was supposed to overcome the debate's dead-end
disagreements -- It's amnesty! No, it's not! -- by tackling multiple problems at
once. It failed, miserably, twice in two years. Congress tiptoed back to the
battlefield this month with a modest attempt to legalize some immigrant children
who go to college or serve in the military. That failed too. Federal agents,
meanwhile, have been feverishly raiding immigrants' homes, taking parents away
in the dead of night. The illegal population has not left the country yet, but
it is terrified.

And yet for all that, the country is still no closer to figuring out how to
handle the stream of workers over its borders, or how to be a global fortress
when it is already a global magnet. What we need is a better debate.

Jennifer Gordon, a professor at Fordham Law School who won a MacArthur award for
her work with immigrant laborers, is offering one. In a recent article she
presents a compelling way out of one of immigration's trickiest riddles: how to
manage the immigrant flow in a way that is realistic, workable and fair to both
newcomers and to native-born Americans.

Sealing them all out is impossible,  throwing the border open unthinkable.
Creating a permanent underclass of guest workers has a long, nasty  history.

The challenge is to build institutions that conform to reality but lessen its
ill effects. ''We can't revert to the fantasy that we can just turn the tap
off,'' Professor Gordon said. ''We have to engage with the question, not
abdicate the debate to restrictionists on the one hand and a corporate-designed
guest worker program on the other.''

In ''Transnational Labor Citizenship,'' published last spring in the Southern
California Law Review, Professor Gordon offers a new way to structure labor
migration.

Her proposal would link the right to immigrate not to a job offer from an
employer but to membership in a cross-border worker organization -- a kind of
transnational union. Migrants could work here legally, but only after agreeing
not to undercut other workers by accepting substandard pay or job conditions.
The organizations would enforce the agreement and protect members' rights here
and in their home countries.

The goal, she says, is ''to bring up the bottom, not by shutting immigrants out,
but by organizing them before they come.'' Workers who follow the rules would
become ''transnational labor citizens'' -- supporting their families and the
American economy while offering a powerful check on under-the-table
exploitation.

Professor Gordon readily acknowledges the implausibility of winning that One Big
Union on a continental scale. But persuasive precedents for her approach exist.
The Farm Labor Organizing Committee, an agricultural workers' union, signed a
contract in 2004 to protect thousands of Mexican guest workers in North
Carolina. In 2005, it opened an office in Monterrey, Mexico, to further its
organizing efforts and defend its members from abusive recruiters there.

Last year, the United Farm Workers and Global Horizons, one of the largest
suppliers of agricultural guest workers, signed the first nationwide contract
covering immigrants. It provides employer-paid medical care, a seniority system
and a grievance procedure to ensure that employers comply with the law.

Doubters will insist that it is crazy to expect immigrants to risk their meager
paychecks to defend their rights and abstract notions of worker solidarity.

But they have already shown that they will. Professor Gordon won her genius
grant after creating the Workplace Project, an organization of Latino immigrants
on Long Island that uses its members' collective power to regain withheld or
stolen wages. Worker centers like it around the country are providing a surge of
energy and optimism to the labor movement. Latino day laborers, organizing
themselves at hiring corners around the country, are putting a floor on wages
and thwarting abusive employers.

That's why John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., went to the annual
convention of the National Day Laborers Organizing Network in Silver Spring,
Md., in August and lauded their shared struggle.

The heart of Professor Gordon's proposal is the insight that we can enlist
immigrants themselves in upholding the lawfulness and high standards we hold
dear. An immigrant worker who is unafraid is better than one who is vulnerable
and easily abused.

As she sees it, politicians who so bitterly oppose day-laborer hiring sites and
other attempts to regularize the underground economy are unwittingly enabling
the exploitation and lawlessness they profess to oppose. The ''transnational
labor citizens'' Professor Gordon envisions, on the other hand, would uphold
American working standards as they assert and defend their own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Crackdown on Hold

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 495 words


A federal judge has halted a reckless plan by the Bush administration to use
Social Security records for immigration enforcement. This is good news, not just
for the American economy, which would have been crippled by the attempt to force
millions of undocumented workers off the books, but also for the untold numbers
of innocent citizens and legal residents who also would have been victims of the
purge.

The judge, Charles R. Breyer of the Northern District of California, ruled that
the Department of Homeland Security could not enforce a new rule requiring
employers to fire workers if their Social Security numbers could not be verified
within 90 days. The assumption behind the rule was that workers whose numbers
did not match the Social Security Administration's database were illegal
immigrants using fake or stolen identities.

Judge Breyer recognized that assumption as deeply flawed and the new rule as an
unlawfully crude enforcement tool. The Social Security database is riddled with
errors not related to immigration status. Many of the ''no-match'' letters --
which call attention to database discrepancies -- involve legal residents.

''There is a strong likelihood that employers may simply fire employees who are
unable to resolve the discrepancy within 90 days,'' the judge wrote, even if the
problem was caused by data-entry mistakes, misspellings or name changes. He
warned that the rule would cause ''irreparable harm to innocent workers and
employers.'' The A.F.L.-C.I.O, a party to the lawsuit that led to the ruling,
had estimated that about 600,000 of its members could receive the letters and be
vulnerable to firing.

Judge Breyer also scolded the administration for imposing a policy change with
''massive ramifications'' for employers without a legal explanation or a
required survey of the costs and impact to small businesses.

It is not the case -- though infuriated hard-liners will insist otherwise --
that millions of undocumented workers are now being let off the hook by a
soft-headed judge. If the no-match crackdown had proceeded, many workers without
papers would still have found jobs in the underground economy, perhaps worse
ones or with better-forged papers. Identity theft would have risen.

The shadow economy would have adapted, as always. The world of on-the-books
employment would have suffered greatly.

The federal government has embarked on a disastrously one-sided immigration
strategy -- pulling out one harsh enforcement tool after another without having
repaired the broken system. We have already seen the results of runaway
enforcement on the agricultural industry -- a shortage of workers leading to
rotting crops and farmers relocating south of the border. The trouble with
crackdowns, like the foolish one involving ''no-match'' letters, is that they
cause oceans of pain and havoc -- not just for undocumented immigrants, but also
for legal residents and the economy -- without actually solving anything.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

No Need for a Warrant, You're an Immigrant

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1078 words


LONG ISLAND officials protested when federal agents searching for immigrant gang
members raided local homes two weeks ago. The agents had rousted American
citizens and legal immigrants from their beds in the night, complained Lawrence
W. Mulvey, the Nassau County police commissioner, and arrested suspected illegal
immigrants without so much as a warrant.

''We don't need warrants to make the arrests,'' responded Peter J. Smith, the
special agent in charge in New York for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or
ICE, the agency that conducted the raids.

His concise answer helps explain the friction that the Bush administration's
recent campaign of immigration enforcement has caused. Last week, immigration
officials announced that they had made more than 1,300 arrests across the
country over the summer when they went looking for gang members. Since the raids
were carried out under immigration law, many protections in place under the
American criminal codes did not apply. Foreign residents of the United States,
whether here legally or not, answer to a different set of rules.

Immigration agents are not required to obtain warrants to detain suspects. The
agents also have broad authority to question people about their immigration
status and to search them and their homes. There are no Miranda rights that
agents must read when making arrests. Detained immigrants have the right to a
lawyer, but only one they can pay for.

While criminal suspects are generally sent to jails near the courts that hear
their cases, immigration agents have discretion in deciding where to hold
immigrants detained for deportation. Many suspected illegal immigrants who were
detained in Nassau County, for example, were quickly moved to York, Pa., distant
from family  and legal advice.

This parallel course for noncitizens is not new. But it has come into fuller
view as the enforcement drive has swept up record numbers of illegal immigrants,
also reaching legal immigrants and citizens. In answer, a barrage of lawsuits is
challenging both the laws and their enforcers.

''Buried within the proud history of our nation of immigrants, shrouded but
always present, there exists a distinct system,'' wrote Daniel Kanstroom, a law
professor at Boston College, in his book ''Deportation Nation: Outsiders in
American History,'' which traces the history of the immigration code. To begin
with, he writes, the Constitution does not specifically address the government's
power to control immigration. This is ''not a small problem for a nation of
immigrants,'' he notes.

Immigration law remains founded on the notion that immigrants are not full
members of American society until they become citizens, writes Professor
Kanstroom, who is also a practicing immigration lawyer. The reduced protections
in modern-day law were shaped by some of the darker episodes of the 20th
century, he writes, including the prosecution of immigrant dissidents, like the
Australian union leader Harry Bridges, in the 1930s; and the mass roundups of
Mexican workers in the 1950s.

Arising from that landscape, the courts that handle immigration cases are part
of the Justice Department, not the judiciary. Even immigrants who have lived
here legally for many years, lawyers said, can run afoul of the immigration laws
with minor infractions or misdemeanors. A late filing of visa renewal papers or
a shoplifting citation can quickly spiral into an order for the ultimate
penalty: deportation. Immigrants who fight the orders have more limited bail
rights than American criminals and can spend years behind bars while their cases
inch through the overburdened court system.

The immigration laws have gained new influence in everyday life because of the
record number of immigrants -- 37.1 million, according to census figures -- now
living in the United States. Of those, more than 22 million are not naturalized
citizens and remain subject to the immigration system, including about 10
million legal residents and 12 million illegal immigrants, by estimates from the
Pew Hispanic Center in Washington. Increasingly, immigrants live in mixed-status
families that include illegal and legal residents as well as citizens.

Over the last two years, ICE has grown more aggressive, entering factories and
communities, hunting down foreign fugitives ranging from convicted criminals to
workers whose visas have expired. Last year, the agency deported 195,000 people,
another record. After President Bush's immigration overhaul failed in Congress
in June, the administration has vigorously pursued the enforcement-first policy
that Republicans demanded.

There are sharp differences among legal experts and law enforcement officials
about the limited protections in the immigration laws, many of which have been
upheld over the years by the Supreme Court. Officials point out that the
majority of the people deported last year entered the country illegally or
plainly had lost any claim to legal status, including thousands of convicts.

''Immigration law enforcement is all about getting you to where you belong,
which is outside the United States,'' said Jan C. Ting, a law professor at
Temple University who is a former assistant commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the precursor to ICE. He pointed out that immigration
laws are civil codes, not criminal. ''A lot of constitutional protections that
one would normally expect in a criminal case do not necessarily apply,'' he
said.

Professor Ting says ICE agents are well within their authority to question
people they come across in the course of a raid, even if they are not its
targets, and detain them as suspects.

But new legal challenges are seeking to restrain ICE's powers. A lawsuit in
Tennessee challenges raids where agents teamed up with a county sheriff to
search trailer parks, forcing their way without warrants into Hispanic
immigrants' homes. In a suit against ICE in Texas, seven citizens and legal
immigrants contend their rights were violated in raids last year at Swift &
Company meatpacking plants.

These cases are spurred by people like Peggy Delarosa-Delgado, a naturalized
citizen born in the Dominican Republic whose Long Island home was raided twice.
She described the shock of having a dozen ICE agents march into her living room,
terrifying her children. As the laws governing immigrants have left American
citizens increasingly vulnerable as well, more legal challenges can be expected.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about the different rights accorded to
citizens and noncitizens referred incorrectly in some copies to the 120,000
people of Japanese ancestry interned in the United States during World War II.
More than 70,000 of them were citizens born in the United States; they were not
all immigrants.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DIFFERENT RULES: A federal raid aimed at illegal immigrants in
Long Island last month angered local officials who objected to the lack of
warrants. (POOL PHOTO BY MICHAEL SCHWARTZ)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 16, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators Report Progress on a Complicated Bill on Immigration

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 15


With the new Congress poised to take its first vote on immigration, senators
from both parties stepped up the pace of negotiations on Tuesday in hopes of
cutting a deal on a comprehensive bill that would increase enforcement at the
border and offer legal status to millions of undocumented workers.

Even as Democrats made concessions to Republicans adamantly opposed to any kind
of amnesty, they risked alienating longtime supporters of the Democratic Party,
including labor unions and Hispanic groups that wanted legislation tilted more
toward the rights of immigrants.

A group of about 10 senators working behind closed doors said they were making
progress on a bill but still had many issues to resolve.

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, had said the Senate
would take a test vote on the issue on Wednesday, but late Tuesday night a
spokesman said the vote would be delayed until Monday. Senate Republicans,
meanwhile, said they were apprehensive about starting floor debate on
immigration because they did not know details of the bill being negotiated.

''This is a huge, complicated measure, with a lot more moving pieces than most
people realize,'' said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican whip.

The House majority leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland,
said Tuesday that the House would take up legislation to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws in July, regardless of what might happen before then on the
other side of the Capitol.

In May 2006, the Senate passed immigration legislation, but House Republicans
considered the bill too lenient toward illegal immigrants and refused to convene
a conference committee. At the end of 2005, the House passed its own version of
immigration legislation, a measure that focused largely on border security.

Major provisions of the bill being developed in the Senate would not take effect
unless the president first certified that he had hired more Border Patrol agents
and taken other steps to beef up enforcement of immigration laws at the border
and in the workplace.

The measure would alter the criteria for legal immigration, placing less
emphasis on family ties and more on education and job skills needed by
employers.

In addition, the federal government would have to create an elaborate electronic
system that employers could use to verify whether job applicants were eligible
to work in this country. To qualify for legal status, illegal immigrants would
have to pay fines and back taxes and pass background checks.

Those who gained legal status would receive special ''Z visas,'' allowing them
to stay here for an initial period of four years, which could be renewed.

If they wanted to take the next step toward citizenship, they would have to
return to their home countries, visit an American embassy or consulate and file
applications for green cards, allowing them to become lawful permanent
residents.

Given the existing backlog of people seeking green cards, it could take eight
years before any were issued to people who had entered this country illegally.

The Senate bill would also establish a new temporary worker program. Under the
program, foreign citizens could get visas to come here and work for three years,
without any dependents.

If guest workers did not go home when their visas expired, they could be
permanently barred from the United States.

''Temporary must mean temporary,'' said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the
principal Republican negotiator. ''A temporary worker program should be for
temporary workers, not for aliens who wish to become United States citizens.''

Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez, who has participated in some of the
talks, said Tuesday that immigration was ''the most important domestic social
issue of our time.''

Every country ''is going to have to embrace immigration in order to prosper,''
said Mr. Gutierrez, who came here from Cuba 47 years ago.

J. Kevin Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy at the United States
Conference of Catholic Bishops, said he had grave reservations about the deal
taking shape in the Senate.

''It's insufficient to solve the problem at hand,'' Mr. Appleby said. ''Congress
will be back in 5 to 10 years to deal with another large undocumented
population.''

''Under the proposal,'' Mr. Appleby said, ''undocumented immigrants who achieve
legal status will not be able to bring in members of their immediate families --
spouses or minor children -- for eight years. Families will not wait that long.
If they are divided, they will try to reunite illegally in the United States.''

Advocates of immigrant rights contend that some guest workers should be able to
apply for permanent residence.

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, the Hispanic
rights group, said: ''If we want people to come and work in this country, we
should create opportunities for them to put down roots and become American
citizens. Senator Kyl's approach is contrary to our history as a nation of
immigrants.''

Angela M. Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, a
pro-immigrant advocacy group, said the proposed legalization program was ''very
good, much better than the one in the bill passed by the Senate last year.''

But Ms. Kelley objected to the temporary worker program. ''These workers could
be easily exploited because they would be here in a tenuous position, with no
long-term prospects for being able to stay,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, spoke with
reporters yesterday before closed negotiations on the immigration measure.
(Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Illegal Immigrant Workers, Housing Slump Takes a Big Toll

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

DATELINE: HURON, Calif.


Some of the casualties of America's housing bust are easy to spot up and down
California's Central Valley.

From Fresno to Sacramento, big tangles of wire and PVC pipes clutter vacant lots
in silent subdivisions, waiting for houses to be built -- some day. Dozens of
''For Sale'' signs already dot the lawns across new residential communities. And
right next to the ubiquitous billboards from builders are fresh signs offering
homeowners help to avoid foreclosure.

But another set of losers is less visible: the immigrant workers, mostly
illegal, who rode the construction boom while it lasted and now find jobs on
building sites few and far between.

Offering more than $10 an hour as well as new skills and a shot at upward
mobility, construction provided many illegal immigrants the best job they ever
had, a step up from the backbreaking work reserved for those toiling without
legal authorization, which in the Central Valley mostly meant pruning and
picking in fruit and vegetable fields.

The growing presence of illegal immigrants in home building, mostly working for
small labor contractors, might help explain why government statistics have
recorded only a small decline in construction employment, despite the collapse
in residential investment.

''Technically they don't fire them,'' said Myrna Martinez, coordinator for the
Fresno office of the American Friends Service Committee, a nonprofit
organization working on social assistance projects for immigrant workers. ''They
just tell them that there is no more work.''

As building jobs have grown scarce, many of the workers who left farm labor a
few years ago are returning to where they came from. They can be seen once again
hunched in clusters under the unremitting sun, cutting heads of lettuce or
slicing off spears of asparagus for minimum wage, clinging to the hope that home
building will resume again.

''If another construction job comes up, I'll go there,'' said Cresencio B., a
former Mexico City policeman who arrived illegally in the United States in 1991.

Cresencio B. toiled on farms up and down the West Coast until he got a job
cutting wood segments on a construction crew two years ago, making about $11 an
hour. But building jobs dried up in October. In early April, he was in a tomato
field nearby, brandishing his hoe for $7.50 an hour, clearing out the weeds and
the leftover garlic sprouts from last year's crop.

(The Times is using only the first name and last initial of the workers.)

''There are quite a few in this situation,'' Ms. Martinez said. ''This
construction boom that started five or six years ago just suddenly started to
fall apart.''

Illegal immigrants played a big if quiet part on the supply side of America's
housing boom. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, a research organization in
Washington, immigrants from Mexico and other Latin American countries account
for about one in five construction workers. Those who arrived since 2000 -- who
are likely to be unlawfully in the United States because they had virtually no
way of immigrating legally -- account for an estimated 7 percent of the
construction work force.

They were mostly pulled in by the building frenzy of the first half of the
decade. According to the analysis by the Pew Hispanic Center, based on census
data, Hispanic immigrants took 60 percent of the million new construction jobs
created from 2004 to 2006. Those recently arrived took nearly half.

While there are no equivalent statistics at the state or local level, a glance
at a construction crew anywhere in the valley confirms the overwhelming
immigrant share. ''There are only Mexicans,'' said Adrian L., an illegal
immigrant from Oaxaca who does interior work on homes here. ''Now not even the
supervisors are American.''

Like no other job, construction allowed many immigrants a shot at the American
dream. After more than five years in construction, Adrian L. was making $25 to
$35 an hour leading a 15-strong team for a company building new tract homes in
the Central Valley.

Farther north, construction work also allowed Jose Manuel J. to aspire to a
better life. An illegal immigrant from Guanajuato State in Mexico, he left the
fields to sweep construction sites eight years ago. By last year he was making
$25 an hour running a small crew laying roofs. He got a mortgage and bought a
home in the United States. He bought land and built a house in Mexico.

For Cresencio B. a construction job meant his wife, Marta M., could afford to
stay home and care for their 2-year-old son, Angel.

But when home builders stopped building, they stopped calling. Hoe in hand,
Marta M. is back at work these days, hacking alongside her husband at the weeds
in a tomato field from 5 a.m. to 5 p.m. Angel is left in the care of his
18-year-old sister.

Adrian L. and Jose Manuel J. have resisted going back into the fields, making do
with piecemeal work: putting up a roof here, re-tiling a bathroom there. But
they are near the end of the line. ''If work doesn't pick up,'' Jose Manuel J.
said, ''in May I am going to have to go to pick in the cherry crop.''

The nation's great housing bust has not shown up so far in official employment
data. According to the Labor Department, employment in residential construction
has declined by only 28,000 jobs -- or some 3 percent -- since its peak last
fall.

''It is sort of surprising that construction employment numbers haven't gone
down more already,'' said David F. Seiders, chief economist at the National
Association of Home Builders. ''I'm not sure about the quality of the data.''

The statistics seem to belie the debacle that has overwhelmed home building. In
February, there were 15 percent fewer homes under construction and 27 percent
fewer homes started than in the corresponding month of 2006. In California, 42
percent fewer building permits for new residential units were issued in February
than a year earlier.

''Because we have fewer homes sold, we have slowed down the building of various
phases in some communities,'' said Joel H. Rassman, chief financial officer for
the home builder Toll Brothers, which expects to deliver 6,000 to 7,000 homes in
2007, down from 8,600 in 2006. ''We have delayed the start of some communities,
and we are letting less work out to our contractors.''

Mr. Seiders suggested that reported employment might not be falling as starkly
as other statistics because builders do not employ construction workers
directly. Instead, they use subcontractors to build different parts of a
development. These often use labor contractors, who may also turn to
subcontractors to fill their crews.

Jose Carlos J., Jose Manuel's nephew, has not formally lost his job as a roofer.
But the contractor he works for has hardly called him in recent months. ''Since
November I've laid only four roofs,'' he said.

Most of the workers disgorged back into the fields are in a similar situation.
Milling about in a park near downtown Stockton after work on a recent afternoon,
Jose Manuel's brother, Raymundo J., who is the foreman of a crew picking
asparagus near Stockton, pointed to several former construction workers from his
hometown in Mexico who are now in the field.

There was his other nephew, Roberto, who used to tear roofs down for $15 an
hour, and Manuel S., who used to spray stucco on houses in the San Francisco Bay
Area. Antonio R. lost a $14-an-hour job cutting wood last October. Chuy R., who
got a job wiring homes immediately after arriving in the United States in May
2006, lost it at the end of the year.

They all hang on to the hope that construction will rebound. Most fear, however,
that times will never again be as good. Said Jose Manuel J., ''I don't think
building houses will pick up for several years.''

The growing season is barely starting in the Central Valley. Demand for farm
workers will peak in the summer, at around 450,000. But many growers are
concerned that tight border controls will continue to cut deeply into their
labor force and that, as happened last year, crops will be left to rot in the
fields.

Still, as farm workers once lured into construction are returned to the fields,
there are signs that the labor supply on some California farms is increasing.

Luawanna Hallstrom, chairwoman of the California Farm Bureau's labor committee
and general manager of Harry Singh & Sons, a large tomato grower north of San
Diego, noted that more workers were showing up at greenhouse nurseries than last
year.

She pointed out that the lull in construction, combined with the frosts this
year that devastated the state's citrus crop and part of the nut crop, are
freeing workers for other farms.

''There's an opportunity for some areas in agriculture to attract labor who
would have been doing other agricultural jobs or tied up in construction,'' Ms.
Hallstrom said.

The immigrants agree. ''There are too many people for too little field work,''
Jose Manuel J. complained. ''People are scattering up to Oregon and further
north because there is little work here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker on a farm in California. Many of the workers held
construction jobs until recently. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York
Times)(pg. A1)
Many Mexican workers toiled on farms on the West Coast until they got
construction jobs several years ago. But building jobs dried up in October.
(Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: ''Unemployment
Statistics May Not Tell the Whole Story'' The home building boom attracted large
numbers of immigrant workers, many of them illegal. As construction has slumped,
most of them are not showing up in official job statistics because they are
rarely employed directly. Graphs track Newly arrived Hispanic immigrants working
in construction, Employment in residential building construction and Residential
building units under construction since 2005 and 2000, respectively. (Sources by
Pew Hispanic Center
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Census Bureau)(pg. C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Zero Tolerance For Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 393 words


To the Editor:

Regarding the constructive approach the mayor of Hightstown is taking to
''revitalize'' the town with illegal immigrant workers (''Cooler Heads in
Hightstown,'' editorial, May 13), the impact is far ranging. Is this ''thriving
middle American village'' of Hightstown thriving for our poorer American-born
citizens? Or are our less fortunate citizens further trapped into not receiving
a living wage because illegals will work for rock bottom (tax-free?) wages?

Our regional school system is overburdened and English-speaking students aren't
receiving the education they should. Schools in more affluent towns are not
affected by their illegal immigrant workers because there is no low-cost housing
and the illegals leave at the end of the day. This is yet another way that the
American middle class is being hurt. Where is our local financial support and
guidance from the federal government? Our taxpayers are overburdened.

I haven't touched on those who are waiting in proper channels to enter our
country.

If you come to a place illegally, it's odd to turn to the law for assistance and
expect no repercussion. What are we doing?  Rita Millner East Windsor  To the
Editor:

Your article about the immigration law-enforcement program known as 287(g)
focusing on Morristown (''Should Immigration Be a Police Issue?,'' April 29) was
not complete. You did not print comments from one single homeowner in favor of
this program's application! If you had, you would see that we as residents want
the criminal element that has taken hold in our community because of the influx
of illegal immigrants stopped!

This is a sad reality for us. We see it all here, workers too drunk to stand,
landlords who gouge them for space and force normal homeowners to watch
tenements made out of three-bedroom homes -- not to mention the more serious
crimes being committed. I don't need charts and figures; I just have to count
the times I or my neighbors have had to call the police!

Hard-working immigrants looking to make a new life for themselves are not the
target here. This program was designed to weed out those who are harmful to all
of society. If we are picked, I know our police chief would execute this program
in an exemplary manner and be a model for others to use this program in a manner
respectful of all.   Myra Bowie McCready Morristown

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Defeat Worries Employers Who Rely on Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 849 words


While the defeat of the Senate immigration bill was a dismaying disappointment
to illegal immigrants and the groups that support them, it also created major
worries for employers across the country who depend on immigrant workers.

Employers from food-processing industries and agriculture as well as
construction contractors and commercial landscapers were among the most
persistent forces pushing for passage of the Senate bill, which failed yesterday
when senators voted 53 to 46 not to proceed to a vote. The measure would have
provided a path to legal status for millions of illegal immigrants, who make up
a significant percentage of workers in many low-wage, labor intensive
industries.

The bill's defeat was hailed yesterday by conservative groups and others who
said it would have rewarded law-breaking immigrants and would have wrongly
excused the employers who hired them. Now, employers say they face a bleak
landscape of intensified raids by the immigration authorities and growing
pressure to purge illegal immigrants from their work force, but no new options
to bring in temporary foreign workers or help illegal workers become legal.

''It leaves most of our guys in a pretty tough spot,'' said Brewster Bevis,
director of legislative affairs for Associated Builders and Contractors, a
national organization of construction businesses. ''Most of our members are good
actors, they believe the workers they have hired are legal,'' Mr. Bevis said.
''But they wanted this reform so they can sleep better at night and don't have
to fear potentially being visited by ICE,'' the federal Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement agency.

Meatpacking employers were especially concerned about the defeat of the bill.
Senate conservatives who opposed it, backed by a surge of support from irate
voters, said they wanted to secure the nation's borders and crack down on
employers of illegal immigrants before considering legalization measures.

''Immigration policy is divorced from enforcement, and the American employer,
for one, is caught in the middle,'' said Jack Shandley, a vice president at
Swift & Company, a meatpacking company in Greeley, Colo. Immigration agents
arrested 1,282 Swift workers in raids last December that cost the company more
than $45 million in lost production and worker replacement costs.

Leaders on all sides of the unusual coalition of business groups and immigrant
advocate organizations that supported the bill said they would have to hunker
down with a status quo they called dysfunctional.

''More people are going into hiding,'' said Juan Salgado, president of the
Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, based in Chicago, which
works with many illegal immigrants. Mr. Salgado said most illegal immigrants had
family ties to legal immigrants and American citizens and would not be likely to
return to their home countries despite the heightened risk of deportation.

''What it means in practice,'' he said, '' is that every day you get in the car
and go to work to feed the children, but you are thinking: I may not come back.
If they take me what happens to my family?''

Immigrant advocates said many illegal immigrants were not acutely disappointed
because they had  not had high expectations that the bill would pass.

The setback was more significant for the employers, who were represented by the
American Chamber of Commerce and the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition.
Supporting the bill was a tricky proposition for many employers, and their
advocacy remained muted through the debate. They had to call for legalizing
illegal workers without admitting they employed any in their own work sites.

Business leaders said they were troubled to find themselves on the wrong side of
Republican lawmakers who had long been their allies. One of the most active
companies behind the bill was Pilgrim's Pride, the nation's largest chicken
company, with 56,500 workers, based in Pittsburg, Tex. Senators John Cornyn and
Kay Bailey Hutchison, both Republicans of Texas, voted to kill the bill.

Cliff Butler, vice chairman of Pilgrim's Pride, said he was dismayed by calls
from the bill's opponents for stepped-up deportation of illegal immigrants.  ''I
was surprised by how little import was given to the impact of that on millions
of good people, and what it would to our economy to remove that labor force,''
Mr. Butler said. ''They just ignored that totally.''

Farmers and construction contractors said they anticipated labor shortages. They
worried that they would have to continue to rely on the existing system for
verifying the immigration status of new hires, which is known as Basic Pilot,
even though it is error-prone and inefficient. Swift had participated for years
in the program before the raids last year.

Farming and farm worker groups were slightly more optimistic. A proposal for a
temporary worker program for agriculture, known as AgJobs, was incorporated into
the Senate bill. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said she
would seek to revive AgJobs in coming months by attaching it to other
legislation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farmers Call Crackdown On Illegal Workers Unfair

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 812 words


Facing the prospect of major layoffs of farmworkers during harvest season,
growers and lawmakers from agricultural states spoke in dire terms yesterday
about new measures by the Bush administration to crack down on employers of
illegal immigrants.

''This is not just painful, this is death to the American farmer,'' Maureen
Torrey, who runs a family dairy and vegetable farm in Elba, N. Y., said in a
telephone interview.

''We've tried everything we can do,'' Ms. Torrey  said. ''But they are leaving
us with no options.''

At a news conference in Washington yesterday, Michael Chertoff, the secretary of
homeland security, and Carlos M. Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, formally
unveiled the measures, which had been disclosed in general terms earlier, to
reinforce border security and drive illegal immigrants out of the labor force.

The new effort was cautiously welcomed yesterday by conservative Republicans who
defied President Bush in June and opposed a broad immigration bill he supported
that failed in the Senate. That bill included provisions to give legal status to
illegal immigrants and to create a guest worker program for agriculture.

Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican who turned against that bill, said the
measures were ''a long-overdue step to regaining the trust of the American
people that the federal government is serious about securing our borders and
enforcing our laws.''

Under the new rules, employers will have 90 days to resolve discrepancies
between Social Security numbers provided by their workers and the records of the
Social Security Administration.

If the employers cannot obtain valid Social Security information for an employee
within three months after receiving a notice of any discrepancies, they must
fire the worker. Illegal immigrants often present false Social Security numbers
on job applications.

Fines levied on companies for knowingly hiring illegal workers -- currently
$2,200 for a first offense and up to $10,000 for repeat offenses -- will
increase by 25 percent, officials said.

Mr. Chertoff said the ''real hammer'' would be more frequent use by the
immigration authorities of criminal felony charges against employers and illegal
immigrant workers. He said the authorities had made 742 criminal arrests so far
this year in illegal employment cases, compared with 716 such arrests in all of
last year, which was a record.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who has worked closely with
growers, described the new enforcement as a ''catastrophe.''

''The crisis is that crops will not be harvested,'' Mrs.  Feinstein said.

Employers in low-wage industries were critical but guarded, reluctant to admit
openly that they hire illegal immigrants. Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of
the United States Chamber of Commerce, said the measures were ''one more kick in
the pants'' for meat-packing, construction and health care companies that employ
immigrant workers in unskilled jobs.

Farmers were less shy, saying at least 70 percent of  farmworkers are illegal
immigrants.

Ms. Torrey, the New York farmer, and other growers expressed their distress to
White House and Homeland Security Department officials during a conference call
with the National Council of Agricultural Employers, arranged by the
administration to explain the new plan. Ms. Torrey warned that dairy cows would
die from lack of milking if New York farmers had to fire immigrant dairy
workers.

Luawanna Hallstrom, a tomato grower in Oceanside, Calif., who also participated
in the conference call, called the measures ''a train wreck.''

At the Washington news conference, Mr. Gutierrez said part of the new plan was
to streamline the existing agricultural guest worker program, which he
acknowledged was ''not workable.'' But growers said only 2 percent of
farmworkers nationwide came from that program.

Mr. Chertoff suggested that employers should focus their ire on Congress for
failing to pass the broader immigration measure. ''We can be very sure that we
let Congress understand the consequences of the choices that Congress makes,''
he said.

To simplify slightly the burden on employers, Homeland Security Department
officials will reduce the number of documents -- currently 29 -- that they can
accept to verify that a job applicant is authorized to work. They  also pledged
to clean up an error-prone database that employers can use to check a job
applicant's immigration status, and said they would seek to add state driver's
license information to the data.

The administration proposed new rules, which should take effect in a few months,
to require federal contractors and vendors to check their employees through the
database.

To increase border security, beginning Jan. 31, 2008, all travelers entering the
United States will be required to show passports or other secure documents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Answers Sought in Guard Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 891 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 12


A soldier awarded a Purple Heart for service in Iraq and two other Texas
National Guardsmen charged with human smuggling remained in jail in Laredo on
Tuesday as federal authorities expanded their investigation into how 24 illegal
immigrants wound up in a Guard-leased van deep into Texas.

The three guardsmen -- Sgt. Julio Cesar Pacheco, 25, of Laredo, identified by
his lawyer as a wounded veteran of the Iraq war; Sgt. Clarence Hodge Jr. 36, of
Fort Worth; and Pfc. Jose Rodrigo Torres, 26, of Laredo -- were arrested last
week after the immigrants were found in a van driven by Private Torres,
according to a complaint filed in Federal District Court in Laredo.

The complaint said cellphone text messages among the men implicated them in a
smuggling operation, but it did not say how the immigrants were delivered to
them across the Mexican border.

Donald J. DeGabrielle Jr., the United States attorney for the Southern District
of Texas, who announced the arrests Monday, said Tuesday that there was ''no
suggestion of other National Guard involvement at this point.'' Mr. DeGabrielle
declined to say whether the investigation was focusing on a group of Mexican
traffickers, or coyotes, who commonly guide illegal immigrants across the border
for money, but other smuggling cases prosecuted by his office have detailed such
operations.

Mr. DeGabrielle, in an interview, said he could not yet say if any of the
guardsmen were on duty at the time and if so, who was supervising them. ''That's
part of the investigation,'' he said.

In an unrelated corruption case prosecuted by the United States attorney's
office, a former Border Patrol agent, William J. Ferrone, 42, was sentenced
Tuesday in Laredo to 16 months in prison after pleading guilty to transporting
11 illegal immigrants in his vehicle last year.

In March, two former Marine Corps recruiters in Laredo, Victor Domingo Ramirez,
27, and Vic Martine Martinez, 32, were sentenced to prison terms of 16 months
and 12 months for using their positions and uniforms to smuggle immigrants into
the country.

They were not isolated cases. Since the 2004 fiscal year, according to the
inspector general's office in the Homeland Security Department, 282 employees of
Customs and Border Protection working on the border from California to Texas
have been investigated for corruption, 52 of them this year, compared with 66
for all of last year. The office did not say how many cases involved smuggling.
The number of convictions was not immediately available, a spokeswoman, Tamara
Faulkner, said.

Ross Knocke, chief spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said, ''No
law enforcement in the world is immune to these types of circumstances.'' Mr.
Knocke called the cases ''quite rare'' and ''in no way reflective of the
character of our employees.''

The three Texas guardsmen, deployed along the border to assist the Border Patrol
in blocking illegal crossers, were charged with smuggling conspiracy after
Border Patrol agents stopped Private Torres's van and found 24 illegal
immigrants inside, the government complaint said. Earlier, it said, the van had
escaped scrutiny at a checkpoint after Private Torres and Sergeant Hodge
appeared to be discussing Guard business. The complaint said Sergeant Pacheco
was implicated in text messages Private Torres turned over during questioning.

The complaint said that Private Torres had admitted to making seven earlier
trips, for which he was paid $1,000 to $3,500 each, and that the passengers had
paid $1,500 or $2,000 each to be taken to Dallas.

Marcel C. Notzon III, a lawyer for Sergeant Pacheco, said his client would plead
not guilty and questioned whether the messages actually came from Sergeant
Pacheco's phone. Mr. Notzon said he had not seen any evidence, adding, ''The
United States attorney from Houston is trying the case in the media.''

Mr. Notzon said Sergeant Pacheco had served two tours in Iraq and was wounded by
a mortar round in August 2004, later receiving a Purple Heart. ''After he
recuperated, he went back and served again in Iraq,'' Mr. Notzon said, adding
that the sergeant had killed two insurgents and captured a sniper, according to
a commendation he had seen at the family's home in Laredo.

Mr. Notzon said Sergeant Pacheco had no criminal history. ''Obviously, it's a
crime,'' he said of the charge. ''But it's not a serious crime like supplying
cocaine or marijuana.''

He also said that although his client could make the $75,0000 bail, he would
stay in jail in Laredo, to be closer to his family and lawyer rather than fall
under military jurisdiction and be moved to Guard facilities in Austin. The
sergeant is married and has a 9-day-old baby, he said.

Private Torres's family could not immediately be found.

In Fort Worth, Sergeant Hodge's mother declined to comment.

But a neighbor, Tonya Shaw, 34, who grew up on the same street and has known him
since she was 5 years old, called Sergeant Hodge by his nickname, Junebug, and
said she was shocked by the charges. ''Oh, my God, I don't believe this,'' Ms.
Shaw said. ''I just can't see Clarence being involved. It's just out of
character.'' .

''Clarence is your all-American guy,'' she added. ''When they sent him down
there, he didn't complain. All the neighbors will say the same. You'll never
hear anything bad about Junebug.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sgt. Julio Cesar Pacheco earned a Purple Heart, his lawyer says.
(Photo by KGNS-TV, Pro 8 News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 31, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Iraqi Christian Granted Asylum

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 134 words


An Iraqi Christian who used migrant smugglers to enter the United States after
escaping persecution in his home country has been granted political asylum and
will be allowed to remain. The immigration judge, William Peterson, granted a
request from the man, Aamr Bahnan Boles, in Harlingen on Wednesday. Mr. Boles
escaped from Iraq and made his way through Mexico to the Texas border near
Brownsville, where he was captured with two other young Iraqi men as they swam
the Rio Grande in April 2006. They claimed asylum on grounds they were subjected
to brutality and threats in Iraq because of their faith. Mr. Boles served six
months in prison on a charge of illegal entry while the F.B.I. investigated his
claim. In January, he was released and has been staying with a relative in
Sterling Heights, Mich.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Judge Delays Immigrant Law

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 103 words


The town of Farmers Branch may not yet begin enforcing its voter-endorsed law
barring the rental of apartments to most illegal immigrants, a federal judge
ruled. Judge Sam Lindsay of Federal District Court extended his temporary
restraining order blocking the law until June 19, when he plans another ruling
on whether the measure can be enforced while it is subject to legal challenges.
The ordinance requires managers to verify that renters are American citizens or
legal immigrants before leasing to them, with some exceptions. Violators face
fines of up to $500, and each day would be considered a separate violation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

As Congress Turns to Energy, Lobbyists Are Out in Force

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1246 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


Having tried and failed to overhaul the nation's immigration laws last week,
Congress begins what some say is an even more divisive project this week: taming
America's thirst for oil.

With gasoline prices hovering near all-time highs, the Senate on Monday began
debating a sprawling energy bill that has already kicked off an epic lobbying
war by huge industries, some of them in conflict with one another: car
companies, oil companies, electric utilities, coal producers and corn farmers,
to name a few.

Industry groups have raced to sign up influential lawmakers and are nervously
calculating how much regulation they might have to accept from the Democratic
majority in Congress.

''This is going to be harder than immigration,'' said John B. Breaux, a former
Democratic senator from Louisiana who is representing Cerberus Capital
Management, the private equity firm that recently took control of the Chrysler
Corporation. ''This is going to be the mother of all bills. By that I mean, any
one portion of it is important enough to affect completion of the whole bill.''

Detroit's automakers are lobbying hard against tough fuel economy standards, but
they support increased production of ethanol and other alternative fuels.

But Charles W. Stenholm, a former Democratic representative from Texas, is
lobbying on behalf of oil producers and cattle farmers against big subsidies for
corn-based ethanol.

The Senate bill, as well as a similar measure in the House, would force
automakers to increase the fuel economy of their cars and light trucks. It would
require a huge expansion of alternative fuels for cars and trucks as well as
electric power plants. And it is expected to offer as much as $25 billion in tax
breaks over 10 years to promote those fuels.

''Bold steps and big ideas,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader,
said in a speech on Monday. ''The Democratic plan is all about harnessing power:
the clear, renewable power that exists literally all around us.''

Senate leaders have allotted up to two weeks for debate, but that may not be
enough. It took the Republican-controlled Congress four years to pass the last
major energy bill, in 2005, and even that measure almost died because of fights
over a peripheral issue involving a fuel additive.

This time, Democrats are emphasizing renewable fuels, as opposed to the
Republican focus on increased oil production.

But lawmakers from both parties are drafting scores of proposed amendments, many
of which would tilt the competitive advantage of one industry over another, and
some would cost taxpayers billions of dollars.

Some debates are over basic questions that seem obvious but are not. Does
''clean'' and ''renewable'' energy include nuclear power? Should the government
subsidize only ''renewable'' fuels, like wind or ethanol, or should it subsidize
''alternative'' fuels, including coal-based liquids, that might substitute for
oil and reduce dependence on foreign oil?

The clash between rival industry agendas was apparent on Monday. Fifteen trade
associations and companies from the food industry warned senators in a letter
that heavy government subsidies for ethanol would push up prices for corn and
other feed, and thus the cost of food.

''It is essential to carefully weigh the impacts of these policy actions,''
warned the group, which includes trade associations for beef, pork, turkey and
chicken producers as well as big food companies like the H. J. Heinz Company,
the Kellogg Company and Nestle.

Food producers use corn as a feedstock for cattle and poultry as well as an
ingredient in things like baked goods and soft drinks. ''We are in favor of
developing all the alternative energy that we can, but we need to be as
market-oriented as possible,'' said Mr. Stenholm, the former member of Congress
from Texas who now lobbies for oil and farming industries. ''You can't produce
food and feed without oil and gas, and you can't produce oil and gas without
food and feed and fiber.''

As groups jockey for position, the underlying agendas are often less than
obvious.

The Energy Security Leadership Council, which includes the chief executives of
big energy-consuming companies like FedEx and Southwest Airlines, began
broadcasting television advertisements Monday night on CNN, Fox and other cable
news outlets.

The advertisements warn that ''America's enemies understand that oil is the
lifeblood of our economy,'' and strongly support higher fuel-economy standards
for cars and an expansion of ''alternative fuels.''

But the group also supports nuclear fuel as an alternative to coal.
Coincidentally or not, a co-founder of the group is John Rowe, chief executive
of the Exelon Corporation, an electric utility company that is also the nation's
biggest operator of nuclear power plants.

Amid all the complexity of the energy bills, the biggest fights are likely to
center on a handful of issues.

One fight will be over whether to increase the government's mandate for
production of renewable fuels for cars and trucks to 36 billion gallons a year
in 2022 from about 8.6 billion gallons a year in 2008.

President Bush proposed a similar goal in January, but Mr. Bush's mandate could
be satisfied in part with coal-based liquid fuels. The coal industry, which has
political support in both parties, is pushing for the government to guarantee
billions of dollars in loans for coal-to-liquid plants as well as price
subsidies and long-term government purchases.

Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, the chairman of the Energy
Committee and the Senate bill's main author, has opposed big government support
for coal-to-liquid fuels. But House Democrats have already included coal
measures in early drafts of their energy bill.

A second fight will be over increased fuel-economy requirements for cars and
light trucks. The Senate bill would require that cars, pickup trucks and sport
utility vehicles have a combined average mileage of 35 miles per gallon by 2020.
The current requirement is 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 24 miles per
gallon for light trucks.

Car manufacturers are fiercely fighting the measure, though they have agreed to
the general call for higher fuel-economy requirements. The manufacturers are
insisting that light trucks and sport utility vehicles be allowed to meet a
lower mileage standard.

House Democrats are bogged down in a major intraparty battle over a related
issue. A bill drafted by two Democrats, Representative Rick Boucher of Virginia
and Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the chairman of the Energy and
Commerce Committee, would reverse a Supreme Court ruling that directed the
Environmental Protection Agency to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant.

The draft bill has set off a furor among lawmakers, governors and attorneys
general from California and 11 other states that want to impose tough new
restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide.

A third big fight is likely over a section in Mr. Bingaman's bill that would
create a ''renewable energy standard'' for electric utilities by requiring them
to produce 15 percent of their power from renewable sources of energy by 2020.

Electric utilities and coal producers are opposed. Senator Pete V. Domenici of
New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Energy Committee, is expected to offer
a substitute ''clean energy'' standard that would allow utilities to use nuclear
and ''clean coal'' technologies to meet their requirements.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about industry lobbying to shape energy
legislation gave an incorrect identification in some copies for the group that
is running advertisements in favor of expanded use of alternative fuels. It is
the Energy Security Leadership Council, not the National Commission on Energy
Policy. The article also left an incorrect impression in some copies that John
Rowe, the chief executive of the Exelon Corporation, an electric utility company
that operates nuclear power plants, was connected to those advertisements. The
article noted that Mr. Rowe, ''coincidentally or not,'' is a co-founder of the
Energy Security Leadership Council.'' In fact, he is the head of the National
Commission on Energy Policy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, says the Democrats'
plan involves ''bold steps and big ideas'' and focuses on renewable power.
(Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Who Chastised Weeping Asylum Seeker Is Taken Off Case

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words


A New York immigration judge who rebuked a Chinese man for weeping during his
asylum hearing has been rebuked herself by a federal appeals court that took the
rare step of ordering her off the case.

In a decision issued on Friday, a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, in Manhattan, ruled that the judge, Noel A. Ferris, had
mischaracterized the evidence and the demeanor of the asylum seeker when she
ruled his testimony not credible.

The man, Jian Zhong Sun, testified at his asylum hearing in 2004 that the
authorities in China had forced his wife to get an abortion in her first
pregnancy, and that he had been beaten and threatened with sterilization during
her second pregnancy in 1993, causing him to flee to the United States before
his daughter was born.

The court found that Judge Ferris's decision to deny Mr. Sun's claim for asylum
was ''not supported by substantial evidence.''

The court also found ''most troubling'' Judge Ferris's ''note for the record''
that the petitioner's emotional reaction to questions about his daughter was
''way out of proportion.''

Asked about his tears at the asylum hearing, Mr. Sun, a restaurant worker, had
said, ''I'm crying because I have not seen my daughter after 11 years.''

A little later, when Mr. Sun wept again as he answered questions about the
forced abortion, Judge Ferris interrupted the hearing, complaining on the record
of ''the respondent's disproportionate behavior in this courtroom.''

In an interview yesterday, Mr. Sun, a thin man of 43, recalled his despair at
the judge's attitude.

''The judge was very fierce toward me,'' he said through a translator. ''I felt
very painful talking about the abortion. I was very upset and my tears were
coming down my face, and the judge was very impatient. She told me to go out.''

''I felt very disappointed and hopeless, because this was my chance to tell my
story,'' he added. ''I thank God and thank the U.S. government to give me
dignity and give me rights.''

The appeals court generally defers to an immigration judge's assessment of a
petitioner's demeanor, the three-judge panel noted.

But in this case, it said, ''a credibility finding rooted in flawed reasoning
cannot stand.'' Besides rejecting the judge's decision as ''speculative and
conjectural,'' and faulting her exclusion of important documents in the case, it
said her comments and her conduct raised doubts about the fairness and
reliability of the record, requiring that another immigration judge hear Mr.
Sun's case.

Immigration lawyers in New York said they could recall no other case of such a
decision except for Jeffrey S. Chase, another immigration judge in New York
City, who was relieved of court duties in March and assigned to a desk job after
he was repeatedly rebuked by federal appeals judges for his hostile questioning
of asylum seekers.

Judge Ferris, 56, an immigration judge since 1994, has a distinguished legal
background.

She has a track record of granting asylum in nearly half the cases she handles,
but she is also known among courtroom veterans for displays of anger and
impatience. Theodore N. Cox, Mr. Sun's appeals lawyer, said several more appeals
seeking review of Judge Ferris's hostile commentary from the bench were ''in the
pipeline.''

Judge Ferris is not allowed to speak to the news media under Justice Department
rules. Denise N. Slavin, an immigration judge in Miami who is vice president of
the National Association of Immigration Judges, the judges' union, said she knew
of no other federal decision rebuking Judge Ferris for appearing unfair, a
charge that is increasingly being used by asylum seekers across the country.

''It's sort of the issue du jour,'' she said. ''Attorneys see these statements
being made by the circuit, so they latch on to the issue.''

The appeals courts have been overwhelmed with asylum cases since the Bush
administration curtailed an internal immigration appeals process. The federal
judges have complained of a pattern of biased and incoherent decisions and
bullying conduct by immigration judges, who are Justice Department employees,
not part of the independent federal judiciary.

In August 2006, in response to this mounting pressure, Alberto R. Gonzales, then
the attorney general, warned immigration judges that for the first time they
would all face annual performance evaluations and regular oversight to detect
high reversal rates, frequent complaints or unusual backlogs.

A transcript of Mr. Sun's hearing shows that Judge Ferris repeatedly faulted him
for responding ''Sorry,'' ''O.K.'' and ''Yeah'' in English rather than speaking
only in Chinese, and threatened that he would lose his case if he hesitated in
his answers.

Mr. Sun said that he began living with the woman who later became his wife when
she was 22 (the law did not allow her to marry until the age of 23). When she
became pregnant, the principal at the school where she worked in Fujian Province
notified the authorities, who dragged her away for an abortion and beat up Mr.
Sun when he tried to stop them, he said. During her second pregnancy, he
testified, family planning officers issued an order for his arrest after he
resisted sterilization.

Based only on ''improper assumptions,'' ''conjecture,'' or ''her personal
views,'' the appeals court said, the judge rejected this account as implausible.

Even Judge Ferris's supporters in New York acknowledge that she has been known
for reducing people in her court to tears -- not only petitioners, but lawyers,
translators and clerks. But they say her anger is often directed at lawyers who
are not prepared or interpreters who fail to translate properly, and that she
has become more civil in the last year or two.

They also point to her record of granting asylum in 48.5 percent of the cases
she heard between 2000 and 2005. In the same period, one of her colleagues in
New York granted fewer than 10 percent of the cases he heard; another
immigration judge granted 90 percent.

''She can yell all she wants, but at the end of the day she gives people a real
chance to win their case,'' said a veteran immigration lawyer, one of several
who insisted on anonymity for fear of hurting their clients' chances. ''You have
to have a strong constitution.''

Mr. Cox said that waiting for another immigration judge to hear Mr. Sun's case
meant that it might take three more years for it to be decided.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.N. Official Says He's Been Denied Access to U.S. Immigrant Jails

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 335 words


A United Nations human rights official said he was barred from visiting an
immigration detention center in New Jersey yesterday. It was the second time he
was denied access to an American immigration jail on a weeklong monitoring tour.

The official, Jorge Bustamante, the United Nations special rapporteur on the
human rights of migrants, said he was informed over the weekend that his visit
to detained immigrants in the Monmouth County Correctional Institution in
Freehold, scheduled for yesterday, had been canceled. Mr. Bustamante said he had
received no explanation.

Mr. Bustamante was barred from a May 7 visit to the T. Don Hutto Family
Detention Center in Taylor, Tex., where illegal immigrant families, including
children, are held. Officials of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
federal agency in charge of that center, said they canceled the visit because of
a pending lawsuit over conditions there by the American Civil Liberties Union.

In a letter of protest yesterday to Zalmay Khalilzad, the United States
ambassador to the United Nations, Mr. Bustamante said the State Department had
approved his itinerary.

''My interpretation is that someone in the United States government is not proud
of what is happening in those centers,'' Mr. Bustamante said in an interview.

A department spokesman, Bill Strassberger, said he understood that the New
Jersey visit was canceled by the Monmouth County sheriff, Joseph W. Oxley. Mr.
Strassberger confirmed that the State Department had helped arrange Mr.
Bustamante's tour and was disappointed the two visits had not taken place. ''We
want to show we have nothing to hide,'' Mr. Strassberger said.

Undersheriff Cynthia Scott, a spokeswoman for Sheriff Oxley, said Mr. Bustamante
had canceled his visit, declining to accept ''reasonable conditions'' for
access. ''It was canceled by him, not us,'' she said.

Mr. Bustamante was able to visit a federal immigration detention center in
Florence, Ariz. He said it appeared clean and ''well managed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Village Jobs, Illegal Workers and a Mayor in Trouble

BYLINE: By TIM MURPHY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SPRING VALLEY JOURNAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: SPRING VALLEY, N.Y.


On weekday mornings, as you drive on Route 59 into this weather-beaten
working-class village with its crazy-quilt population of African-Americans,
Caribbeans, Latin Americans and Orthodox Jews, you'll commonly see roadside
clusters of immigrant men, all of them Hispanic, waiting to be picked up for day
labor jobs.

Outside the Shell Supervalue Car Wash and gas station, the immigrants have a
gentle foil in the person of Eddi Duckworth, a 45-year-old woman from nearby --
but wealthier -- Nyack.

Every morning, wearing a black T-shirt that reads ''Security'' in bold capital
letters, Ms. Duckworth drives her red Volvo to the Shell station, which pays her
to keep passers-by from hiring the laborers on its property. Ms. Duckworth
politely tells the drivers of idling vans seeking cheap help with landscaping or
construction that they must engage the men from the roadside.

''I want them to be able to work,'' she said Friday morning, gesturing to a
group of about six Latin American men with whom she seems to have developed a
warm rapport despite the language barrier. ''They just can't do it here.''

Illegal immigrants constitute a large, if undetermined, portion of Spring
Valley's population, estimated in 2003 at 23,000 by the United States census.

Federal law, in addition to banning the hiring of illegal immigrants, makes it a
crime for any person or business to assist such hiring -- for example, by
providing space for day laborers to gather while waiting for jobs. But Ms.
Duckworth said the Shell owners were more concerned about complaints that female
customers were intimidated by the sight of the workers and staying away.

The other day, that law ensnared Spring Valley's mayor, a Mississippi-born  man
named George O. Darden.

The local paper, The Journal News, quoted an illegal immigrant as saying that
the mayor had personally hired him and a group of fellow workers for a municipal
job, cleaning out a dilapidated building for demolition. The job was part of the
village's much-touted revitalization of North Main Street, its principal
thoroughfare.

Moreover, the mayor had paid the men $10 an hour, roughly a quarter of what
nonunion workers should receive for such work under state law, according to
State Labor Department officials.

On Friday, the mayor agreed to pay 10 of the laborers the $30-an-hour difference
for their work, according to a spokeswoman for the state agency.

Michael E. Bongiorno, the Rockland County district attorney, said state
officials told him that they would merely censure Mr. Darden, because the
underpayment seemed to be a first-time offense and because the state does not
bar the hiring of illegal workers.

Mr. Darden would not comment, hanging up the phone when reached at home Friday
morning and refusing an interview when approached later at his office.

Instead, a member of the mayor's staff furnished a copy of a statement Mr.
Darden had read at a press conference the day before. In it, he denied that he
''intentionally and knowingly hired undocumented workers on a public works
project.''

But Mr. Darden, who is black, also invoked his family's roots in the segregated
South, saying, ''I know what it means to be poor and out of work,'' and telling
newcomers to Spring Valley, ''the door is as open to your dreams today as it was
to mine when I moved here more than four decades ago.''

On the federal level, however, The Journal News reported Friday that the United
States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York had referred the
case to national immigration control officials. Asked to confirm that, a
representative of the United States attorney said it was the office's policy to
neither confirm nor deny the existence of federal investigations.

Throughout the village on Friday, opinion on the mayor's actions seemed divided,
and many people were hesitant to speak on the record.

Michael, a 35-year-old man who lives and works in Spring Valley and declined to
give his last name, said the men the mayor had hired need to survive. ''But if
they get hurt on the job,'' he said, ''what recourse do they have?'' Of the
mayor, he said, ''I think he should be fined, big time.''

Idling her car in the parking lot of the North Main Street strip mall that
houses the mayor's offices as well as those of several social service groups,
Sandra Oates, who is working on a domestic violence project for the village,
defended Mr. Darden. ''I think he wants to do what's best for the village,'' she
said. ''If they'd had no work, they would have been making zero.''

Down the road, the Humanitarian Project for Day Laborers, which is housed in an
Episcopal church and provides immigrant workers with English classes and other
support services, was closed for July. John Sagala, an owner of the funeral home
across the street, said the Hispanic immigrant population was ''a vital part of
landscaping and snow removal'' in the village.

Few illegal immigrants who were approached on Friday said they knew of the
mayor's misstep. Nearly all mentioned the extraordinary difficulty of finding
work -- even house-cleaning work that might pay as little as $6 an hour --
without legal papers.

And at Tienda Mexicana, a humble store on North Main Street that sells Mexican
DVDs alongside cooking staples like avocados and queso blanco, the owner,
Victoria Ventura, 54,  who said she was arranging her legal papers with lawyers,
insisted that even low wages like that were better than the $5 a day on which
many people must subsist in her native Mexico City.

''Here there's food and schools for our children,'' said Ms. Ventura, a mother
of four. ''Thank God it's better in this country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants seeking day labor often assemble on Route 59 in
Spring Valley, N.Y. The village's mayor hired illegal immigrants. (Photograph by
Susan Stava for The New York Times).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Orders a New Delay On Illegal Worker Rules

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Carolyn Marshall contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 437 words


A federal judge in San Francisco yesterday extended for 10 days a temporary ban
on a central measure in the Bush administration's campaign to crack down on
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

After a two-hour hearing, the judge, Charles R. Breyer of Federal District
Court, strongly suggested that he was leaning against the government in the
case.

The ban further delayed the start of a rule, which establishes steps an employer
must follow after receiving a notice from the Social Security Administration,
known as a no-match letter, reporting that an employee's identity information
does not match the agency's records. According to the rule, originally scheduled
to take effect Sept. 14, if the employee cannot clarify the mismatch within 90
days, the employer would be required to fire the worker or risk prosecution for
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. Those immigrants often provide false Social
Security numbers when applying for jobs.

In an Aug. 31 decision, Judge Maxine M. Chesney, also of the San Francisco
court, delayed the rule from taking effect before yesterday's hearing and barred
the Social Security Administration from sending out about 141,000 no-match
letters, covering 8.7 million employees, which include notices from the
Department of Homeland Security about the rule.

''It is clear to me at this point there would be irreparable harm to the
plaintiffs,'' Judge Breyer commented at the end of the hearing, rejecting the
government's main argument. ''It just seems to me looking at it that this is a
potentially enormous burden on the employer,'' the judge said, adding that he
would issue a ruling within 10 days.

The suit was brought by the American Civil Liberties Union, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
and several San Francisco labor organizations. They were joined by the United
States Chamber of Commerce and several national small business associations.

In court documents, the business groups argued that the impact of the rule in
terms of hiring and training office workers to comply with the new procedures
and deadlines, and firing employees whose discrepancies were not resolved in
time, would be ''substantial, immediate and irreparable.''

The labor organizations said that Social Security's records contained many
errors that could lead to legal workers, including American citizens, being
unjustly fired under the new rule.

The government countered that the rule did not represent any departure from
current immigration laws or impose any new burdens on employers, but was
designed to help employers by clarifying past confusion about what they had to
do to comply with the law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Votes, 64-31, to Retain Temporary Worker Program in Immigration Measure

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22


A comprehensive immigration bill survived a significant test on Tuesday as the
Senate voted to keep a provision that would let hundreds of thousands of
temporary foreign workers enter the country each year.

If the guest worker program, part of the ''grand bargain'' negotiated with the
Bush administration by a bipartisan group of 12 senators, had been stripped from
the bill, the fragile deal could have collapsed.

Despite the vote on Tuesday, supporters of the bill were clearly on the
defensive.

Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, who helped write the bill, said
eliminating the guest worker program would be a ''huge problem'' for the
architects of the proposal.

Mr. Martinez said they ''could live with'' a separate amendment to scale back
the program to 200,000 workers, as proposed by Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat
of New Mexico. Senators from both parties said it was likely that this second
proposal would pass.

Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chief Republican architect of the bill, said
public opinion on the measure was being shaped by ''misconceptions,
misunderstandings and misinformation.''

Mr. Kyl said he received a mixed reception on Tuesday when he described the bill
at a meeting of House Republicans.

''A lot of them are pretty skeptical,'' Mr. Kyl said.

More skepticism and fierce criticism of the bill could greet lawmakers when they
return home for the weeklong Memorial Day recess.

Mr. Martinez said supporters of the bill could use the time to rebut criticism
and correct misinformation about it.

Senators of both parties said their offices had been flooded with telephone
calls from constituents criticizing a provision of the bill that would offer
legal status to most of the 12 million illegal immigrants.

''It's so hard to grapple with this amnesty argument,'' said Senator Dianne
Feinstein, a California Democrat and co-author of the bill. ''Amnesty is
absolute forgiveness of transgressions. This bill is not amnesty.''

The Senate Democratic whip, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, said: ''This bill is
drawing opposition from business, labor, Democrats, Republicans, theists and
nontheists, American League and National League baseball fans. What I'm trying
to say to you is there's more opposition to this bill than support.''

But Mr. Durbin added, ''The force behind this compromise is the understanding
that if we fail, the process ends probably for the next two years.''

The vote on Tuesday was on a proposal by Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of
North Dakota, to eliminate the temporary worker program. His amendment failed,
64-31.

Employers say they want to hire foreign workers because they cannot find
Americans to fill all the jobs in hotels, restaurants, nursing homes, hospitals
and the construction industry.

''How about paying a decent wage?'' Mr. Dorgan asked on the Senate floor. ''You
would find plenty of people to take these jobs.''

Under the bill, 400,000 to 600,000 temporary foreign workers could enter the
United States each year on two-year visas.

Mr. Dorgan said the numbers in the bill understated the size of the program.
Because workers could renew their visas, he said, the number could total 1.1
million in the third year and could grow to 3.6 million in the 10th year.

Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, denounced the guest worker
program, saying it would create a pool of ''desperate low-wage workers'' whom
employers could easily exploit.

The Democrats voting to kill the guest worker program included the majority
leader, Harry Reid of Nevada; the majority whip, Mr. Durbin; Robert C. Byrd of
West Virginia; and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who is seeking her
party's presidential nomination.

Two other Democratic hopefuls, Senators Barack Obama of Illinois and Christopher
J. Dodd of Connecticut, were absent. So was Senator John McCain of Arizona, who
is seeking the Republican nomination.

The Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, defended the program,
saying: ''Temporary workers are obviously needed. We have almost full employment
in this country.''

Unions lobbied against the program. Linda Chavez-Thompson, executive vice
president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the bill would provide employers with ''a
ready pool of labor that they can exploit to drive down wages, benefits, health
and safety protections and other workplace standards.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, usually an ally of organized labor,
rejected such criticism. Mr. Kennedy, the chief Democratic architect of the
bill, said temporary foreign workers would ''get the protections of the labor
laws'' and would be paid at least the local prevailing wages.

Mr. Kyl said the program could expand or shrink in response to the demand for
labor.

''Wouldn't it be better to have a temporary worker program, where everybody is
working within the law?'' Mr. Kyl asked. ''When we need temporary workers to
build houses, for example, we would issue more of these two-year visas. When we
don't need them, we would stop issuing the visas.''

A little-noticed provision of the bill would significantly increase penalties
for immigrants who enter the country illegally or stay beyond the time allowed
by their visas.

Any foreign citizen who unlawfully enters the United States would be permanently
barred from the country and could not receive any benefits under the immigration
laws, except in extraordinary circumstances. People who overstayed their visas
could not receive any immigration benefits for 10 years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Mel Martinez at a news conference where he said the
guest worker program could be scaled back. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 96 words


An article on Saturday about a lottery by immigration authorities to select
applicants for 65,000 visas for highly skilled foreign workers misstated the
requirements employers must meet in order to sponsor the visas, known as H-1B.
For most of these visas, employers must affirm to the Labor Department that they
will pay the immigrant at least the prevailing wage for the job and that hiring
the immigrant would not negatively affect the labor conditions of United States
workers in similar jobs. Employers do not have to show that no American workers
were available for the job.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

No. 2 Senate Republican Calls for Passage of Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


The No. 2 Republican in the Senate made an all-out pitch for support of a
comprehensive immigration bill on Wednesday as the Senate voted to reduce the
size of a proposed guest worker program, infuriating employers.

The Republican, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, was not part of the
bipartisan group of 12 senators who negotiated the ''grand bargain'' on
immigration with the White House. But on Wednesday Mr. Lott defended the deal,
which has come under heavy fire from the right and the left.

''Is the current situation in America with legal and illegal immigration
intolerable and unacceptable?'' Mr. Lott asked. ''Yes. Everybody would agree. Is
this bill better than the current law? Without a doubt, yes. Are we going to
have another opportunity to do this better next year or the next year? The
answer is no. We've got to do it. We've got to do it as good as we can. We've
got to do it right now.

''The only thing that's unacceptable is to do nothing,'' said Mr. Lott, the
Senate minority whip.

Lawmakers of both parties said they had been flooded with telephone calls from
constituents complaining about a provision of the bill that would offer legal
status to most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants.

''The American people are not buying it,'' said Senator Jim Bunning, Republican
of Kentucky.

Many Democrats are upset with other parts of the bill that would establish the
temporary worker program and a new merit-based system for awarding permanent
resident visas, or green cards. The point system would give more weight to job
skills and education and less to family ties.

Under the guest worker program, as originally proposed, 400,000 foreign workers
could have come to the United States each year on two-year visas, and the number
could have increased to 600,000 in response to the demand from employers.

By a vote of 74 to 24 on Wednesday, the Senate approved an amendment cutting the
annual limit on temporary workers to 200,000.

Democrats and labor unions said the temporary workers could be easily exploited
and would adversely affect the wages of American workers.

Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, who proposed the lower limit,
said he doubted that the temporary workers would leave when their visas expired.
And he said the bill was flawed because it provided no opportunity for them to
become lawful permanent residents or citizens.

''The guest worker program is unproven and untested, and I'm very concerned what
it will do to wages in our country,'' Mr. Bingaman said.

Employers opposed any reduction in the size of the guest worker program.

''The Bingaman amendment guts the program,'' said Laura Foote Reiff,
co-chairwoman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, whose members
employ millions of workers in hotels, restaurants, nursing homes, hospitals,
meat and poultry plants and the construction industry.

Members of the employer coalition helped shape the Senate bill, working closely
with lawmakers behind the scenes.

But Ms. Reiff said, ''Our enthusiasm for the bill would be severely dampened''
if the temporary worker program was capped at 200,000.

R. Craig Silvertooth, director of federal affairs at the National Roofing
Contractors Association, said employers were urging Congress to restore some
type of mechanism that would increase the number of temporary workers to meet
demands of the market.

Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chief Republican architect of the bill, said the
deal could unravel without such a mechanism.

Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, weighed in during the Senate debate.
Mr. Obama said the proposed point system was ''the most disturbing aspect of the
bill,'' and he called it ''a radical experiment in social engineering.''

''The point system does not reflect how much Americans value the family ties
that bind people to their brothers and sisters or to their parents,'' he said.
''How many of our forefathers would have measured up under this point system?
How many would have been turned back at Ellis Island?''

The bill requires the hiring of additional Border Patrol agents and the building
of 370 miles of fence along the southern border. It would also establish tougher
penalties for employers of illegal immigrants.

Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said these steps would not
ensure border security. Mr. Gregg offered an amendment stipulating that the
United States must establish ''operational control of the border with Mexico''
before starting the guest worker program.

The Senate approved his proposal by voice vote. Illegal immigrants would still
be able to obtain ''probationary benefits,'' however, allowing them to work in
this country while they applied for full legal status and special ''Z visas.''

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said he regretted having voted
for a 1986 immigration law that offered legal status to illegal immigrants who
entered the country before January 1982. At the time, the Census Bureau
estimated that three million to five million illegal immigrants were in the
country.

''If you reward illegality, you get more of it,'' Mr. Grassley said, and he
predicted that the influx of illegal immigrants would continue.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, chief Republican architect of the
immigration bill, with Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, yesterday.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

High-Tech Titans Strike Out on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR.

Laurie J. Flynn contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24


Bill Gates and Steven A. Ballmer of Microsoft have led a parade of high-tech
executives to Capitol Hill, urging lawmakers to provide more visas for temporary
foreign workers and permanent immigrants who can fill critical jobs.

Google has reminded senators that one of its founders, Sergey Brin, came from
the Soviet Union as a young boy. To stay competitive in a ''knowledge-based
economy,'' company officials have said, Google needs to hire many more
immigrants as software engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists.

The top executives of these and other high-tech companies have been making a
huge effort to reshape the Senate immigration bill to meet their demand for more
foreign workers. But they have had only limited success, as is often the case
when strong-willed corporate leaders confront powerful members of Congress.

The Senate plans to resume work on the bill this week.  Much of the debate will
focus on proposals for granting legal status to illegal immigrants. But the
sections of the bill affecting high-tech industries could prove to be very
important as well.

High-tech companies want to be able to hire larger numbers of well-educated,
foreign-born professionals who, they say, can help them succeed in the global
economy. For these scientists and engineers, they seek permanent-residence
visas, known as green cards, and H-1B visas. The H-1B program provides temporary
work visas for people who have university degrees or the equivalent to fill jobs
in specialty occupations including health care and technology. The Senate bill
would expand the number of work visas for skilled professionals, but high-tech
companies say the proposed increase is not nearly enough. Several provisions of
the Senate bill are meant to enhance protections for American workers and to
prevent visa fraud and abuse.

High-tech companies were surprised and upset by the bill that emerged last month
from secret Senate negotiations. E. John Krumholtz, director of federal affairs
at Microsoft, said the bill was ''worse than the status quo, and the status quo
is a disaster.''

In the last two weeks, these businesses have quietly negotiated for changes to
meet some of their needs. But the bill still falls far short of what they want,
an outcome suggesting that their political clout does not match their economic
strength.

Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, a co-author of a treatise on immigration law, said:
''High-tech companies are very organized. They have numerous lobby groups. When
Bill Gates advocates more H-1B visas and green cards for tech workers, everyone
listens.

''But that supposed influence has not translated into legislative results,'' Mr.
Yale-Loehr, who teaches at Cornell Law School, continued. ''High-tech companies
have been lobbying unsuccessfully since 2003 for more H-1B visas. It's hard to
get anything through Congress these days. In addition, anti-immigrant groups are
well organized. U.S. computer programmers are constantly arguing that H-1B
workers undercut their wages.''

The Republican architects of the Senate bill, like Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona
and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, thought they were doing a favor for
high-tech companies when they proposed a ''point system'' to evaluate immigrants
seeking green cards. The point system would reward people who have advanced
degrees and job skills needed in the United States.

But the high-tech companies were upset because the bill would have stripped them
of the ability to sponsor specific immigrants for particular jobs.

The companies flooded Senate offices with letters, telephone calls and e-mail
messages seeking changes to the bill. Mr. Ballmer, the blunt-spoken chief
executive of Microsoft, Craig R. Barrett, the chairman of Intel, and other
executives pressed their concerns in person.

These advocates have made some gains, which are embodied in an amendment to be
proposed by Mr. Kyl and Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington.

Edward J. Sweeney, senior vice president of National Semiconductor, based in
Santa Clara, Calif., said, ''I've spent many hours in Washington talking with
senators to get their support on this amendment.''

Likewise, William D. Watkins, the chief executive of Seagate Technology, the
world's largest maker of computer disk drives, said he met with five or six
senators two weeks ago.

Under the Kyl-Cantwell proposal, 20,000 green cards would be set aside each year
for immigrants of extraordinary ability, outstanding professors and researchers
and certain managers and executives of multinational corporations. The original
bill would have eliminated the existing preference for such workers.

In addition, the amendment would give employers five years to adjust their
hiring practices to the new ''merit-based'' point system for obtaining green
cards.

''For the first five years, employers would still have a say,'' Ms. Cantwell
said in an interview. ''They could recruit the best and the brightest.''

The number of green cards for employer-sponsored immigrants would gradually
decline, to 44,000 in the fifth year from 115,000 in each of the first two
years. No green cards would be set aside for employer-sponsored immigrants after
that.

Many high-tech companies bring in foreign professionals on temporary H-1B visas.
The government is swamped with petitions. On the first two days of the
application period in April, it received more than 123,000 petitions for 65,000
slots.

The Senate bill would raise the cap to 115,000 in 2008, with a possible increase
to 180,000 in later years, based on labor market needs.

Many high-tech businesses want to hire foreign students who obtain advanced
degrees from American universities, and many of the students want to work here,
but cannot get visas.

Under current law, up to 20,000 foreigners who earn a master's degree or higher
from an American university are generally exempt from the annual limit on new
H-1B visas. The Kyl-Cantwell proposal would double the number.

The amendment would also establish a new exemption, providing 20,000 additional
H-1B visas for people who have earned advanced degrees in science, technology,
engineering or mathematics from a university outside the United States.

The technology companies face a serious challenge from a different direction, as
lawmakers of both parties worry about possible abuses in the H-1B program.

Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic whip, and Senator Charles
E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, have a proposal that would overhaul the H-1 B
program and give priority to American workers. Their proposal would also define,
in great detail, the wages that must be paid to workers who have H-1B visas.

Mr. Durbin contended that some companies have used foreign workers to undercut
the wages of American workers. And in some cases, he said, foreign workers come
to this country for a few years of training, then return home ''to populate
businesses competing with the United States.''

''The H-1B visa program is being abused by foreign companies to deprive
qualified Americans of good jobs,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''Some companies are so
brazen, they say 'no Americans need apply' in their job advertisements.''

High-tech companies said that the wage standards in the Durbin-Grassley proposal
would, in effect, require them to pay some H-1B employees more than some equally
qualified American workers who are performing the same duties.

The Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said
that thousands of H-1B workers have been paid less than the prevailing wage.

One company, Patni Computer Systems, agreed this month to pay more than $2.4
million to 607 workers with visas after Labor Department investigators found
that they had not been paid the wages required by federal law. The company's
global headquarters are in Mumbai, India, and its American operations are based
in Cambridge, Mass.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             July 31, 2007 Tuesday

Chef Daniel Boulud Settles With Worker Activists

BYLINE: ADAM B. ELLICK

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 424 words



HIGHLIGHT: An $80,000 settlement by the restaurateur Daniel Boulud settles a
complaint by immigrant workers.


The celebrity chef Daniel Boulud has agreed to pay $80,000 to settle allegations
by eight former and current immigrant workers that his elite Manhattan
restaurant, Daniel, practiced racial discrimination in deciding promotions.

The Times reported today on the legal settlement, which was reached on Monday,
but the amount of the settlement was not disclosed until this morning, by the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which was a party to the complaints by
the eight workers. One of those workers had filed a complaint with the
commission in 2005; seven other workers filed a federal lawsuit last December.

As The Times explained in January, the allegations opened a window on a touchy
subject: whether high-end restaurants keep darker-skinned workers in
lower-paying kitchen jobs, and away from the patrons. "Racism is a vicious
charge," Mr. Boulud said at the time, denying the accusations, as he still does.
"It is too easy to accuse someone of that, and it is very hard to defend
yourself."

In the settlement reached on Monday, Mr. Boulud did not admit guilt.

The settlement represents another victory for the Restaurant Opportunities
Center of New York, a group that has its origins in Windows of the World, the
high-grossing World Trade Center restaurant that was destroyed on 9/11.

With a mixture of legal action and street protests, the Restaurant Opportunities
Center has come up with what has seemed to be an effective formula for battling
high-end restaurants. So far, it has won nearly $400,000 for immigrant workers,
including the $80,000 that Mr. Boulud has agreed to pay.

Through industry word of mouth, immigrant workers have approached the center
with complaints including racial discrimination  and misappropriation of tips.
The Restaurant Opportunities Center typically assembles a gathering of activists
- most of whom do not work in the restaurant business but are active in causes
for immigrants and working people - who storm the accused restaurant at
dinnertime, issuing a letter demanding negotiation.

The Restaurant Opportunities Center has been particularly successful in taking
its cause to the street, with routine and rowdy protests outside of restaurants.
The activists have used megaphones to carry their message - sometimes crude and
profanity-laden - and even deployed an inflatable 12-foot cockroach.

Several businesses have been targeted in such a fashion, including the Fireman
Hospitality Group, which owns Cafe Fiorello, the Redeye Grill and Shelly's, and
Smith and Wollensky, the steakhouse and oyster bar.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit Takes Aim at Rules On Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
21

LENGTH: 123 words


The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Central Labor Council of Alameda County in California,
the American Civil Liberties Union and other legal groups filed a lawsuit
challenging new rules from the Department of Homeland Security that would force
employers to fire illegal immigrant workers. The rules, announced Aug. 10, give
employers 90 days to dismiss workers whose Social Security numbers do not match
the records of the Social Security Administration. The suit charges that because
there are inaccuracies in the agency's records, the rules would threaten jobs of
American citizens and legal immigrants. It seeks to stop the agency from sending
out a round of letters to employers starting next Tuesday  that would include a
notice about the new rules.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protecting Farmworkers

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 418 words


The continuing national purge of illegal immigrants has, as expected, caused a
shortage in the supply of immigrant labor. Industries that depend on cheap
foreign workers are feeling withdrawal pains. Crops have rotted and fields have
gone to weeds.

The Bush administration is doing its part, raiding homes and annoying federal
courts with crude and destructive workplace enforcement tactics. But now it is
also quietly looking for ways to minimize the damage it has done, and keep its
business friends happy, by overhauling a visa program to bring in more
farmworkers. This is not necessarily a good thing.

The main legal route for agricultural guest workers -- the H-2A visa program --
has serious problems that need fixing. But the government, which has solicited
recommendations from farm groups on how to streamline the program, must not let
industry lobbyists dictate the changes. Doing so could erode an already thin
layer of protections for workers who do some of the country's most punishing,
backbreaking jobs.

Farm lobbyists have sent the administration a wish list of regulatory and
administrative changes that they say will lift unduly cumbersome barriers to
participating in and expanding the H-2A program. That program now hires about
50,000 people a year, about 2 percent of the agricultural work force. But the
barriers are there for good reasons. They require farmers to give guest workers
free housing and decent wages, and to take certain steps -- like running
newspaper ads -- to prove they have tried to hire Americans first. The industry
wants to relax those hiring requirements, to charge workers for housing, to pay
them less and to widen the range of jobs they do to include poultry processing
and meatpacking.

Labor advocates who have spent years fighting for basic protections for
farmworkers believe, with good reason, that the industry is looking to exploit
the immigration crisis. There is a better way.

Congress should pass a bill known as AgJobs, a bipartisan measure with broad
support in the farm industry and among farmworker organizations. It streamlines
the H-2A program, but also includes a path to earned citizenship for
farmworkers, an important step to curb exploitation in an industry
overwhelmingly made up of easily fired, easily abused undocumented workers. Its
carefully negotiated compromises are just the kind of approach to immigration
reform the country needs -- not the heavy-handed half-measures that make up the
current shambles of federal policy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Progress on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 498 words


Two important words to remember in the immigration debate in Congress are
''triggers'' and ''touchback.'' During last year's ill-fated wrangling, the
terms made the supporters of comprehensive reform bristle. The first refers to
tough border-security benchmarks that the nation would have to meet before other
parts of reform would kick in. The second refers to the requirement that illegal
immigrants leave the country -- even if only touching down briefly over the
border -- before re-entering on a legal footing.

Opponents of both concepts saw them as ways to sabotage a good bill. Triggers
were seen as a way to start right away on the popular fence-building and other
border-sealing measures sought by Republicans while delaying, possibly forever,
the more humane elements of reform: a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants
and temporary visas for new workers. The touchback provision was seen as just
another unnecessary hurdle for immigrants, proposed to satisfy hard-liners.

The good news is that in this year's debate, triggers and touchback have become
potential areas of compromise. It remains true that maliciously devised triggers
can be too onerous, but as The Wall Street Journal reported, Democrats are now
saying that they are open to well-written trigger provisions, since that could
give a bill broader support among Republicans. Reassuring Americans that border
security is improving is reasonable, as long as achieving the benchmarks is not
the sole and ultimate aim. Republican leaders, to their credit, have backed away
from the narrow, enforcement-only approach that disgraced their efforts last
year.

Triggers and touchback have already been conceded by the supporters of
comprehensive reform; a bill in the House, the Strive Act, sponsored by
Representatives Jeff Flake and Luis Gutierrez, would require immigrants to leave
the country and return within a six-year span. It's not ideal, but if a
touchback provision is manageable and reassures people that illegal immigrants
are indeed going to the back of the line, then it will be defensible.

The possible breaking of the stalemate was only part of the good news in recent
days. The other part came in the form of research showing Americans way ahead of
the hard right on immigration reform. The USA Today/Gallup poll found that 78
percent favored earned citizenship.

If passion and conviction were all it took to make good legislation, this
problem would have been solved long ago. But progress on an issue this difficult
requires hard compromises. With the 2008 presidential election barreling up like
a semi -- objects in mirror are closer than they appear -- time pressures have
focused people's attention. Difficult details still need to be worked out, such
as whether illegal workers will have to wait years for the current immigration
backlog to clear before getting on a citizenship path, and whether family
members will be excluded. But the outlines of a bipartisan deal are becoming
clearer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Pace of Deportation Rises, Illegal Families Are Digging In

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

DATELINE: NEW BEDFORD, Mass.


The day after his wife was deported to their home country, Honduras, Lilo Mancia
grieved as though she had died.

Neighbors arrived with doughnuts and juice for their two small children, while
Mr. Mancia, an illegal immigrant like his wife, Maria Briselda Amaya, took
telephone calls from relatives and tried not to break down.

''The first thing I thought of was the children,'' Mr. Mancia, who is fighting
his own deportation order, told the visitors gathered in his second floor walkup
apartment in New Bedford a couple of weeks ago. ''The future we imagined for
them, it all collapsed.''

Last year on May 1, hoping to influence Congress to adopt legislation making
illegal immigrants legal, hundreds of thousands of immigrants held marches and
work stoppages across the country. This May 1 there will be another round of
rallies and marches, but this time immigrants will also be protesting a surge in
deportations.

The events are expected to be much smaller than a year ago, organizers said, as
stepped-up enforcement by the authorities has made illegal immigrants wary of
protesting in public and more doubtful that Congress will soon act to give them
a chance at legalization.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials, facing intense political pressure
to toughen enforcement, removed 221,664 illegal immigrants from the country over
the last year, an increase of more than 37,000 -- about 20 percent -- over the
year before, according to the agency's tally.

While President Bush and many Democrats have called for a path to legalize some
12 million illegal immigrants, a significant number of Republicans in Congress
reject the plan because they view it as amnesty for lawbreakers. They advocate a
broader campaign of deportations that would expel many illegal immigrants and,
they say, drive millions more to give up and go home.

''We are not calling for I.C.E. to become the Gestapo knocking on doors in the
middle of the night,'' said Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations for
NumbersUSA, a group in Washington that seeks to curb immigration. ''But we have
to increase the likelihood that if you are here illegally you will be caught.''

So far, many of the deportations have caused illegal families to hunker down and
plot ways to avoid detection and resist deportation, not run voluntarily for the
border, immigrant advocates said. In Massachusetts, immigration agents have been
challenged by lawyers, labor unions and state officials who question their raid
tactics and are fighting trench by legal trench to block deportations.

Mr. Mancia was amazed at the offers of help he received, including from the
Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition, the state's Department
of Social Services and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

Mr. Mancia has been given emergency aid to pay his bills while his deportation
case proceeds, and Elizabeth Badger, a public service lawyer in Boston, was
still fighting his wife's deportation after she was on the ground in Honduras.

''I'm not going anywhere,'' Mr. Mancia declared defiantly to a downstairs
neighbor. ''I'm going to stand my ground here until I win.''

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials say their priority is to locate
and deport fugitive immigrants with criminal records or convicts who are
finishing prison sentences. Still, thousands of illegal immigrants like the
Mancias with no criminal history have been caught in raids, the officials
acknowledge.

Also, new expedited procedures have allowed agents greater flexibility to deport
illegal immigrants caught in border areas, bypassing court hearings. Many
immigrants, when caught, agree to leave voluntarily because it means they are
not barred from returning legally in the future.

Seen from the working class communities like New Bedford, the deportations are a
blunt instrument. Frequently the deported immigrants were not alone in the
United States, but came from families with a mix of legal and illegal members
who were well settled in this country.

A growing number of deportee families have children who were born here and are
United States citizens. (The Mancia's younger son, Jeffrey, was born in Texas.)
More than 3.1 million American children have at least one illegal immigrant
parent, said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.

Mr. Mancia and his wife were among 361 workers arrested on March 6 in an
immigration raid at Michael Bianco Inc., a leather goods factory in this faded
manufacturing town. She remained in detention while he was released to care for
their boys, Jeffrey, 2, and Kevin, 5.

On April 18, Ms. Amaya was awakened at 4 a.m., driven by immigration agents to
Kennedy Airport in New York and placed on a passenger flight to Honduras, Mr.
Mancia said. Telephoning her husband as soon as she could place an international
call, she said little, only that she was disoriented and more afraid of her home
country than an American jail. She has no house, property or job in Honduras.

''She has no words right now,'' Mr. Mancia said, explaining why his wife refused
to be interviewed by telephone.

Mr. Mancia has been left to fight off his own deportation and face a series of
difficult choices.

He must decide, he said, whether to press his case in the United States or
declare defeat and take the boys to rejoin their mother in Honduras. If forced
to depart, he will weigh whether to leave his sons with friends in New Bedford
to get a quality of schooling he believes they will not have in Honduras. Mr.
Mancia said he and his wife had decided to leave their home in San Pedro Sula,
Honduras, for their safety, because criminal gangs used the streets as a combat
zone. Ms. Amaya's sister was on a public bus returning from Christmas shopping
on Dec. 23, 2004, when gang gunmen shot it up, killing her and 27 other
passengers, he said.

''We walked over dead bodies in Honduras,'' Mr. Mancia said. ''The children see
that and they don't grow up well.''

He was the first to come to the United States, crossing at night at Laredo,
Texas. In January 2005 Ms. Amaya took the same route, carrying Kevin, then a
toddler. Caught by the Border Patrol, she applied for political asylum and was
released temporarily. After Jeffrey was born in Houston, they came to New
Bedford. Her asylum petition was eventually denied.

Stitching military backpacks in the Bianco factory at $7.00 an hour, the couple
achieved stability that felt almost like prosperity. They bought a white
aluminum kitchen set and a microwave oven. Kevin was content in kindergarten,
reciting his ABC's and chattering in English, which neither parent speaks.

Soon they had a family cluster in New Bedford, as three other relatives from
Honduras, drawn by word of jobs at Bianco, came to work there as well.

''We knew it would be hard to get legal papers,'' Mr. Mancia said. ''Since so
many people were in the same situation, we learned to live like the rest.''

After the March 6 raid, immigration lawyers appealed Ms. Amaya's asylum case and
she became optimistic. But she remained in immigration detention in the Bristol
County jail, unable to receive visits from the children.

''He is refusing to eat and needs to be coaxed to take sustenance,'' Arthur
Dutra, a teacher at the John Hannigan School, wrote in a March 15 letter about
Kevin's condition. ''He asks for his mother repeatedly.''

A nurse at the Greater New Bedford Community Health Center, Jacqueline Arieta,
wrote in a separate letter that Jeffrey was having recurring earaches and losing
his appetite due to ''acute sadness.''

A gaunt man with a mild voice, Mr. Mancia said he did not mind cooking for the
boys or washing their clothes at the Laundromat. He said he and his wife,
balancing two factory jobs, had learned they both had to do housework.

The help he has received in fighting his deportation has allowed him to believe
that he might avoid his wife's fate, even though he has no papers, no job skill
to offer other than hard work and very limited legal avenues to pursue. Although
Jeffrey is an American citizen, he would not be able to petition for his parents
to be admitted to the country legally until he was 21.

Mr. Mancia said he was preparing for any outcome, even the prospect of a
separation from one or both sons so they could remain at least temporarily in
the United States.

''My son is an American,'' Mr. Mancia said ''He needs to be educated in American
schools, to speak English. He needs this country.''

Ms. Jenks, of NumbersUSA , said the responsibility for the impact on children of
the deportations rests with their parents.

''If parents are going to come here illegally, unfortunately the child faces the
consequences as well,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Mancia and Kevin making a visit to a law office in New
Bedford, Mass.
Lilo Mancia, above, has received many calls and visits of support since his
wife, Maria Briselda Amaya, was deported to Honduras and is now fighting his own
deportation. His son Kevin, 5, below left with a letter from his mother, has
been refusing to eat. The Mancias' son Jeffrey, 2, shown in a photograph with
Ms. Amaya and Kevin, has also lost his appetite because of ''acute sadness,'' a
nurse wrote. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 In the early morning hours of April 18, customs officials sent Lilo Mancia's
wife, an illegal immigrant, back to Honduras. Mr. Mancia, shown with his son
Jeffrey, is still fighting a deportation battle of his own. (Photo by Robert
Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators Reach Outline on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1188 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 8


Key senators said Tuesday that they had agreed on the outlines of a bipartisan
bill that would toughen border enforcement and provide a path to legal status
for illegal immigrants.

But they remain deeply divided on many details, lawmakers and Congressional
aides said, and it remains unclear whether a deal can be reached by Monday, the
deadline set by Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader,
for putting a compromise bill on the floor.

A group of Republican and Democratic senators and senior Bush administration
officials have been negotiating intensively for the last several months to see
if a bipartisan deal is possible this year on immigration, a politically
volatile issue that has exposed fissures between and within the parties.
President Bush, eager for a big second-term domestic accomplishment, has been
pushing for legislation that he can sign, but his own party has been wary of any
compromise that is seen as being too lenient toward the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in the United States.

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said negotiators had reached
what they called a ''grand bargain.'' It includes a series of triggers, Mr.
Specter said, that require new border security measures to be up and running
before the start of any programs to give legal status to people in the country
illegally.

Points of continuing contention include the severity of penalties that illegal
immigrants would have to face to seek legal status; whether temporary guest
workers should be allowed an avenue to stay and become citizens; and what family
members future immigrant workers should be allowed to bring to the United
States, Senate aides and administration officials said.

Mr. Specter said there was agreement that illegal immigrants would ''have to
earn being on the citizenship path,'' by, at minimum, paying back taxes, showing
they had a substantial period of employment in the United States and learning
English.

The package also includes expanded temporary worker programs for both low- and
high-skilled workers; severe sanctions on employers who hire illegal immigrants;
and new identification methods and verification programs to ensure that
immigrants who seek jobs are authorized to work, Mr. Specter and other lawmakers
said.

Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, called it ''a pretty good skeleton
of a bill.'' But senators said it was highly unlikely they could complete any
bill in the next few days to meet Mr. Reid's deadline. As of Tuesday there was
no working draft of what would be a huge measure, they said.

The negotiations to overhaul the nation's foundering immigration system have
been surprisingly quiet, substantive and bipartisan, participants say. Almost
every day, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff either worked the phones
or hunkered down for several hours behind closed doors with lawmakers led by
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the liberal Massachusetts Democrat, and Senator Jon
Kyl, the conservative Arizona Republican, trying to hammer out what would be the
broadest revision of the immigration laws in two decades.

Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez also joined in, as did Senators John Cornyn
of Texas and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, both Republicans, and Senator Ken
Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, among half a dozen others. Often staff aides were
sent out of the room, leaving only senators and cabinet officials to go head to
head over hard points of difference.

''By nature of hours invested, it's hard to conceive of any other piece of
legislation during the Bush presidency where they have been more committed and
more involved,'' Mr. Martinez said, referring to the administration.

Staff aides and analysts said the discussions had moved beyond some demands made
by conservatives last year, with widespread deportation of illegal immigrants no
longer part of the discussion.

In the Senate, ''the debate about amnesty is coming to an end,'' said Tamar
Jacoby, a senior fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute, referring to
the term Republicans used last year to reject Mr. Bush's plan to grant legal
status to illegal immigrants. ''The debate has shifted to much more important
ground: Are we going to create an immigration system going forward that deals
with our labor needs in a legal way?''

There is also new agreement on requiring illegal immigrants to leave the United
States, at least briefly, to start obtaining legal status, a step that was
rejected by Democrats last year.

Mr. Kennedy does not agree with Republican negotiators on provisions introduced
by the White House that would shift the priority of the immigration system to
supplying the nation's labor needs, by sharply reducing chances for legal
immigrants to bring parents and siblings.

For Mr. Bush, immigration is an issue where his views resonate with centrist
Democrats, giving him perhaps his best chance at a major piece of bipartisan
legislation in his second term, analysts said. It might also help the
Republicans regain some of the ground lost with Latino voters in last year's
elections.

''Comprehensive immigration reform means that we've got to be humane about the
nearly 11 or 12 million people who are already here,'' Mr. Bush said last week
to Hispanic evangelical pastors here, one of several recent speeches in which he
has called for ''neither amnesty nor animosity'' in dealing with illegal
immigrants.

A difference in the talks this year is the leading role played by Mr. Kyl,
taking over the role of his fellow Arizona senator, John McCain, who has become
less visibly active on the issue as he has campaigned for president, often
encountering criticism from Republicans for his proposal to grant legal status
to illegal immigrants. Mr. Kyl had been far more skeptical than Mr. McCain of
granting legal status to illegal immigrants, and last year he and Mr. Cornyn
offered a plan openly countering Mr. Bush's proposals for legalization.

This year Mr. Kyl has taken a flexible, pragmatic approach, aides said. But he
insisted that a new temporary worker program should not become a route for
immigrants to become permanent residents and citizens, say Congressional aides.

On Tuesday Mr. Kyl said that a bipartisan agreement was within reach. ''I think
we can get there, so I think we need to keep working at it,'' he said.

Mr. Reid said he would initiate procedures on Wednesday to bring some form of
immigration bill to the floor by Monday. If there is no new bipartisan bill,
Democrats said they might re-introduce the one that passed the Senate last year.

Senate Republicans will gather later this week to hear the results of the
negotiations so far, and Mr. Kyl said he would like more time for the talks.

In the House, six staunch opponents of any legal status for illegal immigrants,
including Representatives Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, and Steve King,
Republican of Iowa, wrote an open letter criticizing the Senate proposals for
overhaul. Those measures would ''pardon immigrant lawbreakers and reward them
with the object of their crimes,'' Mr. King said at a news conference.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Churches To Offer Sanctuary

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words


Recalling a movement that challenged United States policy in Central America in
the 1980s, several religious congregations in New York and other cities will
announce a campaign Wednesday to provide sanctuary to illegal immigrants who
face deportation.

As of Tuesday, the organizers of what is being called the New Sanctuary Movement
said that five churches in New York City had already offered assistance to two
families -- one from China and one from Haiti -- and would provide them with
shelter if the federal government moved to enforce the deportation orders filed
against them.

''We're launching now because we're fed up with detentions, deportations and
raids,'' said the Rev. Dr. Donna Schaper, the senior minister of Judson Memorial
Church in Greenwich Village. ''We felt it was not morally possible to remain
silent.''

Dr. Schaper and a half-dozen other religious leaders are scheduled to gather
this morning at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle, a Roman Catholic parish at
405 West 59th Street, near Columbus Avenue, to announce their participation in
the campaign.

Other announcements about the New Sanctuary Movement are scheduled in Chicago,
Los Angeles, San Diego and Seattle, and the organizers said that prayer vigils
supporting the effort would be held in other cities.

The campaign comes as Congress and the Bush administration wrangle over
immigration reform. President Bush and many Democrats have called for a path to
legalize some 12 million illegal immigrants, but a significant number of
Republicans in Congress advocate a broader campaign of deportations.

''We don't expect any easy answers, but we believe the moral issues have to be
lifted up,'' said the Rev. David Rommerein, the pastor of the Lutheran Church of
the Good Shepherd in Brooklyn, which has been debating how it can help the
campaign.

Juan Carlos Ruiz, one of three national coordinators of the New Sanctuary
Movement, said one inspiration for the project was the case of Elvira Arellano,
a Mexican woman who came to the United States illegally in the 1990s and who has
been living under sanctuary at a Chicago church since August.

In New York, three Lutheran churches in Brooklyn have been looking after one
immigrant family, while Judson Memorial and the Riverside Church in Manhattan
have been monitoring the deportation case involving another, organizers said.

A sanctuary movement news release said one of the families is headed by Joe
Liang, 26, and his wife, Mei Xing, 25, who have two children -- one 15 months
old, the other 2 months old -- who were born here.

Mr. Liang, who buses tables at a Manhattan restaurant, said yesterday that he
came to the United States from China 10 years ago, seeking asylum. ''We lost our
case,'' he said. ''That's why we have a deportation order. Many people in our
situation, even our caseworker, says the system is not right. Thank God we have
the church leaders who are willing to help us out.''

The second family lives in Brooklyn, the organizers said. The husband, who would
identify himself only as Jean, 38, fled Haiti in 1986. He had a green card but
was ordered to be deported because of a drug conviction.

Dr. Schaper, of Judson Memorial Church, said the movement organizers were
motivated by an increase in detentions and deportations. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials recently reported that they removed 221,664 illegal
immigrants over the last year, an increase of more than 37,000 over the year
before.

''The increase is less the problem than the actual fact of it,'' Dr. Schaper
said. ''We felt, why is anybody being detained or deported?''

It was not immediately clear whether the government would send agents into
churches that harbor immigrants or what legal standing they would have to do so.

''We certainly understand, as does everybody, that nobody is above the law and
that removal orders are issued by a federal judge, and they are something that
should be complied with,'' Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement in the Department of Homeland Security, said in an
interview.

Religious leaders say the notion of providing sanctuary is rooted in American
tradition. Churches provided sanctuary to help blacks escape slavery and
draftees avoid serving in the Vietnam War.

But in the 1980s, when churches were involved in efforts to resettle Central
Americans fleeing civil wars, the federal government said the
church-as-sanctuary tradition had no standing in American law. Eight church
workers were eventually convicted of criminal conspiracy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators in Bipartisan Deal On Broad Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JIM RUTENBERG; Reporting was contributed by Michael
Cooper, Michael Luo and Marc Santora from New York, and Jeff Zeleny from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


Senate negotiators from both parties announced Thursday that they had reached
agreement on a comprehensive immigration bill that would offer legal status to
most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants while also toughening border
security.

If the bill becomes law, it would result in the biggest changes in immigration
law and policy in more than 20 years. That would provide President Bush with a
political lift and a tangible accomplishment for his second term. It would also
be a legislative achievement for the new Democratic leaders in Congress, though
they said they would seek changes in the measure.

At the heart of the bill is a significant political trade-off. Democrats got a
legalization program, which they have sought for many years. Republicans got a
new ''merit-based system of immigration,'' intended to make the United States
more competitive in a global economy.

But the politics of the deal are precarious. Democrats are already trying to
tamp down concerns of Hispanic groups, who fear that the bill would make it more
difficult for immigrants to bring relatives from abroad. At the same time,
Republican negotiators face blistering criticism from some conservatives, who
say the bill would grant a virtual amnesty to people who had broken the law.

Mr. Bush praised the Senate measure, which incorporates many of his ideas,
saying, ''I really am anxious to sign a comprehensive immigration bill as soon
as I possibly can.''

The bill goes next week to the Senate floor, where negotiators predicted that it
would receive overwhelming support. One reason for that optimism was the
partnership in evidence at the news conference where the package was announced
by 10 senators, including Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, a liberal
Democrat, and Jon Kyl of Arizona, a conservative who is chairman of the Senate
Republican Conference.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, came off the presidential campaign
trail to embrace the compromise, a potentially risky step because the proposal
is unpopular with many conservatives, who are expected to play a large role in
choosing the party's presidential candidate.

The measure's prospects are less clear in the House, which plans to take up
immigration in July.

Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic
Caucus, said, ''Unless the White House produces 60 or 70 Republican votes in the
House, it will be difficult to pass an immigration bill similar to the Senate
proposal.''

Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California and a former chairman of
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said he had grave concerns about the Senate
bill.

''It's a pretty radical shift to go to an employment-based visa system as
opposed to a family system,'' Mr. Becerra said in an interview. ''You will
continue to have close family members separated from their loved ones because of
this policy.''

The bill includes a temporary-worker program, under which 400,000 to 600,000
foreign workers could be admitted to the country each year.

Mr. Becerra said the proposal would create ''a permanent underclass of imported
workers to fill American jobs.''

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, offered cautionary words as
well, saying: ''I have serious concerns about some aspects of this proposal,
including the structure of its temporary-worker program and undue limitations on
family immigration. We need to improve the bill as it moves through the
legislative process.''

Mr. Kennedy has acknowledged that the agreement is not the immigration bill he
would have written in another political environment. But on Thursday he said,
''The agreement is the best possible chance we will have in years to secure our
borders and bring millions of people out of the shadows and into the sunshine of
America.''

Besides creating a path toward legalization for illegal immigrants, the bill
would strengthen the border through the addition of more fencing and other
security measures and an increase in the number of Border Patrol agents.

The deal sets the stage for a rare victory for Mr. Bush, who set a goal of
establishing a new immigration system at the start of his presidency but saw it
stymied by his own party.

As the governor of Texas, Mr. Bush had seen firsthand the challenges of border
security and the lengths to which impoverished Mexicans were willing to go to
enter this country illegally. What he depicted as ''a rational immigration
system'' -- one that would offer a temporary-worker program and a way for those
who have set up working lives here illegally to become citizens -- was a major
part of his ''compassionate conservative'' agenda.

But the Sept. 11 attacks derailed his plan, and by the time he set out to enact
it in his second term conservatives were livid over what they called deplorably
inadequate efforts to secure the border. That anger, repeated nightly on talk
radio and by the CNN host Lou Dobbs, remains, and is seen within the Republican
Party as a motivating force for conservative voters in the next presidential
election.

As soon as the agreement was announced, players on both sides of the immigration
issue rolled out their defense and their offense.

Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, defended the proposal in a
television appearance on ''Lou Dobbs Tonight,'' whose host has become one of the
most vocal critics of Mr. Bush's immigration policy.

Mr. Dobbs opened the program by calling the deal an apparent victory for ''the
pro-illegal-alien lobby.'' The administration was ''hellbent on creating a North
American union without the consent of the American people,'' he said, and the
plan could ''threaten national sovereignty and security as well.''

John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., denounced the bill from a
different angle, saying it would create ''a massive guest worker program.''

''All workers will suffer because employers will have available a ready pool of
labor they can exploit to drive down wages, benefits, health and safety
protections and other workplace standards,'' Mr. Sweeney said.

Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said he would offer an
amendment to eliminate the guest worker program from the bill.

Under the merit-based system envisioned in the bill, the government would adopt
a point system to evaluate the qualifications of many people seeking permission
to immigrate. Points would be awarded for job skills, education and English
language proficiency.

Negotiators emphasized that foreign-born spouses and minor children of American
citizens would continue to receive preference in the allocation of visas.

Moreover, they said, family ties would be an advantage in the proposed point
system. If two applicants had the same skills and the same educational
credentials, but one also had relatives in the United States, that person would
receive the visa.

The negotiators insisted that the legalization program was different from
amnesty because illegal immigrants would have to pay fines and go through
background checks. They could work in the United States under probationary
status and could receive renewable four-year ''Z visas.'' Heads of households
would have to return to their home countries to apply for green cards if they
wanted to become lawful permanent residents and then citizens.

Many of the presidential candidates reacted cautiously to the agreement.

Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, said he ''did not want to prejudge
the deal'' before he had an opportunity to study the legislation. Mr. Obama said
that he favored strengthening border security and creating a pathway to
citizenship, but that he was troubled by the temporary-worker system and the
proposed point system.

''Those two things represent significant changes,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Whether
they work to stabilize the immigration system and whether they are just and
human is something that I'm still concerned about.''

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, said she had not had an
opportunity to review the proposal.

Mrs. Clinton said she would examine the proposal ''to see if it honors our
nation's principles and proud immigrant heritage while also respecting the rule
of law.''

John Edwards, another Democratic candidate, said he had concerns about parts of
the proposal, including a ''poorly conceived guest worker program.''

Among the major Republican contenders, immigration has been a potentially
troubling issue for Mr. McCain and Rudolph W. Giuliani because of their previous
stances.

Another Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor,
issued a blistering denunciation of the proposal, saying it was ''unfair to the
millions of people who have applied to legally immigrate to the U.S.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edward M. Kennedy at news session with, from left, Dianne
Feinstein, Mel Martinez, Saxby Chambliss, Johnny Isakson and Ken Salazar. (Photo
by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)
President Bush
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, left
 and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez after immigration statement. (Photo by
Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A20)  Chart: ''Immigration Legislation in
Recent Years''  Proposed new Senate bill would:  U.S.-MEXICO BORDER SECURITY:
Construct 370 miles of fencing and 200 miles of vehicle barriers. Place 70
groundbased radar and camera towers. Deploy four unmanned aerial vehicles.
BORDER PATROL: Hire 18,000 Border Patrol agents with additional field and
investigative agents. Deploy ''resources to detain up to 27,500 aliens per day
on an annual basis.'' End the practice of ''catch and release.'' WORKSITE
ENFORCEMENT: Require employers to electronically verify new hires within 18
months and all existing employees within three years. Benchmarks above must be
met before  elements below are begun. GUEST WORKER PROGRAM: Create program for
400,000 to 600,000 temporary workers per year to fill jobs for which American
workers cannot be found. Workers can be admitted for two years and renew twice,
provided they spend one year outside the U.S. between admissions. LEGALIZATION
OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: Allow illegal immigrants to work in the U.S. while
applying for renewable four-year visas. Visa holders could apply for green cards
but would have to pay fines. Head of household would have to return to the home
country to file application.  Senate Bill, May 2006, would have:  U.S.-MEXICO
BORDER SECURITY: Called for limited ''double- or triple-layered fencing.''
Provisions were added for 350 miles of border fencing and 500 miles of vehicle
barriers between the two countries. BORDER PATROL: Increased the number of
Border Patrol agents by 2,400 each year through 2011. Hired at least 500
port-of-entry inspectors over three years. WORKSITE ENFORCEMENT: Required
employers to electronically verify new hires within 18 months. GUEST WORKER
PROGRAM: Created a temporary worker program for up to 200,000 per year, with a
path to legal residence for those outside the U.S. Employers who sought to hire
foreign workers would have been required to seek an American worker first.
LEGALIZATION OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: Given illegal immigrants who had lived in
the U.S. for two years or more a path to citizenship. Illegal immigrants who had
been here less than two years would have been required to leave the country.
They could have applied for the guest worker program, but they would not have
been guaranteed acceptance.  House Bill, Dec. 2005, would have:  U.S.-MEXICO
BORDER SECURITY: Constructed ''at least two layers of reinforced fencing'' as
well as ''physical barriers, roads, lighting, cameras and sensors'' along about
700 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border. BORDER PATROL: Hired more Border Patrol
agents ''as expeditiously as possible,'' adding to the current force of nearly
12,000 agents. Hired at least 250 port-of-entry inspectors for each of the next
three years. WORKSITE ENFORCEMENT: Required employers to electronically verify
new hires within two years and all existing employees within six years. GUEST
WORKER PROGRAM: No such provisions. Eliminated the Diversity Visa Lottery
Program, which makes 50,000 visas available in a lottery to people from
countries with low rates of immigration to the U.S. LEGALIZATION OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS: No such provisions.  (Source by Senate staff documents)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

With an Immigration Compromise Committed to Paper, the Time for Scrutiny Begins

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1186 words


The debate over a sweeping bipartisan immigration bill got off to a fiery but
confused start yesterday, since few lawmakers, and even fewer people around the
country, had seen the full text of the proposal.

The compromise bill that emerged last Thursday from weeks of closed-door
discussions among Senate leaders and two cabinet secretaries -- Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez --
was more than 300 pages long.

As late as the predawn hours Sunday, it was still being revised and tweaked by
weary staff members for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat
who is a chief author, and for other lead negotiators.

It is an ambitious package made up of interlocking components intended to work
together to create a new immigration system that will secure the nation's
borders, provide a path to legal status for an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants, halt illegal immigration in the future, reduce backlogs for
immigrants who have waited to settle in the United States legally, and offer a
temporary work force of skilled and unskilled workers for employers in the
future.

Following is a breakdown of what the bill does, and where critics have said it
falls short:  BORDER SECURITY AND TRIGGERS -- The bill would greatly toughen
border enforcement, eventually doubling the Border Patrol to 28,000 agents.
Several border enforcement measures, known as triggers, must be in place before
a temporary worker program can begin, and before illegal immigrants can gain
their first legal visas. The triggers include installation of at least 370 miles
of border fence and 200 miles of vehicle barriers.

For another trigger, the Department of Homeland Security must create a new,
fraudproof system to verify the legal status of all job applicants. Penalties
for employers who hire illegal immigrants would be greatly increased, to $5,000
for a first offense and up to $75,000 and even jail for repeat offenses.
Department officials estimated it would take 18 months to put the triggers in
place.

The criticism: Border enforcement is not especially controversial. But employers
say it is not realistic to expect that the new employee verification system will
be ready in 18 months.  LEGALIZING IMMIGRANTS -- The bill proposes a new kind of
visa, a Z visa, for immigrants who were in the United States before Jan. 1,
2007, without legal papers.

In a first stage, to begin six months after the bill became law, illegal
immigrants would come forward to register with the Department of Homeland
Security. Registration would be confidential, department officials said, and
would be open for a one-year period. Once registered, immigrants would be on
probation -- they could work legally but would not be able to travel freely
outside the United States.

In a second stage, after the triggers were in place, former illegal immigrants
could complete their applications for Z visas, paying penalties. A family of
four immigrants, for example, would have to pay fines and fees of at least
$4,500. Administration officials said these could be paid in installments.

Illegal immigrants' immediate family members who are already in the United
States would qualify for Z visas, but they could not bring any family members
from home. They can travel outside the United States and, after paying a $1,500
fee, renew the Z visa once every four years.

After eight years, once the backlog of legal immigrant petitions is cleared, Z
visa holders could apply to become legal permanent residents. They would have to
show that they spoke English and pay an additional $4,000 fine. They would also
have to return to their home countries to file the application for permanent
status, but would not have to remain there while it was in process. It would
take at least 13 years for a former illegal immigrant to become a United States
citizen.

The criticism: Many Republicans reject this program as an amnesty that rewards
immigrants who broke the law. Grass-roots immigrant groups and lawyers who
support granting legal status have assailed the fines as too high for working
families. The bill's authors argue that the cost is less than what immigrants
are now paying smugglers, or coyotes, to bring them across the border.

''I'm not sure that whether it is cheaper than a coyote is the economic standard
we want to set,'' said Benjamin Johnson, director of the Immigration Policy
Center in Washington, a nonpartisan research group.

The requirement that applicants for permanent residence return home first is an
unfair hardship for people from distant countries like China and the
Philippines, said Marshall Fitz, director of advocacy at the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.  TEMPORARY WORKER PROGRAM -- After the triggers
were in place, the bill proposes, there would be a vastly expanded program
offering at least 400,000 visas a year for immigrants outside the country who
want to come here temporarily to work. In a shift from recent decades, the
program would include large numbers of nonagricultural workers, including
meatpackers, landscapers and construction workers and those in other low-wage
but high-demand occupations.

Employers would have to show that they tried to recruit American workers before
they could hire temporary immigrants, and they would have to pay the same wages
they would pay Americans.

Immigrants could change jobs, but only to another employer certified to
participate in the program. They could come for three stints of two years each,
but would have to leave the United States for a year between each stint. They
would also have to pay for health insurance for any family members they brought.

They would not be allowed to apply to become permanent residents through the
program, but a good temporary employment record would help them if they wanted
to apply through a separate merit program.

The criticism: Employers say this plan fails to meet their needs for
high-skilled workers, and places too much control in the hands of government
bureaucrats. Democrats and union officials say it will create a vulnerable
underclass of workers.  FAMILY AND MERIT-BASED VISAS -- The bill designates as
many as 440,000 visas a year to reduce the backlog of 4 million foreigners with
family ties to the United States who have been waiting in the bureaucratic
pipeline as long as 22 years, with the goal of eliminating the backlog in 8
years.

It sets up a new point system that would be applied to a growing proportion of
future immigrants. Points would be earned for job skills, education, English
proficiency and employment history. In the first years, as much as 80 percent of
immigration would still be based on family ties. After the backlog is cleared,
merit-based immigration would gain importance.

The criticism: Legal immigrants say the backlog reduction is too slow and
discriminates against those who are trying to bring immediate family members
from overseas. Immigration advocacy groups and the Roman Catholic Church say the
merit system undermines the traditional family basis of the system in favor of
high-skilled immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The immigration bill, finished Sunday, runs to more than 300
pages. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Debate, in Full Cry

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1047 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Immigration Deal'' (editorial, May 20):

Your arguments are sound and clear. The progressive bloc has yielded entirely
too much to the anti-immigrant and produced an accord that is unjust and
unworkable. I would add here, also, that comprehensive immigration reform must
include discussion on issues of trade and serious economic assistance to poorer
countries that will genuinely help them develop viable economies and other
social structures.

Until that happens, nothing will change the flow of men and women into our
country in their effort to maintain their human dignity and that of their
families. Until that happens, we owe them whatever assistance we can offer. The
legality of their presence is irrelevant to the more basic human and divine
demand that we look after our brothers and sisters in need.  (Rev.) Andrew P.
Connolly Manorhaven, N.Y., May 20, 2007  To the Editor:

Most of the ''braying'' you accuse illegal immigration opponents of doing is
present in this editorial. ''Brittle hard-liners,'' ''Know-Nothings'' and
''homegrown zealots'' demonizes anyone with legitimate concerns about illegal
immigration, a process that has contributed to overcrowded schools, prisons,
unreimbursed health and social services, and has increased our population of
poor people. But it has provided a bonanza for slumlords and employers who want
a constant stream of low-paid workers.

Those are not American traditions, and where is it written that it is the
nation's ''duty'' to welcome people who do not respect our borders or
immigration policy?  Keith F. Kramer Green Bay, Wis., May 20, 2007  To the
Editor:

Family reunification is the single largest source of legal immigration to the
United States and should be limited to spouses and minor children only for
several reasons.

First, many immigrants bring in aged parents, at first promising to support
them, and then later renege on their promises and place their aged parents, who
never worked a day in the United States, on Social Security disability and other
social services.

Second, by bringing in a sibling or an adult child, the sponsoring immigrant
sets off chain migration, beginning with the sponsored immigrant's immediate
family. His spouse can then eventually bring in her parents and siblings, thus
lengthening the chain.

Some of these siblings or children may have been brought in to work in small
family businesses. Since these family members are dependent upon the good will
of their sponsors, it is unlikely that they will complain about hours, wages and
working conditions and may accept a room in the sponsor's house as part of pay,
adding to overcrowded housing.

Finally, by family reunification we are allowing people who have been in the
United States for a relatively short amount of time and who may hold citizenship
in their country of origin as well as the United States to have more say about
whom we allow into this country than people whose ancestors fought and died in
our wars, survived our tough economic times, built the United States into the
world power that it is today, paid taxes for generations, and who owe allegiance
to the United States alone. Is this wise?  Deena Flinchum Blacksburg, Va., May
20, 2007  To the Editor:

Whatever immigration plan is adopted, it will be expensive, but the editorial
does not address financing. A fair and realistic shot at the American Dream
should be affordable and sustainable for a chance to hit the mark.

Employers who exploited cheap labor promoted illegal immigration. They should
contribute to the financing of the plan.  Olivier de Messieres Boyds, Md., May
20, 2007  To the Editor:

Regarding ''the bad'' in the immigration deal, please explain how this country
can afford to allow extended family members of currently illegal ''migrants'' to
come here.

Given that there are approximately 12 million illegals who could be granted
legal status under the proposed legislation, there could be dozens of additional
poor and unskilled relatives allowed to follow each illegal. The resulting
millions of additional immigrants would put a burden on social services that
would certainly be overwhelming.

As it is, just try going to a hospital emergency room in an area with many
illegals. Just who is going to subsidize this burden and how? Why is it this
country's ''obligation'' to accept all these immigrants?  Michael Molesworth
Tucson, May 20, 2007  To the Editor:

A major tenet of the current immigration bill is based on a false premise that
United States borders are out of control. The Mexican government has exported
its unemployment problem for many years, and what is out of control is the
Mexican border.

With that shift in emphasis, the current immigration bill should not concern
itself with an elaborate United States barrier or increased patrols; rather, the
bill should demand of our Mexican neighbors that they secure their own border.

An effective inducement would modify Nafta agreements and put a stiff surcharge
on Mexican imports for each illegal immigrant who crosses the Mexican border
into the United States. It could be made even more effective by progressively
doubling the surcharge for any recidivist illegal immigrants. Further incentive
would be to rapidly reduce the surcharges as soon as Mexico has put its house in
order.  P. G. Kosky Cumming, Ga., May 20, 2007  To the Editor:

Thank you for bringing to our attention the good, the bad and the awful of the
deeply flawed compromise between the White House and the Senate. Touted as a
''grand compromise,'' it is neither ''grand'' nor much of a ''compromise.''

We pride ourselves as a nation that upholds family values. Yet our laws keep the
nuclear families of lawful permanent residents apart in excess of five years.
The legislation does not address this glaring unfairness of our immigration
system; it only worsens an already very bad law.

Further, the legislation erodes family unity for United States citizens and
their relatives. While we need to bring illegal residents into the mainstream,
under no circumstance should we do it by denying speedy family unity to those
who have obeyed the laws of the land.  Parminder Chhabra Cambridge, Mass., May
20, 2007  The writer is a co-founder of UniteFamilies.org.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lewis Scott)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

TAX FILINGS RISE FOR IMMIGRANTS IN U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words


With the tax deadline approaching, illegal immigrants are sending in federal
returns in what appear to be record numbers despite fears heightened by recent
immigration raids around the country.

The increase in filings comes amid talk of an immigration overhaul, with some
proposals introduced in Congress linking amnesty to the payment of taxes. Many
illegal immigrants showing up at tax preparation offices around the country say
they hope that filing a return will create a paper trail that could lead to
citizenship one day.

In Raleigh, N.C., a tax preparer found 350 immigrants waiting outside his office
at 7 a.m., including one dragging a suitcase that held $14,000 in cash for back
taxes. In Baltimore, a community agency offering free tax help that was deserted
the day after 69 people were rounded up in immigration raids elsewhere in the
city was crowded again within 24 hours.

And a help center in Queens did record business among illegal immigrants like
Dionicio Quinde Lima, who has worked in construction strictly off the books
since he arrived from Ecuador three years ago, but was eager to join the fold of
United States taxpayers last week.

''I feel it's my responsibility to pay,'' said Mr. Lima, 39, clutching a $202
money order for the Internal Revenue Service. ''And if it helps me get papers,
fine. The most important would be a permit to travel back and forth to see my
family.''

Illegal immigrants do not have Social Security numbers, but the Internal Revenue
Service allows them to file taxes by assigning applicants individual taxpayer
identification numbers. The numbers were introduced in 1996 to encourage
noncitizens with United States income, including foreign investors, to file
returns. It is generally accepted that most of the 11 million numbers issued
since then have gone to illegal immigrants.

The I.R.S., which does not ask about immigration status, is barred from
divulging taxpayer information, with very limited exceptions, to other agencies,
like the Department of Homeland Security.

In the 2005 tax year, the last for which such data is available, 1.9 million
returns were filed with the primary taxpayer's using an individual taxpayer
number, known as an ITIN, up 30 percent from 2004.

Applications for the numbers spiked last year, with 1.5 million new ITINs issued
through the beginning of November, more than any full year since the program
started.

Nancy Mathis, a spokeswoman for the I.R.S., said the agency did not know the
reason for the increase, but added, ''It is likely due to more effective
outreach by community organizations and proposed legislation last year linking
payment of taxes to eventual citizenship.''

In 2005 alone, more than $5 billion in tax liability -- the total owed,
including money withheld from paychecks during the year -- was reported in the
2.9 million returns that listed at least one person with an ITIN, she said. And
between 1996 and 2003, such filers reported nearly $50 billion of tax liability.

Organizations pushing for stricter immigration enforcement have criticized the
use of the individual numbers by illegal immigrants, saying that allowing them
to file returns, pay taxes and receive refund checks legitimizes their illegal
presence. But the I.R.S. says it is just doing its job as a tax collector, and
is not an immigration enforcement agency.

''Clearly, we maintain a separation between the two systems,'' Mark W. Everson,
the commissioner of the I.R.S., said recently. ''We want your money whether you
are here legally or not and whether you earned it legally or not.''

And because most immigration bills make the payment of back taxes a prerequisite
for legal status, that message seems to be getting through more clearly than
ever.

''Right now there's quite a stampede going on in many areas, including mine,''
said Blaire Borthayre, a consultant in Hispanic marketing based in Raleigh who
described early-morning crowds gathering outside Family Tax Service, her
husband's tax preparation business. ''It's word of mouth.''

One client, she said, was a Mexican man who lugged in a suitcase holding
$14,000, cash he had set aside to pay his taxes over six years of work as a
landscaper. Like many, he had only recently learned that he could file a
legitimate tax return, said Ms. Borthayre, who is the author of several books on
tax preparation with ITINs.

Like Social Security numbers, individual taxpayer numbers have nine digits, but
all begin with a ''9.'' The appeal of the numbers grew as they were accepted in
some places as alternative identification to open a bank account, qualify for
credit or even obtain a driver's license -- all uses that the I.R.S. opposed and
has tried to curb, Ms. Mathis said.

Since 2003, applications for an ITIN must be accompanied by a tax return, with
few exceptions. And to avoid confusion with a Social Security card, the I.R.S.
now sends a letter assigning a number, instead of a card.

Those changes did not mollify critics like Mark Krikorian, director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which opposes bills that would let some longtime
illegal residents achieve legal status.

''First of all, almost all the people filing tax returns are doing it because
they're going to get tax refunds,'' Mr. Krikorian said. ''It's a bad thing,
because they're not obeying the law -- they're deciding which laws they prefer
to obey. If they were interested in demonstrating their law-abiding nature, they
would pack up and go home.''

At a senior center in Jackson Heights, Queens, where Mr. Lima waited with an
envelope decorated with an American flag and the label ''Important Tax
Records,'' organizers of the free tax-help program said that ITIN refunds were
much less common there than tax bills.

Of 1,700 ITIN returns prepared there between mid-January and early April,
two-thirds of the filers owed money, said P. J. Kim, director of income policy
at Food Change, a nonprofit agency in New York City that uses laptops and
software lent by the I.R.S. The average income was $9,400 a year, the average
tax bill was $623 and the highest was $7,275.

Mr. Lima said that he had been a police officer for 16 years in Ecuador, before
the country's economic crisis left him unable to support his wife and three
daughters on his wages. He sent them about half the $12,000 he made last year,
he said. ''I'm not afraid,'' he added. ''I really don't feel I'm doing anything
wrong. I'm working and I'm paying taxes.''

Others are afraid, but file anyway, said Lourdes Montes-Greenan, Latino services
manager for the nonprofit East Harbor Community Development Corporation in
Baltimore, where a day of immigration raids around that city disrupted tax
preparation, even though the group's office was not raided.

''The day after the raid, nobody showed up in the office,'' Ms. Montes-Greenan
said. ''People were scared.'' Yet by the end of the week, she added, the flow of
taxpayers was as high as ever.

''They say they want to be compliant,'' she said. ''In case immigration reform
comes, they want to be ready.''

Another reason for a surge in ITIN filers, Ms. Borthayre suggested, is that tax
preparation chains like Liberty Tax Service and H & R Block are waking up to the
market, and are learning to navigate the complications. Under tax treaties with
Mexico and Canada, for example, ITIN filers can even claim deductions for
dependents who live in those countries, reducing their taxable gross income by
about $3,300 per child, she said. But children must have their own ITINs to be
listed, fueling demand that has pushed the price per application as high as $200
at some unscrupulous mom-and-pop operations.

''People are desperate,'' she said. ''They believe immigration reform is either
here or on its way.''

In the Queens center, Ana Andrade, 32, from Mexico, had other incentives. She
presented a W-2 form that showed withholding of more than $3,000 from the
$24,000 she had earned as a cook in a Manhattan restaurant, at $10 an hour. Like
more than seven million such W-2 forms nationwide, hers bore a false Social
Security number.

No problem, the senior tax specialist explained. Her return would be filed under
her ITIN, with the problematic W-2 form, and the I.R.S. would simply credit her
wages to her ITIN. The result: a $2,000 refund, based mainly on child credits
for her two American-born children, 9 and 10.

Ms. Mathis of the Internal Revenue Service said that if the name on the W-2
matched the name on the ITIN, the return would be processed.

At the next table, Elsa Forero, 35, from Colombia, knew no refund was possible.
She watched anxiously as a tax specialist and a volunteer parsed her cash wages
as a baby sitter and her deductions for two children, including a 4-year-old son
born in New York. The bottom line: She had to pay the federal government $579,
but could expect a state tax credit for $115.

''I want to pay taxes because I live in this country and I like to follow the
rules,'' she said.

And how would she pay?

''Little by little,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An illegal immigrant from Ecuador waits in Queens for tax help.

 In a Queens senior center, Elsa Forero, an immigrant from Colombia, gets tax
aid from John Quing of Food Change, a nonprofit agency. (Photographs by Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

8 Illegal Immigrants Die in Utah Crash

BYLINE: By MARTIN STOLZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, April 16


Eight men died Monday after a sport utility vehicle carrying a driver and at
least 14 other illegal immigrants rolled over on a remote desert highway in
southeastern Utah, the authorities said.

''This has all the earmarks of an organized smuggling operation,'' said Virginia
Kice, a spokeswoman for the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.
''For smugglers, these aren't human beings; they're human cargo.''

The driver of the vehicle, an eight-passenger Chevrolet Suburban, apparently
swerved about 3:30 a.m. and lost control, said Trooper Preston Raban, a Utah
Highway Patrol spokesman in Salt Lake City.

The truck rolled several times on a straight and flat stretch of Utah State
Route 191, about 11 miles north of the Arizona border near Bluff, Utah, Trooper
Raban said. All the passengers were ejected from the vehicle.

Ms. Kice said the occupants, who were all men, were illegal immigrants from
Mexico and Guatemala.

Lt. Todd Peterson of the patrol's southeastern Utah division arrived at the
scene shortly after the accident. ''There wasn't a mirror or piece of glass left
in the vehicle,'' Lieutenant Peterson said.

The driver, the only occupant wearing a seat belt, ran away, the authorities
said. San Juan County sheriff's deputies followed his footprints through the
desert for nearly eight miles and found him hiding in the brush, Lieutenant
Peterson said.

The driver was identified as Rigoberto Salis-Lopez, 30, of Guatemala. Mr.
Salis-Lopez was taken into custody by immigration authorities.

Six of the passengers died at the scene, Lieutenant Peterson said, and two more
died later at hospitals in Arizona and Colorado. One passenger remained
hospitalized in critical condition.

Trooper Raban said identifying the dead and notifying relatives in Latin America
had been complicated because none of the passengers had identification, nor did
they appear to be related or even to know one another. Mexican consular
officials have been assisting, he said.

Excessive speed did not appear to have contributed to the crash, Lieutenant
Peterson said. Investigators suspect that the driver may have fallen asleep or
turned sharply to avoid a coyote or a large farm animal.

The driver could be charged with fleeing the scene of a crime under Utah laws,
but any criminal case would be handled through the federal courts by immigration
officials.

New federal sentencing guidelines allow for ''very, very severe penalties'' in
smuggling cases that result in death, Ms. Kice said.

The agency and local law enforcement officials in Utah and elsewhere have seen
an increase in smuggling cases, often involving similarly overloaded vehicles
that have compromised handling and safety, Ms. Kice said.

More smugglers are also traveling at night to avoid detection, adding to risk of
drivers' falling asleep, she said.

The Suburban, which had not been reported as stolen, was legally registered to a
man in Mesa, Ariz., Trooper Raban said.

Ms. Kice said the agency hoped to ''take the case farther up into the
organization'' of the smuggling operation.

In the nation's worst human smuggling disaster, 19 passengers were found dead of
suffocation, heat and thirst in a sealed tractor trailer on May 14, 2003, in
Victoria, Tex.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The authorities speculate that a fatal crash yesterday in
southeast Utah involved a smuggling operation. (Photo by Trooper Charles
Taylor/Utah Highway Patrol, Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shifting Tone on Immigration, Candidate Giuliani Talks Tough

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and SAM ROBERTS; Marc Santora reported from Des Moines,
and Sam Roberts from New York.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, April 16


Rudolph W. Giuliani is a long way from Ellis Island.

A decade ago, as mayor of New York, Mr. Giuliani used that historic backdrop to
champion the cause of immigrants, calling attacks on people who came here
legally a blow to ''the heart and soul of America.'' And from City Hall he often
defended illegal immigrants, ordering city workers not to deny them benefits and
advocating measures to ease their path to citizenship.

But now he is running for president, and the politics of immigration in the
post-9/11 world is vastly different, with the issue splitting the Republican
Party and voters peppering Mr. Giuliani on the campaign trail with questions
about his current thinking. Perhaps more than any other candidate, Mr. Giuliani
has a record on immigration with the potential to complicate his bid for the
nomination.

In contrast to his years as mayor, when he fought federal efforts to curtail
public hospital or educational services to illegal immigrants, he now talks of
penalties for people here illegally and requirements for them to wait at the
back of the line. And while he once pushed policies like providing schooling for
the children of illegal immigrants by saying, ''The reality is that they are
here, and they're going to remain here,'' now he emphasizes denying amnesty.

In the 1990s, Mr. Giuliani saw the city's great number of immigrants as integral
to the work force and a politically potent key to the resurgence of a struggling
New York. Now, his aides say that his basic thinking has not changed, but that
his emphasis has shifted to reflect the times.

''Immigration reform has to begin with border security because we are a nation
at war,'' said Anthony V. Carbonetti, a senior political adviser who has worked
with Mr. Giuliani for 15 years. ''He is still very proud that people want to
come to this country.''

For now, Mr. Giuliani is relying on his reputation as a law-and-order mayor to
convince voters that he will crack down on illegal immigration. He also
sprinkles his comments with nods to his past statements, saying he would welcome
immigrants willing to learn the language, respect the culture and follow the
law.

As he campaigned across the country in recent weeks, Mr. Giuliani, whose
grandparents came from Italy, never brought up the subject of immigration
unprompted, but voters have kept the issue before him. In his first extensive
town hall meeting here in Iowa last Saturday, he was asked twice about his
views. And other Republican candidates are also pressing the issue.

At the annual Lincoln Day dinner here last Saturday, Representative Tom
Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, received some of the loudest applause from the
1,000 party loyalists in attendance as he railed against illegal immigrants.

''We are destroying the concept of citizenship itself,'' Mr. Tancredo said.
''America, and indeed Western civilization, are in a crisis.''

Without mentioning him by name, he took Mr. Giuliani to task for past policies
that have ''encouraged more illegals to cross our borders.''

When Mr. Giuliani was asked to clarify his views on immigration at the town
meeting, he emphasized enforcing the law but stayed away from any kind of
blanket condemnation of illegal immigrants.

Mr. Giuliani's approach is similar to the one proposed by President Bush,
advocating an orderly flow of immigrants by providing a clear path to
citizenship and thereby easing the pressure at the border.

Like Mr. Bush, Mr. Giuliani emphasizes the need for tough border controls. He
said he wanted to help those who are already in America become citizens, but he
is quick to highlight that he is not in favor of amnesty, which leading
Republican candidates dare not endorse.

''First thing is, there should be no amnesty,'' Mr. Giuliani said in response to
a reporter's question in Atlanta recently. Amnesty means varying things to
various candidates. For Mr. Giuliani, it means no blanket forgiveness of illegal
status.

Immigration has been a difficult issue for all the major Republican candidates,
and they have responded to it in notably different ways.

Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, was the only one of the three
leading Republican contenders to mention the issue at the Lincoln Day dinner,
pressing an increasingly restrictive view.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who until recently joined Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, in pushing for a compromise in
overhauling immigration, has moved away from a lead role on the issue in the
Senate.

In Mr. Giuliani's case, his aides acknowledged that most voters do not know how
aggressive he was as mayor in pressing for ways to allow more immigrants into
the country.

It was a role he seemed to cherish, becoming a national leader for the cause of
welcoming immigrants in the 1990s. To the surprise of many people in both
parties, he also spoke passionately about helping those here illegally become
citizens, advocating for $12 million to start a city agency that would assist
those seeking citizenship. He vigorously defended the city's policy of
forbidding city employees, including police and hospital workers, from asking a
person's immigration status.

As other anti-immigration movements spread across the country in 1990s, Mr.
Giuliani consistently pushed back. ''The anti-immigration issue that's now
sweeping the country in my view is no different than the movements that swept
the country in the past,'' he said in 1996. ''You look back at the Chinese
Exclusionary Act, or the Know-Nothing movement -- these were movements that
encouraged Americans to fear foreigners, to fear something that is different,
and to stop immigration.''

These days, when he says he opposes amnesty, Mr. Giuliani says he does not mean
that the millions of people here illegally should be deported, but rather, that
they should have to earn their citizenship and that nothing should be accorded
automatically.

On the campaign trail, he says the first order of business must be to try to
identify the 12 million immigrants who are here illegally and issue them
''tamper-proof'' identification cards.

Then, he said, they should start paying taxes. If they want to become citizens,
they should have to ''get on the back of the line,'' he said.

''And then, at the end of the line, if they are ever going to become citizens,''
he said, ''the thing I am really interested in, they have to read English, write
English, speak English and be able to understand the basics of American
civics.''

Mr. Giuliani has been wrestling with immigration issues since well before he was
mayor. When he worked in the Justice Department under President Ronald Reagan,
he defended the administration's policy of keeping thousands of Haitian refugees
in detention centers and denying them asylum.

When he first ran for mayor in 1989, with immigration a potent subject in city
politics, Mr. Giuliani moved quickly to distance himself from that policy, and
embraced a role as both a spokesman and protector of new immigrants through his
power as mayor.

Jack Martin, special projects director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which lobbies for strict immigration enforcement, said that
in Mr. Giuliani's case, many of his organization's 250,000 members and advocates
''certainly are aware of the statements he has made in the past, extolling the
virtues of immigrants in general and illegal immigrants to the economy of New
York City.''

These days, Mr. Giuliani frames the issue as one of national security. But as he
talks about immigration on the campaign trail, Mr. Giuliani suggests that his
core beliefs have not changed much since his days as mayor, often quoting a
speech Abraham Lincoln gave in the 1850s.

''He made a beautiful speech in which he said the best American is not the
American who has been here the longest or the one who just arrived,'' Mr.
Giuliani said recently. ''It is the one who understands the principles of
America the best because we are a country held together by ideas.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rudolph W. Giuliani spoke to students at Texas A&M University in
College Station on Friday. As a presidential candidate, he emphasizes different
immigration issues than he did as mayor of New York. (Photographs by Brian
Harkin for The New York Times)(pg. 25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: City Won't Aid Immigration Officials

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 86 words


Police officers and other city employees will not help federal immigration
authorities seeking to round up and deport illegal immigrant workers in San
Francisco, Mayor Gavin Newsom said Sunday. The mayor told a predominantly
Hispanic audience at St. Peter's Church that while city and state officials
could not stop Immigration and Customs Enforcement from conducting sweeps in the
city, he would do everything within his power to discourage them. ''We are a
sanctuary city, make no mistake about it,'' Mr. Newsom said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giuliani on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 248 words


To the Editor:

''Shifting Tone on Immigration, Candidate Giuliani Talks Tough'' (front page,
April 22) suggests that Rudolph W. Giuliani has been inconsistent on the
treatment of illegal immigrants. Allegedly as mayor of New York City, he
befriended them. As a presidential candidate, he denounces the proposed
legislation offered by President Bush that would provide illegals with amnesty.

I am not a supporter of Rudy Giuliani and wrote a book entitled ''Giuliani,
Nasty Man.'' Nevertheless, the flip-flop attack is unfair.

It was I who issued the original executive orders that put into effect the
policies concerning education for children here illegally, hospital care for
illegal immigrants at New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation facilities
for those unable to afford private doctors, and a direction to law enforcement
personnel not to arrest an individual reporting a crime simply because of
undocumented (illegal) status, unless he or she had committed some other crime
as well.

All of these provisions, while compassionate toward illegals, were for the
protection of those living in the United States lawfully as well.

It is far better to keep children in school than to have them wander the
streets; medical care may prevent the spread of contagious diseases; and
reporting crimes may prevent later assaults on others.

Mr. Giuliani's actions, then and now, are consistent.  Edward I. Koch New York,
April 24, 2007  The writer is the former mayor of New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant and the Right to Wed

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 306 words


A federal judge in Pennsylvania ruled yesterday against a county official who
denied a marriage license to a couple because the groom-to-be was an illegal
immigrant.

The judge, A. Richard Caputo, said the official had violated the couple's
''fundamental right to marry.''

Heather Buck, an American citizen, and her fiance, Jose Guadalupe Arias
Maravilla, a Mexican living in the United States, applied for a marriage license
on April 17 in Luzerne County in Pennsylvania. The official, Dorothy Stankovic,
who is in charge of marriage licenses, denied the application because Mr. Arias
did not have a valid visa.

Mr. Arias presented his Mexican passport, but Ms. Stankovic argued in legal
motions that she could not be sure of his identity without a visa. She said that
she was acting to prevent fraud and warned that she would be inundated with
license applications from illegal immigrants if her decision was reversed.

Ms. Buck and Mr. Arias testified at an April 26 hearing that they had been a
couple since September 2005 and had recently been living together. They have a
son, who was born in December.

Mr. Arias agreed in immigration court on March 6 to leave the United States
voluntarily by mid-May. He and Ms. Buck wanted a church wedding before then, he
said. If he and Ms. Buck marry, Mr. Arias will be able to apply to return
legally to this country.

Judge Caputo rejected suggestions that the couple intended to commit fraud, and
said the denial had deprived them of a constitutional right.

''Nobody ever suggested that these were not two people in love,'' said Mary
Catherine Roper, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who helped
represent the couple.

Ms. Roper said this ruling was the first by a federal judge in a case testing
whether immigrants can obtain marriage licenses without current visas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, Legal and Illegal

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 382 words


To the Editor:

The lead article in the New Jersey section of April 29 asks, ''Should
Immigration Be a Police Issue?'' The answer is obviously no. If you include
illegal immigration, the answer is more complicated, and poses additional
questions.

For example, what if a large influx of illegal immigrants places excessive
burdens on the housing stock, the hospitals, schools, social agencies and law
enforcement agencies on communities throughout the land? How many immigrants can
this country absorb in a given period of time without changing its very
character, and should this matter?

Should federal, local and state officials have the option to decide which laws
to enforce, and which to ignore? Ballots in my community are in both English and
Spanish. Why should this be necessary given that only citizens are entitled to
vote, and an applicant for naturalization ''must be able to read, write, speak
and understand words in ordinary usage in the English language''?

The dilemma of illegal immigration has received much attention lately.
Regrettably, insufficient consideration is being paid to the specific problems
associated with it.  Norbert Ripp Tenafly   To the Editor:

In ''Should Immigration be a Police Issue?,'' Michael Fabrizio expressed a
common query regarding undocumented workers in the community: ''Isn't there a
way for them to come in legally?''

Umm, no, not really.

Few people want to circumvent the system, particularly those who are coming to
work hard and provide a better life for themselves and their families. Under
current law, most workers who are not here legally cannot receive a green card
even if the employer is a willing sponsor. Similar workers abroad cannot enter
for 5 to 10 years depending on their country of origin; what employer will wait
that long?

A Mexican sibling of an American citizen must currently wait about 12 years to
be admitted to the Unites States. Professionals who applied for a temporary work
visa on April 1 had about a 50-50 chance of being granted permission to work in
the United States this coming fiscal year.

Clearly this system needs fixing, but I am not convinced that making the local
police become federal immigration enforcers is the way to do it.  Laurie Woog
Westfield  The writer is an immigration lawyer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Voters in Dallas Suburb Back Limit on Renting to Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By GRETEL C. KOVACH

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, May 12


Voters in a Dallas suburb approved a contentious proposal Saturday to ban
landlords from renting apartments to most illegal immigrants.

Just under 6,000 residents of the suburb, Farmers Branch, cast ballots, with 68
percent in favor of the ban.

In January, the city council unanimously approved the measure, Ordinance 2903,
after rewriting an earlier version to allow for some families with mixed
residency and citizenship status.

Hoping to overturn the ordinance, opponents forced the citywide vote. Now, the
ordinance is scheduled to take effect May 22, but it must also clear several
court challenges before it can be enforced.

''We will take this all the way to the Supreme Court, if that's what we have to
do,'' the city councilman who introduced the resolution, Tim O'Hare, told a
local television station, even as opponents vowed to do the same.

Farmers Branch, with about 27,000 residents, would be the first city in Texas to
adopt such a ban, modeled after similar provisions in Hazleton, Pa., and other
cities.

In other voting Saturday, balloting in the most expensive Dallas mayor's race in
history appeared to be concluding as expected: with none of the 11 candidates
likely to win a majority of the vote, making a runoff election necessary.

On June 16, voters will be asked to choose between a former construction
executive, Tom Leppert, and a City Council member, Ed Oakley. With most of the
city's precincts counted Saturday night, Mr. Leppert had 27 percent of the vote
and Mr. Oakley 21 percent.

Mayor Pro Tem Don Hill was in third, despite an F.B.I. investigation into City
Hall corruption that was initiated two years ago. Mr. Hill has denied
wrongdoing.

The decision by the mayor of Dallas, Laura Miller, not to seek re-election after
five turbulent years in office set off a scramble to lead the country's
ninth-biggest city.

In Farmers Branch, Mr. O'Hare said when he introduced the rental measure in
November that residents were complaining that illegal immigrants were a strain
on schools and city services.

A study by two University of North Texas professors that was commissioned by a
group opposed to the measure, Let the Voters Decide, reported that enforcing the
ordinance would reduce the city's tax base, strain community relations and leave
Farmers Branch vulnerable to lawsuits.

Farmers Branch is one of 88 municipalities in 27 states that have tried to pass
rental bans or English-only provisions aimed at illegal immigrants since 2006,
according to the American Civil Liberties Union. After months of emotional
debate over the issue and accusations of racism from both sides, the Farmers
Branch mayor, Bob Phelps, publicly expressed his opposition for the first time
last week. Mr. Phelps said it was a waste of city tax dollars on what should be
a federal issue.

Afterward, his house was vandalized.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cooler Heads in Hightstown

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 562 words


At a time when a handful of mayors and other local officials are making
headlines with their hard line on illegal immigrants, a mayor in central New
Jersey is taking a constructive approach that has helped revitalize the town.
''We look at people from other countries as a positive who make our community
better,'' says Hightstown's mayor, Robert Patten. ''We enjoy our differences and
celebrate them.''

What a welcome contrast to the angry rhetoric from the Morristown mayor, Donald
Cresitello, and a few other officials who have needlessly pitted resident
against resident with incendiary comments about immigrant workers.

Just over two years ago, Hightstown was at a crossroads in the immigration
controversy after federal agents raided a local apartment complex and arrested
an undocumented man from Ecuador. Many of the town's immigrants confused federal
agents with the local police and, as a result, shied away from reporting crimes
against them or asking for basic municipal services they were entitled to.

In an effort to encourage immigrants to come forward, Mr. Patten, a Republican,
and the Democratic-controlled Hightstown Borough Council approved a resolution
forbidding the police and other borough officials to inquire into the
immigration status of anyone not suspected of a major crime. They asked federal
immigration officials to avoid behaving in ways that created ''needless
mistrust.''

These were bold moves, which the mayor reinforced with an artful personal
campaign. He began taking Spanish lessons and holding regular meetings with
Hispanics to hear what was on their minds. The results have been positive, for
the 1,300 immigrants, most of them Ecuadorean, and for the town's 4,000 other
residents. Once-vacant stores are now occupied; the businesses include an
employment agency and several telecommunications offices that enable immigrants
to conduct video phone calls with their relatives back home. With its lake and
waterfalls, the small downtown is beginning to resemble a thriving middle
American village right out of the 1950s, the main difference being the sound of
foreign languages. And instead of lining up every morning for jobs, the common
practice elsewhere, many immigrant residents in Hightstown have regular jobs, in
part because employers no longer fear official harassment.

The town is not problem-free. Some have complained that Hightstown's
ask-no-questions policy violates the law. The other day, by way of response, the
mayor's wife, Kathy, showed a visitor an index card she prepared that points out
that the Fourth Amendment protects everyone, not just citizens, from
unreasonable searches and seizures. The mayor himself carries around a written
opinion from his borough attorney that local officials have no obligation or
authority to ask for documentation from anyone stopped for a routine offense.

In general, the mayor's policy gets good marks. Employees in store after store
downtown applaud the way they are treated. And while some members worry that the
mayor's outspokenness, and the TV and newspaper attention he has inspired, will
result in more immigrants coming to Hightstown than its small tax base can
support, the Council as a whole has been supportive.

More broadly, Hightstown offers a model for avoiding the friction that less
enlightened communities like Morristown seem deliberately to embrace.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Fence Could Imperil Wildlife, Environmentalists Say

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: ALAMO, Tex., May 21


Nancy Brown drives a government truck slowly past mossy ponds, thick shrouds of
beardlike Spanish moss and majestic ebony trees. As the truck rounds a bend near
the greenish-brown Rio Grande, a bobcat scampers ahead. Somewhere in the forest,
well-camouflaged by evolution, are ocelots and jaguarundi, both endangered
species of cats.

These are some of the natural wonders in the Rio Grande Valley that Ms. Brown
and other wildlife enthusiasts fear could be spoiled by the fences and adjacent
roads the government plans to erect along the Mexican border to keep out illegal
immigrants and smugglers.

Environmentalists have spent decades acquiring and preserving 90,000 riverfront
acres of Texas scrub and forest and protecting their wildlife. Now they fear
that the hundreds of miles of border fences will undo their work and kill some
land animals by cutting them off from the Rio Grande, the only source of fresh
water.

A fence could also prevent the ocelots and other animals from swimming across
the river to mate with partners on the other side.

''If you have a fence that runs several miles long, if you are a tortoise or any
animal that can't fly over or go through it, then you have a pretty long
distance that you have to go to get water,'' said Ms. Brown, an outreach manager
at the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge, 225 miles south of San Antonio. Also,
''any destruction of any brush is very damaging.''

In addition, some worry that the barrier -- described in some plans as
triple-layer metal fencing -- will damage the tourism industry along the Rio
Grande.

The wild cats, reptiles and at least 500 species of birds attract visitors who
bring the impoverished region $150 million a year. Depending on how far inland
the fence is built, it could create a no man's land north of the river, hurting
tourism.

While the Department of Homeland Security said it had not made any final
decisions on where the fence would go, recent meetings with the Border Patrol
have wildlife officials convinced that some of the 70 miles planned for the Rio
Grande Valley will be erected on the string of wildlife refuges along the
border.

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the department, said environmental concerns would
be taken into account in the final decisions. But Secretary Michael Chertoff has
used his authority to waive environmental regulations for security reasons in
other states, and Mr. Knocke said he would do so in the Rio Grande Valley if
necessary.

The refuges show signs of immigrant activity: food wrappers and water jugs and
discarded wet clothing. Similar evidence is found up and down the river, despite
the presence of Border Patrol agents and the sensors and cameras that make up
the current ''virtual'' fence.

The fence idea ''is wholly incongruous with a 30-plus-year investment by the
federal government, the citizens and the landowners of the Rio Grande Valley who
have worked hard to protect their special land and waters,'' said Carter Smith
of the Nature Conservancy. The organization said the government should instead
use more border agents, sensors and cameras.

President Bush called for about 700 miles of fence along the border, and the
Homeland Security Department is committed to completing 370 miles by the end of
2008.

Close to $100 million has been spent creating, restoring and maintaining the
refuges, wildlife officials said.

''The bottom line is the wildlife corridor took us many years to put together,''
said Karen Chapman of Environmental Defense. ''It represents work, hard work, by
a number of federal, state and local agencies and citizens of the valley. And
when we were working to put that wildlife corridor together, nobody was doing it
with the thought that someday it was going to be stuck behind a wall.''

The four-county Rio Grande Valley contains 11 distinct ecosystems, Ms. Brown
said.

''From a biological standpoint this area is really, really impressive,'' she
said. ''You have a coastal climate meeting a desert climate meeting the
temperate and the tropical.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Adds To Consulates Amid Debate

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1518 words


On the surface, there was nothing extraordinary about a certain government
office in Little Rock, Ark., the other day as paperwork was signed, names were
called, fees were paid, waits were endured and computer keyboards went tap, tap,
tap.

Just the workaday humdrum of official government business -- the government of
Mexico, that is, in yet another new consulate, the country's 47th in the United
States.

Mexico's consulates function as a safety net of sorts, issuing passports and
identification cards that facilitate banking and offering assistance when
Mexican immigrants, an estimated 11 million, run into trouble.

Increasingly, they are also acting as influential free agents in a broken
immigration system that Congress is trying to overhaul. As the consulate that
opened last month in Little Rock illustrates, the Mexican government is
following its citizens far from the border into the growing quarters of Latino
migration, much of it illegal.

Since 2000, consulates have opened in places where immigration from Mexico has
soared, including St. Paul; Indianapolis; Kansas City, Mo.; Omaha and Raleigh,
N.C.

''They have every right to open one up,'' said State Representative Jon Woods, a
Republican from northwest Arkansas who won office last year on a platform that
included combating illegal immigration. ''But the problem I have with it opening
up is it blatantly screams that illegal immigration is a problem in Arkansas.
That's the main reason it opened up.''

Under the bill being debated in Washington, legal status would be offered to
most of the 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States, while border
security would be strengthened and penalties for employers of illegal immigrants
would be increased. Yesterday, the Senate voted to keep a provision in the bill
that would allow hundreds of thousands of temporary foreign workers to enter the
country each year.

Rafael Laveaga, a spokesman for the Mexican Embassy, declined to comment on what
effect the legislation might have on consulates, though his government has said
it supports efforts to increase legal immigration and has called the current
bill ''an important step toward the approval of comprehensive immigration reform
this year.''

A recent analysis of census data suggested that Arkansas had the country's
fastest-growing Hispanic population this decade, set at 70,000 in 2005, a 48
percent increase over five years. At least half of the newcomers were illegal
immigrants, according to the analysis commissioned by the Winthrop Rockefeller
Foundation from the Urban Institute and released last month.

Consulate officials in Little Rock acknowledge that the 6,000-square-foot piece
of Mexican territory occupying a former medical clinic serves all Mexican
citizens, regardless of immigration status.

''We can't interfere with the laws of the United States, but the consulates are
certainly involved when individuals' rights are not exercised or are violated or
when there are cases of families that have been separated, with the parents
deported and the children remaining here,'' Arturo Sarukhan, the Mexican
ambassador to the United States, said in a speech on April 25 at the opening of
the consulate in Little Rock.

Roberto Gonzalez, 20, a construction worker living here illegally, waited
recently in the lobby for the identification card the Mexican government issues
known as the ''matricula consular.'' The card is honored in the United States by
many police agencies, employers and -- most important -- by banks, which are
used by countless immigrants to send billions of dollars home every year. But it
is a lightning rod for critics of illegal immigration, who see it as a
demonstration of the Mexican government's helping its citizens live in the
United States illegally.

''I will be able to open bank accounts, pay water and light bills, have an
easier life here with the consulate and the documents they give,'' said Mr.
Gonzalez, one of more than 200 people who have received a card since the
consulate opened.

Andres Chao, the Mexican consul in Little Rock, looks past the criticism. Mr.
Chao, a career diplomat who has worked in New York City and in The Hague, said
he was glad to be in Arkansas at a time when the Mexican immigrant population,
while small, was growing rapidly.

''This is like the birth of a community,'' Mr. Chao said, driving around town
and pointing at the number of businesses catering to immigrants.

For Mr. Chao, the going has been smooth. The consulate has served about 50
people a day, and he says he expects the number to grow as word spreads that it
is open.

The opening of the Little Rock consulate follows the one in St. Paul, which
opened in June 2005. In New Orleans, where growing numbers of Mexican immigrants
are working on post-Hurricane Katrina construction, plans are in the works to
reopen a consulate, which closed for budget reasons nearly five years ago. There
are 539 foreign consulates in the United States, and Mexico has more than any
other country. (After Mexico, Canada has 19, Japan 17 and Britain 12).

In addition to issuing identification cards and passports, the consulates
perform the usual consular functions: assisting citizens who are arrested,
helping arrange the return to Mexico of the dead and fostering trade and
cultural ties.

But Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
public policy institute in Washington that is opposed to illegal immigration,
said the spread of Mexican consulates and their advocacy of the identification
card amounted to an end run around American immigration laws.

Mr. Krikorian said Mexico went further than other countries that issue such
cards, including the United States, by lobbying banks and law enforcement
agencies to recognize the cards as valid identification, knowing full well that
most legal residents would not need such a card.

The Mexican government in the past few years has issued nearly three million of
what it calls a high-security version of the card, which is accepted by more
than 160 banks and recognized by 1,100 police departments.

''These consulates are not like most other countries' consulates,'' Mr.
Krikorian said. ''They are not there simply to help their countrymen if there is
a problem with law enforcement or to promote Mexican business in the United
States.''

The card was ''one of the major areas of activity'' at consulates, he said,
adding, ''The point being to 'document' the undocumented and make an end run
around Congress.''

The Bush administration has not blocked use of the cards, saying in a policy
statement in 2004 that banks must have ''flexible standards'' in deciding what
identification to accept.

Mexican government officials said they were only serving the needs of a growing
population. The 11 million Mexican-born immigrants living in the United States,
as estimated by the Pew Hispanic Center, account for about 10 percent of all
Mexicans.

Jorge G. Castaneda, a former foreign minister of Mexico and a professor at New
York University, said Mexico had long had an abundance of consulates in the
United States, including more than 10 on or near the border, where cultural
bonds and conflict run deep.

''Why don't other countries have more? Because they don't have a border like we
do,'' Mr. Castaneda said. ''It's pretty straightforward. And other consulates
are in large metro areas where there are very important Mexican communities.''

Before the consulate in Little Rock opened, people in Arkansas who sought
Mexican consular services had to go to Dallas, a five-hour drive, not an easy
trip for the many immigrants who lack cars or have limited time off from work.

The study by the Urban Institute found that the vast majority of illegal
immigrants in Arkansas were from Mexico, with a smattering of Central Americans.
Most poured in to work at chicken processing plants and fill construction and
service industry jobs. A small percentage moved into professional jobs, the
analysis found.

It estimated that a little more than half of all new immigrants in Arkansas were
there illegally, but Randy Kapps, the lead demographer on the study, said it was
impossible to be precise.

It was no coincidence, Mr. Chao said, that Mexico chose to open a consulate in
the state that is home to Wal-Mart and other businesses with which it would like
to strengthen ties. Former Gov. Mike Huckabee and former President Vicente Fox
of Mexico promoted trade, in addition to the immigrant population, as important
selling points when they broached the idea of a consulate here four years ago.

''There is a lot of investment in Mexico from Arkansas businesses and a lot of
opportunity,'' Mr. Chao said, sipping water bottled by a company that wants to
expand into the Mexican market.

But the heart of the mission here, he said, is serving people like Ramiro
Givara, a 31-year-old construction worker who dropped by the consulate the other
day and walked out with a freshly minted identification card.

''This is so much easier for us,'' Mr. Givara said. ''It is like having part of
Mexico here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about the addition of Mexican consulates in
the United States misspelled the surname of the lead demographer for the Urban
Institute, which conducted a study on illegal immigrants in Arkansas, where a
new consulate has opened. He is Randy Capps, not Kapps.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ID cards are recognized by some banks and police agencies.
 Isabel Valades, 23, and her daughter Jacquelin, 7, at the Mexican Consulate in
Little Rock, Ark., which provides help with passports and ID cards. (Photographs
by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. A20)  Chart/Map: ''A Slice of
Home'' There are 47 Mexican consulates in 21 states and the District of
Columbia.  Map of the United States highlighting the 47 Mexican consulates. (pg.
A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Votes to Keep Plan To Make Immigrants Legal

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 941 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24


The Senate on Thursday turned aside the most significant challenge to the
comprehensive immigration bill now under debate, voting 66 to 29 to keep a
provision that offers legal status to most of the nation's 12 million illegal
immigrants.

The legalization program is, by far, the most contentious part of the bill. But
it is also an indispensable element of the fragile bipartisan compromise that
the bill embodies.

Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, who offered the proposal to
eliminate the program, called it ''amnesty, pure and simple.'' He said it would
act like a magnet, encouraging more illegal immigration.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of
the bill, defended the program. To obtain legal status, he said, illegal
immigrants would have to pay fines, pass background checks and, in most cases,
hold jobs.

''Legalization is important for our national security,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''We
have to know who is in the United States. Legalization is important in terms of
our economic prosperity. And legalization is important for the families. Do we
think we're going to deport children -- 3.5 million American children who have
parents that are undocumented?''

President Bush endorsed that argument. Referring to illegal immigrants, he said,
''You can't kick them out.'' That solution is ''just not real,'' he said
Thursday at a news conference, where he urged the Senate to pass the immigration
bill.

The bill, a product of secret negotiations between the White House and a dozen
senators, has survived four days of impassioned debate on the Senate floor. It
is uncertain whether it has gained enough momentum to survive continuing attacks
from both ends of the political spectrum.

Senators return home on Friday for a weeklong recess over the Memorial Day
holiday. Many said they expected a barrage of questions from constituents upset
with the legalization program.

But architects of the bill said they were pleased.

One of them, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, said: ''It's been a
good week. The bill is moving forward.''

A co-author of the bill, Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, said, ''We
are still together, and we are moving forward,'' despite opposition from
''bomb-throwers'' on the right and the left.

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said the architects of the
bill were confident that they would prevail when the Senate resumes work next
month.

''We've got a long, tough road ahead of us,'' Mr. Specter said. But he added,
''We see essentially no enormous roadblocks, no poison pills, no killer
amendments ahead that we can't deal with.''

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said: ''Time is on our
side. The longer we have to discuss the bill among our colleagues, the bigger
the buy-in.''

Critics, Mr. Graham said, will feel better if they have time ''to vent their
frustrations about the bill and to amend it.''

In other action on Thursday, the Senate approved an amendment that would
increase fees imposed on employers who hire highly skilled temporary workers
with H-1B visas. The money would be used to finance scholarships for American
citizens studying mathematics, engineering, health care and computer science.

The vote was a victory for Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, who
had proposed the amendment, which was approved 59 to 35.

With the scholarships, he said, ''young Americans can get the education they
need for these jobs, so employers don't have to go abroad.''

The Senate narrowly rejected two proposals that could have upset the deal on
immigration. In both cases, the vote was 49 to 48.

One proposal would have ended a guest worker program for less-skilled workers
after five years.

The other would have encouraged state and local officials to help enforce
federal immigration laws -- its purpose being to prevent cities from offering
sanctuary to illegal immigrants.

Many Republicans see the guest worker program as an essential element of the
bill.

But the proposal to end it after five years looked as if it might pass. During
the roll call, Mr. Kennedy persuaded another Democratic senator, Daniel K. Akaka
of Hawaii, to switch his vote, thereby preserving the program.

Defending the guest worker program, President Bush said, ''I would much rather
have people crossing the border with a legitimate card, coming to work on a
temporary basis, than being stuffed in back of an 18-wheeler.''

The proposal encouraging state and local agencies to help enforce the
immigration laws was offered by Senator Norm Coleman, Republican of Minnesota.
It said that state and local employees could ask people about their immigration
status whenever the employees had ''probable cause'' to believe that the people
were not here legally.

''Several cities have passed ordinances or issued executive orders forbidding
local law enforcement to even ask the question as to whether a person is in the
United States lawfully,'' Mr. Coleman said.

In adopting such ''gag orders,'' Mr. Coleman said, cities prevent their
employees from finding and arresting illegal immigrants who may go on to commit
violent crimes.

Senator Salazar denounced the proposal, saying it would force schoolteachers and
hospital emergency room workers to become ''the cops of our immigration laws.''

Mr. Kennedy said Mr. Coleman's amendment would deter illegal immigrants from
reporting crimes or cooperating with the public health authorities.

For example, he said, illegal immigrants with tuberculosis might be reluctant to
seek treatment, and they could infect United States citizens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, at a hearing on immigration yesterday. (Photo
by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Senator Faults '86 Law On Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


Fred Thompson, a potential Republican presidential candidate, suggested on
Thursday that the 1986 immigration measure that President Ronald Reagan signed
into law is to blame for illegal immigrants.

''Twelve million illegal immigrants later, we are now living in a nation that is
beset by people who are suicidal maniacs and want to kill countless innocent
men, women and children around the world,'' Mr. Thompson, a former senator from
Tennessee, said at the Prescott Bush Awards Dinner in Stamford, Conn. ''We're
sitting here now with essentially open borders.''

Mr. Thompson, a star on the television series ''Law & Order,'' is widely
expected to enter the race for the nomination in the summer. His supporters say
he is a conservative in the mold of Reagan who can beat the Democratic nominee
in 2008.

The bill that Reagan signed gave amnesty to an estimated 2.7 million illegal
immigrants who had been in the United States at least four years.

Immigration has been dominating the Republican nominating contest, with
candidates seeking to navigate the tricky politics of a Senate measure that many
conservatives oppose. They make up a large part of the Republican base whose
votes are critical in the primaries.

Three Republican candidates, Mr. Thompson, Mitt Romney and Rudolph W. Giuliani,
oppose the Senate measure to varying degrees, even though all have made
statements in the past that appeared to support a similar measure that the
Senate had previously considered.

Senator John McCain of Arizona is a co-sponsor of the new measure. It would meld
tougher policies to secure the borders with a guest-worker program and an
eventual path to citizenship for most of the 12 million illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Let Them In, or Send Them Back?

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 865 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Make a Bad Bill Better'' (editorial, May 29):

There is another argument for a more constructive approach to those currently in
the United States illegally.

As a fairly new American, I hugely admire the determination, optimism and drive
that are part of the American character. I have come to realize that at least
one reason for these characteristics is that the immigrants who came, whether
legally or illegally, suffered extreme hardships to get here and often lived in
appalling conditions while they worked hard to give their children opportunities
in this new world.

Aren't some of our current illegal immigrants of the same cloth? They are
optimistic and determined, hard workers who will suffer any hardship and
uncertainty to achieve some opportunities for themselves and their children.

Maybe these are exactly the sort of people that the United States needs.  Linda
Senat New York, May 30, 2007  To the Editor:

Where is the fairness to those immigrants who play by the rules to come here,
often waiting as long as 10 years for a visa to become available?

Can anyone seriously believe that the proposed bill will alleviate the problem,
rather than aggravate it?

In 1986, this country passed immigration reform legislation because deporting
two million illegal immigrants was deemed ''impractical.'' Now we're facing 12
million illegal immigrants who probably came here encouraged by our abject
failure to enforce our laws.

What will it be in 2027? Fifty million? Then what?

The message must be clearly and unequivocally conveyed: The United States will
not reward those who have broken the law. Period.  Vaughn A. Carney Stowe, Vt.,
May 29, 2007  To the Editor:

Re ''Bush Calls Attacks on Immigration Bill 'Empty Political Rhetoric' '' (news
article, May 30):

''If you want to scare the American people, what you say is the bill's an
amnesty bill,'' President Bush said on Tuesday. ''That's empty political
rhetoric trying to frighten our citizens.''

Despite the irony of Mr. Bush's remarks -- for who knows better than he how to
frighten our citizens with empty political rhetoric -- he happens to be right on
this one.

The immigration bill has serious flaws, especially those aspects of it that
prevent family unification and its unrealistic requirements with respect to
temporary workers, but at least it puts to rest the foolish talk of sending
about 12 million people back to where they came from.

The bill deserves the support of the American people.  John A. Viteritti
Southold, N.Y., May 30, 2007  To the Editor:

Re ''America the Generous: A Lost Story of Citizenship,'' by Lawrence Downes
(Editorial Observer, May 27): When my four grandparents immigrated to this
country, every immigrant who was in good health was granted admission at Ellis
Island.

Today their grandchildren are making important contributions to our country.
Among us are one cardiologist, one Ph.D. researcher, two teachers and two
business people.

The energy, motivation, talent and intelligence that immigrants bring to our
shores did not end with my grandparents and their progeny. Two years ago my
mother's life was saved by a brilliant, committed geriatrician -- who was also a
new American citizen of Indian birth.

When we say no to those who are willing to give up their homes, extended
families and languages to join us in this great adventure called America, we cut
ourselves off from an incredibly vital source of renewal. It is that renewal
which is at the core of our greatness as a nation.  Denise Gelberg Ithaca, N.Y.,
May 27, 2007  To the Editor:

Lawrence Downes doesn't address one important difference between the America of,
say, 1900 and the America of 2007: the population of the United States in 1900
was around 76 million, while it is now more than 300 million.

America is no longer a sparsely populated country in need of more workers to
exploit our abundant natural resources. We have all the population our resources
can comfortably support, and then some.

Immigration cannot solve our economic problems indefinitely. Someday Americans
will have to learn to harvest our own food, paint our own houses, care for our
own children and do our own landscaping, because it will be impossible to import
others to do those things for us.

Why not now, while there is still room to breathe?  Richard Hussong Groton,
Mass., May 27, 2007  To the Editor:

Re ''Wide Disparities Found in Judging of Asylum Cases'' (front page, May 31):

The immigration judge is not necessarily the main factor in the outcome of an
asylum case. The process can also depend on other elements, such as the
competence of the lawyer for the asylum-seeker.

During the course of appeals I handled in the period studied by the research you
describe, the transcripts were replete with serious lapses by the lawyers
involved, so that clear winners became inevitable losers.

There were even instances where clients were actually hurt by their own lawyer.

Clearly, true justice -- in the immigration court, as well as elsewhere --
results only when all parties, not just the judges, perform at their most
competent level.  Nicholas A. F. Arena New York, May 31, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Carl Wiens)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney Is Central Target Of McCain Counterattack

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1306 words


Senator John McCain, facing increasing anger from fellow Republicans over his
support of the immigration bill in Congress, is ramping up his counterattack
against a main rival in the presidential campaign, Mitt Romney, by accusing him
of ''pandering for votes'' in opposing the measure.

The attack, in a speech Mr. McCain is to give today, marks a sharp escalation in
the war of words between two of the leading Republican presidential contenders.
It also represents a risky gambit by Mr. McCain to right the course of a
presidential campaign that has been consumed by attacks on his immigration
stance, with Mr. Romney among his most vocal critics.

Excerpts of the speech were provided to The New York Times.

Mr. Romney, in speeches and in early campaign commercials, has portrayed the
proposal as being soft on illegal immigration -- a sensitive red-meat issue for
the Republican base -- and condemned it as offering ''amnesty'' to illegal
immigrants. Those criticisms have been echoed by other leading Republicans,
conservative leaders and radio commentators.

In fighting back, Mr. McCain is challenging Mr. Romney and other opponents of
the Senate's immigration plan to offer counterproposals explaining what they
would do with the nation's illegal immigrants, which he estimates could number
12 million. And his campaign has taken to pointing out what it calls Mr.
Romney's shifting stances on immigration, and his lack of specificity on any
workable alternative.

Mr. McCain's speech is to be delivered today in Florida, where a large number of
Cuban-American Republicans have a different perspective on the immigration
issue. While he does not mention Mr. Romney by name in the speech, McCain
advisers say Mr. Romney is the target of the criticism.

''I would hope that any candidate for president would not suggest doing
nothing,'' Mr. McCain plans to say. ''And I would hope they wouldn't play
politics for their own interests if the cost of their ambition was to make this
problem even harder to solve. To want the office so badly that you would
intentionally make our country's problems worse might prove you can read a poll
or take a cheap shot, but it hardly demonstrates presidential leadership.''

''Pandering for votes on this issue, while offering no solution to the problem,
amounts to doing nothing,'' Mr. McCain plans to say. ''And doing nothing is
silent amnesty.''

Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, said that Mr. McCain's criticism
reflected his desperation at holding a position unpopular with Republican
primary voters.

''Opponents who favor this flawed approach are going to offer all sorts of
distortions based on the fact that they cannot make a case on the substance for
the bill they are advocating,'' Mr. Madden said. ''I think the McCain campaign
is lashing out because they are feeling the political pressure and they don't
know what to do.''

The debate over the immigration bill is emerging as one of the most divisive of
the campaign. The measure calls for tightening border security, creating a
temporary worker program, and giving preference to new immigrants with certain
education levels or jobs skills, instead of to those with family ties in the
United States.

And it would provide a path for many illegal immigrants to get legal status by
allowing them to apply for temporary ''Z visas'' and to push for more permanent
status by paying fines and having the heads of households return to their
countries of origin -- the provision Mr. Romney and many other Republicans
opposed.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor and another Republican
presidential candidate, is not supporting the current the legislation either. A
strong past supporter of immigration, Mr. Giuliani has developed a nuanced
position on the bill, saying that while he favors creating a way for illegal
immigrants to become citizens, he cannot support the measure because it does not
set as its primary goal registering and tracking the people already here
illegally.

But the McCain campaign has focused its criticism on Mr. Romney, arguing that he
has given conflicting accounts of how he would handle immigration and even
whether the bill truly offers amnesty.

With its criticism, the McCain campaign is seeking to build on the perception
that Mr. Romney has changed his position on a number of crucial issues --
including going from being a supporter of abortion rights to an opponent --
since he stepped down as governor of Massachusetts.

The day after the Senate announced its bipartisan compromise plan, Mr. Romney
became the first of the leading Republican candidates for president to condemn
it as amnesty.

''One simple rule: no amnesty,'' he said to applause at the South Carolina
Republican convention last month. He said the current compromise, despite making
illegal immigrants pay hefty fines and wait years for citizenship, was not good
enough because workers could apply for visas that would allow them to stay
indefinitely.

''If that is not a form of amnesty, I don't know what is,'' he said.

But now, Mr. Romney seems to be backing away from that position. While visiting
Florida last week, he was asked to clarify his stance, and said he was ''not
really trying to define what is technically amnesty.''

While Mr. Romney has been consistent on two broad principles -- the need for
tighter border security and the creation of tamper-proof employee ID cards -- he
has not defined what he means when he says there should be no ''special''
pathway to citizenship, or explained exactly what he thinks should be done with
the many illegal immigrants who are living and working in the United States.

Mr. Romney has said that he objects to the provision in the bill that calls for
''Z visas,'' which illegal immigrants would have to apply for as a first step in
becoming a citizen, because he said that the visas could be endlessly renewed
and there would be no incentive for people to take the next step toward
citizenship.

At the same time, Mr. Romney says it is essential that all the people here
illegally be registered, without explaining what kind of system he has in mind
that would both encourage people to come forward and penalize them for being
here illegally.

Mr. Romney's tough line is in some ways consistent with the positions he took as
governor, where he signed an executive order that gave Massachusetts state
troopers the authority to arrest illegal immigrants and also to cut state aid to
illegal immigrants attending college.

But as recently as 2005, Mr. Romney said he could support immigration
legislation similar to what is now being proposed. (His aides say that the
measure he offered tentative support to then was quite different from the
current bill.)

Mr. Romney confronted Mr. McCain on immigration in the second Republican debate,
citing an earlier proposal that Mr. McCain supported with Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

''My fear is that McCain-Kennedy would do to immigration what McCain-Feingold
has done to campaign finance and money in politics,'' he said, naming a pair of
Mr. McCain's co-sponsors who are not especially beloved by Republicans.

Mr. McCain has been an outspoken champion of the current proposal, even though
his aides say he is well aware that that it is unpopular with some Republican
primary voters. But Mr. McCain, who often reminds voters that he represents a
border state, Arizona, plans to make it clear on Monday that he was not going to
back away from the issue.

''It is a hard problem, and I understand that. But the choice is between doing
something, imperfect but effective and achievable, and doing nothing,'' Mr.
McCain plans to say. ''To do nothing now would be an unconscionable abrogation
of our responsibilities to defend the security, prosperity and values of our
country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain, at a town hall meeting in Des Moines on
Friday. He is striking back after attacks on his support of the immigration
bill. (Photo by Charlie Neibergall/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Haven Approves Program To Issue Illegal Immigrants IDs

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, June 4


The Board of Aldermen on Monday night made municipal identification cards
available to illegal immigrants, in what city officials said was the first such
program in the nation. The measure was approved by a vote of 25 to 1.

City officials and immigrant rights advocates said they hoped the cards would
give immigrants better access to city services and help the police confirm their
identities should they become targets of crime. Last year, a number of illegal
immigrants told community service agencies they had been robbed of cash, but
said they were worried about telling the authorities for fear of being deported.

The cards, which will include an official photograph and city imprint, will be
available to all residents, regardless of immigration status, and the city is
placing special emphasis on issuing them to children, college students and
people 65 and older, as well as immigrants without green cards. Immigrant rights
advocates and city officials began developing plans for the card last year, and
New Haven planned to begin issuing them in July.

In an effort to attract residents to the program, the city is placing a magnetic
strip on the back of the cards, which, when swiped, would deduct money from a
prepaid account to pay for parking at meters, as well as goods at about 50
restaurants and stores in New Haven.

''The last thing we want is to create what will be an easy giveaway about who
amongst us has status and who doesn't,'' said Kica Matos, the community affairs
director for the city, who spearheaded the effort. ''So we had to make sure that
we have a card that has wide appeal.''

While the cards have provoked outrage from anti-immigrant groups around the
state, few in New Haven have voiced concern. The program has received national
attention, and Ms. Matos said lawmakers from New York City and Dutchess County,
N.Y., have contacted her about setting up similar programs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Agents Arrest 29 Immigrants In New Haven

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, June 6


Federal agents arrested 29 illegal immigrants in a raid on Wednesday, government
officials said, two days after the city approved a program to make municipal
identification cards available to illegal immigrants.

Paula Grenier, a spokeswoman for the Boston office of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the immigrants, who had already been ordered by judges to
leave the country, were arrested in a routine fugitive operation and would be
deported.

Kica Matos, who oversees the New Haven department that assists immigrants, said
most of the arrests were in the city's Fair Haven section. Officials believe
none of the immigrants have criminal records, she said.

Ms. Matos said she believed the raids were related to the Board of Aldermen's
25-1 vote on Monday to create all-purpose municipal identification cards to give
immigrants better access to city services and to help the police confirm their
identities should they become targets of crime.

Ms. Grenier said that was not the case. ''These are routine fugitive
operations,'' she said. ''We have teams deployed all over the U.S.''

But Mayor John DeStefano Jr. was dubious, saying, ''There are in America 11,000
cities, towns and villages, but somehow, by some act of circumstance or
coincidence, within 36 hours, the response was in New Haven.''

Supporters say the ID program, believed to be the first of its kind in the
nation, will help keep the city's roughly 15,000 illegal immigrants safe. They
say that if they can open bank accounts, they will not need to carry large
amounts of cash, which makes them robbery targets.

New Haven has been more welcoming to immigrants than many places, offering
federal tax help and prohibiting the police from asking about their immigration
status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arrests of 31 In U.S. Sweep Bring Fear In New Haven

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, June 7


Over the last several years, this city has gone to great lengths to turn itself
into a kind of haven, quite literally, for illegal immigrants. It was not that
new immigrants were pouring in, but that there were thousands already living
here, and the officials who have long run the city wanted to bring them out of
the shadows.

The police adopted a ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy for dealing with
immigrants, and the mayor backed a plan for municipal identification cards.
Within the borders of this liberal college town, there was hardly a whiff of
opposition.

But starting at 6 a.m. Wednesday, two days after the Board of Aldermen
overwhelmingly approved the identity card plan, federal agents swept into the
largely Hispanic Fair Haven community and arrested some 31 people suspected of
being illegal immigrants, many in their homes.

Within hours, any sense of sanctuary that the city and advocates for immigrants
advocates had developed over the years was turned upside down, replaced with
fear.

''There is truly no safe haven for fugitive aliens,'' said Marc Raimondi, a
spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that
conducted the raid.

Afterward, local officials' cellphones lighted up with dozens of frantic phone
calls from residents and community leaders saying that people were missing.
There were rumors of a mass arrest at a supermarket. Fair Haven resembled a
ghost town, with residents huddling inside their houses, afraid that they, too,
could be arrested at any moment.

''At 10 in the morning, the streets were just empty,'' said John Lugo, an
organizer for Unidad Latina en Accion, an advocacy group. ''People were really
very afraid all of the sudden. They still are. They think it will happen
again.''

On Wednesday, Mr. Lugo and others passed out hundreds of fliers outlining
immigrants' rights, instructing them not to give federal authorities any
information without a lawyer present and advising them to not answer their
doors.

Mayor John DeStefano and other city leaders angrily accused the federal
government of ''terrorizing'' the immigrant community. Many of them speculated
that the mass arrests -- the first of their kind in recent memory here -- were
retaliation for the acceptance of municipal identification cards and other
immigrant-friendly city policies.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials emphatically denied that charge,
saying that the arrests had been planned since April. (The identity-card
program, believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, was first suggested
by Mr. DeStefano in 2005.)

The details of the arrests are still somewhat unclear. Federal officials said
that they were ''targeting fugitives,'' not conducting a widespread sweep.
Twenty nine men and two women -- most of them from Mexico, Guatemala, Nicaragua,
Guinea and Ecuador -- were arrested. City officials said on Thursday that of the
16 arrest warrants the federal agents had, only four were executed, meaning that
most of the 31 arrested were swept up in what they called a dragnet, and that 12
people the federal officials were looking for remained at large.

Lawyers and advocates for immigrants who interviewed several relatives of those
who were arrested said that in most cases, the immigration officials knocked on
their doors and demanded to speak with every adult in the house, then asked for
identification.

In several instances, they said, the agents separated the men from the women and
asked which of the women had children. Those who did were left behind, while
those who did not were taken into custody, the advocates said.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have conducted hundreds of similar
sweeps in the last year. In 2006, a spokesman said, they deported more than
221,000 illegal immigrants, many of them after proceedings that began with such
arrests. Last fall, an operation in Danbury led to the arrest of 11 men who
worked at a local factory.

Immigration advocates in Connecticut were fond of referring to Danbury and New
Haven as two poles on the spectrum -- the same immigrants who were shunned in
the former were welcomed in the latter.

Like many other local leaders, Mayor DeStefano said he had to deal with the
practical reality of illegal immigrants, rather than spend his time worrying
about proposals to revamp the federal immigration system. But while some mayors
were cracking down on housing codes and loitering laws to discourage illegal
immigrants from getting too comfortable, Mr. DeStefano said he was more
concerned about public safety for the 10,000 of them estimated to live in his
city of 125,000.

That was how the identification cards were supposed to help: by giving
immigrants an official document that could be used in banks, rather than having
to carry hundreds of dollars in cash, which made them targets for theft.

Above all, Mr. DeStefano said, immigrants should feel comfortable contacting the
police and receiving basic city services. And when the city's aldermen approved
the plan on Monday night, advocates hailed it as a model for other
municipalities.

''We've gotten to the point where the community trusts the city and trusts the
police,'' said Kica Matos, the city's community services administrator, who
spearheaded the identification card plan.

The arrests on Wednesday, she said, have the potential to reverse much of that.

The city still plans to begin issuing the identification cards early next month.
Several community leaders said that the immigrants' arrests had outraged many
residents, and that more would be likely to obtain the cards as a sign of
solidarity.

But what about immigrants themselves?

''I don't know the answer to that question,'' Mr. DeStefano said in an interview
Thursday. ''But we cannot get to a point where people are driven underground.''

As his thoughts turned to the current immigration debate in Congress, Mr.
DeStefano sounded a bit resigned.

''They'll do whatever they are going to do, but my job is to deal with the
situation here,'' he said.

''People aren't going to come here for a piece of plastic, they are going to
come here for jobs and because the federal government lets them come here. The
law is only enforced episodically. Yesterday was our day.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants and their advocates met yesterday outside a church in
New Haven, a city that welcomes them, in reaction to the arrests of people
suspected of being illegal immigrants by federal officials on Wednesday. (Photo
by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing Connecticut: New Haven: Mayor Seeks Halt To Immigration Raids

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 127 words


Mayor John DeStefano Jr. asked the federal government yesterday to ''back off''
from any further raids on illegal immigrants until allegations that agents broke
rules in conducting one such raid last Wednesday could be addressed. The mayor
said yesterday that another raid was ''imminent.'' At the same time, three
Connecticut lawmakers -- Senators Christopher J. Dodd and Joseph I. Lieberman
and Representative Rosa L. DeLauro -- wrote to Michael Chertoff, left, the
homeland security secretary, seeking answers to questions about procedures used
during the raid. The lawmakers also asked whether the timing of the raid was
tied to a decision by city officials to provide identification cards to all
residents, including illegal immigrants.   ALISON LEIGH COWAN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators Agree on Way to Revive Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14


Senate Democratic and Republican leaders announced on Thursday that they had
agreed on a way to revive a comprehensive immigration bill that was pulled off
the Senate floor seven days ago.

The majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, and the minority leader,
Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said they expected the bill to return
to the floor before the Fourth of July recess.

In a joint statement, Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell said: ''We met this evening
with several of the senators involved in the immigration bill negotiations.
Based on that discussion, the immigration bill will return to the Senate floor
after completion of the energy bill.''

The immigration bill, ardently sought by President Bush, would make the biggest
changes in immigration law and policy in more than 20 years.

It would increase border security, crack down on companies that employ illegal
immigrants, establish a guest worker program and offer legal status to most of
the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

The agreement does not guarantee that the bill will be approved by the Senate or
become law.

Supporters of the bipartisan bill predict that some conservative Republicans
will try to block a vote on final passage, because of concerns about the
legalization program.

Predicting ''procedural barriers,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the
third-ranking member of the Senate Democratic leadership team, said, ''Three or
four senators will try to block every amendment.''

The House has held many hearings on immigration this year. House Democratic
leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have expressed concerns about major
provisions of the Senate bill, including one that would give less weight to
family ties in deciding who can immigrate to the United States.

A White House spokesman, Scott M. Stanzel, said, ''We are encouraged by the
announcement from Senate leaders that comprehensive immigration reform will be
brought back up for consideration.''

The bill stalled on June 7, when supporters garnered just 45 of the 60 votes
needed to end debate. Republican senators said that they had not been allowed to
offer enough amendments.

Under the agreement reached on Thursday, the Senate will consider about 22
amendments, half from Republicans and half from Democrats.

Earlier in the day, trying to start the bill moving again in the Senate, Mr.
Bush called for an immediate burst of $4.4 billion in spending to show that the
government was committed to ''securing this border once and for all.''

Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, described the call for $4.4
billion as ''a good start.'' But Mr. Isakson said Mr. Bush needed to do more to
secure the border and to show that he was serious about enforcing immigration
laws.

Comments by Republican senators on Thursday suggested that they were feeling the
heat from conservative critics of the bill, who object to provisions offering
legal status. The Republican whip, Trent Lott of Mississippi, who supports the
bill, said: ''Talk radio is running America. We have to deal with that
problem.''

At some point, Mr. Lott said, Senate Republican leaders may try to rein in
''younger guys who are huffing and puffing against the bill.''

Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, welcomed the president's
support for more spending on border security, but said, ''There's no reason why
we should be forced to tie amnesty to it.''

Mr. Bush said the $4.4 billion would ''come from the fines and penalties that we
collect from those who have come to our country illegally'' and apply for legal
status.

Representative Duncan Hunter of California, a candidate for the Republican
presidential nomination, scorned such linkage.

''The idea that we will have border security only if it's paid for by illegal
immigrants is unacceptable,'' Mr. Hunter said.

Matthew A. Towery, a political analyst in Atlanta who was once a campaign
chairman for Newt Gingrich and is now chief executive of a polling firm, Insider
Advantage, said: ''Having George W. Bush come out and speak in favor of the
immigration bill does not do any good for Republican senators. He just irritates
the conservative base of the Republican Party, which has abandoned him on this
issue.''

A new proposal floated on Thursday in an effort to deter the hiring of illegal
immigrants would put biometric identifiers into Social Security cards. That
change would make the cards more difficult to forge and counterfeit, Mr. Schumer
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush speaking yesterday at a builders' conference in
Washington. He urged a $4.4 billion burst in spending for border security.
(Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Across the Borders, Across the Years

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 472 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Scarlet Letter'' (editorial, June 16):

The biggest problem with ''illegal immigration'' is the process. When my
grandparents came to this country, they were running away from oppression. They
didn't care to file the proper paperwork to enter the country. But we had Ellis
Island to process their admission.

What we need today is a way to process immigrants as they arrive so that they
aren't ''illegal.'' But for Ellis Island, I am sure that I would be the grandson
of illegals.

Hal Cohen

New York, June 16, 2007

To the Editor:

Why do so many people who preach forgiveness in church fail to find it in their
hearts to forgive illegal immigrants for trespasses undertaken out of a
desperate need to work and survive? Why can't we stop calling them illegal
immigrants and refer to them simply as neighbors?

Why turn the word ''amnesty'' into something obscene instead of what it is, a
sign of decency and compassion?

Carolyn D. Lewis

Ocean View, Del., June 17, 2007

To the Editor:

Hey, France, would you mind terribly if we gave back the Statue of Liberty?

We're shutting the doors to liberty-loving people here and everywhere else, so
the statue no longer holds much meaning for our country. Please take it back,
it's an embarrassment for the United States right now.

Barry Naiditch

El Cajon, Calif., June 17, 2007

To the Editor:

You are so out of touch with the common people regarding this immigration
matter. You attribute the heated atmosphere solely to  conservative mongering,
but that is not true. The common people in America have been hearing about the
virtues of multiculturalism, diversity and globalism since the 1960s. Now they
see their culture, opportunities and their America disappearing.

You are witnessing a pot beginning to boil. The common people are confused and
angry in a very visceral sort of way, rivaling the frustration and rage of
earlier eras in American history. Media and academic elites, you people with
secure careers, full benefits and cavalier social ideals, simply infuriate them.

Duane Pierson

Portland, Me., June 16, 2007

To the Editor:

It's well past time that the intense, unwarranted fear of leprosy be relegated
to a dark footnote of human history (''When Demagogues Play the Leprosy Card,
Watch Out,'' by Lawrence Downes, Editorial Observer, June 17).

In our era of rapidly emerging infectious diseases, it would be far preferable
to apply the lessons leprosy provides than to repeat a shameful instinct to
isolate those unlucky enough to contract a contagious disease.

Public fear should never be allowed to trump scientific knowledge, especially
when that fear runs the risk of destroying the lives of human beings most in
need of medical attention and public compassion.

Paul Mange Johansen

Cambridge, Mass., June 17, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Promise of ID Cards Is Followed by Peril of Arrest for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN


Under his family's homemade shrine to the Virgin of Guadalupe, Alan Flores, 8,
spoke softly about the morning last month when federal immigration agents
entered his home.

It was part of a raid that has complicated, but not defeated, this city's novel
plan to bring illegal immigrants out of the shadows.

The agents separated the children from the men. They placed Alan and three
cousins, ages 7, 2 and 1, in a row on the living room couch. Then they asked the
women, including Teresa Vara-Gonzalez, a housemate, if any of the children were
theirs.

''Teresa said no, and that's when they took her,'' Alan said in Spanish last
week, pressing closer to his mother, Norma Sedeno. ''They took away Teresa, and
my father and my two uncles. And then I got scared that they were going to come
back and take away my mom.''

Those taken from Alan's household were among the 32 immigrants arrested in the
New Haven area by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and scattered to jails in
Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Maine, in an operation that began June 6 and
ended June 11.

The operation started two days after the city's Board of Aldermen approved the
plan to offer municipal identification cards to all residents, including an
estimated 15,000 illegal immigrants settled in this city of 125,000.

But as the city prepares to issue the first municipal cards tomorrow, 28 of the
32 are home on bond -- a rare outcome that underscores how the arrests
galvanized community protest, bail money and legal help.

And while the operation made many illegal immigrants more fearful of applying
for the Elm City Resident Card, as the New Haven identification card is called,
Ms. Vara-Gonzalez, 32, a waitress, said the risks are now outweighed by the
benefits: a valid photo ID that she could use in daily life and that could help
her open a bank account. ''For us who have already been arrested,'' she added,
''we have nothing to lose.''

New Haven's mayor, John DeStefano Jr., remains convinced that the operation was
retaliation for the card initiative, he said in an interview Thursday. Despite
denials by Michael Chertoff, the secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security, that charge has been central to the unusual legal arguments raised by
Yale University law students and professors who are working with the immigrants
to challenge the arrests. The debate casts a spotlight on tactics used in raids
around the country as municipalities grapple with immigration issues that have
defied Congressional consensus.

During the raid, one man was up in a cherry picker when immigration agents
called him down, waving a photo of someone else, and arrested him when he could
not produce immigration papers, the lawyers said.

In some cases, they said, agents who found no one home at an address specified
in a deportation order simply knocked on other doors until one opened, pushed
their way in, and arrested residents rousted from bed when they acknowledged
that they lacked legal status. Of the 32 arrested, most of whom are Mexican,
only five had outstanding deportation orders, and only one or two had criminal
records.

Many immigrants do not know that they have a right to remain silent, or to deny
agents entry to their homes without a search warrant, said Michael Wishnie, a
Yale law professor directing the legal challenge. Immigration statutes give
government wide latitude to question people, he said, but the law requires
agents to have a valid reason for suspicion, not one based on an illegal motive
like racial or ethnic profiling.

In this case, Professor Wishnie contended, the overall motive for the operation
was unconstitutional retaliation for New Haven's card program. The evidence
collected from the arrests, he said, is therefore ''the fruit of an illegal
act'' and should be thrown out.

In a letter to Connecticut's Congressional delegation, which sharply questioned
the timing and conduct of the operation, Mr. Chertoff defended what his agency
calls Operation Return to Sender, a national enforcement effort to reduce a
backlog of more than 632,000 ''fugitive aliens.'' He insisted that in New Haven
the agents ''at no time'' entered a dwelling without consent.

Professor Wishnie said, however, that Mr. Chertoff wrote that agents had waited
with an 11-year-old girl for her father to come home from work. A child cannot
give legal consent for entry, Professor Wishnie said.

The conflict has also energized opponents of the city ID card. On Friday, an
immigration control group based in the suburbs of New Haven, Southern
Connecticut Immigration Reform, demanded a list of applicants under Freedom of
Information laws and vowed to sue for it, fanning fears among illegal immigrants
that if they sign up, they could become the targets of future raids.

''Everytown U.S.A. has got their eyeballs fixed on this,'' said Sean McMurray, a
demolition foreman in the group. ''I don't want to see innocent people hurt, but
I'm talking security for the legal residents of this country.''

On the other side, John Jairo Lugo, director of Unidad Latina en Accion, an
immigrant self-help group in New Haven, also said towns across the country are
watching.

''This was to make New Haven a model city in the United States,'' Mr. Lugo said
of the card, which is meant to be useful to all New Haven residents by combining
access to city pools, libraries, the municipal golf course and the dump, and
doubling as a debit card for parking meters. ''Maybe that's one of the prices
you pay: the raids happened, people got detained. But the rest of the community
came together. It's a symbolic lesson: You cannot fight for the immigrants
alone.''

In interviews last week with seven of those arrested, the fear remained
palpable.

Alan Flores's father, Apolinar Flores Romero, a pizza maker, said that in the
first days after his release, he was afraid to leave the house.

Florente Baranda, another man, said he is haunted by his detention: ''They had
us with chains on our feet in Hartford, 23 or 24 people in this tiny room.'' Mr.
Baranda, 32, has lived in New Haven since 1998, packaging bread at a bakery from
5 p.m. to 2 a.m. for $11 an hour. He and his wife have two children and, like
many of those arrested, attend St. Rose of Lima Catholic Church, which played a
major role in raising bail.

''I'm nervous taking my kids to the park,'' Mr. Baranda said at Junta, an
immigrant organization that helped feed families when the raid left them without
breadwinners.

A Yale law intern, Stella Burch, tried to reassure Mr. Baranda. Now that he is
in deportation proceedings and out on $15,000 bond, she explained, ''No one can
arrest you for immigration issues, and we're going to fight with you to win your
case -- St. Rose, Junta, the law school.''

The lawyers are still working for the release of Ivania Sotelo, 48, a Nicaraguan
woman who was one of the few arrested on an outstanding deportation order. Her
son, Jerry Sarmiento, 14, a United States citizen and the chess champion of his
school, said her early-morning arrest left him in shock.

''I didn't want to tell anybody,'' he said. ''But I started crying right in the
middle of the seventh-and-eighth-grade morning circle.''

His mother is in the county jail in Portland, Me. ''It's a horrible place,''
said Jerry, who was able to visit only once. ''They're all in orange and she's
right next to the drug addicts and murderers, and I don't know why.''

Others had no families to call when they were bused in shackles to a private
prison in Rhode Island. ''I felt like I could disappear,'' Jose Yangua, 27, a
landscaper, said through a translator.

Ms. Burch had called jails in three states to find Mr. Yangua and his brother
Edinson, who was also arrested. She collected handwritten testimonials from
their landlord and bosses to win their release on bail.

Their landlord, Michael Quoka, wrote that the brothers were ''solid members of
the community'' who studied English at night and paid the rent on time.

Most of the cases will probably take years to resolve. But just 18 days in jail
has turned Jose Yangua's life upside down. Immigration authorities confiscated
all his identity documents, he said, including his valid Michigan driver's
license and the bank card he needs for access to his savings.

A municipal card, he said, may now be his best chance to prove his identity.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Apolinar Flores Romero, with his son, Alan, was arrested in New
Haven by immigration agents. (Photograph by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg.
B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill for New York City ID Card To Be Introduced by Councilman

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words


Identification cards would be made available to all New York City residents --
including tens of thousands of illegal immigrants -- under a proposal by a City
Council member from Queens who was inspired by a pioneering program that begins
in New Haven today.

''I would hope that the federal government would not retaliate against the city
of New York if we provided for a municipal identification card,'' the council
member, Hiram Monserrate, said yesterday, referring to a federal immigration
raid in New Haven last month two days after that city approved the issuance of
municipal cards.

''The city of New York is home to eight  million people, many of them immigrants
and some of them, frankly, undocumented,'' said Mr. Monserrate, who plans to
introduce legislation tomorrow to create the ID card. ''Some of them have been
residents of the city for many years, and to give them a basic ID card that's
valid within the city limits only makes sense for our municipality.''

Mr. Monserrate, a New York-born former city police officer who represents one of
the city's most diverse districts, called the legislation a first step.

Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker, would not comment on its chances for
success in the 51-member Council, a spokeswoman said, adding that the bill would
be referred to committee for a full review.

In New Haven, a city of 125,000, the Board of Aldermen overwhelmingly approved
the plan to offer the cards, which can be used by immigrants to open bank
accounts as well as to gain access to municipal services.

So that the card, known as the Elm City Resident Card, would not become a
''scarlet letter'' for illegal immigrants, it was designed to appeal to all
residents by combining access to pools, libraries and the municipal golf course,
and doubling as a parking debit card.

But critics argue that it will entice illegal immigration and undermine border
security.

For many city residents, the only state or local government identification now
available is a driver's license or a nondriver ID card. For both, the State
Department of Motor Vehicles requires a Social Security card and other documents
that prove legal presence in the country.

A municipal ID could encourage immigrants to report crimes to police, Mr.
Monserrate said, as well as to request services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Advocate for Families Is Deported

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 20


The federal authorities said Monday that the deporting of a Mexican woman who
had sought refuge in churches while being an advocate for illegal immigrant
families had not signaled a crackdown on religious groups that provide aid to
illegal immigrants.

The woman, Elvira Arellano, 32, had defied a federal deportation order by
spending much of the past year in a Chicago church seeking to raise awareness of
how deportations can separate families. Ms. Arellano  left the church over the
weekend to visit  churches around the country, joined by her 8-year-old son,
Saul, who was born in the United States.

On Sunday, after she spoke at Our Lady Queen of Angels, a Roman Catholic church
in downtown Los Angeles, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents stopped her
car a few blocks away and arrested her.

Jim Hayes, the immigration agency's Los Angeles field office director, said Ms.
Arellano's arrest was not a ''message to the sanctuary movement as much as it is
a message to criminal illegal aliens who are fugitives, that we are going to
continue to target them.''

Mr. Hayes said Ms. Arellano had been deported once before, after entering the
country illegally in 1997. She re-entered and was convicted in 2002 of a felony,
using a false Social Security card, which she used to acquire a job cleaning
airplanes at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago.

''We will find them, and we will deport them,'' Mr. Hayes said of criminal
illegal immigrants.

Ms. Arellano's supporters said she had grown frustrated that the immigration
debate had receded from the forefront of public attention in recent weeks.

''I think she took a risk in the name of a mission, and I think she is
accomplishing that mission,'' said the Rev. Alexia Salvatierra, a leader in the
New Sanctuary Movement, a coalition of groups arranging church accommodations
for illegal immigrants nationwide, eight of whom have made their presence
publicly known.

''Immigration rights activists are going to be unified and galvanized by this,''
Ms. Salvatierra said. ''There is a Rosa Parks quality to this.''

People opposed to illegal immigration held little sympathy for Ms. Arellano.
Representative Brian P. Bilbray, Republican of California, said the immigration
authorities had done the right thing.

''I don't think because she comes here and has a child that she somehow deserves
to be treated any different from anybody else who broke the law,'' Mr. Bilbray
said.

A federal judge ordered Mr. Arellano  deported last August and, instead of
surrendering to immigration agents, she sought safe harbor at Adalberto United
Methodist Church in Chicago, where she denounced immigration raids that separate
families with both citizens and illegal immigrants as  members.

Mr. Hayes of the immigration agency said that her fugitive status and felony
conviction, not her public advocacy, had made her a high priority though he took
note of it and said that it had only made her easier to find than other illegal
immigrants with criminal records.

''This country's immigration system, as generous as it is, should not be
exploited by those who disagree with it,'' Mr. Hayes said at a news conference
here. ''I.C.E. has a sworn duty to ensure that our nation's immigration laws are
applied fairly and without regard for a person's ability to generate public
support.''

He declined to say why Ms. Arellano  was not arrested sooner at the church in
Chicago, though immigration agents generally do not make arrests on religious
property. The agency, Mr. Hayes  said, makes arrests at a time that will
''minimize the danger to the public, the danger to our officers and the people
that are targeted, and we found that opportunity yesterday.''

After her arrest on Sunday, Ms. Arellano said goodbye to her son and placed him
in the care of leaders of the Chicago church, who were traveling with her.

Ms. Arellano was escorted to a border crossing in San Diego and then walked into
Tijuana, Mexico, late Sunday. She was reported to be staying with friends there.

On Monday, her son was taken to Tijuana to visit her while supporters planned
their next move, which they said would include seeking a Congressional bill
authorizing her return.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elvira Arellano, an illegal immigrant, and her son, Saul, at Our
Lady Queen of Angels church in Los Angeles last Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REED
SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facing Trial, Government Agrees to Improve Conditions at Immigrant Center

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 27


The federal government and lawyers for immigrant children have announced an
agreement to improve living conditions at the nation's main family detention
center for illegal immigrant suspects.

The deal involves the 512-bed T. Don Hutto Residential Center in Taylor, Tex.,
which houses about 400 asylum seekers and others suspected of being in the
country illegally, about half of whom are children and teenagers.

When it opened last year, the privately run  center was to be a model for a
tougher federal immigration policy in which more people suspected of being
illegal immigrants would be held instead of released before hearings. But the
center drew protests when it was reported that immigrant children were
inadequately fed, deprived of toys and confined to cells with open toilets.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the immigration clinic at the University
of Texas Law School sued federal officials on behalf of 26 immigrant children
and teenagers, seeking their release and improved conditions at the center.

The agreement, announced as a trial had been set to begin  on Monday, requires
improving education, recreation and nutrition for children, hiring a full-time
pediatrician, and installing privacy curtains around toilets. It provides for
inspections by a federal magistrate, Andrew W. Austin.

''This is a huge victory,'' said Vanita Gupta, a lawyer with the Racial Justice
Program of the A.C.L.U. ''Though we continue to believe that Hutto is an
inappropriate place to house children, conditions have drastically improved in
areas like education, recreation, medical care and privacy.''

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency heralded the settlement and
defended the  center as safe.

The agency said in a statement that it ''continues to improve Hutto, ensuring
that the facility's  residents are detained in an environment appropriate for
both parents and children.'' It added that ''residents are treated with dignity
and respect.''

The agreement requires the approval of Judge Sam Sparks of Federal District
Court in Austin.

Even critics have said conditions at the center have improved markedly since the
lawsuit was filed in March, citing expanded outdoor recreation time and
educational opportunities and the elimination of a requirement that children
wear institutional uniforms.

All 26 youths involved in the suit have been released in the last several
months, including six in the last few days. The six are living with family
members who are American citizens or permanent legal residents.

According to a statement by the A.C.L.U., the six children responded to their
release with emotion. One of them, Andrea Restrepo, a 12-year-old from Colombia,
was quoted as saying:  ''I am trying to forget everything about Hutto. I feel
free. It was a nightmare.''

Establishing the  center was part of a plan to expand detention space as a way
to house those rounded up in raids on workplaces and a crackdown along the
borders.

It was to be part of a reversal of policy in which tens of thousands of arrested
immigrants were released every year before immigration hearings, which many then
did not attend. Most of the people held in the  center came from Latin American
countries where they could not be easily sent home. The center is intended to
hold detainees for a matter of days, but some immigrants have been held for two
months or more.

The immigration agency said it continued to believe in family detention as a
main component to the federal ''catch and remove'' policy. ''Keeping families
together through the removal process,'' the agency said, ''ensures that illegal
alien children remain with parents, their best caregivers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Rally for Changes to Immigration Measure

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


Thousands of immigrants and their supporters gathered on the west lawn of the
Capitol on Saturday to urge the Senate to adopt legislation that would make it
easier for illegal immigrants to become legal residents of the United States.

Braving the midday heat, the demonstrators, who were largely from the Washington
area, streamed onto the lawn above the reflecting pool, waving American flags
and carrying red, white and blue placards.

The rally was smaller than those held here and across the United States last
year. But its organizers, the National Capital Immigrant Coalition, said it was
the first step in a campaign to press senators to change key aspects of the
immigration bill they are considering.

Congress has been on a weeklong recess and will be in session again on Monday.
Before the break, the Senate began discussion of an immigration bill that, among
other things, would levy a $5,000 fine on illegal immigrants who seek legal
status, require guest workers to return home for one year for every two years
worked in the United States, and give higher priority for legal status to
well-educated immigrants, rather than to those who have family here.

Conservatives have dismissed the bill as amnesty for illegal immigrants. But
immigrants' rights supporters, like those at the rally,said provisions like the
fine and the return clause were onerous barriers to legalization.

''I don't expect to get a perfect bill, but the current legislation has serious
flaws we think need to be fixed,'' said Jaime Contreras, president of the
immigration coalition's board.

Most of the speakers addressed the crowd in Spanish and organizers encouraged
demonstrators to sign postcards to members of Congress and to call their
senators.

Some of those interviewed said they were naturalized citizens or legal residents
who were closely following the debate and considered much of the pending bill
unnecessarily punitive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Silent Amnesty': Where the Hard Right Goes Soft on Immigration

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 698 words


All right, seal the border. Then what?

Senator John McCain has been putting the question to the right-wing critics who
have attacked the Senate's immigration bill as a damnable amnesty for illegal
aliens. He is aiming mostly at Mitt Romney, his Republican presidential rival,
but he could be speaking to anyone in the large, loud chorus of conservatives
who are so furious about the immigration compromise they could spit.

It's a perfectly reasonable question. Once we lock down the southern border, we
lock ourselves in with 12 million illegal immigrants. Let's assume we don't want
to deport them all, with a forced-resettlement program big enough to empty the
state of Ohio. If we don't want another Trail of Tears and don't want anybody
legalized, we will have to get rid of these people some other way.

This is where the rigor of the right turns to mush. Mr. Romney talks as tough as
anyone about securing the borders and despising amnesty. He is proud of the way
he tried to heap layers of misery on illegal immigrants when he was governor of
Massachusetts. He calls the legalization provisions of the Senate bill utterly
unacceptable. But he has laid out no alternative.

At Tuesday night's Republican debate, Mr. Romney had a perfect opportunity to
respond to the charge that he has been pandering for votes while offering no
solution other than doing nothing, which Mr. McCain memorably condemns as
''silent amnesty.'' Check the transcript: Mr. Romney had no rebuttal.

If anyone ought to have thought this through, it would be Representative Tom
Tancredo, who is running for president as an immigration zealot. He says he
hates the bill so much he wants to unseat any senator who votes for it. But his
tough talk on Tuesday was almost as fuzzy as Mr. Romney's. His campaign Web site
devotes a scant two paragraphs to immigration policy. Take away the quotation
from Theodore Roosevelt, and you have just one paragraph, with a single
prescriptive sentence: ''The only realistic solution to the problem of illegal
immigration is a strategy of attrition, which seeks to reduce the flow of the
illegal alien population over time by cutting off the incentive for coming to
and staying in America -- most importantly by eliminating the jobs magnet.''

Attrition is the restrictionists' fallback plan, a wishful equation that with
enough enforcement, mass deportation will happen by itself: Misery plus time
equals no more illegals. Small-bore ideologues in places like Hazleton, Pa., and
Suffolk County, N.Y., have bought into this approach, adding layer on layer of
hostile legislation to drive people out.

The price of this strategy is high -- far more government intrusion into daily
lives, with exponential increases in workplace raids, detentions and
deportations; continual ID checks for everyone, citizen or not; immigration
police at the federal, state, county and local levels; bureaucrats and snoops
keeping an eye on landlords, renters, laborers, loiterers and everyone who uses
government services or gets sick. The strain on agriculture and service
industries would be devastating. And all the things that everyone agrees are the
perversities of the status quo -- exploited workers, depressed wages, a huge
undocumented population within our borders -- would persist for an indefinite
period until the last illegal immigrant goes home.

The make-'em-suffer, wait-'em-out tactic is shockingly passive. It's a far cry
from the comprehensive reform that Mr. McCain supports, which would move
decisively to extend a web of lawfulness over the shadow population, signing
people up for visas, doing background checks, extracting fines and back taxes
and imposing other conditions. Poll after poll shows the American public
supporting this assertive, fair-minded approach. But the amnesty-never
hard-liners seem determined to drown them out.

Maybe this country can make undocumented life so miserable as to extinguish all
hope in an immigrant's heart. Maybe it can impose and enforce laws with such
rigidity as to make America a beacon of hopelessness. But as an immigration
policy, it's hard not to see that as delusional. As an expression of American
ideals, it's repulsive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arrests of Illegal Immigrants Doubled in the Last Year

BYLINE: By NATE SCHWEBER

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 260 words


The number of illegal immigrants arrested in New Jersey under Operation Return
to Sender has more than doubled over the last year to more than 1,700,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said.

The operation, begun in May 2005, focuses on illegal immigrants with criminal
records. A total of 800 illegal immigrants were arrested in New Jersey in the
first year of the operation, and 1,772 were arrested in the second year, with
253 of them having criminal records, officials said.

Whether the numbers reflect an increase in New Jersey in the number of illegal
immigrants and those with criminal records or the effectiveness of law
enforcement authorities is unclear, said Scott Weber, field office director for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention and removal based in Newark. But
the four fugitive operations teams that span the state keep improving over time
at tracking down aliens, he said.

Mr. Weber said that the fugitive operations teams pursue suspects based on
intelligence, including tips, and that the spike in arrests was not a result of
random sweeps.

The convictions of those arrested include sexual assault, child abuse, weapons
charges, identity theft and drug possession, officials said.

''This is a national priority that dissolved into our state,'' said Adam
Puharic, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Newark.

Morristown is awaiting word on its application to be part of an Immigration and
Customs Enforcement effort to deputize local police officers to deal with
immigration issues.    NATE SCHWEBER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'86 Law Looms Over Immigration Fight

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


When President Bush goes to Capitol Hill on Tuesday to push for revival of a
comprehensive immigration bill, he will have to wrestle with the ghost of a 1986
law that promised to solve the problem of illegal immigration.

That law prohibited the hiring of illegal immigrants, provided new resources for
enforcement along the Mexican border and offered legal status, or amnesty, to
several million illegal immigrants. In the current debate, which stalled last
week when the latest legislative proposal failed to clear a procedural hurdle,
senators of both parties cite the 1986 law as an example of what not to do.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said he regretted voting for
the 1986 measure.

''I thought then that taking care of three million people illegally in the
country would solve the problem once and for all,'' Mr. Grassley said. ''I found
out, however, if you reward illegality, you get more of it. Today, as everybody
has generally agreed, we have 12 million people here illegally.''

The 1986 law was a product of more than five years' work by Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat
of Kentucky. Both left Congress more than a decade ago.

Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said: ''I was here in
Congress in 1986. I heard all the promises of the Simpson-Mazzoli Act. None of
them were true, and three million people got amnesty. There was no border
security to speak of, no employer sanctions to speak of, and there was no
enforcement.''

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said: ''The American people were sold
a bill of goods. It didn't work. We got an amnesty, and we got no enforcement.
That is why people are so distrustful now.''

One of Mr. Bush's ''first principles,'' as described in a White House planning
document, is, ''Do not repeat the 1986 failure.'' He and other supporters of the
current Senate bill say it puts enforcement first this time.

On Monday, Mr. Bush said he was confident that the bill would move forward and
become law, despite the roadblock it hit last week and continued intense
opposition from many conservatives in Congress and at the grass-roots level.

''I'll see you at the bill signing,'' the president told journalists traveling
with him in Bulgaria.

In a letter to Mr. Bush on Monday, Senate Democratic leaders said they were
''committed to Senate passage of an immigration bill this year.'' But they said
Mr. Bush must exert stronger leadership and deliver more votes for the
legislation.

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said he would try
again on the immigration bill if the president and Senate Republican leaders
showed ''new cooperation and a clear way forward.''

Supporters of the Senate bill acknowledge that the nation's experience with the
1986 law has made their job harder. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, said the current bill was ''dramatically different from the 1986
act,'' because it places more emphasis on enforcement and more conditions on the
granting of legal status to illegal immigrants.

But many senators are skeptical. Under the Senate bill, they note, most new
enforcement measures are ''subject to the availability of appropriations,''
meaning Congress would have to provide additional money to finance them.

Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, said he supported amnesty in
1986 ''based on the very same promises we hear today.'' But that law did not
work, Mr. Byrd said, and ''I will not vote to make the same mistake twice.''

In signing the 1986 measure into law, President Ronald Reagan said, ''Future
generations of Americans will be thankful for our efforts to humanely regain
control of our borders.''

The border remains porous.

Stephen J. Pitti, a professor of history at Yale, said the 1986 law ''did little
to slow migration to the United States,'' but made crossing the border more
difficult and dangerous. As a result, he said, illegal immigrants, rather than
circulating back and forth between the United States and Mexico, are more likely
to settle permanently in this country.

Likewise, Professor Pitti said, the employer sanctions authorized in 1986 did
not noticeably deter illegal immigration from Latin America, but ''created a
booming market for fake identity cards.''

Reached Monday in Wyoming, Mr. Simpson said, ''Without a more secure identifier,
it was obvious that the 1986 bill could never work.''

The Senate bill calls for more secure identification documents, with photographs
or biometric identifiers. Employers must use a new electronic system to verify
that employees are eligible to work in the United States. And the fines for
hiring illegal immigrants would be much higher than under the current law.

But the Senate bill, like the 1986 law, forbids the use of national
identification cards.

Supporters of the 1986 measure freely used the word ''amnesty'' at the time.
President Bush insists that the Senate bill ''does not grant amnesty'' because
an illegal immigrant would have to pay a fine, pass background checks and hold a
steady job to gain legal status.

But Mr. Bush will have difficulty persuading senators like David Vitter,
Republican of Louisiana. Mr. Vitter said the legalization program and other
provisions of the Senate bill ''will inevitably repeat the mistake of 1986, only
on a far broader, a far bigger, and far more dangerous scale.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ronald Reagan and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli of
Kentucky shook hands in 1986 at the signing of the immigration law. (Photo by
Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suffolk's Leader Wins a Following On Immigration

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y.


A recent day in May began in crisis mode for Steve Levy, the Suffolk County
executive, over an allegation that a police crackdown on unlicensed drivers
amounted to the ethnic profiling of illegal immigrants.

Soon, he was preparing a response to accusations by 30 state legislators, fellow
Democrats all, that his policies in this Long Island county of 1.4 million
''instigate divisiveness, hatred and intolerant behavior toward immigrants.''

By 2 p.m., Mr. Levy seemed relieved to turn from ''the whole illegal immigration
thing,'' as he calls it, to a topic confined to his 631 area code: a health fair
for minority residents. Then an adviser asked whether the fair might be moved
from a county building.

''A lot of these people are illegal,'' the adviser explained, ''and they are
afraid to come.''

If politicians can be said to have relationships with issues, Mr. Levy's
relationship with illegal immigration seems resentful yet clinging.

He complains that immigration detracts from his local accomplishments.

Yet he injects himself into the issue often and aggressively enough to have
become almost as familiar to the national audiences of action-figure
conservative commentators like Bill O'Reilly and Lou Dobbs as he is to viewers
of News 12 Long Island.

Newsday calls him arguably the most formidable elected official in Long Island
history. Immigrants advocates frequently accuse him of bigotry; one spokesman
for local day laborers, the Rev. Allan Ramirez, has accused him of ''ethnic
cleansing.''

Local politicians like Mr. Levy -- whose official portfolio is heavy with issues
like taxes and housing, beach erosion and employee contracts -- have little sway
over the federal matters of border control and immigration policy. But it is a
theme that has profound resonance in the cul-de-sacs and new developments that
define much of his suburban turf, and he has marshaled what tools he has to deal
with its ramifications.

He has lent his police officers to town building inspectors for raids that have
shuttered several dozen overcrowded rooming houses. His Consumer Affairs
Department has increased arrests of unlicensed contractors -- many of whom
employ illegal immigrants -- to about 300 a year from 70.

Last year, officers at the Suffolk County Jail ran immigration checks on 2,287
inmates, compared with 40 in 2004 (deportation proceedings were started against
376).

In some ways, Mr. Levy has emerged as a leader of a new breed of Democrats, who
represent suburban areas that once were dominated by Republicans and remain
socially conservative, particularly on questions of who lives next door.

For example, suburban Democrats in Illinois were crucial in rejecting a 2005
bill that would have allowed illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses.
And in close state and federal races in North Carolina, Ohio and Tennessee last
year, many Democratic candidates sounded tougher than the Republicans on border
security.

Mr. Levy, a 47-year-old career politician finishing his first term running this
county -- which has 176,000 foreign-born residents, 50,000 of whom officials
estimate are here illegally -- sometimes professes frustration that the issue
has largely come to define him. But it has also given him a national profile, an
80 percent local approval rating and the closest thing to a guaranteed
re-election: endorsements from both the Democratic and the Republican Parties.

As the latest efforts to revamp immigration laws in Congress have disintegrated
in a debate displaying a dozen shades of gray, Mr. Levy has held to a
black-and-white assertion: Illegal immigration is illegal, and should be
punished.

When asked about moving the county health fair, for example, he responded: ''If
they are committing a crime, they have something to worry about. Otherwise, they
have nothing to worry about.''

At his most strident, Mr. Levy warns that the country's ''open borders'' are an
invitation to ''Fort Dix terrorists,'' a reference to the six foreign-born men,
three of them with expired visas, who were charged in May with plotting to
attack an Army base in New Jersey.

At his most reflective, he says the whole matter is a question of suburban
values.

''People who play by the rules work hard to achieve the suburban dream of the
white picket fence,'' Mr. Levy said. ''Whether you are black or white or
Hispanic, if you live in the suburbs, you do not want to live across the street
from a house where 60 men live. You do not want trucks riding up and down the
block at 5 a.m., picking up workers.''

Vivian Viloria-Fisher, a Suffolk County legislator who was born in the Dominican
Republic, is a Democrat who generally supports Mr. Levy but parts ways with him
on his signature issue.

''The 'rules' Steve talks about are very nice, but they ignore the global
economic rules that force people to come here to earn a living,'' she said.
''The 'white picket fence' -- this is also part of a mythologized reality. As
much as anything, that fence was put there to keep people out.''

From Gov. Eliot Spitzer on down, officeholders in Mr. Levy's own party distance
themselves from his aggressive approach. ''Steve and I agree on a lot of
things,'' Mr. Spitzer said in a brief interview, ''but illegal immigration isn't
one of them.''

In accepting the Democratic Party's nomination in May, Mr. Levy made no
reference to illegal immigration.

But a few days later at the Suffolk Republican convention, he was wildly cheered
as he promised to do his part to attack ''an illegal underground economy,'' to
work hard for those who ''play by the rules,'' and to keep at it no matter how
much he was criticized by ''the politically correct crowd.''

''I don't want to hurt him with his own party, but I don't know if he even sees
himself as a Democrat,'' said United States Representative Peter King, a Long
Island Republican whose views on immigration mirror Mr. Levy's. ''He's a
populist. I think people see him doing the right things on the immigration
issue, enforcing the law.''

His seeming sure-footedness in straddling different worlds hark back to a life
of fusion thinking, beginning perhaps by growing up with a Jewish father and
Roman Catholic mother. Mr. Levy says he is a practicing Catholic.

After the family moved from Queens to Holbrook in Suffolk, their appliance store
in Brooklyn was looted and destroyed during the 1977 blackout. Mr. Levy said
that his father was ''devastated, never really got over it,'' and that his
parents worked three jobs each just to get by.

''I know what it means to struggle, believe me,'' he said. ''I think it has
helped me to understand people of all races, and to understand the burdens
placed on our taxpayers.''

Beginning a century ago, Suffolk County's beet and potato farms were a magnet
for migrant workers from Mexico and Central America. Starting in the mid-1990s,
the construction boom provided year-round work for immigrants, many of them
illegal.

The county's Hispanic population has grown to 12.6 percent, according to the
latest Census Bureau estimates, from 7.6 percent in 1990 -- showing faster
growth than the statewide population, but about the same as in neighboring
Nassau County, where the issue has produced less political heat.

Mr. Levy dates his passion on the matter to his first campaign, for the County
Legislature in 1985, when he won as a Democrat in a heavily Republican district
by knocking on every door in its borders. He said that he often heard complaints
about illegal immigrants in the hamlet of Farmingville, an early flashpoint in
the fight over day laborers.

In the County Legislature, Mr. Levy frequently cast the lone ''no'' vote on
spending bills -- which won him praise from tax watchdogs and resentment from
fellow legislators, who branded him a grandstander. He supported an unsuccessful
English-only bill that would have forbidden the printing or speaking of any
other language by county agencies or employees.

Elected to the State Assembly in 2000, Mr. Levy introduced more bills in his
first three months, 65, than any other freshman in history.

There were measures to cut taxes and to depoliticize election redistricting. One
would have required the option of speaking to a human on all state
phone-answering systems. None became law.

Now, he says, he has no plans to run for higher office. He seems to enjoy being
a kind of 800-pound tuna in his own small pond.

Some political professionals attribute his lofty poll numbers to his tough stand
on illegal immigration. Others, like June O'Neill, chairwoman of the state
Democratic Party, say Mr. Levy's approach to illegal immigration is ''incidental
to his broader vision of trying to enforce the law and help the taxpayer.''

Take the crackdown on unlicensed drivers, which has led to 123 arrests since
January. The police say they have not kept track of how many were illegal
immigrants. But in the face of ethnic profiling accusations, Mr. Levy expanded
the sting from the Farmingville area to enforce it countywide.

''Nobody is profiling anyone,'' he said. ''But if some guy gets pulled over for
a traffic stop and let go with a ticket, and he turns out to be one of these
Fort Dix terrorists, well, that would be just terrible, wouldn't it?''  Steve
Levy  Born: Aug. 25, 1959, in Glendale, Queens.  Education: Graduate of Sachem
High School in Holbrook, N.Y. (1977); State University of New York, Stony Brook
(1981, magna cum laude); St. John's University School of Law (1984).  Career:
Lawyer; Suffolk County legislator (1985-2000); New York State assemblyman
(2001-2003); Suffolk County executive (2004-present).  Family: Lives in Bayport
with his wife (since 1995), Colleen West Levy, and stepchildren, Shannon, 23,
and Erin, 21.  Hobbies: Weightlifting; following local professional sports.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, has been endorsed by
both political parties for re-election. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York
Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Security Is Focus Of Bid to Revive Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13


The White House and senators from both parties mapped out possible changes in a
comprehensive immigration bill on Wednesday, so they could better portray it as
a way to bolster national security rather than to grant amnesty to millions of
illegal immigrants.

The changes would include a guarantee of several billion dollars for tougher
border security and law enforcement and would allow the government to take more
time before granting work permits to illegal immigrants who seek legal status.

The proposals were drafted as part of an effort to recast the debate on
immigration and revive the bipartisan bill, which was pulled from the Senate
floor late last week. They come a day after President Bush met with senators to
try to persuade those on the fence to support the measure.

As the White House shifts its tactics on the bill, immigrant rights' groups have
begun their own push to move the legislation forward by emphasizing the benefits
of immigration. [Page A24.]

Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, who was haggling with senators over
possible amendments, said: ''This is a national security bill. We are fixing a
national security problem.''

Mr. Gutierrez said the bill would eliminate a threat to national security that
arises because ''we have millions of people working in our country, and we don't
know who they are.''

Despite the proposed changes and the effort to promote the bill as part of the
war on terrorism, the provision that has generated the most criticism from
conservative Republicans -- a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants --
remains.

President Bush is expected to depict the bill as a way to secure the borders and
curtail the influx of illegal immigrants in remarks Thursday to the Associated
Builders and Contractors, a trade group for construction companies.

Another trade group, the National Association of Home Builders, has expressed
concern about a provision of the bill that could, in some cases, hold general
contractors responsible for a subcontractor's use of illegal immigrant labor.

The bill, one of President Bush's top domestic priorities, makes a commitment to
border security and tougher enforcement, including a crackdown on companies that
employ illegal immigrants. But in more than a dozen places, the bill says such
steps are ''subject to the availability of appropriations,'' meaning money might
or might not be available.

By many accounts, the bill failed to attract enough votes because Republicans
believed that the enforcement parts of the bill were too weak.

Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, a member of the small bipartisan
group that wrote the bill, said Wednesday that its sponsors hoped to attract
more support by passing an emergency supplemental appropriation of $3 billion to
$5 billion to pay for the enforcement measures.

''President Bush seems receptive to the idea,'' Mr. Martinez said. Tony Snow,
the White House press secretary, expressed interest in a Republican proposal to
take all fees and fines collected under the bill and use the money for
enforcement.

Even Democratic architects of the bill, like Senators Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts and Ken Salazar of Colorado, are portraying the bill as a way to
restore the rule of law.

''It's a matter of our national security,'' Mr. Kennedy said Wednesday. ''We
have broken borders and a broken immigration system.''

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said the extra money could
''persuade the American people and reluctant senators'' to support the bill.

The 1986 immigration law looms over the current debate. Lawmakers of both
parties say that law failed because Congress granted amnesty to three million
illegal immigrants, but no president has vigorously enforced its prohibition on
hiring illegal immigrants.

The 1986 law ''resulted in a tidal wave of illegal immigration,'' said Senator
Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia.

More than 300 amendments to the current bill have been proposed. Leading
supporters of the bill are trying to winnow those down, with the thought that
the Senate might vote on a dozen proposed by Republicans and a dozen from
Democrats.

Senate Republican leaders are encouraging Republican senators to agree on a
finite list of amendments, so the Senate can vote on final passage of the bill.

Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chief Republican architect of the measure, said
he and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, had drafted an
amendment that would ''significantly tighten up enforcement.''

Mr. Kyl said the proposal would alter a provision of the bill that grants
''probationary benefits,'' including work permits, to illegal immigrants within
one day after they file applications for legal status.

Conservative critics of the bill have denounced that provision, saying law
enforcement agencies could never complete background checks in one day.

Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, is likely to get a vote on
her proposal to require illegal immigrants to return to their home countries
before they could obtain legal status in the United States.

That proposal is anathema to many Democrats and Hispanic groups, who say it
would be unworkable. The bill already has a ''touchback requirement,'' but it
would apply only to illegal immigrants who are heads of household and seek
permanent-residence visas, or green cards. Such visas would become available
eight years after the bill became law, at the earliest.

By contrast, under Mrs. Hutchison's proposal, adult illegal immigrants would
generally have to leave the United States within two years if they wanted to
apply for legal status, in the form of ''Z visas.''

''My amendment would take the amnesty out of this bill,'' Mrs. Hutchison said.
''It would say, if you are going to work in our country today or tomorrow or two
years from now or 25 years from now, you will apply from outside the country to
come in legally so we have control of our system.''

If Congress provides additional money, some of it would be used to create an
electronic system that employers would have to use to verify that employees were
eligible to work in this country.

About 17,000 employers have registered to use the current voluntary verification
system, but under the Senate bill, nearly six million employers could be
required to do so. Under the current program, the government usually confirms
within seconds that an employee is authorized to work.

But in some cases, the government does not have up-to-date information on a
worker's name or citizenship. The Government Accountability Office, an
investigative arm of Congress, said it could take days or even weeks to resolve
such discrepancies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Across the Borders, Across the Years

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 471 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Scarlet Letter'' (editorial, June 16):

The biggest problem with ''illegal immigration'' is the process. When my
grandparents came to this country, they were running away from oppression. They
didn't care to file the proper paperwork to enter the country. But we had Ellis
Island to process their admission.

What we need today is a way to process immigrants as they arrive so that they
aren't ''illegal.'' But for Ellis Island, I am sure that I would be the grandson
of illegals.

Hal Cohen New York, June 16, 2007

To the Editor:

Why do so many people who preach forgiveness in church fail to find it in their
hearts to forgive illegal immigrants for trespasses undertaken out of a
desperate need to work and survive? Why can't we stop calling them illegal
immigrants and refer to them simply as neighbors?

Why turn the word ''amnesty'' into something obscene instead of what it is, a
sign of decency and compassion?

Carolyn D. Lewis Ocean View, Del., June 17, 2007

To the Editor:

Hey, France, would you mind terribly if we gave back the Statue of Liberty?

We're shutting the doors to liberty-loving people here and everywhere else, so
the statue no longer holds much meaning for our country. Please take it back,
it's an embarrassment for the United States right now.

Barry Naiditch El Cajon, Calif., June 17, 2007

To the Editor:

You are so out of touch with the common people regarding this immigration
matter. You attribute the heated atmosphere solely to  conservative mongering,
but that is not true. The common people in America have been hearing about the
virtues of multiculturalism, diversity and globalism since the 1960s. Now they
see their culture, opportunities and their America disappearing.

You are witnessing a pot beginning to boil. The common people are confused and
angry in a very visceral sort of way, rivaling the frustration and rage of
earlier eras in American history. Media and academic elites, you people with
secure careers, full benefits and cavalier social ideals, simply infuriate them.

Duane Pierson Portland, Me., June 16, 2007

To the Editor:

It's well past time that the intense, unwarranted fear of leprosy be relegated
to a dark footnote of human history (''When Demagogues Play the Leprosy Card,
Watch Out,'' by Lawrence Downes, Editorial Observer, June 17).

In our era of rapidly emerging infectious diseases, it would be far preferable
to apply the lessons leprosy provides than to repeat a shameful instinct to
isolate those unlucky enough to contract a contagious disease.

Public fear should never be allowed to trump scientific knowledge, especially
when that fear runs the risk of destroying the lives of human beings most in
need of medical attention and public compassion.

Paul Mange Johansen  Cambridge, Mass., June 17, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Senators Resist Overhaul Of Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27


In narrowly winning her seat last year, Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri ran
hard against what she saw as a flawed approach in Congress to dealing with
illegal immigration. Ms. McCaskill, a Democratic newcomer, says she is not about
to change her view now.

''I hope this never wears off, but I like to keep my word,'' said Ms. McCaskill,
part of a triad of moderate Democratic freshmen balking at the proposed
immigration overhaul and complicating efforts by President Bush and Senate
leaders to pass it this week.

Her compatriots in opposition are Senators Jim Webb of Virginia and Jon Tester
of Montana. All three represent Republican-leaning states and are breaking with
their leadership and most of their Democratic colleagues on the legislation,
whose fate in the Senate could be determined on Thursday after a day of votes on
amendments left the outcome up in the air on Wednesday.

The Republican Party has been deeply split by its differences over immigration.
But Democrats have their own fault lines, and the opposition from Ms. McCaskill,
Mr. Tester, Mr. Webb and eight or so other Democrats could be critical in
determining the outcome.

Unlike some veteran liberal Democrats who say the measure would be too harsh on
illegal immigrants or would cost some American workers their jobs, the three
freshmen are lined up against it for much the same reason as its Republican
opponents: that it would not do enough to stop the flow of illegal immigrants
across the border.

''I do hear from my constituents, and I have to tell you it is overwhelmingly do
not touch it,'' said Mr. Tester, who said opposition to the bill came  from
Montana residents of all political stripes, from liberals to conservatives to
libertarians. ''This is a clearer signal than we get on the war in Iraq.''

The stance of Ms. McCaskill, Mr. Tester and Mr. Webb also indicates how powerful
the issue can be for those lawmakers who most recently faced the voters on the
polarizing subject of what to do about illegal immigration and about the
millions of illegal immigrants  already in the country.  It is a turn of events
that could be repeated in the House if the immigration legislation clears the
Senate. Many newly elected Democratic centrists from swing districts who helped
their party regain the majority in the House have already expressed grave
reservations about the bill.

In the Senate, new members have traditionally been expected to hew closely to
the party line as they learn the ropes and establish themselves. But Senator
Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, recognized that some new senators
were in difficult situations because of the more conservative tilt of their
states, said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Mr. Reid. So Mr. Reid told them they
were free to break away when necessary, Mr. Manley said.

The resistant freshmen say they have not come under pressure from the leadership
to change their views, though Mr. Tester says he has some regrets about making
things difficult for his leaders.  ''I feel bad because I like Harry a lot,''
said Mr. Tester, referring to the majority leader. ''But he is a big boy.''

The three lawmakers, who find themselves in similar political situations after
close election victories in states carried by Mr. Bush in both 2000 and 2004,
compare notes on a variety of issues.

''I will confess I check Tester's and Webb's vote before I check Harry Reid's,''
said Ms. McCaskill, a former prosecutor and state auditor.

Of these three freshman Democratic senators, Mr. Webb has shown the most
willingness to entertain the idea of supporting the measure if it were revised
to his liking.

''There is a lot of good in this bill,'' Mr. Webb said Wednesday. But his
proposal to limit the opportunity to gain legal residency to immigrants who have
been in the country for at least four years was soundly rejected by the Senate,
79 to 18, making it unlikely that backers of the measure can count on his
support.

''To include every single person who, with a few exceptions, was here in this
country as of the end of last year I think violates the notion of fairness among
a lot of people in this country,'' Mr. Webb said. ''And it's one of the reasons
why we have had such a strong surge of resentment toward the legislation.''

Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a leading Republican opponent of the bill,
said it was telling that some of the Democrats who had just won their seats were
those pushing most strongly against the legislation.

''Some of the new members looked their voters in the eye and said they were not
for amnesty and were for stricter enforcement,'' Mr. Sessions said. ''Now, if
they don't honor that, it is going to poison their relationship for some time.''

And that is just what the three lawmakers are determined to avoid, even though
they will not be back on the ballot until 2012. ''This was a big issue in
Missouri,'' Ms. McCaskill said. ''I had a consistent and clear message during
the campaign, and I feel obligated to act on that.''

Other Democratic freshmen like Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Sheldon
Whitehouse of Rhode Island have been supporting the bill. Senator Bernard
Sanders, a newly elected independent from Vermont who usually sides with
Democrats, has been opposing the measure, arguing that it could be detrimental
to American workers.

Like Ms. McCaskill, Mr. Tester said the federal government was  doing a poor job
of enforcing immigration laws and could solve much of the problem by enforcing
what is already on the books. Ms. McCaskill also says the government should make
a statement by jailing some business leaders who repeatedly hire illegal
immigrants, a step  she said would be a powerful deterrent. She is also troubled
by aspects of the measure that would make it harder for family members to join
legal immigrants.

''I feel like Goldilocks,'' said Ms. McCaskill about the legislation. ''It is
either too hot or too cold. It is certainly not just right.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Claire McCaskill of Missouri, among the new Democrats in the
Senate, says she is channeling constituent opinion against the immigration bill.

Jon Tester of Montana, left, and Jim Webb of Virginia have sided with Ms.
McCaskill. (Photographs by Brenda Smialowski for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Immigrants Die In Crash

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 61 words


Two suspected illegal immigrants died in a fiery head-on collision after the
driver of a pickup fled the Border Patrol and swerved into oncoming traffic on a
winding, rural road east of San Diego, the authorities said. Several people were
seriously injured. The Border Patrol halted its pursuit after reaching the 55
m.p.h. speed limit, said a spokesman, Quinn Palmer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest Texas: 274 Immigrants Arrested In Raids

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 115 words


Federal agents arrested 274 illegal immigrants over five days during raids in
Dallas, Fort Worth and surrounding suburbs, federal Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said. The authorities took into custody 233 men, 28 women and 13
children, said an agency spokesman, Carl Rusnok. The operation, which began
Monday and ended yesterday, yielded illegal immigrants, people wanted by
immigration authorities and immigrants with criminal records. Of those arrested,
99 had criminal convictions, the agency said. ''These operations are a critical
element in removing threats to public safety,'' said Nuria T. Prendes, field
office director for the agency's Office of Detention and Removal Operations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Voids Ordinances On Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jon Hurdle contributed reporting from Hazleton, Pa.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 801 words


A federal judge in Pennsylvania yesterday struck down ordinances adopted by the
City of Hazleton to bar illegal immigrants from working or renting homes there,
the most resounding legal blow so far to local efforts across the country to
crack down on illegal immigration.

The decision, by Judge James M. Munley of Federal District Court, presents a new
roadblock to local officials who want to take action against illegal immigration
after broad federal legislation to address the issue failed in the Senate last
month.

Judge Munley ruled that ordinances first passed last July by the Hazleton City
Council interfered with federal law, which regulates immigration, and violated
the due process rights of employers, landlords and illegal immigrants.

The ruling resonated beyond Hazleton because the town was the first in the
country to pass such measures, after its mayor, Louis J. Barletta, vowed last
year to make the city ''one of the toughest places in the United States'' for
illegal immigrants. Many other local initiatives were modeled on Hazleton's
ordinances, which were never put into effect because of the legal challenge.

''Whatever frustrations officials of the City of Hazleton may feel about the
current state of immigration enforcement,'' Judge Munley wrote in the 206-page
decision, ''the nature of the political system in the United States prohibits
the city from enacting ordinances that disrupt a carefully drawn federal
statutory scheme.''

Mr. Barletta said the city would appeal and would fight to the United States
Supreme Court if necessary.

''I will not sit back because the federal government has refused to do its
job,'' Mr. Barletta said at a news conference on the steps of City Hall.

Judge Munley reached his conclusion after a full hearing of the issues in a
bench trial, the first such trial in the various legal challenges to local
ordinances restricting illegal immigration. The challenge was brought by the
American Civil Liberties Union, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund and Cozen O'Connor, a private law firm.

The judge emphasized that illegal immigrants had the same civil rights as legal
immigrants and citizens.

''Hazleton, in its zeal to control the presence of a group deemed undesirable,
violated the rights of such people, as well as others within the community,'' he
wrote.

Kris W. Kobach, a University of Missouri law professor who assisted Hazleton,
called the ruling ''an extraordinarily bold activist decision.'' Mr. Kobach said
Judge Munley had misconstrued the limitations on cities like Hazleton in making
laws on immigration, which is generally subject to federal law.

According to the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, more than 100
municipalities have considered ordinances to crack down on illegal immigrants.

On June 19 a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction against a housing
ordinance similar to Hazleton's in Farmers Branch, Tex., a Dallas suburb. The
ordinance, which voters approved in May, would have imposed fines on landlords
who rented to illegal immigrants.

Last Friday, the city of Valley Park, Mo., rescinded a similar housing
ordinance, after one version of it was struck down in March by a state judge and
a revised ordinance brought new state and federal challenges. Similar ordinances
were dropped in Escondido, Calif.

Mr. Barletta, the Hazleton mayor, has championed the city's ordinances because
he said illegal immigrants had unleashed a crime wave in Hazleton and had
overburdened health and other public services.

At the nine-day trial in March, A.C.L.U. lawyers worked as hard to debunk those
claims as they did to undercut the city's legal arguments. They showed that 4 of
428 violent crimes in Hazleton in the last six years could be attributed to
illegal immigrants.

''This opinion should be a glaring red stop light for any local officials
thinking about passing similar laws,'' said Witold Walczak, the lead A.C.L.U.
lawyer in the case.

Among the plaintiffs were four illegal immigrants. Judge Munley allowed them to
remain anonymous and to testify through depositions.

This month Pennsylvania prosecutors dropped murder charges against two
immigrants in the May 2006 shooting of Derek Kichline, a Hazleton resident whom
Mr. Barletta often cited as a victim of an illegal immigrant crime wave. The
prosecutors said that important witnesses were not available to testify,
including one illegal immigrant who had been deported by federal authorities.

Mr. Barletta and his campaign against illegal immigrants have remained popular
in Hazleton, a faded coal-mining center 80 miles northwest of Philadelphia that
has recently seen a manufacturing revival. In a mayoral primary in May, Mr.
Barletta handily won both the Republican and the Democratic nominations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Louis J. Barletta of Hazleton, Pa., vowed to appeal a
ruling. (Photograph by Jessica Kourkounis for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Herndon, Va.'s Labors

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words


Here's what Roy Beck, the executive director of NumbersUSA, the hard-core
anti-immigration organization, said in an e-mail after the Bush administration
announced a border-and-workplace crackdown: ''The illegal alien communities --
and the outlaw businesses that hire them -- are in a panic this weekend. It is
most important that all of us contribute to that panic and ensure that it
continues.''

But judging from the contortions going on in Herndon, Va., it will take more
than tough talk and enforcement to drive out America's underclass. Like lots of
places, Herndon has a population of Latino day laborers, most presumed to be
illegal immigrants. Unlike lots of places, Herndon has a worker center that
keeps day laborers off the street. The center, run by a nonprofit organization
that does not check immigration status, opened in 2005 to a national uproar
whipped up by the Minutemen and other diehard groups. Last year, voters ejected
the town officials who had supported the center's creation. You might have
expected the town's new leaders, elected on a vow to end illegal hiring, to shut
the center down immediately. But they haven't.

Could it be that they know Herndon will go back to a day labor free-for-all? Or
that they need the center to serve, perversely, as an enabler of the town's
anti-laborer crackdown? Herndon has an ordinance forbidding job solicitation on
the streets, but a federal judge has warned that its constitutionality would be
in doubt if there is nowhere for laborers to practice their First Amendment
rights. Fairfax County recently announced that it was withdrawing funding for
the center. The town has been trying to get it restored. And on Wednesday, the
Town Council voted to keep the center open, for now, but to insist that it check
everyone's documents. The center's operators, who refuse to be enforcers, are
preparing to pack it in next month. The workers, meanwhile, have already begun
trickling back to the streets.

Having hit upon a humane and effective solution to the unruliness of day labor,
Herndon is moving to abandon it, so great is its desire to rid itself of illegal
immigrants. In neighboring Loudoun County, where anti-day-labor sentiment also
runs hot, officials are considering opening their own worker center -- one that
would check papers and thus not be used -- to gain legal cover to enact their
anti-solicitation ordinance. They want to keep Herndon's exiles from crossing
the border.

These suburbs may have hit on a one-two enforcement punch that will make life
untenable for the men who built their homes and keep them trim and beautiful.
But day laborers are nothing without day hirers, and no one has ever been able
to stop them. Hardly anyone is expecting the laborers to leave the region
entirely. There is still too much work for them to do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeking Willie Horton

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN.

David Brooks is off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 818 words


So now Mitt Romney is trying to Willie Hortonize Rudy Giuliani. And thereby
hangs a tale  --  the tale, in fact, of American politics past and future, and
the ultimate reason Karl Rove's vision of a permanent Republican majority was a
foolish fantasy.

Willie Horton, for those who don't remember the 1988 election, was a convict
from Massachusetts who committed armed robbery and rape after being released
from prison on a weekend furlough program. He was made famous by an attack ad,
featuring a menacing mugshot, that played into racial fears. Many believe that
the ad played an important role in George H.W. Bush's victory over Michael
Dukakis.

Now some Republicans are trying to make similar use of the recent murder of
three college students in Newark, a crime in which two of the suspects are
Hispanic illegal immigrants. Tom Tancredo flew into Newark to accuse the city's
leaders of inviting the crime by failing to enforce immigration laws, while Newt
Gingrich declared that the ''war here at home'' against illegal immigrants is
''even more deadly than the war in Iraq and Afghanistan.''

And Mr. Romney, who pretends to be whatever he thinks the G.O.P. base wants him
to be, is running a radio ad denouncing New York as a ''sanctuary city'' for
illegal immigrants, an implicit attack on Mr. Giuliani.

Strangely, nobody seems to be trying to make a national political issue out of
other horrifying crimes, like the Connecticut home invasion in which two paroled
convicts, both white, are accused of killing a mother and her two daughters. Oh,
and by the way: over all, Hispanic immigrants appear to commit relatively few
crimes  --  in fact, their incarceration rate is actually lower than that of
native-born non-Hispanic whites.

To appreciate what's going on here you need to understand the difference between
the goals of the modern Republican Party and the strategy it uses to win
elections.

The people who run the G.O.P. are concerned, above all, with making America safe
for the rich. Their ultimate goal, as Grover Norquist once put it, is to get
America back to the way it was ''up until Teddy Roosevelt, when the socialists
took over,'' getting rid of ''the income tax, the death tax, regulation, all
that.''

But right-wing economic ideology has never been a vote-winner. Instead, the
party's electoral strategy has depended largely on exploiting racial fear and
animosity.

Ronald Reagan didn't become governor of California by preaching the wonders of
free enterprise; he did it by attacking the state's fair housing law, denouncing
welfare cheats and associating liberals with urban riots. Reagan didn't begin
his 1980 campaign with a speech on supply-side economics, he began it  --  at
the urging of a young Trent Lott  --  with a speech supporting states' rights
delivered just outside Philadelphia, Miss., where three civil rights workers
were murdered in 1964.

And if you look at the political successes of the G.O.P. since it was taken over
by movement conservatives, they had very little to do with public opposition to
taxes, moral values, perceived strength on national security, or any of the
other explanations usually offered. To an almost embarrassing extent, they all
come down to just five words: southern whites starting voting Republican.

In fact, I suspect that the underlying importance of race to the Republican base
is the reason Rudy Giuliani remains the front-runner for the G.O.P. nomination,
despite his serial adultery and his past record as a social liberal. Never mind
moral values: what really matters to the base is that Mr. Giuliani comes across
as an authoritarian, willing in particular to crack down on you-know-who.

But Republicans have a problem: demographic changes are making their race-based
electoral strategy decreasingly effective. Quite simply, America is becoming
less white, mainly because of immigration. Hispanic and Asian voters were only 4
percent of the electorate in 1980, but they were 11 percent of voters in 2004
--  and that number will keep rising for the foreseeable future.

Those numbers are the reason Karl Rove was so eager to reach out to Hispanic
voters. But the whites the G.O.P. has counted on to vote their color, not their
economic interests, are having none of it. From their point of view, it's us
versus them  --  and everyone who looks different is one of them.

So now we have the spectacle of Republicans competing over who can be most
convincingly anti-Hispanic. I know, officially they're not hostile to Hispanics
in general, only to illegal immigrants, but that's a distinction neither the
G.O.P. base nor Hispanic voters takes seriously.

Today's G.O.P., in short, is trapped by its history of cynicism. For decades it
has exploited racial animosity to win over white voters  --  and now, when
Republican politicians need to reach out to an increasingly diverse country, the
base won't let them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Labors Lost

BYLINE: By MARK LANGE.

Mark Lange was a presidential speechwriter from 1989 to 1991.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 728 words


San Francisco

IMAGINE we wanted to create a huge Latino underclass in this country. We would
induce more than 500,000 illegal immigrants to enter annually. We would see
Latinos account for half of America's population growth. We would turn a
hardened eye toward all 44 million Latinos, because 12 million jumped our
borders to meet our labor demand.

We would financially motivate but morally deplore illegal immigrants'
determination to break our laws and risk their lives to work for us. We would
let nativist, xenophobic amnesiacs pillory the roughly 25 percent of Latinos who
were here illegally, at the expense of the 75 percent who were legal. CNN and
Fox News would reduce Latinos to fodder for fear-mongering, and the
documentariat would make them objects of pity, when they wanted and warranted
neither.

We would know that if we paid them, they would come, but we would offer no
legitimate employment. We would adopt a let's-pretend labor policy in our
fields, yards, factories and restaurants, and for child care, construction and
cleaning, with a wage fakery worthy of the Soviet Union. There, the joke was
''we pretend to work, and they pretend to pay us.'' Here they would work, hard
-- and we would pay them, sort of, but pretend not to, denying ourselves the
future tax revenue needed to pay for services we faulted them for needing.

We would ensure that the education system failed them, lamenting a dropout rate
more than twice that of blacks and four times that of whites. Keeping incomes
impossibly low, we would sanction Mexican-American welfare receipts twice those
of natives. We would let the states launch loads of legislative half-fixes. We
would have the Immigration and Naturalization Service and Homeland Security
Department start an ''even tougher'' and more futile paper chase. We would see
desperate workers fake new Social Security numbers or go underground for the
next boss seeking this shabby labor discount.

We do all of this -- and let it cost us more as a country -- because it is a
little cheaper for us as individuals and employers. And whether we knew it or
not, we are deliberately fencing in our own economy.

It is in our self-interest to support labor mobility, development and
advancement. Growth in productivity, fundamentally, is how we raise everyone's
standard of living. It starts with the first rung.

This month, Congress can avert a replay of the 1986 amnesty debacle by reserving
permanent residency and citizenship for those who get in line and play by
existing rules. Let nobody's status be ''adjusted'' or ''granted.'' Instead,
have employers sponsor anyone on their shadow payrolls to apply for a
tamper-proof holographic guest worker card. Deport, adequately south of the
border, anyone not sponsored. That won't mean all 12 million. In 1954, when
illegal Latino immigration was twice what it is now, a manageable number of
deportations motivated the majority to repatriate.

To enforce sanctions against employers, grant the states (who bear the social
costs) federal transfer payments for every undocumented worker they find, which
will keep Congress and future administrations honest about paying for
enforcement. If agriculture needs a lower minimum wage, negotiate and legislate
it. To address the supply side, in the next trade agreement insist that Mexico
adequately ensure its workers' right to organize -- to support wages and worker
retention there, and a fairer fight for American exports.

The strength of an abstraction like ''the economy'' comes from the hands and
minds of motivated and prepared people. Whether or not the left is committed to
social equity -- or the right, to equality of opportunity -- we have at least 12
million pragmatic reasons to turn a potentially permanent underclass into a
productive asset. Rather than fencing aspiring contributors out, comprehensive
reform means Congress getting serious about entry-level job training and
midcareer education programs for all workers. They deliver better economic
returns than border patrols do.

The guy with the leaf-blower not only can learn English, he -- like the
unemployed steelworker -- should have a chance to learn auto repair or
programming. He'll start with the jobs ''ordinary Americans'' won't do. But we
impair our economic future if we leave him there, imagining that's all he or his
children will ever do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republican Candidates Put Bite Into a Debate, With Thompson a Target

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and MICHAEL COOPER.

Michael Luo reported from Durham, and Michael Cooper from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.H., Sept. 5


The Republican presidential candidates clashed Wednesday night in their most
contentious debate of the campaign, in pointed exchanges over immigration, the
war in Iraq and who among them is the best prepared to be commander in chief.

It was a far cry from the previous debates, when the Republicans saved most of
their fire for Democrats. Mitt Romney directly criticized Rudolph W. Giuliani,
who has consistently led in national polls, for the first time at a debate. And
most candidates got in digs at Fred D. Thompson, the former senator and actor
who skipped the debate to announce his candidacy on ''The Tonight Show with Jay
Leno.''

The toughest sparring was over illegal immigration, an issue that has roiled
Republican voters this year. Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts,
accused Mr. Giuliani of attracting illegal immigrants when he was the mayor of
New York.

''I think saying, as he did -- if you happen to be an undocumented alien, we
want you in New York, we'll protect you in New York -- I think that contributed
to 3 million illegals in this country becoming 12 million illegals coming into
this country,'' Mr. Romney said.

Mr. Giuliani answered that as mayor, he had to deal with a large population of
illegal immigrants and a federal government that was not deporting them, so he
enforced policies that would allow immigrants to report crimes and to take care
of their children.

''I didn't have the luxury of, you know, political rhetoric; I had the safety
and security of the people of New York City on my shoulders,'' Mr. Giuliani
said. ''The reality is, my programs and policies led to a city that was the
safest large city in the country, so they must have been sensible policies.''

The candidates who have been toiling away on the stump for months had plenty of
jabs about Mr. Thompson's late entry and his decision to skip the debate.

Mr. Romney teased him for waiting so long to enter the race. ''Why the hurry?''
he asked. Then he suggested that Mr. Thompson should have postponed his entry
until after the major primaries. ''Why not take some more time off?''

Mr. Giuliani, a former prosecutor, poked fun at Mr. Thompson for playing a
prosecutor on television. ''I think he's done a pretty good job of playing my
part on 'Law & Order,' '' he said. ''I personally prefer the real thing.''

Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas,  greeted the entry of a fellow
Southerner into the race with a country music dig. ''You know, Fred is from
Nashville, Tenn., home of George Jones, who was often called 'no-show George'
for not showing up at his concerts,'' he said. ''And maybe Senator Thompson will
be known as the no-show for the presidential debates.''

At the debate, which was held at the University of New Hampshire in Durham and
sponsored by Fox News Channel and the New Hampshire Republican Party, Senator
John McCain of Arizona was asked about remarks he made this week in which he
praised Mr. Giuliani's leadership after the Sept. 11 attacks but said  it did
not necessarily translate into national security or foreign policy expertise.

He did not repeat his criticism of Mr. Giuliani's experience, but he said,
''I've spent most of my life in national security issues.''

Mr. Giuliani responded with praise for Mr. McCain. ''I think I've said more than
once, if I wasn't running, I'd probably be supporting him for president of the
United States,'' he said. ''I just happen to think that there's a better
candidate:  me.''

But Mr. McCain, who was looking at the debate to breathe new life into his
struggling campaign, did engage Mr. Romney on several issues. He renewed his
accusation that Mr. Romney changed his mind and took a harder line on
immigration when he decided to run for president, saying, ''Governor Romney less
than a year ago had the exact same position that I did.''

And he took Mr. Romney to task for saying the new strategy in Iraq was
''apparently'' working. ''It is working,'' Mr. McCain said. ''No, not
'apparently.' It's working.''

Even though Mr. Thompson was absent, his presence was felt. Mr. Giuliani was
asked about criticisms Mr. Thompson made of his past support of gun control
laws, and specifically asked if college students should be allowed to carry
guns. ''I think states have a right to decide that,'' he said.

One of the evening's most heated moments came during a prolonged exchange over
the war between Representative Ron Paul of Texas, the lone antiwar candidate on
stage, and Mr. Huckabee.

Mr. Huckabee found himself in a position that has more typically been reserved
for Mr. McCain, mounting a rousing defense of the position of the Republican
base in support of the war.

''Well, what we did in Iraq, we essentially broke it. It's our responsibility to
do the best we can to try to fix it before we just turn away.''

But Mr. Paul argued: ''The American people didn't go in. A few people advising
this administration, a small number of people called the neoconservatives
hijacked our foreign policy.''

Mr. Huckabee responded: ''Congressman, we are one nation. We can't be divided.
We have to be one nation, under God. That means, if we make a mistake, we make
it as a single country: the United States of America, not the divided states of
America.''

A question from a University of New Hampshire political science student watching
the debate at a local diner put Mr. Giuliani in perhaps the most delicate
position of the evening, forcing him to discuss his personal life.  He is in his
third marriage, and much has been made of his strained relationship with his two
children.

''The subject of family values is separated from the rest because it's something
you can only lead by example,'' the student said. ''I don't mean to target him,
but it is a concern of mine.''

Mr. Giuliani offered a rambling answer in which he said the problems in his
private life did not affect his conduct in public office.

''I am not running as the perfect candidate for president of the United
States,'' he said. ''I am running as a human being who has been very successful
as a leader.''

Mr. Romney was knocked off stride when he was asked by a voter about a comment
he made on the trail, and later apologized for, in which he said his sons had
chosen to serve the country by volunteering for his campaign instead of fighting
in Iraq.

''Well, there is no comparison, of course,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Republican presidential candidates gathered for a debate last
night at the University of New Hampshire in Durham. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK
ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Brothers' Deportation Delayed

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 138 words


Federal authorities postponed for one month the deportation of Juan Sebastian
and Alejandro Gomez, brothers born in Colombia who are college students in
Florida and illegal immigrants. After they and their parents were detained July
25, Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Republican of  Florida, presented a
private bill to the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, seeking legal
status for the brothers. On Aug. 1, the authorities stayed the family's
deportation for 45 days, and yesterday they extended the stay for another 30
days to give the panel time to consider the bill. Juan Gomez, above, who earned
a 3.96 grade point average in high school, has become an advocate for a measure
that would give legal status to illegal immigrants who are high school graduates
if they complete two years of college or military service.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Is It Fixed Yet?

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 606 words


The immigration battle that ended this summer was a victory for the simple,
straight-ahead approach. The supporters of comprehensive reform did not have the
votes for their exotic blend of tough compassion, of punishing then rewarding
illegal immigrants with a nonamnesty that everybody called amnesty. The
Republicans' bill-killing argument was: punish all the lawbreakers and seal the
border, just seal it already.

Soon enough President Bush disowned his commitment to comprehensive reform and
offered an executive-branch crackdown. States and local governments began
whip-cracking. The country has made its bed and will have to sleep in it awhile,
but a few developments suggest getting tough may not be as simple as advertised.

The courts are objecting. In Hazleton, Pa., and then in Herndon, Va., judges
have ruled against harsh anti-immigrant ordinances. It turns out the First
Amendment and the equal-protection clause cover noncitizens  too. Herndon's law
forbidding day laborers and contractors to talk shop has been ruled
unconstitutional, so it plans to shut down a successful day-labor hiring site
rather than allow it to accept everybody, illegal immigrants too.

Meanwhile, a pillar of Mr. Bush's crackdown, a Social Security purge to get
illegal immigrants off the books, has been held up in the courts. Businesses
said it would cause unjust layoffs of thousands of workers, citizens included.
But now the Social Security Administration is warning that the nightmare is
coming if the crackdown doesn't proceed: a processing logjam holding up benefits
for millions of Americans.

The nonnatives are restless. On Sept. 14, Washington will see the first rally by
highly skilled immigrants, the engineers and Ph.D.'s who play by the rules and
still get the visa runaround. Members of the National Day Laborers Organizing
Network have allied with home-health-care and domestic workers. And a crackdown
in Prince William County, Va., inspired a boycott and a fiery march last week
led by a testy group called Mexicanos Sin Fronteras. You didn't think they were
just going to roll over, did you? They're immigrants: smart, industrious
self-starters, like your grandparents.

The debateis rotted. Republican presidential candidates are still playing Quien
es mas macho? Mitt Romney and Rudolph Giuliani are in their cardboard tough-guy
armor, bickering about ''sanctuary cities'' and who used to treat his immigrant
constituents more harshly.

Congress is back and may yet eke out little victories. A hearing was held in the
House last  week on the Strive Act, the smartest, most workable immigration bill
left. There is support for two relatively uncontroversial provisions of the dead
Senate bill, to help farms and farmworkers and to give an educational leg up to
children who had no say in crossing the border illegally.

With the Republican minority tacking xenophobic amendments onto every bill in
sight, the chances of real, broad immigration reform seem as bleak as ever. Some
say it is time to consider throwing out the old arguments. Bruce Morrison, a
former Connecticut congressman with an extensive immigration portfolio, makes an
interesting pro-immigrant case for ditching comprehensive reform. Fix legal
immigration first, he says -- get those backlogs down, get a steady supply of
nurses, engineers and M.B.A.'s flowing, and impose strict biometric workplace
IDs so that all future hiring is legitimate.

Maybe then, he says, you will establish the trust you need to tackle the problem
of the 12 million undocumented. Maybe the public mood will be more forgiving.
Seems optimistic, but nothing else has worked.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 15, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

At U.S. Border, Desert Takes A Rising Toll

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

DATELINE: SASABE, Ariz.


''I can't breathe,'' Felicitas Martinez Barradas gasped to her cousin as they
stumbled across the border in 100-degree heat. ''The sun is killing me.''

They had been walking for a day and a half through the Sonoran Desert in
southern Arizona, the purgatory that countless illegal immigrants pass through
on their way from Mexico to the United States.

Ms. Martinez was 29 and not fit. A smuggler handed her a can of carbonated
energy drink and caffeine pills. But she only got sicker and passed out, said
her cousin, Julio Diaz.

There, near a mesquite tree a little over 10 miles from the border, Ms. Martinez
died, her eyes open to the starry sky, her arms across her chest and Mr. Diaz,
17, at her side.

Gone was her dream of making enough money in the United States for a house for
her four young children in Mexico.

''She was very set in her ways,'' said a sister in Mexico, Ely, who had tried to
persuade Ms. Martinez not to leave. ''Once she decided to do something, there
was no stopping her.''

The Border Patrol has reported a large drop in the number of illegal immigrants
apprehended at the border with Mexico this year, the consequence, the agency
says, of additional agents and the presence of National Guard troops. Yet the
number of migrants dying while trying to cross here in Pima County is on pace to
set a record, according to the county medical examiner.

Pima County, which includes the Tucson area, is one of the busiest areas for
illegal crossings along the 2,000-mile border. The medical examiner's office
handled 177 deaths of border crossers in the first eight months of this year,
compared with 139 over the same period last year and 157 in 2005, the year the
most such deaths were registered.

The death of Ms. Martinez in July illustrates a primary reason that immigration
scholars, the Border Patrol and government officials in the United States and
Mexico believe people continue dying at such high rates: As they increasingly
avoid heavily patrolled urban areas, they cross with little or no knowledge of
the desert, whose heat, insects, wildlife and rugged terrain make it some of the
most inhospitable terrain on the planet.

Like Ms. Martinez, who had worked cleaning houses in Mexico, many crossers
arrive from central and southern Mexico, which is cooler and wetter than Arizona
and where people are less familiar with the desert and its perils.

Before entering the Sonoran Desert, she had completed a three-day trip to the
Mexican side of the border, part of the marathon trek from her lush, verdant
subtropical village of Tepetlan, a four-hour drive northeast from Mexico City in
Veracruz state.

Her cousin, Mr. Diaz, said they stayed in a room at the border with 15 other
crossers and were each given two cans of tuna, a bag of tortilla chips, and six
liters of water -- a gallon and a half -- by a smuggler before setting off for
the desert.

The growing death toll here in recent years follows a Border Patrol clampdown in
California and Texas. The goal was to drive migrant traffic away from cities
like San Diego and El Paso and into the remote desert on the assumption it would
act as a deterrent. But while there is no way of knowing its overall effect, the
strategy is serving at least in part as a funnel for untold numbers of migrants.

The Government Accountability Office, in a report last year that analyzed Border
Patrol statistics, said the annual number of reported deaths of border crossers
doubled to 472 between 1995 and 2005, with the majority of those deaths in the
desert near Tucson. The report suggested the agency has undercounted deaths
because of inconsistent classification.

Border Patrol officials say that as the agency continues to add agents, as
recently authorized by Congress, they will be better able to patrol the toughest
areas of the Sonoran Desert. It said commanders recently met to finalize better
methods to count migrant deaths.

''We are well aware of the perils of crossing the desert,'' said Lloyd
Easterling, an agency spokesman. ''That's why we are trying to get people to
places to deter people from crossing to begin with.''

At the Mexican consulate in Tucson, a map is adorned with yellow and blue pieces
of tape, for females and males, marking where migrants have died. Ms. Martinez
is yellow No. 114.

Jeronimo Garcia Ceballos, a consular official, maintains the map and devotes
much of his work to identifying the dead and arranging for their bodies to be
returned to Mexico.

Mr. Garcia's office is adorned with posters with slogans like ''Don't leave your
life in the desert; your family asks you not to,'' an example of the public
service announcements that both Mexico and the United States Border Patrol have
used along known migrant trails.

Ms. Martinez had telephoned home as she hopscotched across Mexico with Mr. Diaz.
They rode in a smuggler's sport utility vehicle to Xalapa, took a bus to Mexico
City and then another, three-day bus trip to Altar, a ragged town that is a
major staging area for migrants 50 miles south of the border.

''I would tell her it's not too late to come back, I would work to pay off the
smuggler,'' said Ms. Martinez's father, Vicente Martinez Ortega, recalling his
telephone conversations with her along the way.

From Altar, they were driven toward the border in a van, Mr. Diaz said, and once
they got close, they began walking. They headed along a known smuggling route
toward Route 86 in Arizona, where migrants are often picked up and eventually
carried to points across the United States.

Mr. Diaz said they were assured it would be a day or so of walking but Border
Patrol agents say from the border to Route 86 is more like a three- or four-day
walk.

Ms. Martinez's last call home came a couple of days before she died. ''She said,
'Daddy, I've reached the border,' '' Mr. Martinez said.

Tepetlan, a village of 1,800 people on a high plateau in the southeastern flanks
of the Sierra Madre Oriental, has shrunk in population in recent years as scores
of its citizens head ''al otro lado,'' to the other side, as the United States
is called.

Family and friends there said Ms. Martinez had chosen to believe, like many
others who try to cross, that nothing ill would come to her.

Her younger brother had successfully made a similar journey eight months before
and found work at a factory in Georgia, but said he had told his sister of the
exhausting, broiling march in the desert and warned her not to do it.

''I told her work here is hard and sometimes there isn't any,'' her brother
Vicente, 24, said in a telephone interview from Georgia, where his job helps
support his parents, wife and two young children in Tepetlan. ''But she thought
everything would come out all right.''

Her father had crossed several years ago in San Diego, scrambling away from
Border Patrol agents tracking him and his group with helicopters and
floodlights. He found field work in California and Nebraska and sold ice cream
pops in Chicago before tiring of the climate and intermittent work and returning
home to harvest coffee in Tepetlan.

Mr. Diaz, too, had made the trek just a year before, but said he was caught by
the Border Patrol and immediately deported.

The Martinez family lives modestly in a two-room house in Tepetlan. It sits on
an unpaved road where rural scenes naturally unfold: men riding burros, boys
playing with a captured armadillo, and fish and fruit vendors hawking wares from
battered pickup trucks.

Ms. Martinez had worked cleaning houses in Veracruz and at the airport there for
a year but she found it hard to make enough money to care for her children, ages
6 to 13.

Her personal life, too, had been turbulent for years. Family members describe
her as somewhat rebellious and headstrong.

She had dropped out of high school at 14, was married and pregnant by 15 and had
left the father of her four children last year, after several fights.

She had remarried and was looking for ways to make big money for a new house.

Ms. Martinez had heard that Mr. Diaz was planning to make another try, through a
smuggler who was a distant relative, and borrowed money from a lender in town.
The cost would be $3,000, half paid up front, half after a successful crossing.

But it was not. Around 11 a.m. on July 6, Border Patrol Agent Kelly Kirby got a
call about a young migrant reporting his cousin possibly dead in the desert.
Every time a call about a migrant in distress comes in, Agent Kirby says he
hopes for the best but knows to expect the worst.

Mr. Diaz said Ms. Martinez died just before sunset the night before. He cried
and was scared, he said, and built a fire, hoping to be spotted.

He set off in the morning to find help, eventually flagging down a passing
Border Patrol agent.

Agent Kirby responded and with Mr. Diaz's help quickly found Ms. Martinez.

She was wearing jeans and a blouse. Foam around her mouth was evidence of a
seizure. Though she had only walked about a day and a half, her physical
condition and the insufficient water and food she had consumed made her
susceptible to a desert death.

''She did about as much as she could to not make it,'' Agent Kirby said.

When Ms. Martinez's body was returned to Tepetlan, the coffin was brought into
the house for a wake. Her father opened the lid and looked at his daughter's
face.

''I had to look, to see her,'' Mr. Martinez said.

Mr. Martinez, with the help of a friend who is a mason, is completing work on a
tomb, which includes a sculpture of the town church where Ms. Martinez's mother
took her for a blessing before she left for the United States.

Watching the work on the tomb from a distance one afternoon in late August, Mr.
Diaz spoke of his life since his cousin's death and the possibility of another
attempt to cross.

''Not right now,'' he said, ''but who knows, later on?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kelly Kirby, a Border Patrol agent, walking to the site where he
found Ms. Martinez's body
Ms. Martinez, 29, a mother of four, died in the Sonoran Desert, 10 miles north
of the border, after walking for a day and a half
Vicente Martinez Ortega in Tepetlan, Mexico, at the grave of his daughter
Felicitas Martinez Barradas, who died in July in Arizona trying to cross the
border. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A12) CHART:
BORDER-CROSSING DEATHS: Number of deaths on or near southwest border with
Mexico, reported by Border Patrol, from 1998 to 2007*. (Source: Border Safety
Intiative)(pg. A12)
Chart showing the number of deaths reported by the Border Patrol from 1998-2007.
MAP
 Map showing the location of Sasabe in Arizona. (pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Chase False Hope to Canada

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and ABBY GOODNOUGH; Monica Davey reported from Windsor,
and Abby Goodnough from Naples. Additional reporting was contributed by Julia
Preston, Ian Austen and Lynn Waddell.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

DATELINE: WINDSOR, Ontario, Sept. 20


Fleeing stepped-up sweeps by the American authorities, illegal immigrants to the
United States, mostly Mexican, are arriving in growing numbers at the foot of
the bridge in this Canadian border town seeking refugee status.

Still more immigrants, mostly Mexicans living illegally in Florida, have begun
trying to make their way past America's northern border at other locations, the
majority of them flying into the airport in Toronto, Canadian officials said
Thursday.

The arrivals here began suddenly three weeks ago, just a family or two at first,
fueled by the notion -- largely unfounded, the authorities here say -- that
Canada would grant them asylum.

The journey, some of the immigrants said, was first suggested by an organization
in Naples, Fla., which charged a fee for assisting with the paperwork. Now the
idea has spread on the Internet and through social networks.

By Thursday, at least 200 people had turned up here, across the border from
Detroit, with as much of their lives as they could shove into suitcases, boxes
and garbage bags in their cars. Thousands more, refugee advocates and Canadian
officials say, may be on their way.

Advocates for immigrants issued urgent warnings to Mexicans pondering similar
journeys, and expressed fury at groups that were encouraging them. In truth,
refugee status for Mexican citizens is relatively unusual in Canada. Only 28
percent of such claims by Mexicans were approved in Canada last year, compared
with 47 percent of claims from all nationalities.

''It's an outrage that money is being taken to provide false information and
dangerous information to these people,'' said Rivka Augenfeld of the Canadian
Council for Refugees, a nonprofit umbrella organization focused on the rights
and protections of refugees. ''This idea is just out there and growing.''

Windsor officials, who scrambled to arrange a meeting Thursday in a community
center for some of the new arrivals so they could apply for social services,
said they were overwhelmed by the sudden onslaught and deeply worried about the
days ahead.

Already, they have filled a shelter with 30 single men and are now paying four
motels to house families, said Maj. Wilfred Harbin, administrator for the
Salvation Army here. Meals were being delivered to the families by taxi cab.

''We have no idea what we are going to do,'' said Major Harbin, who said he had
heard that as many as 7,000 Mexicans might be seeking refugee status in the
coming weeks.

Eddie Francis, the mayor of Windsor, faxed a letter Wednesday to Canadian
federal authorities seeking  financial help.

''I empathize with the challenges but we don't have the ability to manage
this,'' Mr. Francis said. ''We have never seen anything like this.''

Many of the families who drove here said they had learned about the possibility
of fleeing to Canada from a Naples, Fla., organization, the Jerusalem Haitian
Community Center, which promoted ''Information required for Canadian Refugee
Status Application'' on its Web site. The group, some refugees said, collected
$400 for adults and $100 for children and assured them that there would be jobs
and shelter.

''I don't know if what I was told about coming here was correct or not, but what
am I going to do about it now?'' said Pedro Palafox Marin, who said he paid $800
to the organization before driving through the night  to Windsor with his wife
and children.

''In Florida,'' Mr. Marin said, ''every job I got, everywhere I went, we were
getting a lot of pressure from immigration. Being illegal was always on my mind.
Now, I can relax.''

Illegal immigrants have been especially frightened of deportation in recent
months, people in Naples and surrounding Collier County said. The community has
been filled with tales of immigrants' being caught and deported and the sending
of government letters  to employers warning them not to employ illegal
immigrants.

The Collier County Sheriff's Office recently became the first local law
enforcement agency in Florida to send its deputies for Immigrations and Custom
Enforcement training, which gives them the authority to detain suspected illegal
immigrants.

In Naples on Thursday, Jacques Sinjuste, the general director of the Jerusalem
Haitian Community Center, denied that he had urged undocumented immigrants to
seek asylum in Canada or told them jobs would be waiting there. Mr. Sinjuste
said he and a small group of volunteers at the center had merely helped
immigrants fill out applications for asylum, he said.

''We fill it out for them and that's the end of our job,'' he said. ''Many
people are taking the name of my organization with them when they go to Canada
and saying I sent them. But I don't know anything about that.''

Mr. Sinjuste, a Haitian immigrant who founded the center in 2000, said he had
first heard about the possibility of seeking asylum in Canada from a client who
brought one of the applications to his office two years ago. Since then, he
said, the center has helped about 300 undocumented immigrants fill out Canadian
asylum applications, charging $400 per person.

Mr. Sinjuste said he had recently fired a lawyer who worked for the center for
describing the charge as a ''fee'' on the center's Web site.

''It's not a fee; it's a donation,'' he said. ''Mostly it goes to pay the
volunteers who help us do the job and to buy ink and paper.''

In some cases, he added, money collected from the immigrants helped finance
their travel to the Canadian border.

''Right now we do not have anything left,'' Mr. Sinjuste said. The center's bank
account, he said, contains about $1,900.

''We don't want to make money off people,'' he said. ''My position is to defend
minorities, not to rip them off.''

He said the center, a nonprofit charity, mostly helped Haitian immigrants but
had recently seen an influx of Hispanics seeking services.

Haitians have long migrated to Canada, and particularly to Montreal, the largest
French language city in North America. But immigration lawyers say Haitians are
far more likely to be allowed to stay here as refugees than Mexicans are.

To win refugee status from the Refugee and Immigration Board of Canada,
immigrants must show ''a well founded fear of persecution'' linked to their
race, religion, nationality or political background, said Charles Hawkins a
spokesman for the board. Last year, 53 percent of Haitians who applied as
refugees were admitted here. But even those who are rejected will not be
returned to Haiti: the government has put a temporary freeze on deportations
there, given Haiti's turmoil.

No such moratorium exists for Mexico. Although Mexicans who have lived in the
United States are permitted to seek asylum in Canada, they will be deported to
Mexico if they are turned down.

Several lawyers said they were pessimistic about these immigrants' odds of being
granted asylum, a process that can take 6 months to 2 years. Even so, most of
the Mexicans here said they were hopeful. They spent Thursday looking for
apartments to move into, cleaning out cars, filling out paperwork.

''Maybe they'll have compassion for us,'' Manuel Gonzalez, 46, said of his
request for asylum. ''All we want to do is live and follow the rules and work
hard.'' Referring to the help Canadian  authorities have already given them, Mr.
Gonzalez, who traveled from Naples, said, ''What we didn't have in the United
States we had here in a second.''

Carina Gonzalez, who drove her red Suburban from Naples a few weeks ago, said
she had lived in the United States for 10 years. When she reached a customs
agent as she crossed into Canada, she recalled, she felt deeply nervous but also
relieved.

Ms. Gonzalez said that she had worked in a grocery store in the United States
but that her employers had been asking more and more questions about her
documents and her legal status.

''I could smell the freedom when I crossed over,'' said Ms. Gonzalez, 25. ''I
don't know what's going to happen next, but the pressure of worrying about
getting caught never let you sleep well.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pedro Palafox Marin packed his car yesterday while moving out of
a motel in Windsor, Ontario. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Criticizes License Plan By Spitzer

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and DANNY HAKIM; Danny Hakim reported from Albany.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 28


-- Rudolph W. Giuliani joined the chorus of Republicans opposing a plan by the
New York governor, Eliot Spitzer, to allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses, calling the proposal a ''mistake'' that would only lead to greater
chaos.

''I think it would just create an even further level of fraud and confusion in
what is already a very confusing picture,'' said Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor
of New York, speaking to reporters after a campaign stop at a downtown
restaurant Friday morning.

Mr. Giuliani's remarks came as the governor's plan continued to trigger intense
reaction. Mr. Spitzer has said the policy would improve public safety by
bringing immigrants out of the shadows and reduce insurance costs as more
immigrants obtained licenses and car insurance.

But some county clerks upstate whose offices double as Department of Motor
Vehicles branches have suggested they would refuse to issue the licenses.

On Friday, Republicans in the State Senate said they would act on a bill next
month that would halt Mr. Spitzer's policy, which is scheduled to take effect in
December. Mr. Spitzer would allow foreign passports to be accepted as
identification for a driver's license application. Current policy requires
Social Security numbers.

''The governor's demand that clerks issue driver's licenses to illegal aliens is
yet another example of the governor's arrogance and his attempt to go around the
Legislature and bypass 212 elected representatives of the people,'' the Senate
majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said. ''The governor has said publicly that he
doesn't need the Legislature and can run the state by himself. The driver's
license order is another result of that dictatorial attitude.''

In addition, Republicans in the Democratic-controlled State Assembly demanded
that Mr. Spitzer rescind his plan, saying it was unlawful. ''Handing licenses
out like lollipops to illegal immigrants is an affront to those who are in our
country legally and puts our communities at risk,'' said Assemblyman Pete Lopez
of Schoharie.

Meanwhile, the state's A.F.L.-C.I.O. came out in support of Mr. Spitzer, calling
the issue one of fairness. ''As a progressive, enlightened society it is our
responsibility to ensure a level playing field for all who want to work in this
country,'' Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said
in a statement. ''This policy change is a step toward eliminating
exploitation.''

Mr. Giuliani, who was endorsed by Pete Wilson, the former governor of
California, in Santa Monica on Thursday, has seen his campaign swing dominated
by questions about immigration. Mr. Wilson and Mr. Giuliani were once opposed on
the issue of whether to grant benefits to illegal immigrants. In 1994 Mr. Wilson
backed Proposition 187, which called for denying benefits to people in the
country illegally. Mr. Giuliani called the proposal ''mindless.''

Asked how he squared his support for extending benefits to illegal immigrants
while he was mayor with his focus now on securing the border and cracking down
on illegal immigration, Mr. Giuliani said that as mayor, he did what needed to
be done to ensure public safety and health. But he said it was the federal
government's failure to end illegal immigration that led localities to make such
tough decisions.

In his criticism of Mr. Spitzer's plan, Mr. Giuliani made a nod to the reality
facing lawmakers in states like New York and California, who he said were forced
to take action to deal as best as they could with the fact that there are
illegal immigrants already here. But he said that New York would only make a bad
situation worse if it allowed illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses.

''The reality is there is so much traffic in false documents that creates part
of this problem,'' he said. ''It is the reason I am so much in favor of a
tamper-proof ID card for people who come in from foreign countries and want to
work here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gang Members Illegally in U.S. Are Arrested in Federal Sweep

BYLINE: By SUEVON LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9


About 1,300 violent gang members who are in this country illegally were arrested
in a three-month summer crackdown, federal officials announced Tuesday.

''We've arrested quite a number of very serious criminals -- individuals who
frankly have worn out their welcome by coming into this country illegally and
committing more crimes when they got here,'' said Julie L. Myers, assistant
secretary of homeland security for immigration and customs enforcement.

Of the 1,313 individuals arrested this summer, 939 will be charged with
immigration violations, and 374 were detained for criminal prosecution in
federal, state or local courts. The operation also led to the arrests of 261
people who officials say were not affiliated with gangs but were in the country
illegally.

''If we can't prosecute them criminally, or they are here in the country
illegally, we will have them deported,'' Ms. Myers said.

There were 205 arrests in New York City and Long Island, and 27 in Newark.
Agents also arrested 160 people in Miami, 128 in San Diego and 121 in Dallas.

The crackdown, led by federal agents from the immigration and customs agency, is
part of a larger program called Operation Community Shield that was begun in
February 2005 to dismantle street gangs.

The Department of Homeland Security said the program had led to about 7,500
arrests involving violent gangs, including Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, whose
members are from El Salvador, Honduras and other Central American countries.

The announcement on Tuesday of the arrests followed a request last week by a
Long Island official, Thomas R. Suozzi, asking Michael Chertoff, the homeland
security secretary, to investigate ''serious allegations of misconduct and
malfeasance'' by federal agents in executing arrest warrants in several raids
in Nassau County on Sept. 24 and 26.

That complaint by Mr. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said the agents did
not properly inform local law enforcement agencies of their suspects, relied on
outdated addresses and engaged in undisciplined conduct.

Ms. Myers said Tuesday that agents worked with the ''best available evidence''
to identify gang members and were cooperating with the government of El Salvador
to share intelligence.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Suspends Key Bush Effort In Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words


A federal judge in San Francisco  ordered an indefinite delay yesterday of a
central measure of the Bush administration's new strategy to curb illegal
immigration.

The judge, Charles R. Breyer of the Northern District of California, said the
government had failed to follow proper procedures for issuing a new rule that
would have forced employers to fire workers  if their Social Security numbers
could not be verified within three months.

Judge Breyer chastised the Department of Homeland Security for making a policy
change with ''massive ramifications'' for employers, without giving any legal
explanation or conducting a required survey of the costs and impact for small
businesses.

Under the rule issued by the department, which had been scheduled to take effect
last month, employers would have to fire workers within 90 days after receiving
a notice from the Social Security Administration that an employee's identity
information did not match the agency's records. Illegal immigrants often present
false Social Security information when applying for jobs.

The rule, announced with fanfare in August by Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff, was the linchpin of the administration's effort to crack down
on illegal immigration by denying jobs to the immigrants. It is part of a
campaign of stepped-up enforcement since broader immigration legislation favored
by President Bush was rejected by Congress in June.

If allowed to take effect, the judge found, the rule could lead to the firing of
many thousands of legally authorized workers, resulting in ''irreparable harm to
innocent workers and employers.''

The decision brought a sense of relief to the unusual coalition behind the
lawsuit, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the United States Chamber of Commerce,
often adversaries. They had feared that the measure would bring mass layoffs in
low-wage industries, sweeping up both illegal and legal workers and disrupting
the labor force.

Judge Breyer's decision was an awkward disappointment for Mr. Chertoff, a former
federal judge, who was relying on the rule as an enforcement tool since Congress
left him with few other options.

''We will continue to aggressively enforce our immigration laws while reviewing
all legal options available to us in response to this ruling,'' Mr. Chertoff
said yesterday in a statement.

Mr. Chertoff said the administration was doing ''as much administratively as we
can, within the boundaries of existing law'' to crack down on illegal
immigration, but he called on Congress to revisit legislation to give legal
status to illegal immigrants and to impose even tougher enforcement measures.

Some conservative lawmakers who argue for vigorous enforcement of the
immigration laws as a priority said they were outraged by the judge's ruling.

''What part of 'illegal' does Judge Breyer not understand?'' asked
Representative Brian P. Bilbray, Republican of California and  chairman of the
House Immigration Reform Caucus. ''Using a Social Security number that does not
belong to you is a felony. Judge Breyer is compromising the rule of law
principles that he took an oath to uphold.''

The rule establishes steps an employer must follow after receiving a notice from
the Social Security Administration, known as a no-match letter, reporting that
an employee's identity information does not match the agency's records.

If the employee could not clarify the mismatch by providing valid information
within 90 days, employers would be required to fire the worker or risk
prosecution for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants.

The rule was set to take effect Sept. 14, but was held up temporarily on Aug. 31
by another judge in the San Francisco court, Maxine M. Chesney, who was sitting
in for Judge Breyer at the time.

Yesterday, Judge Breyer ordered a halt to the rule until the court could reach a
final decision in the case, which could take many months. He made it clear he
was skeptical of many of the government's arguments.

The decision also bars the Social Security Administration from sending out about
141,000 no-match letters, covering more than eight million employees, which
include notices from the Homeland Security Department explaining the new rule.

Other groups bringing the lawsuit include the American Civil Liberties Union,
the San Francisco Labor Council and several national and local small-business
associations.

Judge Breyer found that the Social Security database that the rule would draw
upon was laden with errors not related to a worker's immigration status, which
could result in no-match letters being sent to legally authorized workers.
''There is a strong likelihood that employers may simply fire employees who are
unable to resolve the discrepancy within 90 days,'' even if they are legal, he
wrote.

Lucas Guttentag, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, said the
government had demonstrated ''a callous disregard for legal workers and citizens
by adopting a rule that punished innocent workers and employers under the guise
of immigration enforcement.'' A.F.L.-C.I.O officials had estimated that some
600,000 of their members could receive the letters and be vulnerable to unjust
dismissal.

In a December 2006 report cited in the court documents, the inspector general of
the Social Security Administration estimated that 17.8 million of the agency's
435 million individual records contained discrepancies that could result in a
no-match letter being sent to a legally authorized worker. Of those records with
errors, 12.7 million belonged to native-born Americans, the report found.

In a Sept. 18 letter to Mr. Chertoff, the Office of Advocacy of the Small
Business Administration supported a claim in the suit that federal officials had
failed to carry out a required analysis of the impact on small businesses before
announcing the new rule. The office is independent from the Small Business
Administration, which supported the rule.

Judge Breyer is the brother of Justice Stephen G. Breyer of the Supreme Court
and was nominated by President Bill Clinton in 1997.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Crackdown Upends A Slaughterhouse's Work Force

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

DATELINE: TAR HEEL, N.C.


Last November, immigration officials began a crackdown at Smithfield Foods's
giant slaughterhouse here, eventually arresting 21 illegal immigrants at the
plant and rousting others from their trailers in the middle of the night.

Since then, more than 1,100 Hispanic workers have left the 5,200-employee
hog-butchering plant, the world's largest, leaving it struggling to find, train
and keep replacements.

Across the country, the federal effort to flush out illegal immigrants is having
major effects on workers and employers alike. Some companies have reluctantly
raised wages to attract new workers following raids at their plants.

After several hundred immigrant employees at its plant in Stillmore, Ga., were
arrested, Crider Poultry began recruiting Hmong workers from Minnesota, hiring
men from a nearby homeless mission and providing free van transportation to many
workers.

So far, Smithfield has largely replaced the Hispanics with American workers, who
often leave poorly paid jobs for higher wages at the plant here. But the
turnover rate for new workers -- many find the work grueling and the smell awful
-- is twice what it was when Hispanics dominated the work force.

Making Smithfield's recruiting challenge even harder is the fact that many local
residents have worked there before and soured on the experience. As a result,
Smithfield often looks far afield for new employees.

Fannie Worley, a longtime resident of Dillon, S.C., a largely African-American
town of sagging trailers and ramshackle bungalows, quit her $5.25-an-hour,
part-time job making beds at a Days Inn  motel four months ago to take a
$10.75-an-hour job at Smithfield. But Ms. Worley remains ambivalent.

''It pays a lot better,'' she said. ''But the trip is too long.''

Around 1 p.m. each day, C. J. Bailey, a Smithfield worker, picks up Ms. Worley
and 10 other employees in his big white van. They arrive at the plant around
2:15, and he drops them back home after 1 a.m.

Several of the newly hired workers in the van -- they pay $40 a week for the
ride -- said they were thinking of quitting, unhappy about having to commute so
far and work so hard. At the plant, where the pay averages around $12 an hour,
many spend hour after hour slitting hogs' throats, hacking at shoulders and
carving ribs and loins. At the end of their shifts, many workers complain that
their muscles are sore and their minds are numb.

Employee turnover has long been a problem at Smithfield and other
meat-processing plants, but the problem has grown worse recently. Dennis
Pittman, a Smithfield spokesman, said 60 percent of the new workers quit within
90 days of being hired, compared with 25 percent to 30 percent two years ago
when many new employees were illegal immigrants.

''I've heard officials from a couple of other meat processors say they've never
seen such high turnover with new workers,'' Mr. Pittman said.

Several Southern companies have raised wages to attract new workers after
immigration raids. ''But that's not the first thing that employers are going to
do,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies. ''They're going to try to cast their net wider before they do something
that will raise costs.''

Smithfield, for example, has run a flood of television advertisements boasting
that the company is a good, safe place to work. The advertisements aim to
persuade Carolinians to apply for jobs and to counter arguments made by a union
trying to organize the plant that Smithfield jobs are high stress and unsafe,
with stingy benefits.

One of the toughest challenges, Mr. Pittman said, has been training new
employees to handle the highest-skilled jobs at a plant that  processes 30,000
hogs a day.

''The big problem is we lost a lot of people who were there a long time,'' Mr.
Pittman said. ''We have been facing difficulties in hiring for a number of
years,  because as the economy got better, the labor market became much
tighter.''

When the plant opened in 1992, the area's jobless rate was high because tobacco
was in retreat and textile mills were closing. Early on, most employees were
black.   That changed with an influx of Hispanic immigrants, most of them
Mexicans, in the mid-1990s.

Chris Kromm, executive director of the Institute for Southern Studies, said the
Hispanics should not be viewed as shoving blacks aside, because the plant had
such high  turnover.

''It's not as if these jobs were stable sources of employment for creating a
black middle class,'' Mr. Kromm said.

The way Hector David, a longtime worker from Mexico who quit in February, sees
it, Smithfield had been eager to hire Hispanics because they worked so hard.
''The Americans just don't work as well,'' Mr. David said. ''In Mexico, we work
from the age of 5 in the corn fields. We're used to working hard.''

The New York Times wrote about the sometimes uneasy relations between blacks and
Hispanics at the Smithfield plant as part of a 2000 series that examined race
relations in the United States.

Mr. Pittman said Smithfield did its best to ensure that immigrant employees had
legitimate documentation. But many workers said Smithfield did not look too hard
at the paperwork.

Last November, the company notified 640 employees that their identity
information did not match government records. In January, federal agents
arrested 21 workers at the plant, and in August, helped by information the
company provided, agents arrested 28 more, many at home.

Mr. Pittman said cooperating with immigration officials ''serves our goal of 100
percent compliance 100 percent of the time.'' But for many families,  the
cooperation has come at a price.

Tears came to Maritza Cruz's eyes as she described the scene when immigration
agents banged on her trailer door at 3 a.m. and arrested her husband, Alejandro,
who faces deportation. ''Everyone is very scared, especially after they arrested
people at their homes,'' said Mrs. Cruz, who has four children and is on
maternity leave from the plant.

The company and its employees are not the only ones affected by the crackdown.

Since the enforcement actions began, said Jazmin Gastelum, owner of a local
Christian bookstore, La Tierra Prometida, business from Hispanic customers has
plunged 40 percent at her store and two nearby Hispanic groceries. ''A lot of
people are going back to Mexico,'' Ms. Gastelum said. ''And a lot who haven't
moved are scared to go outside.''

As for the workers who remain at the plant, many wonder why so many new
employees come from South Carolina. Gene Bruskin, the director of the
unionization campaign, sees a simple explanation.

''Thousands and thousands of workers from North Carolina have come through the
plant, and they left, saying, 'No way,' because they were injured or didn't want
to work in such an oppressive atmosphere,'' Mr. Bruskin said. ''This plant
burned up a large number of people, and the word got around about their bad
experiences.''

Mr. Pittman said Smithfield had hired many workers from South Carolina because
the counties close to the plant had  a low unemployment rate.

The immigration arrests have also created problems for the union, the United
Food and Commercial Workers Union, which has spent 15 years seeking to organize
the plant.

''A lot of the people who left or were detained were strong union supporters,''
said Gabriel Lopez Rivera, a Smithfield worker.

Mr. Bruskin, the union official, added, ''It's extremely difficult for workers
to stand up for their rights when they're threatened with arrest or
deportation.''

The Tar Heel workers voted against unionizing in 1994 and 1997, but the National
Labor Relations Board ruled that Smithfield had broken the law by intimidating
and firing union supporters.

The company has called for a new election, but the union instead wants
Smithfield to accept unionization through a majority sign-up, a process that
would give management less opportunity to pressure workers.

In recent months, union organizers have adopted a new role, rushing to the
trailers of immigrant workers facing arrest to ensure that someone  can care for
their children.

Union officials recently organized educational forums at a Roman Catholic church
in Red Springs, where immigrant workers were advised, among other things, to
sign power of attorney forms designating someone to take care of their children,
finances and homes if they were arrested.

''I think all this turmoil is helping unionization,'' said the Rev. Carlos Arce,
the priest there, ''because people feel alone and unprotected, and they see that
the union, along with the Catholic Church, is the only organization that is
trying to help them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''A lot of the people who left or were detained were strong
union supporters,'' said Gabriel Lopez Rivera, a Smithfield worker.
 Chris Johnson is one of group of Smithfield employees who pay $40 a week to
ride a van from their homes in South Carolina.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVIS
TURNER/POLARIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22)  MAP: Smithfield Foods gets some
employees from out of state.  Map details area of Tar Heel, NORTH CAROLINA. (pg.
A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lou Dobbs Crusades Against Spitzer's Driver's License Plan for Illegal
Immigrants

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 16


The CNN anchor Lou Dobbs calls Gov. Eliot Spitzer ''a genius.'' But not in a
nice way.

''I was being about as facetious as one could be,'' Mr. Dobbs said in an
interview Tuesday as he prepared for his nightly broadcast, ''Lou Dobbs
Tonight.'' For the last nine days, the show has included discussion of Mr.
Spitzer's plan to allow illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses.

Mr. Dobbs, a pinstriped journalist turned populist crusader against illegal
immigration, is not a fan.

''It's an abuse of power!'' Mr. Dobbs thundered. ''He is being absolutely
irresponsible. When the governor of New York embarks on this kind of
irresponsibility, it is national news as far as I'm concerned.''

And when Mr. Dobbs -- whose broadcast is CNN's second-highest-rated show --
speaks, many people listen. His relentless mockery of Mr. Spitzer's decision has
thrust the driver's license policy onto the national stage, helping fuel an
uproar not only among New Yorkers, but among national groups opposed to illegal
immigration as well.

As it happens, Mr. Dobbs was recovering from a tonsillectomy when Mr. Spitzer
announced the policy on Sept. 21. But the anchorman went on the attack almost
immediately after going back on the air Oct. 8, saying it was ''hard to imagine
what this governor is thinking.''

It only took him another week to conclude that Mr. Spitzer, in fact, was not
thinking at all. ''This governor is a genius,'' he proclaimed disgustedly on
Monday. ''An overwhelming majority of New York voters oppose the governor, but
he refuses to back down.''

With the television set on mute, the scrunch alone of Mr. Dobbs's brow conveys
his belief that Mr. Spitzer's new policy is, possibly, the dumbest idea in the
history of dumb ideas.

''I think he's definitely had an effect,'' said State Senator Martin J. Golden,
a Brooklyn Republican who was on Mr. Dobbs's show on Sunday to denounce the
plan. ''Everybody's chiming in. I get e-mails from across the country because of
Lou Dobbs. I got an e-mail from a soldier in Iraq saying, 'Go for it, Golden,
keep it up.'''

Mr. Golden is one of several New York elected officials -- most of them with
more experience on New York 1 than on CNN -- who have been recent guests on Mr.
Dobbs's show. Many have expressed support for proposals by state lawmakers to
overturn the license policy or to deny funding for it.

But not everyone who goes on gets supportive e-mail messages.

Jose M. Serrano, a Democratic state senator who represents parts of Manhattan
and the Bronx, appeared with Mr. Golden to defend Mr. Spitzer's policy, but
found himself under a verbal barrage from both the host and his fellow guest.
''Oh my goodness, that was something else,'' Mr. Serrano said. ''I think it was
my first time on national television. I wound up debating both of them -- Lou
paid very little attention to Marty Golden and instead just kind of dug in on
me.''

This next morning, Mr. Serrano said, his office was bombarded with angry e-mail
messages from around the country.

''One guy wrote, 'We will derail the illegal gravy train from within,''' he
said. ''I don't really know what that means. Another person said, 'Go back to
Mexico, you're obviously Mexican.''' (Mr. Serrano is from Puerto Rico.) ''I'm
not naive, but I was still surprised at the level of ignorance,'' Mr. Serrano
said.

(Mr. Dobbs's correspondents have also stated on the air that illegal immigrants
will need only a foreign passport to obtain a driver's license, and that Mr.
Spitzer's policy was instituted through executive order, neither of which is
true.)

Mr. Dobbs's guests and interviewees are typically opponents of the policy. A
segment that Mr. Dobbs pitched on Thursday as ''a lively debate'' on the issue,
for example, featured the host and two members of the State Assembly who oppose
the governor's plan, along with a viewers' poll on whether Mr. Spitzer should be
recalled. (Ninety-seven percent said yes.)

One person who has not made an appearance on Mr. Dobbs's show, despite repeated
invitations, is the governor himself. Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr.
Spitzer, said scheduling problems had prevented the governor from appearing. The
administration had made other officials available to Mr. Dobbs's bookers, she
said, including Michael A. L. Balboni, the governor's top Homeland Security
aide. But the show's producers had declined.

''We don't really have a position about his show,'' Ms. Anderson said. ''That
said, facts matter, and what we have endeavored to do throughout this entire
debate is to make an argument about the safety and security benefits to doing
this.''

But Mr. Dobbs said that Mr. Spitzer, and Mr. Spitzer alone, is responsible for
defending his new policy.

''The man hasn't shown the gumption to come on the air and debate the issue with
me,'' Mr. Dobbs said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visa Denials Mean Unfinished Business

BYLINE: By NICOLE COTRONEO

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; FOREIGN WORKERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON


FERNANDO BUSTAMENTE maneuvered a sport utility vehicle across his 82-acre farm,
Warren's Nursery, to survey the progress of his crew last month. Nearly a
hundred privets, bound and cut, that should have been carted away instead lay
across a field. Dozens of other plants that were tagged to indicate they had
been sold were still in the ground.

The nursery's staff was not slacking; there simply was not enough manpower, Mr.
Bustamente said, which he attributed to unusual difficulties in acquiring the
H-2B visas normally given to temporary foreign workers.

For the first time in the 14 years Mr. Bustamente has owned the nursery, which
includes farmland in Bridgehampton and Quogue and a retail center in Water Mill,
the United States Department of Labor rejected his petition to obtain visas for
30 temporary laborers from Guatemala and Mexico. The majority had been approved
to work for him in past years, and he is missing half his work force, Mr.
Bustamente said.

Such difficulties in acquiring H-2B visas for temporary workers have affected
industries all across the East End -- landscaping and nurseries, pool
construction and maintenance, housekeeping agencies, restaurants and hotels.

The Montauk Chamber of Commerce estimates that East End employers filed 834
petitions for workers this season, said Paul Monte, the chamber's president and
the chief executive of Gurney's Inn Resort, Spa and Conference Center. Among
those requests, he said, about 500 returning workers were denied visas.

Seasonal employers across the East End depend on the H-2B visa program to
compensate for what they say is a shortage of domestic labor. The program
enables employers to hire temporary foreign workers after proving that
advertising for them locally has failed. The temporary employees are not
permitted to work for any other company and must return home at the end of the
season.

The federal government sets a biannual cap of 33,000 workers nationwide under
the H-2B visa program, although those who have previously received an H-2B visa
are not counted against the cap.

This year, employers and their lawyers said they were stunned by what they saw
as arbitrary denials and an unusually long application review process. When the
Citizenship and Immigration Services announced March 23 that the cap had been
reached a week earlier, petitions for visas that had been submitted in November
still remained unanswered. The cap was reached earlier than usual, employers
said.

The United States Department of Labor and the New York State Department of Labor
cited similar reasons for the backlog: a decrease in appropriations for their
programs and an increase in visa applications.

William L. Carlson, administrator of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification,
said in a call broadcast during a visa discussion at Gurney's Inn last month:
''We're not issuing denials to get rid of a backlog. It actually takes longer to
process a denial.''

Mr. Carlson said the national approval rating for H-2B visas is 80 to 85
percent. But John Gallo, a work visa specialist and head of US Americans, the
company that represented Mr. Bustamente in the application process, insisted,
''This year there have been more denials than in the 20 years total of the
program.''

Mr. Bustamente's application was denied, according to a letter from the federal
Department of Labor, because the help-wanted pages he submitted were
''unacceptable'' -- they were only a portion of the newspaper page and were
folded.

Melinda Rubin, a lawyer in Hampton Bays, said 15 applications she submitted on
behalf of clients -- restaurants and delis, hotels, pools and landscapers and
nurseries -- were denied on similar grounds. ''There is no real reason to deny
someone unless the company doesn't exist,'' she said.

Employers may appeal, but the initial review process took so long this year that
the cap was reached before many could begin the appeals process. They were left
scrambling to find returning foreign workers who do not count against the cap
yet still need to pass the tedious review process of applications, which is
required annually. Some employers have turned to other sources of foreign
workers.

Mr. Monte of Gurney's Inn has filled the gap with foreign workers holding
four-month J-1 visas. These tend to be college-age workers looking to experience
another culture while also earning money. Historically, the East End has had a
steady supply of Irish J-1 workers, but this year Czechs have augmented the
pool.

''Usually we only have half a dozen J-1 workers,'' Mr. Monte said. ''This year
we have over 30.''

Jay Schneiderman, a Suffolk County legislator, owns the Breakers Motel in
Montauk and said he depends on a pool of Jamaicans to work each season. He
speculated that the labor shortage might force him and other hoteliers to
increase room rates.

''Or I may have to change my business model,'' he said. ''Maybe rent rooms for a
week without maid service.''

Employers say they must rely on foreign workers because domestic workers are not
interested in such service jobs, especially for the wages the businesses say
they can afford. ''If you pay someone $25 to make a hamburger, who can afford to
buy the hamburger?'' Mr. Monte said.

Overloaded consulates have compounded certification delays for H-2B visas.
Consulates in Mexico and Guatemala have been particularly overwhelmed with visa
requests, said Leah Sullivan, an aide to United States Representative Tim Bishop
of Suffolk County.

Mr. Gallo said he believed the H-2B visa program was ''the best form of foreign
aid.'' But the system is broken, he said, and ''it had to be fixed yesterday.''

Ms. Rubin agreed. ''Going forward there has to be a more streamlined method,''
she said, suggesting online petition submittal. ''Employers feel they can't
depend on the program. It puts them in a very fearful state.''

Mr. Bustamente said he felt disoriented. Pausing to view a $7,500 Japanese cedar
still rooted in the nursery, he shook his head. ''There's so much work,'' he
said, ''I don't know what to do.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: GROUNDED -- Privets from Warren's Nursery in Southampton were
still awaiting delivery last month because of a shortage of workers, according
to the nursery's owner, Fernando Bustamente, below. (Photographs by Doug Kuntz
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Graft Mars the Recruitment of Mexican Guest Workers

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: TAMPAMOLON CORONA, Mexico


Castulo Benavides, a union organizer, came to this forgotten mountain town to
tell its men how to get legal jobs in the tobacco fields of North Carolina.

But this year he introduced them to a change in a longstanding practice: the men
will not have to pay anyone to get those jobs.

''That's something that we won with the union,'' Mr. Benavides explained to the
workers in the sweltering municipal auditorium here. ''We are stepping on some
people's toes, and we're doing it hard.''

The response, if that is what it is, has been brutal. In April, Mr. Benavides's
co-worker Santiago Rafael Cruz was bound and beaten to death at the union's
office in Monterrey, in northern Mexico.

The Ohio-based union, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, says the killing was
a political attack after the union cleaned up corrupt practices of recruiting
workers, like charging them a fee to be hired.

Mr. Rafael Cruz's killing comes as the United States Senate has restarted debate
on a long-stalled immigration package that proposes an expanded guest worker
program. But the way those workers are recruited in Mexico has received little
attention in the debate.

Before planting and harvest time in the United States it has been common for
local recruiters to fan out across Mexico's parched countryside to sign up guest
workers. The recruiters charge the Mexicans hundreds of dollars, sometimes more,
for the job and the temporary visa that comes with it.

''That line of corruption touches both countries,'' said Baldemar Velasquez, the
president of the union. ''And the people at the bottom in Mexico end up paying
the price.''

The aftermath of Mr. Rafael Cruz's killing has rippled all the way to
Washington.

On May 8, Representative Marcy Kaptur, an Ohio Democrat, and a dozen other
legislators wrote to President Felipe Calderon of Mexico and the governor of the
state of Nuevo Leon, of which Monterrey is the capital, urging them to
thoroughly investigate the killing and provide protection for the rest of the
Mexico staff of the farm workers' union.

Closed-circuit cameras have been installed in the union offices, and the police
provide regular patrols.

A spokesman for the Nuevo Leon attorney general's office would not comment on
whether the police were investigating leads related to Mr. Rafael Cruz's work.
The spokesman asked not to be identified, according to department policy.

The union opened its office in Monterrey two years ago to help the 6,000 Mexican
guest workers it represents in a collective bargaining agreement with the North
Carolina Growers Association, a group of 650 farmers.

The association includes most of the growers in the state who employ legal guest
workers, said Stan Eury, its executive director. Even so, a majority of farmers
in North Carolina, as in the rest of the United States, hire undocumented
immigrants.

Last year the United States issued about 37,100 temporary visas for agricultural
workers, said Todd Huizinga, a spokesman for the United States Consulate in
Monterrey. Mexico accounted for 92 percent of them.

In Monterrey, part of the union's work has involved monitoring the association's
Mexican recruiting agency, called Manpower of the Americas. That company sends
out local recruiters to hire the workers and then processes their visas at the
consulate.

After a lawsuit led to a settlement between the union and the growers'
association in 2005, all of the workers' recruiting fees were dropped for two
years. For now it is the growers, not the workers, who must pick up recruiters'
charges, along with the costs of the visas.

''We did everything we could to get the word out,'' Mr. Velasquez said. ''We
took away a gold mine from these operators.''

Since the start, though, the union has been threatened and harassed in
Monterrey, he said. Its office was broken into twice and computer equipment was
stolen.

Mr. Rafael Cruz, 29, who was originally from Oaxaca, began working with Mr.
Benavides in Monterrey in February after working for the farm workers' union in
the United States. He was sleeping in the union's office while looking for an
apartment.

Mr. Velasquez was careful to exclude the growers' association and the local
recruiting agency's management from his allegations. Local recruiters working
for other agencies may have felt threatened by a series of meetings the union
held in March, union workers say.

''Who knows what underling was trying to prove himself,'' Mr. Velasquez said.

Mike Bell, president of the recruiting agency, Manpower of the Americas, said
his company kept a tight rein on its local recruiters.

''I was already doing a good job policing before the union ever showed up,''
said Mr. Bell, a North Carolina native who said his company sent about 12,000
Mexican workers -- including the 6,000 in North Carolina -- to jobs all over the
United States.

''We don't sit outside some bar and say, 'Everybody pay up and we'll get you a
job,' '' he said.

Aside from the agreement reached in North Carolina, there is nothing to stop the
recruitment abuses, experts on the guest worker program say.

Roman Ramos, a paralegal at Texas Rural Legal Aid in Laredo, has followed the
agricultural guest worker program, known as H-2A, for 25 years. He was skeptical
that the agreement would have a wide impact. ''There is no indication from any
source that what is happening in North Carolina is in any form, way or fashion
happening anywhere else in the country,'' he said.

''Other recruiters are still charging workers,'' he added. ''Everybody makes
money out of these guys.''

The starting rate is typically $600, he said. That figure includes an
unspecified fee that is split between the local recruiter and the agent who has
been contracted to supply workers to the American employer.

Once workers return home with money from their work, it is common for the
recruiter to stop by again. Workers know that a couple of hundred dollars in
cash, or maybe a goat or a sheep, will get them on the list next year.

Two years ago, Juan Bonifacio Gonzalez gave about $450 to a woman here everybody
knew as ''La Tolentina,'' who promised to get him a legal guest worker visa.
After months of promises she disappeared. Mr. Gonzalez borrowed the money from a
local moneylender and says he is still paying back his loan, which has tripled
with interest.

There are no jobs in this town of 14,000, lost in the steep hills of the state
of San Luis Potosi. The mayor recently invited the farm workers' union to come
and speak about legal job opportunities in North Carolina, where the federally
mandated wage for agricultural guest workers is $9.02 an hour.

That seems a fortune to the mostly Nahuatl-speaking Indians here, where the
average wage is less than $4 a day.

A few had worked in North Carolina and wanted to go back. Florencio Hernandez
Angelina spent the past three harvests there. This year he wanted help in
changing employers. The grower splits her work force between legal guest workers
and illegal migrants. ''She gives us fewer hours,'' Mr. Hernandez said.

She prefers the illegals, he said, because she pays them less.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the North Carolina Growers Association office in Vass, N.C.,
guest workers from Mexico waited last week for their papers to be processed.
(Photo by Janet Jarman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Police Hold Suspect in Killing

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 27


The police in the northern state of Nuevo Leon have detained a suspect in the
killing of an organizer for an American union that represents Mexican guest
workers in the United States. But the union said Sunday that it did not believe
the police account of the killing.

The police said Santiago Rafael Cruz was beaten to death in Monterrey on April 9
by the suspect, Jaime Martinez Amador, and two other men in a drunken argument
over $4,500 the men had paid him to arrange legal guest worker visas.

The union, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, has said that Mr. Rafael Cruz
was killed in retaliation for the union's work in reforming the way workers are
recruited in Mexico for guest worker jobs in the United States. Recruiters often
charge workers -- many of whom are desperately poor -- at least several hundred
dollars to get a job and a temporary visa , the union and other experts on the
guest worker program say.

The union has gotten some American growers to pay the recruiting fees and says
the change may alarm recruiters for other employers because they fear they will
not be able to charge nearly as much.

The police case portrays Mr. Rafael Cruz as falling into the kind of
exploitation the union has been battling.

''There's nothing to substantiate the confession about the money,'' said
Baldemar Velasquez, the farmer workers' union president. ''The police are saying
it's a fact.''

Hector Santos Saucedo, director of the state investigative agency, told local
reporters on Thursday that Mr. Martinez , 27, confessed to the crime, although
he had not yet been formally charged. The police said he had served six years in
Mexico for human trafficking.

Authorities said they were still seeking the two other men who they say were
involved in the argument.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Be Our Guests

BYLINE: By Dani Rodrik.

Dani Rodrik, a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, is the
author of the forthcoming ''One Economics, Many Recipes.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Who Likes the Immigration Bill?;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


COMPANIES today purchase materials from the four corners of the world, consumers
buy goods at a global supermarket and financiers can place bets on virtually any
currency. But if you are a worker from a poor nation who wants to put on the
global market the only asset you have -- your manpower -- good luck! What you
encounter is a system of restrictions and regulations reminiscent of the Soviet
Union.

The guest worker program included in the Senate immigration bill is an important
step toward redressing this most inequitable feature of globalization. Critics
of the program have focused on how it might hurt American wages and on the
difficulty in establishing and enforcing it. But these legitimate concerns have
to be considered alongside the huge benefits that a well-managed temporary work
visa scheme would generate.

Each foreign worker in this country earns a multiple of what he would make in
his home country -- an extra $17,500 per year for the average Mexican worker in
the United States, according to unpublished estimates by a Yale economist, Mark
Rosenzweig.

Multiply this by 200,000 guest workers per year, and by the end of a decade, an
income gain of $35 billion per year would be generated for workers from poor
nations.

This exceeds the $23 billion the federal government spent on foreign aid last
year. It is also larger than the benefits -- amounting at most to $30 billion
per year -- that poor nations are projected to reap from the current round of
multilateral trade negotiations. And unlike foreign aid and trade agreements,
the benefits in this case go directly to working people.

To help poor nations the most, the program must ensure that guest workers return
to their home countries. Employers will need to accept greater scrutiny and
reporting requirements. Workers must have a portion of their earnings deposited
in escrow accounts, which would be forfeited if they overstay their visas. The
absence of appropriate incentives has turned other ''guest'' worker programs --
Germany's being the best-known example -- into permanent-resident programs.

We could extend the incentives to the home governments of the guest workers.
Countries could be told that their quotas in the guest worker program in future
years would be reduced in proportion to the number of their citizens who fail to
come back. This would induce these governments to experiment with tax breaks and
other policies that encourage workers to return.

Whatever the practical difficulties, the potential gains are too large for us
not to try. A guest worker program is the most effective contribution we can
make to improving the lives of the world's working poor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

First Steps in Mamaroneck

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 585 words


With an agreement to stop harassing day laborers and the opening of a privately
run day labor hiring site in a village church, Mamaroneck took some long-overdue
steps last week toward developing a responsible and humane approach to its
influx of immigrant workers.

They were important steps, and strikingly positive ones, though they were not
necessarily conclusive or monumental. Just as immigration doomsayers must
realize that one hiring site will not bury the village in a wave of illegal
workers, those who were encouraged by last week's developments must not expect
that community tensions will now vanish or that an informal labor market will
instantly become tidy and suburban-perfect.

The difficult work, in other words, is just beginning.

But there is still good reason for relief and praise. Much credit goes to the
plaintiffs who brought the lawsuit that forced stiff-necked officials to abandon
their campaign of using the police to hound day laborers out of the village. The
Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund filed the suit on behalf of six
Mamaroneck laborers and the National Day Laborer Organizing Network. Their
victory means that the village will end up paying more than $1.2 million in
legal fees and other costs -- a high price for litigation that should have been
avoided. The village trustees who approved last week's agreement to pay the
plaintiffs' lawyers and pull back the police were wise not to gamble more
taxpayer money on an appeal.

The village's failed crackdown strategy has been replaced by something positive
and creative. Villagers who grew weary of all the shouting and litigation should
gratefully credit the doggedness of the Hispanic Resource Center, a local
nonprofit organization, and the generosity of Strait Gate Baptist Church, whose
predominantly black congregation has agreed to let the laborers use their
sanctuary and parking lot as the hiring site.

''It's an unusual gesture, and it's a beautiful one,'' Pablo Alvarado of the
laborers' network told Fernanda Santos of The Times. There are not many examples
of black churches reaching out to Latino laborers in this way, and Strait Gate
Baptist, led by Bishop Wayne L. Powell, has set an example that other churches
and communities should follow.

The hiring site will not resolve the inconsistencies of a failed federal
immigration system. It will not erase the anger and frustration of citizens who
see illegal immigration as a fundamental breach of American security and values
-- like the two hard-liners in baseball caps who went up from Manhattan last
week and tried, more poignantly than menacingly, to disrupt the ceremonial
opening at the church. Those are big problems that Congress, in all its tortured
impotence, has not yet seen fit to act upon.

All that the Mamaroneck hiring site will do is help, in a small way, to enhance
orderliness in the village, to protect vulnerable workers from robbery and other
abuses and to begin integrating them into the community. If organizers get the
site running smoothly, its neighbors and others in the village may soon come to
recognize that the men (and some women) who use it are not ''locusts,'' as one
former village trustee put it, or problems to be managed, or hard-luck cases to
be patronizingly ministered to. They are simply grown-ups who are trying to make
a living, something that the rest of Mamaroneck -- no longer burdened by
hostility, resentment and a hard-nosed, anti-laborer crusade -- can get back to
thinking about, too.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Solution Seen To 'Brain Drain'

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 241 words


A new academic study details the benefits and the threat of a ''reverse brain
drain'' -- skilled foreign workers going back to their home countries because
they cannot get visas in the United States. One of the study's authors has a
solution that is not in step with the high-tech lobby. He advocates getting rid
of the H-1B visa, the temporary work permit for skilled workers.

Vivek Wadhwa, a fellow at the Harvard Law School and executive in residence at
Duke, said last week that the H-1B program is ''wonderful for technology
companies and employers. They have a captive audience.''

The H-1B, he said, allows the sponsoring company to control employees, and often
underpay them, as critics of the visa program contend.

Instead, Mr. Wadhwa said the United States should simply grant skilled immigrant
workers permanent residence visas, so-called green cards. The new report says
that more than one million skilled workers -- scientists, engineers, doctors and
researchers -- are competing for 120,000 permanent residence visas each year.

The surging backlog, the study adds, results in skilled workers returning to
their home countries.

The report, published last week, was conducted by researchers at Harvard, Duke
and New York University.

''If these people stay, we win,'' Mr. Wadhwa said. ''If they work with our
brightest people and learn American ways and go back, we have a big problem. The
risk is they leave and compete with us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Washington Help For Passport Backlog

BYLINE: By JACQUELINE PALANK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 111 words


The House  passed a measure that would allow the State Department to hire
Foreign Service retirees to help handle a backlog of 2.9 million passport
applications. The measure must now be resolved with a Senate bill passed
earlier. Lynne Weil, communications director for the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, said the House bill would temporarily waive restrictions on how much
the retirees could work and how much they would be paid for processing passports
and investigating fraudulent applications. Passport demand has increased
significantly this year because of a  requirement that citizens present
passports when returning from countries in the Western Hemisphere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fearful of Restive Foreign Labor, Dubai Focuses on Reforms

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BORDER CROSSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1787 words

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates


They still wake before dawn in desert dormitories that pack a dozen men or more
to a room. They still pour concrete and tie steel rods in temperatures that top
110 degrees. They still spend years away from families in India and Pakistan to
earn about $1 an hour. They remain bonded to employers under terms that critics
liken to indentured servitude.

But construction workers, a million strong here and famously mistreated,  have
won some humble victories.

After several years of  unprecedented labor unrest, the government is seeking
peace with this army of sweat-stained migrants who make local citizens a
minority in their own country and sustain one of the world's great building
booms. Regulators here have enforced midday sun breaks, improved health
benefits, upgraded living conditions and cracked down on employers brazen enough
to stop paying workers at all.

The results form a portrait of halting change in a region synonymous with
foreign labor and, for many years, labor abuse.

Many rich countries, including the United States, rely on cheap foreign workers.
But no country is as dependent as the United Arab Emirates, where foreigners
make up about 85 percent of the population and 99 percent of the private work
force. From bankers to barbers, there are 4.5 million foreigners here, compared
with 800,000 Emirati citizens, according to the Ministry of Labor. About
two-thirds of the foreigners are South Asians, including most of the 1.2 million
construction workers.

The labor agitation came as a surprise in this city of glass towers and
marble-tiled malls where social harmony is part of the marketing plan and
political action can seem all but extinct. But when thousands of migrant
construction workers  walked off the job last year, blocking traffic and
smashing parked cars, it became clear that the nonnatives were restless.

''I'm not saying we don't have a problem,'' said Ali bin Abdulla Al Kaabi, the
Emirates' labor minister, who was appointed by the ruling sheiks to upgrade
standards and restore stability. ''There is a problem. We're working to fix
it.''

Change here is constrained by rival concerns of the sort that shape the
prospects of workers worldwide. Like many countries, only more so, the United
Arab Emirates  needs the foreign laborers but fears their numbers. The recent
focus on the workers' conditions  still leaves them  under close watch,
segregated from the general population, with no right to unionize and no chance
at citizenship.

''We want to protect the minority, which is us,'' Mr.  Kaabi said.

Among those buffeted by recent events is Sami Yullah, a 24-year-old pipe fitter
from Pakistan, who arrived  four years ago. Like many workers, he paid nearly a
year's salary in illegal recruiter's fees, despite laws here that require
employers to bear all the hiring costs. In exchange, he was promised a job
building sewer systems at a monthly salary of about $225, nearly twice what he
earned at home.

Mr. Yullah found the work harder and more hazardous than he had expected. Two
co-workers were killed on the job, he said, and two others injured, when they
fell through a manhole. Conditions at the workers' camp where he lived,
rudimentary at best, disintegrated when his employer  let the water and
electricity lapse. Then a problem even more basic arose: the company stopped
paying the workers.

The owner kept saying, 'Wait a minute, I will get some money,' '' said Mr.
Yullah, who joined about 400 co-workers last year in walking off the job. ''He
was taking advantage of us.''

In a break with past practice, Mr.  Kaabi's Labor Ministry backed the workers.
Tapping a company bank guarantee, it restored the camp utilities and paid some
of the back wages. It barred the company, Industrial and Engineering
Enterprises, from hiring more workers, leading it to close its Emirates
operation. And it helped workers like Mr. Yullah, who is still owed nearly six
months' back pay, find new jobs.

By global standards, punishing a company that does not pay its workers may seem
modest, but Mr. Yullah recognized it as something new.

''The company cheated me,'' he said. ''But the labor office is standing with the
laborers.''

The United Arab Emirates is a rags-to-riches story on a nation-state scale.
Until the discovery of oil in the late 1950s, there was little here but Bedouins
and sand. To extract the oil and build a modern economy, the rulers imported a
multinational labor force that quickly outnumbered native Arabs.

An ethos of tolerance has prevailed, with churches, bars and miniskirts
co-existing with burqas.  But the  construction workers who build hotel rooms
that rent for $1,000 a night and malls that sell shoes for $1,000 a pair live
segregated lives outside of this prosperous, cosmopolitan world.

They rise before dawn in distant camps, work six days a week at guarded sites
and return by bus with time to do little but eat or sleep. Their sheer numbers
inspire unease. When the film ''Syriana'' was released here, the government cut
a scene of violent labor protest.

Sonapur, a camp a half-hour's drive into the desert from Dubai, houses 50,000
workers and feels like an army base. Two- and three-story concrete-block
buildings stretch across the horizon, throngs of South Asian laborers fill the
streets and desert dust fills the air. Even at midnight the camp roars. Buses
ferry workers to third-shift jobs. Earthmovers work the perimeter, breaking
ground for more dorms.

Building skyscrapers is inherently dangerous, especially in the heat. Until the
government recently began insisting on summer sun breaks, one Dubai emergency
room alone was reporting thousands of heat exhaustion cases each month. In a
rare count,  Construction Week, a local trade publication, canvassed foreign
embassies and estimated that nearly 900 foreign construction workers died in
2004, though it could not say what percentage of the deaths were work-related.

The government does not track job-related injuries and deaths, though it is
required by law to do so.

Standing on Sonapur's  sand-blown streets, some workers count their blessings.
''The work here is no problem,'' said Dinesh Bihar, 30, whose $150 salary is
four times what he made when he left India.

Some workers count their debts. ''I was so eager to come to Dubai, I didn't ask
questions,'' said Rajash Manata, who paid  placement fees of nearly $3,800,
thinking his salary would be six times higher than it is. ''I blame myself.''

Some workers simply count the days until they see their families again.

''Three years, four months,'' said Cipathea Raghu, 37, when asked how long it
had been since he had seen his 10-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son.
''They're always saying, 'Daddy please, come, when will you come?' '' he said.

''Tension, tension,'' he added, pointing to his heart.

Several years of quickening protests, mostly over unpaid wages, peaked in March
2006, when hundreds of workers went on a rampage near the unfinished Burj Dubai,
which is being built as the world's tallest building. Eight months later, Human
Rights Watch, a New York-based  advocacy group, accused the Emirates of
''cheating workers.''

For a country courting tourists and investors -- and a free trade pact with the
United States -- the report stung. ''If the U.A.E. wants to be a first-class
global player, it can't just do it with gold faucets and Rolls-Royces,'' said
Sarah Leah Whitson, the Middle East director for Human Rights Watch. ''It needs
to bring up its labor standards.''

Mr.  Kaabi, 39, took office  in late 2004, with what he describes as a mandate
to do just that, for ethical and practical purposes, a departure from the Labor
Ministry's earlier focus on processing employer requests for more foreign hires.
''A healthy worker will provide more effective labor -- period,'' he said in an
interview.

He created the summer sun breaks, from 12:30 to 3 p.m. He pledged to increase
the number of inspectors to 1,000, from roughly 100, though progress has been
slow. And he publicly punished companies caught failing to pay their workers.

The most notable action involved the Al Hamed Development and Construction
Company, which was run by a well-connected sheik. After hundreds of workers
blocked traffic in Dubai, Mr.  Kaabi ordered the company to pay nearly $2
million in fines and temporarily froze the company's ability to hire new
workers.

''A beautiful message was sent: everybody follows the rules,'' Mr.  Kaabi said.

Acting separately, the emirate of Abu Dhabi has strengthened health benefits and
subsidized what is meant to be a model labor camp. Still much about the workers'
lives remains unchanged, including the frequent need to pay high recruiting
fees. Mr.  Kaabi said that practice was hard to police, since it often occurred
in the workers' home countries. Workers remain tied to specific employers and
cannot, without permission, change jobs. And unions remain off limits. Mr.
Kaabi said  allowing unions would give foreign labor bosses a chokehold on the
economy.

''God forbid something happens between us and India and they say, 'Please, we
want all our Indians to go home,' '' he said. ''Our airports would shut down,
our streets, construction. No. I won't do this.''

In July, the government ended a four-day strike at a gas processing plant by
sending in the armed forces. There continue to be  press accounts of worker
suicides.

Faced with complaints about low wages and difficult work, Mr.  Kaabi repeats a
point often made here: Many workers face greater hardships at home for less pay.
''We don't force people to come to this country,'' Mr.  Kaabi said. ''They're
building a whole new life for their families.''   Some come from backgrounds so
impoverished, he said, ''they don't know how to use the toilet; they will sit
and do it on the ground.''

But Ms. Whitson of Human Rights Watch  said, ''That's what exploitation is --
you take advantage of someone's desperation.''

Perched bare-chested on his bunk after a day in the sun, Sadiq Batcha, an
18-year veteran of labor camp life, was of two minds about the recent militancy.
''People who did strikes were justified to a certain extent,'' he said.

At the same time, Mr. Batcha, 40, said  his monthly salary of $250 was more than
twice what he could make back home in an Indian fishing village. He had built a
house, given his sister a dowry of $2,500, allowing her to marry, and sent his
children to a private, English-speaking school. ''If strikes are made legal, the
company will lose money, and eventually we'll lose our jobs,'' he said.

Then with his eyes heavy at 9:30 p.m., Mr. Batcha excused himself. An alarm
would sound in six hours and he was eager for sleep.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers rise before dawn, work six days a week and return to
camps, where they have time to do little but eat or sleep. They are under close
watch, with no right to unionize and no chance at citizenship.
A Ministry of Labor official visits a work site. The government has pledged to
improve conditions for construction workers.
Workers live in labor camps far from the prosperous, cosmopolitan world of
Dubai. They spend years away from their families, work in extreme heat and earn
only about $1 an hour. pg. A8)
About 1.2 million migrant workers, most of them from South Asia, build the
towers that increasingly dot Dubai's skyline.
Workers are bused to work sites and live in labor camps, where meal tickets are
distributed. (pg. A1)(Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) Graph:
''Global Dependence'' Among countries with more than one million people, the
United Arab Emirates has the highest share of foreigners. (Sources: United
Nations
 U.A.E. officials)(pg. A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Workers in Dubai (1 Letter)

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 155 words


To the Editor:

''Fearful of Restive Foreign Labor, Dubai Eyes Reforms'' (front page, Aug. 6)
rightly emphasizes the odd creation that is the United Arab Emirates: a land
without enough people. As the land is barren, like the cultural scene, the
Emirates must recruit foreign labor with modest benefits unseen in their home
countries.

For workers on the low end, often from the Subcontinent, this usually means a
better wage. For higher end workers from Europe and America, this often means
perks like free apartments and untaxed salaries complete with good vacations.
But the deal is always rotten, as the rulers and citizens of the country
ruthlessly try to maintain their sovereignty over the British-allotted country.

Going to the Emirates for work is bargaining with the devil, and as you point
out, many immigrants find it a bargain they will regret for the rest of their
lives.

Brock Bevan Philadelphia, Aug. 6, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Rockies: Utah: Police Comment On Cause Of Crash Killing 8

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 103 words


The driver of a sport utility vehicle crammed with suspected illegal immigrants
was groping a woman when he lost control and crashed, killing eight men, the
authorities said. That contradicts the driver's claim that he was trying to
avoid an animal when his Chevy Suburban rolled. ''The passengers say no, he
wasn't swerving to miss a horse, that he was fondling a female passenger in the
front seat of the vehicle,'' Sgt. Rick Eldredge of the Utah Highway Patrol told
The Salt Lake Tribune in an article posted on its Web site. The driver was
charged with one count of transporting illegal immigrants resulting in death.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Judge Clears Renting To Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 67 words


A federal judge issued an order halting enforcement of a voter-endorsed
ordinance preventing apartment rentals to most illegal immigrants in Farmers
Branch, a Dallas suburb, opponents of the ban said. The ordinance was to have
taken effect today, after voters approved the regulation two to one, according
to unofficial results. Opponents filed three requests in federal court for an
injunction to stop it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill to Reduce Tuition for Illegal Immigrants Passes in Hartford

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 1


Illegal immigrants who graduate from Connecticut high schools will be eligible
for the resident tuition rate at the state's public universities and colleges if
the governor signs a bill that the Senate narrowly passed on Friday.

Connecticut would join 10 other states, including New York, that allow illegal
immigrants to pay the in-state rate that is available to other residents.
Illegal immigrants now often pay twice as much to attend Connecticut's
taxpayer-supported colleges and universities.

Aides to Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, said she would not decide whether to
sign the bill until she sees its final language, which she had not done Friday.

The Senate approved the bill, 20 to 15, after a three-hour debate in which
several Republicans vigorously argued against the measure, saying that it would
reward illegal activity. The debate in the House was similarly heated before the
bill passed, 76 to 67, on May 17, with several Democrats joining most
Republicans to vote against the measure.

''What we're doing here today is trying to incorporate some kids who, through no
fault of their own, have arrived in our communities,'' said Jonathan Harris, a
Democrat from West Hartford who was the bill's lead sponsor in the Senate.
''They reside in our state. They've gone to four years of high school. They've
demonstrated the acumen and the academic success.''

In 2001, Texas was the first state to grant in-state tuition to illegal
immigrants. New York passed a similar bill in 2002. Some state legislatures --
including the one in Texas -- have debated laws prohibiting in-state tuition
rates for illegal immigrants. Last year, Arizona voters overwhelmingly approved
such a ban.

Like most states, Connecticut gives its residents a substantial discount on
tuition at publicly supported colleges and universities. For example, the
in-state tuition rate per semester at Central Connecticut State University in
New Britain is $3,367. Out-of-state students pay $7,727.

Backers of the bill said that the legislation would benefit about 250 of the
109,000 students enrolled in Connecticut's public colleges and universities.

A recent poll commissioned by The Hartford Courant showed that 53 percent of
state residents supported the legislation and 41 percent opposed it. The poll,
conducted in April and reported last month, had a margin of error of plus or
minus 4.4 percentage points.

Much of the debate in the Senate on Friday focused on whether the bill would
give illegal immigrants what opponents called ''special benefits.''

''It is a reward for illegal behavior that we should not be sanctioning,'' said
Daniel Debicella, a Republican from Shelton. ''This bill makes a fundamental
assumption that illegal immigration is O.K.''

Five amendments sponsored by Republicans, which would have restricted benefits
for illegal immigrants on tuition and other matters, were easily defeated.

As the debate came to a close, Senator Edward Gomes, a Democrat from Bridgeport,
said the opponents' concerns were misplaced. ''These are not people who did
something illegal,'' he said. ''These are people who deserve a chance to be a
cornerstone in the community.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

24 Iranians, Held for Illegal Entry, Escape From Iraqi Prison

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed
reporting from Kut, Diyala, Hilla, Kirkuk and Baghdad.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, July 15


The Iraqi police acknowledged Sunday that 24 Iranians who had been detained for
entering the country illegally and using fake passports had escaped from a
prison on the Iraqi side of the porous border.

When the police realized there had been a prison break, they imposed a curfew on
Badra, the town where the prison is, and caught four of the escapees. But the
others remained free, said a police official in Badra.

Iraq's long border with Iran is exceedingly difficult to police. American troops
have been working to intercept the flow of weapons and weapons parts that appear
to be coming from Iran. Some of the Iranians who cross the border illegally are
pilgrims who have not obtained legal travel documents for trips to worship in
the Shiite pilgrimage cities of Najaf and Karbala, but Iraqi and American
security officials contend that some Iranians also cross the border to aid
insurgents.

Kidnappings occurred throughout the country on Sunday, documenting the
atmosphere of fear that seems hard to stem despite the increased number of
American troops and a drop in the number of large-scale attacks.

In Kut, a Shiite area about 70 miles southeast of Baghdad, the wife of the
provincial council leader was killed, along with the couple's 8-year-old son, by
gunmen who broke into their house at 6 a.m. and shot them. The woman died
immediately, said a Kut police official. The child was rushed to the hospital by
the police, but died before they could get there.

In Baghdad, 22 bodies were found around the city, eight of them in the Wishash
neighborhood, a Shiite area. The eight had been tortured and then shot to death,
officials said. The bodies of two women, one of whom worked for the Social
Affairs Ministry, were found in other locations. In the largely Sunni Adel
neighborhood, a gunman killed a civilian. In Saidiya, the neighborhood where an
Iraqi reporter for The New York Times was killed Friday, gunmen wounded two
civilians.

Also in Baghdad, a car bomb exploded at 4 p.m. in a square filled with takeout
and ice cream shops, killing at least five people and wounding 15, said an
Interior Ministry official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he
was not an official spokesman. Other estimates from local hospitals gathered by
The Associated Press put the number of dead at 10 and the wounded at 25.

The American military announced that a soldier had been killed near Baghdad on
Saturday when a roadside bomb exploded near his vehicle.

In Iraqi politics, the Shiite-dominated government appeared to be trying to
reach out to Sunni Arabs, who have complained bitterly that they are left out of
decision making. In the past two weeks the Parliament has had difficulty
mustering a quorum and rarely has had enough members in the chamber to vote on
legislation. Both the Sunni Arab bloc, and the Shiite members who represent the
anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, are boycotting the Parliament.

Behind the scenes negotiations have been under way for the past week in an
effort to get both groups to return. On Sunday, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal
al-Maliki met with Adnan Dulaimi, a member of Parliament and one of the leaders
of the largest Sunni Arab bloc to negotiate an end to the boycott.

They are searching for a way to finesse the resignation of the speaker, Mahmoud
al-Mashhadani, a Sunni Arab who has been criticized both by Sunnis and others in
the Parliament. Parliament voted in mid-June to oust him from the position, but
he has resisted resigning from the post. They also are trying to resolve a
dispute over the culture minister, a Sunni Arab accused of killings. Sunni Arabs
would like an independent investigation of the charges.

In another sign of outreach to Sunnis, the state-run television station, Al
Iraqiya, for the first time covered the story of the insurgents in the Amiriya
neighborhood in western Baghdad, a Sunni Arab stronghold, who had turned against
the militant group that calls itself Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The group, a
homegrown Sunni Arab insurgent organization with some foreign participation, had
previously effectively controlled the neighborhood.

The station showed a video featuring a masked man standing by a newly paved
street, saying: ''We are the revolutionaries of Amiriya. We will fight the Qaeda
organization until we bring back the old situation of our district when the
Sunnis, Shiites and Christians lived peacefully together.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi firefighters cleaned up the site where a car bomb exploded
in the Karada area of Baghdad yesterday, killing at least five people and
wounding 15. Other estimates put the numbers at 10 dead and 25 wounded.
(Photograph by Khalid Mohammed/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Murder Case Fails Against Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: ALLENTOWN, Pa., July 7


The mayor of Hazleton, Pa., has long cited a May 2006 shooting death as the
impetus for pushing one of the nation's strictest community crackdowns on
illegal immigrants.

But on Friday, prosecutors dropped homicide charges against the two illegal
immigrants accused of shooting the man, Derek Kichline, 29, depriving the mayor,
Louis J. Barletta, of one of his main arguments for kicking illegal immigrants
out of this northeastern Pennsylvania city of more than 30,000.

Luzerne County prosecutors had accused the men, Juan Romero and Pedro Cabrera,
of shooting Mr. Kichline in the head outside his home before midnight on May 10,
2006.

Prosecutors said they abandoned the case because crucial witnesses were either
unavailable or unreliable, not because they were convinced of the two men's
innocence.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. RULE LIMITS EMERGENCY CARE FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words


The federal government has told New York State health officials that
chemotherapy, which had been covered for illegal immigrants under a
government-financed program for emergency medical care, does not qualify for
coverage. The decision sets the stage for a battle between the state and federal
governments over how medical emergencies are defined.

The change comes amid a fierce national debate on providing medical care to
immigrants, with New York State officials and critics saying this latest move is
one more indication of the Bush administration's efforts to exclude the
uninsured from public health services.

State officials in New York and other states have found themselves caught in the
middle. The New York dispute, focusing on illegal immigrants with cancer --  a
marginal group of unknown size among the more than 500,000 people living in New
York illegally -- has become a flash point for health officials and advocates
for immigrants in recent weeks.

Under a limited provision of Medicaid, the national health program for the poor,
the federal government permits emergency coverage for illegal immigrants and
other noncitizens. But the Bush administration has been more closely
scrutinizing and increasingly denying state claims for federal payment for some
emergency services, Medicaid experts said.

Last month, federal officials, concluding an audit that began in 2004 and was
not challenged by the state until now, told New York State that they would no
longer provide matching funds for chemotherapy under the emergency program.
Yesterday, state officials sent a letter to the federal Medicaid agency
protesting the change, saying that doctors, not the federal government, should
determine when chemotherapy is needed.

Federal health officials declined to discuss chemotherapy or the New York
claims. But Dennis Smith, director of the Center for Medicaid and State
Operations at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said in a
statement, ''Longstanding interpretations by the agency have been that emergency
Medicaid benefits are to cover emergencies.''

The federal statute that defines an emergency under Medicaid makes it clear that
routine care for illegal immigrants and nonresidents, including foreign students
and visitors, is not covered. But the only procedures it specifically excludes
from reimbursement are organ transplants, leaving to the states  the task of
further defining an emergency. States and courts have grappled with the question
for years, yielding no clear definition.

Some states have maintained that any time a patient is able to schedule an
appointment -- as opposed to showing up at an emergency room -- the condition
would not be considered an emergency. Others, including New York, have defined
an emergency as any condition that could become an emergency or lead to death
without treatment.

''There are clearly situations that we consider emergencies where we need to
give people chemotherapy,'' Richard F. Daines, the New York State health
commissioner, said in an interview late yesterday. ''To say they don't qualify
is self-defeating in that those situations will eventually become emergencies.''

Dr. Daines said that for every effort in the state to use Medicaid
''creatively'' to cover the uninsured, ''the Bush administration, at every
chance, is pushing it back.''

The state estimated that the federal government denied $60 million in matching
funds for emergency Medicaid from 2001 to 2006, including $11.1 million for
chemotherapy. Medicaid costs are typically split evenly between the state and
the federal government.

It is unclear how many other states are providing chemotherapy to illegal
immigrants, because all emergency services are generally lumped together in
state Medicaid reports. But others have also been challenged on emergency
Medicaid claims.

In Washington State, where illegal immigrants are entitled to Medicaid coverage
for a month or more after treatment in an emergency, officials said a federal
audit of their emergency Medicaid claims was under way, and the state has asked
the federal government to provide a definition of emergency services.

''The awkward position state Medicaid programs are in is trying to figure out
what kinds of medical care should be available for emergency conditions,'' said
Douglas Porter, assistant secretary for the Washington Health and Recovery
Services Administration.

Washington and other states have also fought the federal government over
Medicaid for infants born to illegal immigrants, an issue reflected in the
ferocious debate over the national children's health insurance program.

In the wake of stricter federal rules, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and 20
other states have extended full Medicaid coverage, using only state money, to
some immigrants who do not qualify for federal aid. Under federal law, proof of
citizenship is required for full Medicaid coverage, but not for emergency
coverage.

But some states with growing immigrant populations, like Georgia and Arizona,
have themselves moved to limit coverage under emergency Medicaid, leading to
intense opposition from immigrant health advocates.

Advocates for breast cancer patients said they were particularly concerned about
the denial of coverage after lobbying the federal government for years to
provide breast cancer screening to uninsured women. Under a program offered to
underinsured and uninsured women, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
provides free or low-cost screening.

''To allow women to be diagnosed with breast cancer and then create an obstacle
for them to get treatment is a horrendous policy,'' said Donna Lawrence,
executive director of Susan G. Komen for the Cure in New York.

In New York City, cancer kills 15,000 residents a year. It is the second leading
cause of death among both the native- and the foreign-born, according to a 2006
survey by the city's health department, with lung, breast and colon cancer the
top killers.

The state had initially accepted the federal finding that New York was not
entitled to federal reimbursement for chemotherapy under the emergency Medicaid
program. But until last month, state health officials had not informed medical
providers that the treatment would no longer be covered by either state or
federal funds.

That provoked a pitched outcry from immigrant health advocates over the last few
weeks, and state health officials reversed their position this week, saying
Medicaid should cover the treatment.

State officials said they were challenging the federal decision on the grounds
that chemotherapy treatment qualifies as an emergency under the federal
government's own rules. Certain conditions, including diseases of the brain,
spinal cord and bone marrow disease, could require immediate chemotherapy.

The state's letter also said that chemotherapy can be used to ''cure cancer,
control cancer and/or ease cancer symptoms,'' and that if that the measures
typically used to treat cancer were not available to patients, their health
could be in serious jeopardy -- one of the federal criteria in determining an
emergency.

The cost of emergency Medicaid  is still a relatively small portion of state
Medicaid budgets, experts said, and a majority of the money is spent on care for
pregnant women, labor and delivery. But the demand for it rising quickly as the
immigrant population balloons.

Health advocates say that many illegal immigrants who need and qualify for
emergency care are afraid to seek help, and that emergency Medicaid is
underused.

A recent study of emergency Medicaid services in North Carolina found that
spending, largely devoted to pregnant women, increased by 28 percent from 2001
to 2004; still, the emergency costs accounted for less than 1 percent of total
Medicaid expenditures.

New York City public hospitals, which serve 400,000 uninsured patients a year,
among them illegal immigrants, would continue to provide the cancer treatment no
matter what, said officials from the Health and Hospitals Corporation. But if
there is no reimbursement from Medicaid, they said, they will have to look
elsewhere for financial support.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Cancer Deaths: Each year about 15,000 people in New York City
die of cancer, which is the second leading cause of death among both U.S.-born
and foreign-born New Yorkers.(Source: New York City Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene)(pg. A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. RULE LIMITS EMERGENCY CARE FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words


The federal government has told New York State health officials that
chemotherapy, which had been covered for illegal immigrants under a
government-financed program for emergency medical care, does not qualify for
coverage. The decision sets the stage for a battle between the state and federal
governments over how medical emergencies are defined.

The change comes amid a fierce national debate on providing medical care to
immigrants, with New York State officials and critics saying this latest move is
one more indication of the Bush administration's efforts to exclude the
uninsured from public health services.

State officials in New York and other states have found themselves caught in the
middle. The New York dispute, focusing on illegal immigrants with cancer --  a
marginal group of unknown size among the more than 500,000 people living in New
York illegally -- has become a flash point for health officials and advocates
for immigrants in recent weeks.

Under a limited provision of Medicaid, the national health program for the poor,
the federal government permits emergency coverage for illegal immigrants and
other noncitizens. But the Bush administration has been more closely
scrutinizing and increasingly denying state claims for federal payment for some
emergency services, Medicaid experts said.

Last month, federal officials, concluding an audit that began in 2004 and was
not challenged by the state until now, told New York State that they would no
longer provide matching funds for chemotherapy under the emergency program.
Yesterday, state officials sent a letter to the federal Medicaid agency
protesting the change, saying that doctors, not the federal government, should
determine when chemotherapy is needed.

Federal health officials declined to discuss chemotherapy or the New York
claims. But Dennis Smith, director of the Center for Medicaid and State
Operations at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said in a
statement, ''Longstanding interpretations by the agency have been that emergency
Medicaid benefits are to cover emergencies.''

The federal statute that defines an emergency under Medicaid makes it clear that
routine care for illegal immigrants and nonresidents, including foreign students
and visitors, is not covered. But the only procedures it specifically excludes
from reimbursement are organ transplants, leaving to the states  the task of
further defining an emergency. States and courts have grappled with the question
for years, yielding no clear definition.

Some states have maintained that any time a patient is able to schedule an
appointment -- as opposed to showing up at an emergency room -- the condition
would not be considered an emergency. Others, including New York, have defined
an emergency as any condition that could become an emergency or lead to death
without treatment.

''There are clearly situations that we consider emergencies where we need to
give people chemotherapy,'' Richard F. Daines, the New York State health
commissioner, said in an interview late yesterday. ''To say they don't qualify
is self-defeating in that those situations will eventually become emergencies.''

Dr. Daines said that for every effort in the state to use Medicaid
''creatively'' to cover the uninsured, ''the Bush administration, at every
chance, is pushing it back.''

The state estimated that the federal government denied $60 million in matching
funds for emergency Medicaid from 2001 to 2006, including $11.1 million for
chemotherapy. Medicaid costs are typically split evenly between the state and
the federal government.

It is unclear how many other states are providing chemotherapy to illegal
immigrants, because all emergency services are generally lumped together in
state Medicaid reports. But others have also been challenged on emergency
Medicaid claims.

In Washington State, where illegal immigrants are entitled to Medicaid coverage
for a month or more after treatment in an emergency, officials said a federal
audit of their emergency Medicaid claims was under way, and the state has asked
the federal government to provide a definition of emergency services.

''The awkward position state Medicaid programs are in is trying to figure out
what kinds of medical care should be available for emergency conditions,'' said
Douglas Porter, assistant secretary for the Washington Health and Recovery
Services Administration.

Washington and other states have also fought the federal government over
Medicaid for infants born to illegal immigrants, an issue reflected in the
ferocious debate over the national children's health insurance program.

In the wake of stricter federal rules, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and 20
other states have extended full Medicaid coverage, using only state money, to
some immigrants who do not qualify for federal aid. Under federal law, proof of
citizenship is required for full Medicaid coverage, but not for emergency
coverage.

But some states with growing immigrant populations, like Georgia and Arizona,
have themselves moved to limit coverage under emergency Medicaid, leading to
intense opposition from immigrant health advocates.

Advocates for breast cancer patients said they were particularly concerned about
the denial of coverage after lobbying the federal government for years to
provide breast cancer screening to uninsured women. Under a program offered to
underinsured and uninsured women, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
provides free or low-cost screening.

''To allow women to be diagnosed with breast cancer and then create an obstacle
for them to get treatment is a horrendous policy,'' said Donna Lawrence,
executive director of Susan G. Komen for the Cure in New York.

In New York City, cancer kills 15,000 residents a year. It is the second leading
cause of death among both the native- and the foreign-born, according to a 2006
survey by the city's health department, with lung, breast and colon cancer the
top killers.

The state had initially accepted the federal finding that New York was not
entitled to federal reimbursement for chemotherapy under the emergency Medicaid
program. But until last month, state health officials had not informed medical
providers that the treatment would no longer be covered by either state or
federal funds.

That provoked a pitched outcry from immigrant health advocates over the last few
weeks, and state health officials reversed their position this week, saying
Medicaid should cover the treatment.

State officials said they were challenging the federal decision on the grounds
that chemotherapy treatment qualifies as an emergency under the federal
government's own rules. Certain conditions, including diseases of the brain,
spinal cord and bone marrow disease, could require immediate chemotherapy.

The state's letter also said that chemotherapy can be used to ''cure cancer,
control cancer and/or ease cancer symptoms,'' and that if that the measures
typically used to treat cancer were not available to patients, their health
could be in serious jeopardy -- one of the federal criteria in determining an
emergency.

The cost of emergency Medicaid  is still a relatively small portion of state
Medicaid budgets, experts said, and a majority of the money is spent on care for
pregnant women, labor and delivery. But the demand for it rising quickly as the
immigrant population balloons.

Health advocates say that many illegal immigrants who need and qualify for
emergency care are afraid to seek help, and that emergency Medicaid is
underused.

A recent study of emergency Medicaid services in North Carolina found that
spending, largely devoted to pregnant women, increased by 28 percent from 2001
to 2004; still, the emergency costs accounted for less than 1 percent of total
Medicaid expenditures.

New York City public hospitals, which serve 400,000 uninsured patients a year,
among them illegal immigrants, would continue to provide the cancer treatment no
matter what, said officials from the Health and Hospitals Corporation. But if
there is no reimbursement from Medicaid, they said, they will have to look
elsewhere for financial support.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Cancer Deaths: Each year about 15,000 people in New York City
die of cancer, which is the second leading cause of death among both U.S.-born
and foreign-born New Yorkers.(Source: New York City Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene)(pg. A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

New York, Faulting U.S., Says It Will Pay for Cancer Care for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW; Winter Miller contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words


Gov. Eliot Spitzer, stepping into a brewing battle between federal and state
health officials over emergency medical care for illegal immigrants, called a
new federal directive to limit coverage ''morally and clinically and legally
wrong'' yesterday and said he was prepared to sue the federal government over
it.

Federal health officials have told New York State that they will no longer help
cover the cost of chemotherapy for illegal immigrants with cancer because it
does not qualify under an emergency Medicaid program. But yesterday, state
health officials said they would cover all the costs no matter what the federal
government does.

The state health commissioner, Richard F. Daines, who joined Mr. Spitzer
yesterday at a news conference in Manhattan, said the state would pay the full
cost of chemotherapy for illegal immigrants, estimated at $5 million to $10
million annually.

That announcement, coming after weeks of intense lobbying by advocates for
immigrants, marked a reversal of the state's position of only two weeks ago,
when state officials said New York could not shoulder the costs itself.

Most illegal immigrants are not entitled to Medicaid coverage, except for
emergency care. At the crux of the New York dispute is what constitutes an
emergency. The federal government said  the New York claims did not qualify
because they were part of continuing treatment plans.  Other states and Medicaid
experts say the Bush administration has been more closely scrutinizing and
challenging state spending on health care for illegal immigrants, touching off
criticism that bureaucrats, not doctors, are being allowed to make life-or-death
medical decisions.

The dispute in New York, home to more than 500,000 illegal immigrants, comes as
many states are fighting proposed federal restrictions under the national health
insurance program for poor children.

''They are picking on the most vulnerable populations -- here immigrants who
need chemotherapy, alternately children who are without health insurance -- and
saying to those two groups, 'You will bear the brunt of our new-found fiscal
conservatism,' '' Mr. Spitzer said at the news conference, held at Bellevue
Hospital Center, which serves a large number of illegal immigrants. ''It is
wrong. It's bad policy.''

Officials with the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services declined
to comment yesterday on New York's challenge.

After an audit of New York's Medicaid spending, the centers told the state in
August that it should stop filing reimbursement claims for chemotherapy for
illegal immigrants.

The State Health Department on Friday sent a letter of protest to federal
officials, but has received no response, officials said.

From 2001 to 2006, the federal government denied the state about $11 million in
matching funds for the cancer treatment, state officials have said. They have
not yet decided whether to try to recoup the money.

Advocates for immigrants praised the governor for taking up the cause.

''He's doing the right thing,'' said Adam Gurvitch, director of health advocacy
with the New York Immigration Coalition, which represents more than 150 advocacy
organizations.

But critics said that at a time when millions of uninsured American citizens are
struggling to pay for health care, the government should not be subsidizing the
care of illegal immigrants.

''For every million on chemotherapy for an illegal immigrant, something has to
give somewhere,'' said Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for
Immigration Studies, a research group in Washington. ''There's no printing press
for money in New York City.''

The crux of the problem, he said, is that large numbers of unskilled immigrants
in the country work at low-paying jobs with no health insurance.

Under state law, New York cannot turn away anyone in need of emergency medical
care. If a patient is not covered by private or public insurance, hospitals can
seek reimbursement from a state fund, but state officials said the $847 million
fund is  not sufficient.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about New York State's decision to pay the
full costs of chemotherapy for illegal immigrants with cancer, despite a federal
directive to limit coverage, gave an erroneous figure in some copies for the
percentage of New York's Medicaid budget that state officials estimate the
treatment costs. It is 0.01 percent to 0.02 percent of the $47 billion budget,
not 2 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Eliot Spitzer, center, visited  Bellevue Hospital Center
yesterday and denounced federal limits on medical coverage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER
HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Towns Rethink Laws Against Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and JILL P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE, N.J., Sept. 25


A little more than a year ago, the Township Committee in this faded factory town
became the first municipality in New Jersey to enact legislation penalizing
anyone who employed or rented to an illegal immigrant.

Within months, hundreds, if not thousands, of recent immigrants from Brazil and
other Latin American countries had fled. The noise, crowding and traffic that
had accompanied their arrival over the past decade abated.

The law had worked. Perhaps, some said, too well.

With the departure of so many people, the local economy suffered. Hair salons,
restaurants and corner shops that catered to the immigrants saw business
plummet; several closed. Once-boarded-up storefronts downtown were boarded up
again.

Meanwhile, the town was hit with two lawsuits challenging the law. Legal bills
began to pile up, straining the town's already tight budget. Suddenly, many
people -- including some who originally favored the law -- started having second
thoughts.

So last week, the town rescinded the ordinance, joining a small but growing list
of municipalities nationwide that have begun rethinking such laws as their legal
and economic consequences have become clearer.

''I don't think people knew there would be such an economic burden,'' said Mayor
George Conard, who voted for the original ordinance. ''A lot of people did not
look three years out.''

In the past two years, more than 30 towns nationwide have enacted laws intended
to address problems attributed to illegal immigration, from overcrowded housing
and schools to overextended police forces. Most of those laws, like Riverside's,
called for fines and even jail sentences for people who knowingly rented
apartments to illegal immigrants or who gave them jobs.

In some places, business owners have objected to crackdowns that have driven
away immigrant customers. And in many, ordinances have come under legal assault
by immigration groups and the American Civil Liberties Union.

In June, a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction against a housing
ordinance in Farmers Branch, Tex., that would have imposed fines against
landlords who rented to illegal immigrants. In July, the city of Valley Park,
Mo., repealed a similar ordinance, after an earlier version was struck down by a
state judge and a revision brought new challenges. A week later, a federal judge
struck down ordinances in Hazleton, Pa., the first town to enact laws barring
illegal immigrants from working or renting homes there.

Muzaffar A. Chishti, director of the New York office of the Migration Policy
Institute, a nonprofit group, said Riverside's decision to repeal its law --
which was never enforced -- was clearly influenced by the Hazleton ruling, and
he predicted that other towns would follow suit.

''People in many towns are now weighing the social, economic and legal costs of
pursuing these ordinances,'' he said.

Indeed, Riverside, a town of 8,000 nestled across the Delaware River from
Philadelphia, has already spent $82,000 defending its ordinance, and it risked
having to pay the plaintiffs' legal fees if it lost in court. The legal battle
forced the town to delay road paving projects, the purchase of a dump truck and
repairs to town hall, officials said. But while Riverside's about-face may
repair its budget, it may take years to mend the emotional scars that formed
when the ordinance ''put us on the national map in a bad way,'' Mr. Conard said.

Rival advocacy groups in the immigration debate turned this otherwise sleepy
town into a litmus test for their causes. As the television cameras rolled,
Riverside was branded, in turns, a racist enclave and a town fighting for
American values.

Some residents who backed the ban last year were reluctant to discuss their
stance now, though they uniformly blamed outsiders for misrepresenting their
motives. By and large, they said the ordinance was a success because it drove
out illegal immigrants, even if it hurt the town's economy.

''It changed the face of Riverside a little bit,'' said Charles Hilton, the
former mayor who pushed for the ordinance. (He was voted out of office last fall
but said it was not because he had supported the law.)

''The business district is fairly vacant now, but it's not the legitimate
businesses that are gone,'' he said. ''It's all the ones that were supporting
the illegal immigrants, or, as I like to call them, the criminal aliens.''

Many businesses that remain are having a hard time. Angelina Guedes, a
Brazilian-born beautician, opened A Touch From Brazil, a hair and nail salon, on
Scott Street two years ago to cater to the immigrant population. At one point,
she had 10 workers.

Business quickly dried up after the law against illegal immigrants. Last week,
on what would usually be a busy Thursday afternoon, Ms. Guedes ate a salad and
gave a friend a manicure, while the five black stylist chairs sat empty.

''Now I only have myself,'' said Ms. Guedes, 41, speaking a mixture of Spanish
and Portuguese. ''They all left. I also want to leave but it's not possible
because no one wants to buy my business.''

Numerous storefronts on Scott Street are boarded up or are empty, with For Sale
by Owner signs in the windows. Business is down by half at Luis Ordonez's River
Dance Music Store, which sells Western Union wire transfers, cellphones and
perfume. Next door, his restaurant, the Scott Street Family Cafe, which has a
multiethnic menu in English, Spanish and Portuguese, was empty at lunchtime.

''I came here looking for an opportunity to open a business and I found it, and
the people also needed the service,'' said Mr. Ordonez, who is from Ecuador.
''It was crowded and everybody was trying to do their best to support their
families.''

Some have adapted better than others. Bruce Behmke opened the R & B Laundromat
in 2003 after he saw immigrants hauling trash bags full of clothing to a laundry
a mile away. Sales took off at his small shop, where want ads in Portuguese are
pinned to a corkboard and copies of the Brazilian Voice sit near the door.

When sales plummeted last year, Mr. Behmke started a wash-and-fold delivery
service for young professionals.

''It became a ghost town here,'' he said.

Immigration is not new to Riverside. Once a summer resort for Philadelphians,
the town became a magnet a century ago for European immigrants drawn to its
factories, including the Philadelphia Watch Case Company, whose empty hulk still
looms over town. Until the 1930s, the minutes of the school board meetings were
recorded in German and English.

''There's always got to be some scapegoats,'' said Regina Collinsgru, who runs
The Positive Press, a local newspaper, and whose husband was among a wave of
Portuguese immigrants who came here in the 1960s. ''The Germans were first,
there were problems when the Italians came, then the Polish came. That's the
nature of a lot of small towns.''

Immigrants from Latin America began arriving around 2000. The majority were
Brazilians attracted not only by construction jobs in the booming housing market
but also by the presence of Portuguese-speaking businesses in town. Between 2000
and 2006, local business owners and officials estimate, more than 3,000
immigrants arrived. There are no authoritative figures about the number of
immigrants who were -- or were not -- in the country legally.

Like those waves of earlier immigrants, the Brazilians and Latinos triggered
conflicting reactions. Some shopkeepers loved the extra dollars spent on Scott
and Pavilion Streets, the modest thoroughfares that anchor downtown. Yet some
residents steered clear of stores where Portuguese and Spanish were plainly the
language of choice. A few contractors benefited from the new pool of cheap
labor. Others begrudged being undercut by rivals who hired undocumented workers.

On the town's leafy side streets, some residents admired the pluck of newcomers
who often worked six days a week, and a few even took up Capoeira, the Brazilian
martial art. Yet many neighbors loathed the white vans with out-of-state plates
and ladders on top parked in spots they had long considered their own. The
Brazilian flags that flew at several houses rankled more than a few longtime
residents.

It is unclear whether the Brazilian and Latino immigrants who left will now
return to Riverside. With the housing market slowing, there may be little reason
to come back. But if they do, some residents say they may spark new tensions.

Mr. Hilton, the former mayor, said some of the illegal immigrants have already
begun filtering back into town. ''It's not the Wild West like it was,'' he said,
''but it may return to that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angelina Guedes has owned a hair and nail salon in Riverside,
N.J., for two years. It was nearly empty on a recent afternoon
 Luis Ordonez and Dalva Almeda say business at their cafe declined after the
town passed a law against illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22) MAP  Map of Riverside, N.J.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Measure On Legal Status For Immigrant Students Blocked

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WASHINGTON; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 108 words


An effort by Senate Democrats to advance a measure to give legal status to
illegal immigrants who are high school graduates failed on  Wednesday. Senator
Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, had sought to offer the measure, known
as the Dream Act, as an amendment to the Defense Department authorization bill.
But Republicans, who reject the measure as amnesty for illegal immigrants,
blocked it. The measure would give legal status to illegal immigrants who are
high school graduates and came to the United States before they were 16, have
been in the country for at least five years and will attend college or serve in
the military for two years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Guardsmen Charged With Human Smuggling

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 11


Three members of the Texas National Guard helping patrol the Mexican border have
been charged with human smuggling after federal agents found one of them in
uniform driving a van crammed with 24 illegal immigrants north of Laredo, the
Justice Department said Monday.

The guardsmen, including two sergeants, were assigned to Operation Jump Start
assisting the Border Patrol and had run multiple smuggling trips at fees of
$1,500 to $2,000 per passenger, according to the complaint by the United States
attorney for the Southern District of Texas, Don DeGabrielle.

The complaint cited cellphone text messages exchanged among them like ''24 will
b tuff 2 fit but ill try.''

The driver accused in the case, Pfc. Jose Rodrigo Torres, 26, of Laredo, was
arrested late last Thursday. The two other soldiers, Sgt. Julio Cesar Pacheco,
25, also of Laredo, and Sgt. Clarence Hodge Jr., 36, of Fort Worth, were
arrested Friday, and all three appeared in federal court in Laredo early Monday.
The federal government, citing policy, declined to release their official
photographs.

The men were ordered held in the Webb County jail in Laredo on $75,000 bail,
pending a preliminary hearing June 19 or a possible federal indictment on
smuggling conspiracy charges, which carry penalties of up to 10 years in prison
and fines of up to $250,000. The three have not entered pleas.

Calls to what appeared to be the homes of two of the men went unanswered; and
the home of the third could not be immediately located.

The head of the Texas Military Forces, Adjutant General Chuck Rodriguez, said in
a statement that he was ''extremely disappointed'' and noted that 23,000 other
Texas National Guard soldiers and aviators were serving around the world
''honorably and with distinction.''

In the past year, about 1,500 Texas men and women at a time have joined 6,000
other Guard troops in California, Arizona and New Mexico on surveillance duty to
help the Border Patrol. A total of 33,000 Guard members from Texas have served
on the border.

Just last month, Texas Guard members helped seize more than $500,000 worth of
cocaine at a border checkpoint, and in April Guard troops from Texas were among
the first emergency responders when a tornado leveled much of the border town of
Eagle Pass.

The three arrests were first reported Friday night in Laredo by the NBC
television affiliate KGNS.

According to the federal complaint, Private Torres was driving 24 illegal
immigrants in a white Ford van leased to the National Guard and was stopped last
Wednesday at a Border Patrol checkpoint on Interstate 35 about 30 miles north of
Laredo.

Citing an account ''freely stated'' by Private Torres after his arrest, Jose
Melero, a special agent with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau,
said Private Torres evaded detection with the help of Sergeant Hodge, who
''approached the van to make it appear that they were doing National Guardsmen
business.'' The complaint did not say whether Sergeant Hodge was in uniform.

Afterward, Special Agent Melero said, Private Torres ''left the checkpoint via
the service lane, thereby avoiding an immigration inspection.''

The next day, the complaint continued, Private Torres was driving the van about
35 miles farther north on I-35 near Cotulla when he was stopped around 9:40 p.m.
by Border Patrol agents. No reason for the stop was given. But Special Agent
Melero's statement said, ''As Border Patrol agents approached the vehicle, they
observed several individuals hiding inside the van.''

The complaint said Private Torres subsequently ''admitted to transporting aliens
on approximately seven different occasions'' and being paid $1,000 to $3,500 a
trip by Sergeant Pacheco. The complaint quoted three passengers as saying they
had paid $1,500 to $2,000 each to be smuggled to Dallas.

The fate of the passengers was not given in the complaint, but at least three
were identified as material witnesses who could be called to testify in court.

According to the complaint, a text message retrieved from Private Torres's
cellphone and signed ''PAC'' said in part, ''we need to take 24 people to make
that happen and you will get 3500 does that sound good.'' Private Torres, the
document said, responded, ''tuff 2 fit but ill try.''

At one point, the complaint said, Sergeant Hodge also sent this text message to
Private Torres: ''u wanna do 1 2mrw? They supplyin da van.''

Again, it said, he agreed, replying: ''ill only do 1 run @ no more than 20
people @ $150 a person.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: National Guard troops, including these soldiers from Virginia,
have been helping federal agents patrol the Mexico border since last June.
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Amnesty Sideshow

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 575 words


We have all seen how presidential candidates shift positions to impress primary
voters. It's usually as measured and boring as dance instruction: O.K. everyone,
now dip to the right -- or left -- then back to center. But on the volatile
topic of immigration, Republicans are lurching, falling over themselves to
convince voters that where they stand is not where they stood.

The fakery is hard to watch, as it comes at a time when courage and bipartisan
realism are critically important. The Iowa maunderings of two candidates in
particular -- Senators Sam Brownback and John McCain -- have complicated the
prospects of a bipartisan immigration bill that would affect millions of lives.
While the bill's fate is being decided in difficult closed-door negotiations in
the Capitol, they and other G.O.P. hopefuls are on the stump, tying themselves
in knots on ''amnesty'' and dancing farther out to the fringes of public
opinion.

Mr. Brownback is a right-wing Republican whose religion teaches compassion for
the stranger -- immigrants, too. He was a co-sponsor of last year's bipartisan
Senate bill. But this year he bailed out of negotiations, and last week disowned
his vote for last year's bill, to the delight of conservatives who scorned him
as ''Amnesty Sam.''

Mitt Romney is also going through contortions. The Boston Globe posted audio
clips of Mr. Romney praising, in 2005, an immigration bill sponsored by Mr.
McCain and Senator Edward Kennedy as sensible and ''quite different'' from
amnesty, then dissing it as amnesty in this year's campaign. Mr. Romney now
wallows in the support of Joe Arpaio, the showboating Phoenix sheriff famous for
humiliating prisoners and pushing a round-'em-all-up approach.

Rudolph Giuliani has sharply changed his tone. Once a stout defender of
immigrants, Mr. Giuliani now talks about sending people to the back of the line
and installing ''heat-seeking equipment'' at the border. He insists that he
opposes amnesty, but the ''amnesty'' he objects to is an ''amnesty'' nobody is
talking about -- blanket forgiveness, a free pass to a green card. Once you hear
him talking about helping immigrants who pay fines and back taxes, stay out of
trouble, learn English and wait in the back of the visa line, it seems clear
that he belongs in the comprehensive-reform fold with Mr. Kennedy and others --
whether he admits it or not.

Of all the retreats, the most disheartening may be Mr. McCain's. This former
straight talker once lent his name to the most promising immigration bill in
Congress. But as Senator Kennedy has struggled to draft a compromise this year,
his former partner has been trumpeting border security on the campaign trail and
letting momentum for comprehensive reform stall in Washington.

Mr. McCain and his adversaries may believe that primary politics demands such
behavior, but surveys of the larger populace tell a different story. Americans
want the immigration issue solved, and they strongly favor ''amnesty,'' whether
you call it that or not. An array of recent polls show powerful support for an
earned path to citizenship.

''Call it a banana if you want to,'' Mr. McCain said of the amnesty debate last
year, in a welcome moment of lucidity. If a good bill emerges, it will be
because enough lawmakers stayed focused and kept their heads. If the effort
collapses, a large share of the blame must go to amnesty-fixated Republicans
lost in the fog of the 2008 presidential race.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family Values, Betrayed

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 475 words


When George W. Bush was running for president in 2000 as a new kind of
Republican -- the caring kind -- he had a ready answer for those skeptical of
his moderate views on immigration. ''Family values do not stop at the Rio
Grande,'' he said, again and again. He was standing up for immigrants who come
here seeking better lives for their children, and he repeated the message so
often that it stuck.

Now, like so much else in Mr. Bush's tattered slogan file, it's in danger of
coming unstuck. Negotiators struggling to draft an immigration bill in
Washington are being pressured by the White House and Republican leaders to gut
the provisions of the law that promote the unity of immigrant families in favor
of strictly employment-based programs.

Details are still being sweated out in private, but a draft proposal circulated
by the White House and the G.O.P. would eliminate or severely restrict whole
categories of family-based immigration in favor of a system that would assign
potential immigrants points based on age, skills, education, income and other
factors. Citizens would no longer be able to sponsor siblings and children over
21, and their ability to bring in parents would be severely limited.

Unattached workers with advanced degrees and corporate sponsors could do all
right, but not families, not the moms, pops, sons and daughters who open
groceries and restaurants, who rebuild desolate neighborhoods and inspire
America with their work ethic and commitment to one another. The plan would also
shut out hundreds of thousands of people who have applied for family visas under
current rules and are patiently waiting because of long backlogs.

The goal seems to be to end what immigration restrictionists call ''chain
migration,'' a tendentious term that recasts in a sinister light one of the
fundamental ways America was built, and a decades-old cornerstone of our
immigration policy. It's a cruel distortion that feeds fears of outsiders and
fails to acknowledge that healthy immigration levels keep the economy running,
particularly in a country with low unemployment and birth rates and workers who
shun backbreaking, entry-level jobs.

America needs immigrants. Last year's bipartisan Senate bill recognized this,
and raised quotas for both family and employment-based immigration. Congress
should do so again. Closing the door to families would be unjust and unworkable,
and a mockery of the values that conservatives profess. It would only encourage
illegality by forcing people to choose between their loved ones and the law.

Compromise is necessary with any bill, particularly on an issue as complex as
immigration. But if a deal hews so closely to the new harsh line of the White
House and G.O.P that it fundamentally distorts America's pro-immigrant
tradition, it would be better to ditch the whole thing and start over.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'08 Candidates Weighing Consequences as They Take Sides on Immigration Plan

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA; Michael Cooper, Steven Greenhouse, Patrick Healy and
Michael Luo contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 872 words


The bipartisan immigration proposal being taken up by Congress is putting
pressure on the leading presidential candidates to take a position on the issue,
which could set them up for confrontations with influential constituencies
within the two parties.

After the announcement of the bipartisan plan on Thursday, Senator Hillary
Rodham Clinton, the New York Democrat, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New
York mayor who is one of the Republican frontrunners, were initially
noncommittal. Both suggested on Friday that they were open to supporting it, but
only with major revisions to some of its main components.

Reflecting the complexity of the issue and the political caution surrounding it,
neither of them matched the embrace of the legislation on Thursday by Senator
John McCain, the Arizona Republican.

Mr. McCain already faces a direct clash with another of the Republican
candidates, Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who has come out against the bill as
he intensifies his efforts to win the support of conservatives who are wary of
Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Romney's opponents said his position had
shifted from more moderate views that he voiced a few years ago.

On Friday, the Romney campaign unveiled a television commercial about illegal
immigration that it said would run starting this weekend in New Hampshire and
Iowa.

Mr. McCain's position was also assailed on Friday by conservative commentators,
who object in particular to the provisions of the legislation that could
ultimately grant legal status to many of the estimated 12 million immigrants who
are in the United States illegally.

Mr. Giuliani's emphasis has been on whether the legislation would adequately
protect the nation from terrorists who might enter the United States illegally.

In an appearance on Friday in Orlando, Fla., he supported the idea of compromise
as long as it included a system for registering the people who are currently in
America illegally and issuing them identification cards.

''I think this idea of working things out between the Democrats and the
Republicans -- and each side has to make some compromises in order to get there
-- then I can see a lot of flexibility there to get that accomplished,'' he
said.

Mrs. Clinton, an aide in her Senate office said, will focus on the provision
that would de-emphasize family ties in granting visas, an element of the bill
that has drawn fierce objections from many groups and elected officials
representing Hispanics.

Mrs. Clinton will try to limit the impact on Hispanic immigrants by offering an
amendment to reunite lawful permanent residents with their spouses and minor
children by exempting those family members from the visa cap in the bill, the
aide said.

When Mrs. Clinton was asked about the bill in New Orleans on Friday, however,
she avoided stating any precise position and instead highlighted her support for
both toughening border security and providing a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants.

Democrats face a complicated nest of competing interests, including the outcry
of some labor unions about the proposed guest worker program and concerns among
Hispanic voters that the legislation will severely curtail the ability of
families in poorer Latin American countries to settle legally in the United
States.

Major labor unions are split on the issue, but there is widespread labor concern
about the provision that would set up a temporary guest worker system with no
chance of citizenship.

Not only could those workers take away jobs from Americans, these opponents
said, but they could also become a permanent underclass.

''The proposal unveiled today includes a massive guest worker program that would
allow employers to import hundreds of thousands'' of temporary workers every
year to perform permanent jobs throughout the economy, John J. Sweeney,
president of the AFL-CIO, said in a statement.

John Edwards, the former senator from North Carolina whose campaign has focused
on trying to rally traditional union workers with a populist message, said he
was pleased to see movement on immigration reform. But, in a statement, Mr.
Edwards added, ''I have some real concerns about parts of this bill, including
the poorly conceived guest worker program.''

Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, was similarly cautious.

''Without modifications, the proposed bill could devalue the importance of
family reunification, replace the current group of undocumented immigrants with
a new undocumented population consisting of guest workers who will overstay
their visas, and potentially drive down wages of American workers,'' Mr. Obama
said in a statement.

Democrats and Republicans must calculate how their choices will affect them
politically, not just in early states like Iowa but also in states like New
York, Florida, California and Texas that have large immigrant populations.

Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute's office at the
New York University law school, said that the pressure was going to quickly
build for everyone to declare firm positions.

''Next week is going to be very, very critical,'' Mr. Chishti said. ''The
pressure on the senators between now and Monday is going to be intense.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Deal

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 773 words


The immigration deal announced in the Senate last week poses an excruciating
choice. It is a good plan wedded to a repugnant one. Its architects seized a
once-in-a-generation opportunity to overhaul a broken system and emerged with a
deeply flawed compromise. They tried to bridge the chasm between brittle
hard-liners who want the country to stop absorbing so many outsiders, and those
who want to give immigrants -- illegal ones, too -- a fair and realistic shot at
the American dream.

But the compromise was stretched so taut to contain these conflicting impulses
that basic American values were uprooted, and sensible principles ignored. Many
advocates for immigrants have accepted the deal anyway, thinking it can be
improved this week in Senate debate, or later in conference with the House of
Representatives. We both share those hopes and think they are unrealistic. The
deal should be improved. If it is not, it should be rejected as worse than a bad
status quo.

The good. Part of the compromise is strikingly appealing. It is the plan to give
most of the estimated 12 million immigrants here illegally the chance to live
and work without fear and to become citizens eventually. The conditions are
tough, including a $5,000 fine, and a wait until certain ''trigger'' conditions
on border security are met and immigration backlogs are cleared. It requires
heads of households to apply in their home countries, sending them on a foolish
''touchback'' pilgrimage. That is a large concession to Republican hard-liners,
but they, too, have come a long way: consider that last year the House of
Representatives wanted to brand the 12 million and those who gave them aid as
criminals. A winding and expensive path to citizenship is still a path.

The bad. The deal badly erodes two bedrock principles of American immigration:
that employers can sponsor immigrants to fill jobs and that citizens and legal
permanent residents have the right to sponsor family members -- young children
and spouses, of course, but also their grown children, siblings and parents. The
proposal would eliminate several categories of family-based immigration, and it
would distribute green cards according to a point-based system that shifts the
preference toward those who have education and skills but not necessarily roots
in this country. Supporters say that the proposal has been tweaked to give some
weight to kinship, and that many immigrants would still be able to bring loved
ones in. But the repellent truth is that countless families will be split apart
while we cherry-pick the immigrants we consider brighter and better than the
poor, tempest-tossed ones we used to welcome without question.

The awful. The agreement fails most dismally in its temporary worker program.
''Temporary means temporary'' has been a Republican mantra, motivated by the
thinly disguised impulse to limit the number of workers, Latinos mostly, doing
the jobs Americans find most distasteful. The deal calls for the creation of a
new underclass that could work for two years at a time, six at the most, but
never put down roots. Immigrants who come here under that system -- who play by
its rules, work hard and gain promotions, respect and job skills -- should be
allowed to stay if they wish. But this deal closes the door. It offers a way in
but no way up, a shameful repudiation of American tradition that will encourage
exploitation -- and more illegal immigration.

It is painful, for many reasons, to oppose this immigration deal. It is no
comfort to watch as this generation's Know-Nothings bray against ''amnesty''
from their anchor chairs and campaign lecterns, knowing that it gives hope to
the people they hate.

It is especially difficult because lives are in the balance. The millions
without documents live in constant fear: a campaign of federal raids has spread
panic and shattered families. Congress's dithering has encouraged the rise of
homegrown zealots: mayors, police departments, county executives and legislators
who take reform into their own hands, with cruelly punitive measures. No amount
of hostile legislation is going to drive the immigrants away. A collapsed
immigration deal could put off reform for years, and encourage more of this
cruelty.

It is the nation's duty to welcome immigrants, to treat them decently and give
them the opportunity to assimilate. But if it does so according to the outlines
of the deal being debated this week, the change will come at too high a price:
The radical repudiation of generations of immigration policy, the weakening of
families and the creation of a system of modern peonage within our borders.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER AIDING BILL ON IMMIGRATION, EMPLOYERS BALK

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20


Employers, who helped shape a major immigration bill over the last three months,
said on Sunday that they were unhappy with the result because it would not cure
the severe labor shortages they foresee in the coming decade.

In addition, employers expressed alarm as they learned that the Senate bill
would require them to check a government database to verify that all current and
former employees -- aliens and citizens alike -- were eligible to work in the
United States.

The Senate begins debating the bill on Monday. Supporters, including the White
House, had hoped that senators would finish work on it this week, before the
Memorial Day recess. But leading members of Congress said Sunday that the bill
would take more time and could face significant hurdles.

The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said that the
immigration bill ''can't possibly be completed before Memorial Day.'' On the ABC
News program ''This Week,'' Mr. McConnell said the Senate would need at least
two weeks to digest and amend the bill, which he described as ''a big,
complicated piece of legislation.''

A delay over Memorial Day would give the public an opportunity to weigh the
issue, while lawmakers are home, and would give critics more time to hone their
arguments.

The speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, expressed concern on Sunday about a
central element of the bill, under which the government would establish a point
system to evaluate would-be immigrants, giving more weight to job skills and
education and less to family ties.

''I have serious objection to the point system that is in the bill now, but
perhaps that can be improved,'' said Ms. Pelosi, a California Democrat. She
asserted that this part of the bill, ardently sought by the White House and
Republican senators, could undermine ''family unification principles which have
been fundamental to American immigration.''

Besides revamping visa preferences, the bill would also offer legal status to
most of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants and would increase the
penalties for businesses that employ them.

In the last few years, employers have become a potent force in the debate on
immigration, pleading with Congress to authorize more visas for both high- and
low-skill workers.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a bill co-author, said the
point system was devised so America ''can compete for the best minds that exist
in the world.''

Robert P. Hoffman, a vice president of Oracle, the business software company,
endorsed that goal but said the bill would not achieve it.

''A merit-based system for allocating green cards may sound good for business,''
said Mr. Hoffman, who is co-chairman of Compete America, a coalition of
high-tech companies. ''But after reviewing the proposal, we have concluded that
it is the wrong approach and will not solve the talent crisis facing many U.S.
businesses. In fact, in some ways, it could leave American employers in a worse
position.

''Under the current system,'' Mr. Hoffman said, ''you need an employer to
sponsor you for a green card. Under the point system, you would not need an
employer as a sponsor. An individual would get points for special skills, but
those skills may not match the demand. You can't hire a chemical engineer to do
the work of a software engineer.''

David Isaacs, director of federal affairs at the Hewlett-Packard Company, said
in a letter to the Senate that ''a 'merit-based system' would take the hiring
decision out of our hands and place it squarely in the hands of the federal
government.''

Employers of lower-skilled workers voiced another concern.

''The point system would be skewed in favor of more highly skilled and educated
workers,'' said Laura Foote Reiff, co-chairwoman of the Essential Worker
Immigration Coalition, whose members employ millions of workers in hotels,
restaurants, nursing homes, hospitals and the construction industry.

Denyse Sabagh, a former president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said, ''This bill does not give employers what they need, and some
are pretty upset about it.''

Under a 1986 law, employers are supposed to ask job applicants for verification
that they are eligible to work in the United States. The Senate bill would
require employers to check an electronic database established by the government.

''We cannot ask our employers to verify somebody here unless we help them,''
President Bush said last week.

But Susan R. Meisinger, president of the Society for Human Resource Management,
which represents 215,000 executives, said: ''The Senate proposal would require
employers to reverify the identity and employment eligibility of 145 million
Americans who are currently employed. That's unworkable. The burden on
government and the private sector could cause the system to crash.''

The government has been testing an employee verification system like the one
envisioned in the Senate bill. Federal investigators have found a significant
error rate because information in the database is sometimes inaccurate or
outdated.

Business executives have been working closely with Hispanic groups, like the
National Council of La Raza, in seeking a comprehensive immigration bill. These
alliances were on display last week at a dinner celebrating the 25th anniversary
of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant advocacy group.

Sponsors of the dinner included Wal-Mart, the Service Employees International
Union, the United States Chamber of Commerce, Marriott, the United States
Conference of Catholic Bishops and the National Restaurant Association, which
says that restaurants are the ''No. 1 employer of immigrants.''

Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, explained the
reason for employers' keen interest in the issue: ''We do not have enough
workers to support a growing economy. We have members who pay good wages but
face worker shortages every day.''

Carlos M. Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, said that immigration was
essential to economic growth because ''without it, we will have significant
labor shortages in key occupations.''

Mr. Hoffman, the Oracle software executive, said ''we have hundreds of unfilled
jobs'' for which American citizens cannot be found. Mr. Hoffman said the company
had identified people from India, China and other countries who were receiving
advanced degrees from American universities and would make excellent software
engineers, but Oracle could not arrange visas for them.

Companies with lower-skilled workers have a similar problem. The Labor
Department estimates that 37 percent of all new jobs in the next decade will be
filled by people with a high school education or less. Of the 10 occupations
expected to see the largest job growth, only two require a college degree.
On-the-job training is usually enough for the other occupations, like retail
sales clerks, home health aides and food service workers, the department said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randel K. Johnson of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

CRITICS IN SENATE VOWING TO ALTER IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21


As the Senate began work on a comprehensive immigration bill, lawmakers from
both parties demanded substantial changes in the legislation on Monday and
forced Senate leaders to extend debate beyond the Memorial Day recess.

From the moment debate started, the crosscurrents buffeting the bill were
evident. The intense lobbying since the bill emerged last week from three months
of bipartisan negotiations is likely to be just a sample of what lawmakers will
hear as they return home to their districts for the Memorial Day recess.

The bill overcame its first hurdle on Monday, a simple vote to begin debate on
the hugely contentious measure.

The decision to extend debate followed four hours of speeches in which
supporters and opponents of the bill agreed that the nation had lost control of
its borders but disagreed on almost everything else.

''There just simply is not enough time on this massive, massively important
piece of legislation to do it all'' in one week, said the Senate majority
leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada.

The outlook for the bill is uncertain. President Bush strongly supports the
measure, which incorporates many of his ideas. In the House, Democratic leaders
say the president will have to deliver dozens of Republican votes that would be
needed for passage.

Some senators who voted to take up the legislation said they did not support the
bill in its current form but hoped to improve it with amendments.

The measure, as it now stands, would offer legal status to most of the 12
million illegal immigrants, strengthen security at the border and increase
penalties for employers of illegal immigrants.

Democrats plan to offer amendments to eliminate or scale back provisions under
which hundreds of thousands of temporary foreign workers would be admitted to
the United States each year.

Critics contend that this program would create an underclass of immigrant
workers who could adversely affect the wages and working conditions of Americans
in some industries.

Republicans have drafted amendments to scale back the legalization program and
to designate English as the national language.

Leading the opposition to the bill were three Republicans, Jim Bunning of
Kentucky, Jeff Sessions of Alabama and David Vitter of Louisiana.

Mr. Sessions said the measure had been written behind closed doors, with no
hearings or review by the Senate Judiciary Committee and no cost estimate by the
Congressional Budget Office.

''The American people were not in those meetings,'' Mr. Sessions said. ''There
are 85 senators who have no idea what's in the bill.''

If Senate leaders had pushed the bill to final passage in one week, Mr. Sessions
said, that would have been ''a railroad job, for sure.''

Mr. Vitter said the bill offered ''pure unadulterated amnesty.''

''If the American people knew what was in this bill,'' he said, ''there would be
a massive outcry against it.''

Mr. Bunning said the bill would ''reward lawbreakers'' with ''a large-scale
get-out-of-jail-free pass.''

The chief Democratic architect of the bill, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts, defended it as a prudent, urgently needed compromise.

''Our security is threatened in the post-9/11 world by borders out of control,''
Mr. Kennedy said. ''Our values are tarnished when we allow 12 million human
beings to live in the dark shadows of abuse as undocumented immigrants. Our
competitiveness in a global economy is at risk when our employers cannot find
the able workers they need.''

Mr. Reid criticized the measure on several grounds.

''The bill impacts families in a number of ways that I believe are unwise,'' he
said. ''The bill also allows 400,000 low-skilled workers to come to America for
three two-year terms, but requires them to go home for a year in between.

This is impractical both for the workers and for the American employers who need
a stable, reliable work force.''

Moreover, Mr. Reid said he feared that the bill would create ''a permanent
underclass of people who are here to work in low-wage low-skill jobs, but do not
have a chance to put down roots or benefit from the opportunities of American
citizenship.''

The majority leader also criticized a provision under which illegal immigrants
who gained legal status would have to return to their home countries to apply
for green cards, or permanent resident visas.

This requirement ''will cause needless hardship for immigrants and needless
bureaucracy for the government,'' Mr. Reid said.

Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said he was not trying to block the
bill, but wanted time to understand it.

''I don't know any piece of legislation that touches as many people in as many
ways as this bill,'' Mr. Corker said.

With its vote on Monday, the Senate agreed to limit debate, by invoking cloture,
on a motion to take up the bill. The vote was 69 to 23, nine more votes than
needed.

Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, said: ''I will vote for cloture, but
not because I support the underlying bill. I will support cloture only because I
hope we can significantly improve this bill.''

Thirty-eight Democrats, 30 Republicans and one independent voted to begin
consideration of the bill. Four Democrats, 18 Republicans and one independent
voted no.

The Texas senators, John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison, both Republicans,
voted no, as did the Montana senators, Max Baucus and Jon Tester, who are
Democrats.

Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who helped forge the ''grand
bargain'' on immigration, said he would make every effort to ''keep the deal in
place.''

He had harsh words for lawmakers who might try to block the bill without
offering a solid alternative.

''Doing nothing is a national security nightmare for this country,'' Mr. Graham
said. ''If your goal is to stop this bill and you don't have an alternative that
will secure our borders and deal with illegal immigration, you are not helping
the country.''

The bill would provide visas for 400,000 temporary workers a year. The number
could be increased to 600,000 in response to demand from employers.

Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, said he would offer an amendment
to limit the number to 200,000 a year.

The bill, as written, ''puts us on a par with Kuwait or other countries who just
depend on foreign workers and have a second-class group of workers doing
inferior jobs but not having any real rights or privileges,'' Mr. Bingaman said.

Republicans insisted that temporary workers should truly be temporary.

But Mr. Bingaman said, ''This idea of bringing people for two years, sending
them back for a year, bringing them back for two years and then sending them
back for a year is nonsensical.''

In writing the measure, senators bypassed the Judiciary Committee, where
immigration bills normally originate.

The chairman of the committee, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont,
said, ''The bill we have before us is a product of closed-door meetings between
the administration and Republican senators, which was then put to Democratic
senators as a framework for further negotiations.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky with Senator Jeff Sessions of
Alabama, left, both Republicans, at news conference on immigration yesterday.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

McCain Counters Romney With a Three-Way Riposte

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 356 words


It doesn't look much like there is a McCain-Romney ticket in the offing.

Senator John McCain of Arizona, whose support of a bipartisan immigration
proposal has drawn criticism from Mitt Romney, the former governor of
Massachusetts, answered yesterday with a pointed riposte.

''In the case of Governor Romney, you know, maybe I should wait a couple of
weeks and see if it changes because it's changed in less than a year from his
position before,'' Mr. McCain said on a conference call. ''And maybe his
solution will be to get out his small-varmint gun and drive those Guatemalans
off his lawn.''

That was at least three political jabs packed into one. First, Mr. McCain was
painting Mr. Romney as a flip-flopper, in a nod to the fact that he has
expressed support for similar immigration proposals in the past and changed his
position on abortion before running for president.

Next, Mr. McCain took a dig at a memorable line Mr. Romney used this year after
his attempt to portray himself as a lifelong hunter was challenged, and it
surfaced that he had not taken out hunting licenses in the states where he
lived. ''I've always been a rodent and rabbit hunter,'' Mr. Romney said. ''Small
varmints, if you will.''

Finally, the Guatemalans. That was a reference to an article in The Boston Globe
late last year that quoted several people from Guatemala who said they had
worked on Mr. Romney's lawn in suburban Boston while in the United States
illegally, as employees of a lawn care company that Mr. Romney hired.

It was an early taste of one Republican presidential candidate naming, and
criticizing, another. The Romney campaign answered with a statement that only
referred to Mr. McCain as ''a certain candidate.''

''Governor Romney has been very clear that he opposes this immigration
agreement, which clearly falls short of the American public's expectations,''
said Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney. ''It seems that a certain
candidate who brokered this flawed plan is having a very difficult time coming
to terms with the political fallout that has ensued and has abandoned any and
all substantive arguments for it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Admissions System

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 765 words


Harvard is tough to get into. To be admitted to a school like that, students
spend years earning good grades, doing community service and working hard to
demonstrate their skills. The system has its excesses, but over all it's good
for Harvard and it's good for the students beginning their climb to opportunity.

The United States is the Harvard of the world. Millions long to get in. Yet has
this country set up an admissions system that encourages hard work,
responsibility and competition? No. Under our current immigration system, most
people get into the U.S. through criminality, nepotism or luck. The current
system does almost nothing to encourage good behavior or maximize the nation's
supply of human capital.

Which is why the immigration deal reached in the Senate last week is, on
balance, a good thing. It creates a new set of incentives for immigrants and
potential immigrants. It encourages good behavior, in the manner of a demanding
(though overly harsh) admissions officer. It rewards the bourgeois virtues that
have always been at the heart of this nation's immigrant success, and goes some
way to assure that the people who possess these virtues can become U.S.
citizens.

Let's look at how this bill would improve incentives almost every step of the
way.

First, consider the 10 to 12 million illegal immigrants who are already here.
They now have an incentive to think only in the short term. They have little
reason to invest for the future because their presence here could be taken away.

This bill would encourage them to think in the long term. To stay, they would
have to embark on a long, 13-year process. They'd have to obey the law, learn
English and save money (to pay the stiff fines). Suddenly, these people would be
lifted from an underclass environment -- semi-separate from mainstream society
-- and shifted into a middle-class environment, enmeshed within the normal rules
and laws that the rest of us live by. This would be the biggest values-shift
since welfare reform.

Second, consider the millions living abroad who dream of coming to the U.S.
Currently, they have an incentive to find someone who can smuggle them in, and
if they get caught they have an incentive to try and try again.

The Senate bill reduces that incentive for lawlessness. If you think it is light
on enforcement, read the thing. It would not only beef up enforcement on the
border, but would also create an electronic worker registry. People who overstay
their welcome could forfeit their chance of being regularized forever.

Moreover, aspiring immigrants would learn, from an early age, what sort of
person the U.S. is looking for. In a break from the current system, this bill
awards visas on a merit-based points system that rewards education, English
proficiency, agricultural work experience, home ownership and other traits.
Potential immigrants would understand that the U.S. is looking for people who
can be self-sufficient from the start, and they'd mold themselves to demonstrate
that ability.

Third, consider the people who are admitted to the U.S. under the bill's
guest-worker program. By forcing these workers to spend a year away after two
years of work here, this section encourages them to think of the U.S. as a place
to earn some money before building their long-term futures back home. It
encourages these young workers to be as flexible as possible, to go wherever the
jobs are, so they can maximize earnings during each two-year window.

Nobody can like all aspects of this compromise bill. It has needless
complexities and touchback mechanisms. The guest-worker part threatens to set up
a permanent and un-American divide between temporary and skilled workers. But,
over all, this bill finally gives this meritocratic nation a meritocratic
immigration system.

Personally, I'd like to see it go farther. I'd prefer a system in which
potential immigrants were admitted on an audition basis. An engineer from China
who ran a neighborhood association would get citizenship. A construction worker
from Mexico who was promoted to crew chief would get citizenship. This would be
a system that rewarded hard work and perseverance as much as it rewarded I.Q.
and advanced degrees. People who qualified could bring their nuclear families
with them, since families are the foundries of responsible behavior.

In the meantime, this bill is a step. Despite its ramshackle and unforgiving
nature, there's still a little of the spirit of Ben Franklin flickering inside.
There is still enough encouragement for the ambitious young striver, desperate
to make good.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hounded by Insurgents, Abandoned by Us

BYLINE: By Kirk W. Johnson.

Kirk W. Johnson was the regional coordinator of reconstruction in Falluja in
2005 for the United States Agency for International Development.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1000 words

DATELINE: GENEVA


THE crisis over Iraq's refugees is the first major policy issue in which Iraqi
civilians are front and center. We debate how the surge looks today or how oil
will be distributed tomorrow on the banks of a swelling river of human misery:
two million Iraqis who couldn't bear to live in Iraq anymore, and another two
million displaced internally but too poor to flee.

This week, representatives from dozens of countries and international
nongovernmental organizations have gathered in Geneva to discuss what might be
done in the wake of the largest population shift in the Middle East since 1948.
The world is asking what George W. Bush, who started the war in Iraq and
presides over the country that historically accepts more refugees than any
other, will do for these desperate people.

Many of them will most likely be denied refuge in the United States because,
under the Patriot and Real ID Acts, they are tarred with having provided
material support to terrorists -- in the form of ransoms paid to kidnappers to
secure a family member's release. Last month, Congress tried to create a waiver
for those who provided material support ''under duress.'' Lamentably, it was
killed by Senator Jon Kyl, who said he'd respond with legislation to ''provide
relief from terrorism-related immigration bars to  groups that do not pose a
threat to the United States.''

Are we so imprecise in our fifth year of this war that our government cannot
distinguish between those who worked and ate alongside us and a member of Al
Qaeda?

Consider Rita, an Iraqi Christian woman who worked for the Coalition Provisional
Authority and helped manage the TIPS Hotline, which Iraqis can call to share
critical information about wanted terrorists or pending attacks on the United
States military. Her supervisor, Bernard Kerik, wrote in a recommendation letter
that her ''courage to support the coalition forces has sent an irrefutable
message: that terror will not rule, that liberty will triumph, and that the
seeds of freedom will be planted into the great citizens of Iraq.''

But Rita's courage was repaid by insurgents who abducted her 16-year-old son at
gunpoint on his way to school one August morning. Terrorists demanded $600,000
for his release. She doesn't know how much her husband ultimately paid the
kidnappers because he divorced her, blaming her work for the American government
for the calamity that had befallen the family. He took her traumatized son and
daughter to Syria, and she hasn't seen or heard from them since. When the death
threats became unbearable, she fled to Jordan.

Appallingly, Rita's family cannot be resettled in the United States because of
the material support bar. Unless the secretary of homeland security himself
applies a waiver for her, she'll never reach American soil. Does this woman, who
lost everything because she worked for the Americans, who had a security
clearance from our government to work in its embassy, pose a threat to the
United States? If she does, then who doesn't?

After all this time, we see hearts and minds as bombs and guns. If we cannot
recover such basic distinctions, then we have surely lost more than the war.

Five years before we invaded Iraq, one senator had the remarkable foresight to
speak about our responsibility to any Iraqis who might help the United States:
''If we would have people in Iraq, or elsewhere in the world, trust us and work
with us, then we need to take care that the United States maintains a reputation
for trustworthiness and for taking care of its friends.'' He was even more
direct about what was at stake: ''The world will be watching and judging how
America treats people who are seen to be on our side. We cannot afford to foster
a perception of unfairness that will make it more difficult for the United
States to recruit supporters in the future.'' So spoke Senator Kyl in 1998.

I thought I had witnessed the depths of our government's inability to rapidly
help Iraqis during the year that I worked for the United States Agency for
International Development in Baghdad and Falluja. That was until I went to
Washington in February with a list of all of my former Iraqi colleagues who are
now refugees because they helped us.

While the State Department bureau in charge of refugee resettlement has been
trying feverishly to respond belatedly to the crisis, it is not equipped or
authorized to act expeditiously. In her Jan. 16 testimony to the Senate, the
assistant secretary of state for population, refugees and migration, Ellen
Sauerbrey, said that the plight of Iraq's refugees was the bureau's ''very top
priority.'' More than two months later, she reported to the House that it could
take six months (and likely longer) before our Iraqi friends might find refuge
here.

What kind of superpower can't convert its ''very top priority'' into a program
that starts saving its allies' lives before their visas expire and they are
forced to return to Iraq? Rita is on my list, which has grown to include
hundreds of former colleagues and others who endured similarly shattering fates
because they believed in America enough to help us in Iraq. They wonder if they
chose poorly when they signed on with us, and they are rapidly losing hope that
the United States will offer them a life preserver before it's too late. Those
who paid ransoms for their lives or those of their loved ones are scared to
explain in their asylum applications the chief reason they fled their country,
because they worry it will disqualify them -- a perverse indication of the
extent to which our government has lost its way since we invaded.

This is not an issue President Bush can delegate anymore. His bureaucracies are
moving perilously slowly. They need the leadership of an American president. How
will the United States help those whose belief in us cost them their country? We
need to honor the sacrifice of these Iraqis -- and start recovering the moral
credibility our country forfeits each day they go without our help.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Revises Some Points Of School Budget Proposal

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 890 words


Ceding ground to the city teachers' union, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced
changes yesterday to his plan for a new school budgeting system. The changes
mean that it will be harder and take longer for the mayor to redistribute senior
teachers, who tend to cluster in middle-class neighborhoods, more evenly across
the school system.

The mayor also reached accords yesterday with an array of interest groups, which
like the union have loudly opposed his latest plans to reorganize the school
system. Among these, Mr. Bloomberg agreed to a demand by the New York
Immigration Coalition for an increase in money allocated for children with
limited English proficiency.

Mr. Bloomberg; Chancellor Joel I. Klein; the union president, Randi Weingarten;
and many of the groups gathered at City Hall yesterday afternoon to announce the
deals. The agreements with these groups, which included Acorn, New Yorkers for
Smaller Class Size, and the Coalition for Educational Justice, bought the mayor
some measure of political peace after weeks of complaints about his handling of
the schools. The groups agreed to pull back plans for a big protest early next
month.

''Over the last few days, we have realized that we are a lot closer together on
many of the issues surrounding school initiatives than some might have
thought,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Now we are ready to move forward to achieve
some of our common goals.''

But experts on education financing warned that the mayor was at risk of
undermining his effort to bring equity and transparency to the school budgeting
system.

''There are political deals that you have to cut around some of these things,''
said Andrew J. Rotherham, co-director of Education Sector, a research group
based in Washington. ''At the same time it's important that policy makers keep
their eyes on these things, because where policy reforms go to die is when
policy makers keep cutting these deals.''

Earlier this year, Mr. Bloomberg called for ambitious changes to the school
system. The revised budget system was just one aspect of it, intended to address
inequities in financing and teaching quality between schools. He also said he
would require teachers to undergo rigorous review to gain tenure.

But the plans drew an outcry from teachers, parents and political opponents. And
yesterday's deals were intended to tamp down the dissent.

The mayor agreed to consult with the union, the United Federation of Teachers,
as he moves to tighten tenure requirements, giving the union input on one of the
most sensitive topics to its members.

The deals also call for the city's Education Department to establish committees
to improve parent relations, to comply with a new state law requiring the city
to reduce class sizes, and to provide oversight of the new budget process. In
addition, the administration agreed to work with the City Council speaker,
Christine C. Quinn, on improving middle schools. Ms. Quinn has formed a task
force that is studying the issue.

Under the city's current budgeting process, schools receive a set number of
teachers and the city provides the money to cover their salaries. Schools with
large numbers of high-paid veteran teachers, many of them with high-performing
students, can maintain large payrolls.

The mayor's new system would ultimately finance schools based strictly on
numbers of students and their needs, with extra money provided for children from
low-income families, for students needing English language instruction, for
disabled students and for high-achieving students. And principals would have to
meet payroll.

Previously, Mr. Bloomberg had announced plans to lessen the impact of the
changes by paying the salaries of teachers so long as they remained in their
current posts. Only when a teacher retired, resigned or transferred would the
principal have to consider the cost of a replacement.

But yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg said he would go even further. ''Schools will still
receive the funds even after a teacher transfers or retires,'' he said.

The change means that when a veteran teacher paid nearly $100,000 a year
retires, a principal can hire a similar teacher or hire a rookie for about
$50,000 and use the remaining $50,000 for other expenses.

The mayor said no school's budget would be cut as the plan took hold.

''As we stopped yelling at each other a lot publicly and started talking to each
other, you saw there were more areas of agreement than disagreement,'' Ms.
Weingarten said.

Still, amid the declarations of newfound collaboration there were signs of
tension. Both the administration and its critics insisted that they had conceded
little.

And not all of the mayor's critics signed on. Noticeably absent were members of
elected parent groups; the leader of one such group issued a blunt statement
criticizing the deals.

''This agreement provides no relief for disenfranchised parents who were once
again denied a seat at the table,'' said Tim Johnson, the chairman of the
Chancellor's Parent Advisory Council, a citywide group. ''Not one elected parent
leader stood with the mayor today. Our fight for full empowerment for public
school parents continues.''

Also absent were representatives of groups that had hoped to reach a deal to
limit the growing number of standardized exams that city schoolchildren face
each year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Releases Cuban Bombing Suspect, Angering Havana

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 923 words


A 79-year-old anti-Castro Cuban exile and former C.I.A. operative linked to the
bombing of a Cuban airliner was released on bail yesterday and immediately
returned to Miami to await trial on immigration fraud charges.

The man, Luis Posada Carriles, was released from the Otero County Prison in
Chaparral, N.M., after posting a $350,000 bond on the immigration charges.

His release infuriated the authorities in Cuba and Venezuela, who have been
trying to extradite him to stand trial over the 1976 airliner bombing, which
killed 73 people, including several teenage members of Cuba's national fencing
team.

The United States Justice Department had tried unsuccessfully to prevent his
release, arguing that his escape from a Venezuelan prison in 1985 increased the
risk that he might flee before the scheduled start of his trial on immigration
charges on May 11.

The court rejected the Justice Department's argument, but it increased security
measures by ordering Mr. Posada to be fitted with an ankle bracelet to track his
whereabouts. He was ordered to remain under house detention with his wife in
Miami until the immigration trial begins.

Mr. Posada, a gray-haired former intelligence operative and United States Army
officer, has been detained since May 2005, when he entered the United States
illegally.

President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said Thursday in Caracas, ''We demand that
they extradite that terrorist and murderer to Venezuela, instead of protecting
him.''

Dagoberto Rodriguez Barrera, the chief of the Cuban Interests Section, Cuba's
diplomatic representation in Washington, told Agence France-Presse yesterday,
''Cuba forcefully condemns this decision and holds the government of the United
States totally responsible for the fact that Posada Carriles is free in Miami.''

Prensa Latina, the Cuban news agency, reported last night that 50,000 people had
gathered at a demonstration in Bayamo, a city in southeastern Cuba, to protest
the release of Mr. Posada and to demand that he be tried for the jetliner
bombing.

The Cuban government has also accused Mr. Posada, an avowed opponent of the
island's Communist rule, of plotting to assassinate the Cuban leader, Fidel
Castro, in Panama in 2000, and of planning a series of explosions in tourist
hotels in Havana in 1997.

Mr. Posada was jailed in Panama in connection with the attempt on Mr. Castro's
life but was later pardoned by Panamanian officials. He admitted, then later
denied, that he had directed the wave of hotel bombings in 1997.

He has also repeatedly denied responsibility for the bombing of the plane, known
as Cubana Airlines Flight 455. The jet blew apart and crashed off the coast of
Barbados on Oct. 6, 1976.

Investigators in Venezuela, where Mr. Posada had been chief of operations in the
secret intelligence police, traced at least one of the bombs to the plane's
luggage compartment. The investigators found that two Venezuelans had checked
bags through to Havana but got off the plane at a scheduled stop in Barbados.

The men had worked for Mr. Posada, who was arrested in Venezuela and charged
with the bombing. He escaped from prison in 1985 dressed as a priest after
associates bribed a guard.

Cuban officials have accused the United States of hypocrisy in battling
terrorists by not prosecuting Mr. Posada or deporting him to stand trial on
terrorism charges in another country. They routinely refer to Mr. Posada as
''the bin Laden of the Americas.''

Mr. Posada's shadowy past as a Central Intelligence Agency operative put the
United States in a politically delicate position. In his early years, he had
received military training in the United States and worked for the C.I.A. to
bring down the Castro government. He participated in the failed Bay of Pigs
invasion in 1961. Later he was involved in supplying arms to rebels in
Nicaragua.

The United States has acknowledged his long record of violent acts. In court
papers filed in his immigration fraud case, the Justice Department described him
as ''an unrepentant criminal and admitted mastermind of terrorist plots.''

Mr. Posada was detained in 2005 after he entered the United States on false
pretenses. According to an indictment unsealed this year, he lied when he told
border officials he had paid a smuggler to drive him from Mexico to Texas. He
actually entered the country on a small boat. He also lied about using an alias.

An immigration judge has blocked Mr. Posada's extradition to Cuba or Venezuela,
ruling that he could be subject to torture in those countries. Efforts to deport
him to another country have failed because so far no other country has been
willing to take him.

His arrival in Miami yesterday afternoon set off mixed reactions among the
area's many Cuban exiles, who see him as both a patriot and an embarrassment.

''We have been fighting this war on terror, and here we are releasing a man who
has a history of terrorist acts and is a fugitive of justice in other
countries,'' said Elena Freyre, executive director of the Cuban-American Defense
League, a moderate exile group in Miami. ''It's absolutely appalling.''

But Miguel Saavedra, president of Vigilia Mambisa, a small, hard-line
anti-Castro exile group, said he felt vindicated by Mr. Posada's release on
bail.

''The only ones accusing him are the governments of Cuba and Venezuela,'' Mr.
Saavedra said. ''They can only accuse him because they haven't been able to
prove anything. If he is sent to Cuba or Venezuela, it would be the equivalent
of executing him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A billboard in Havana bears a likeness of Luis Posada Carriles
and reads, ''Cuba declares him guilty'' in the bombing of a Cuban jetliner in
1976. (Photo by Javier Galeano/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Asia to the Caribbean to New York, Appetite Intact

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1038 words


Yearning for a taste of home in 1950s New York, a man from Trinidad hunted for
aloo pie, the spicy potato pastry that is a favorite of Trinidadians of South
Asian ancestry. But he could not find it in his Brooklyn neighborhood, where,
unlike him, most Caribbean immigrants were of African descent.

Then he discovered the potato knish, a city street food with a Jewish immigrant
pedigree. Sliced open and slathered with hot pepper sauce, knishes became his
comfort food -- much as aloo pie had once comforted his forebears, immigrants to
the Caribbean who had longed for the samosas of their homes in India.

As told by Ramin Ganeshram, a writer, chef and teacher of Caribbean cooking, the
story about her father's encounter with knishes illustrates the layered
immigrant experience of Caribbean Asians, an ethnic group that is emerging as a
vibrant force in southern Queens.

They are the descendants of hundreds of thousands of indentured workers taken to
the sugar cane fields of the Caribbean from India, and to a lesser extent from
China, to replace freed African slaves between 1838 and 1917.

''Caribbeans of Indian descent or Chinese descent have an interesting dilemma,''
said Ms. Ganeshram, one of several scheduled speakers at a one-day conference on
Caribbean Asians to be held today at Midtown offices of the City University of
New York. ''They physically look Asian, but they're so displaced from the
motherland, by as much as 200 years, that they have no relationship. So they
find themselves turning back to their food roots.''

With a unique fusion of cultures and cuisines, Caribbean Asians are making their
own contribution to city life, most obviously in the thriving market under the A
train on Liberty Avenue, in Richmond Hill, Queens, which now draws
Indo-Caribbean shoppers from the whole region, as well as New Yorkers of all
backgrounds.

Estimates of the number of Indo-Caribbean immigrants in New York vary from
50,000 to 300,000. Most are from Guyana and Trinidad, but they also come from
Suriname, and from Caribbean islands like Jamaica and Guadeloupe. They may be
Hindus, Muslims or Christians, noted Mahin Gosine, a sociologist who has written
many books on the Indian diaspora in the West Indies, but collectively they have
often been called the Jews of the Caribbean.

After five years of indentured labor in the islands, workers were offered a
ticket home or a plot of land. Most took the land. While Caribbean blacks moved
to towns, where they soon dominated the civil service, teaching and the army,
said Professor Gosine, who teaches in the State University of New York system,
Indians became the islands' rural workers and landowners.

Often stereotyped as country bumpkins, they were looked down upon by more urban
West Indian blacks. But their children became engineers, lawyers and business
entrepreneurs in large numbers, typically after higher education in Britain or
the United States.

The Chinese, less numerous except in Cuba, opened mercantile ventures and were
more likely to marry outside their ethnic group. But more than 20,000 West
Indians in the Caribbean still count themselves as being of Chinese ancestry,
and another 20,000 West Indian Chinese are scattered around the globe, said
Walton Look Lai, a historian coming from Trinidad to speak at the conference,
which is part of the city's Immigrant History Week. Caribbean cuisine reflects
their contribution, too, starting with the introduction of rice early in the
19th century.

These groups coexisted well for decades, but racial tensions escalated in the
1960s and early '70s, with a steep drop in the price of sugar and the rise of
the American black power movement. In a competition for scarcer local resources,
politics in Trinidad and Guyana began polarizing voters along racial lines, or
alarming property owners with socialism, Professor Gosine said.

The grandchildren of the indentured laborers began to leave, not for their
ancestral lands, but first to the old colonial powers -- Britain, the
Netherlands and France -- and then to the United States, where an overhaul of
immigration laws in 1965 ended quotas based on national origin. Now, Caribbean
Asians find their entrepreneurial drive and crossover cuisine embraced by a
widening ethnic spectrum in New York. But many say they also feel distant from
Asians who immigrated directly from their ancestral homelands.

''There is quite a divide,'' Professor Gosine said. ''We speak English, we drink
and we party and we have a good time. They see us as Western, people associated
with Carnival and the beach and rum and Coke.'' On the other hand, he added,
''we see them as kind of squares.''

For a younger generation navigating the ethnic and racial stew of Queens in
search of their own identity, food still offers comfort and a way to explore and
claim a cultural heritage of their own, especially after their favorite foods
have been rejected by more recent arrivals from India as ''inauthentic.''

''They are desperate to learn the food ways of what has become their motherland,
which may be Trinidad or Jamaica or Guyana,'' said Ms. Ganeshram, the author of
the cookbook ''Sweet Hands: Island Cooking from Trinidad and Tobago.''

''It becomes a point of pride with them.''

In her cooking classes, they learn how Indians driven by famine signed on as
indentured laborers and were forced on the sea voyages to abandon religious food
taboos in one fell swoop. One ship captain in 1877 wrote of dosing the sickly
with ''plenty of port wine, extract of beef, chicken broth and condensed milk.''

On plantations where rations were typically meat and rum, the migrants struggled
to adapt local vegetables like taro, yucca and manioc to the masalas and curries
of old. Instead of beef burgers, they created doubles, a fried chickpea paste on
flatbread that is now accepted by all Trinidadians as a local tradition.

These days, Ms. Ganeshram comes to Liberty Avenue from Stony Brook, on Long
Island, to buy spices and Scotch bonnet peppers in bulk, or to treat herself to
a coconut tart at her favorite Guyanese bakery.

Knishes have virtually disappeared from the streets of New York. But under the A
train, she finds, the new knish is an aloo pie.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ramin Ganeshram, a chef, teacher and food writer who lives on
Long Island, returned yesterday to a favorite Guyanese bakery in Richmond Hill,
Queens. She is to speak today at a conference on Caribbean Asians. (Photo by
Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Agent Charged With Murder

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: BISBEE, Ariz., April 23


A Border Patrol agent who shot and killed a Mexican immigrant along the
Arizona-Mexico border in January was charged Monday with first-degree murder and
three related offenses.

The agent, 39-year-old Nicholas Corbett of Sierra Vista, Ariz., shot Francisco
Javier Dominguez Rivera, 22, while taking him into custody on Jan. 12, shortly
after Mr. Dominguez Rivera and three family members crossed illegally into
Cochise County in southeastern Arizona.

Mr. Corbett declined to be interviewed by investigators from the Cochise County
Sheriff's Department but told supervisors at the Naco Border Patrol station that
Mr. Dominguez Rivera had threatened him from across his truck with a rock,
according to evidence released by the Cochise County attorney, Ed Rheinheimer,
on March 26 after a public records request by local news organizations.

Mr. Rheinheimer said Monday that physical evidence and statements from other
witnesses failed to support Mr. Corbett's account.

Mr. Rheinheimer also charged Mr. Corbett with the lesser offenses of
second-degree murder, manslaughter and negligent homicide. Whether probable
cause exists for the charges will be determined by a justice of the peace at a
preliminary hearing that has not yet been set.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Says Hispanics Alter U.S. Catholicism

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 585 words


The influx of Hispanic immigrants to the United States is transforming the Roman
Catholic Church as well as the nation's religious landscape, according to a
study of Hispanics and religion released yesterday.

The study, conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center and the Pew Forum on Religion
and Public Life, found that half of Hispanic Catholics practice a ''distinctive
form'' of charismatic Catholicism that includes speaking in tongues, miraculous
healings and prophesying -- practices more often associated with Pentecostalism.
Among Catholics who are not Hispanic, only 12 percent are involved in these
practices.

The study also found that two-thirds of Hispanics choose to worship in ''ethnic
congregations'' that have Hispanic clergymen and Spanish-language services, and
where a majority of congregants are Hispanic. These congregations are cropping
up throughout the country, even in areas where Hispanics are sparse.

Hispanics are the fastest-growing ethnic group in the United States, doubling
from 1980 to 2000, and projected to more than double between 2000 and 2020, Pew
researchers said. As of 2005, there were 42 million Hispanics in the United
States, about 14 percent of the population.

According to the survey, 68 percent of Hispanics are Catholic, 15 percent are
born-again or evangelical Protestants, 5 percent are mainline Protestants, 3
percent are identified as ''other Christian'' and 8 percent are secular (1
percent refused to answer).

Among non-Hispanic Americans, the largest groupings are 20 percent Catholic, 35
percent evangelical Protestant and 24 percent mainline Protestant.

The religious identity of Hispanics will affect politics, the report says. The
Hispanic electorate is largely Democratic (63 percent), despite being
conservative on social issues like abortion and homosexuality. But Hispanic
evangelical Protestants -- whose numbers are growing -- are twice as likely as
Hispanic Catholics to be Republicans. This is a far greater gap than exists
between white evangelical Protestants and Catholics.

About one-third of Catholics in the United States are now Hispanic.

Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, said in an interview that
Hispanic Catholics looked different from typical white suburban Catholics.
''They are different in terms of beliefs, practices, language and culture, but
they remain very Catholic,'' Mr. Suro said. ''The open question here is, Does
the institution adapt to them, or do they adapt to the institution?''

The study also found that conversion is a common experience for many Hispanics.
Nearly one in five changed either from one religion to another, or to no
religion at all.

The biggest loser from all the conversions is the Catholic Church, while
evangelical Protestant churches are the beneficiaries.

Despite the departures, it is Hispanics who are replenishing Catholic ranks,
Luis E. Lugo, director of the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, said in a
news conference.

''The gains for the Catholic Church in this country among Latinos, from
immigration and higher fertility rates, are more than making up for those Latino
Catholics, particularly in the second generation, who go to other churches or
turn secular,'' Mr. Lugo said.

The study, ''Changing Faiths: Latinos and the Transformation of American
Religion,'' is based on several surveys -- the main one conducted from Aug. 10
to Oct. 4, 2006 -- that involved more than 4,600 adult Hispanics. The margin of
error is plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Raid Illegal-Document Operation

BYLINE: By LIBBY SANDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 25


Federal authorities charged 22 people on Wednesday with being part of one of the
nation's largest operations to produce counterfeit identification documents.

Officials described a sophisticated organization that operated out of a discount
shopping mall in a predominantly Mexican neighborhood here, where customers
willing to pay $200 or $300 could walk away hours later with high-quality
fraudulent documents, including driver's licenses from various states and Social
Security cards.

Immigration officials said they believed that the organization was operating in
other cities, including Denver and Los Angeles.

The organization made profits of $2 million to $3 million annually, officials
said, and produced documents for as many as 100 customers a day.

The operation recently turned violent in an effort to maintain its competitive
edge, said Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the United States attorney here. Mr.
Fitzgerald said the Chicago ringleader of the organization, Julio Leija-Sanchez,
had conspired to kill two former members of the organization who had stolen
equipment and planned to start their own enterprise in Indiana.

One of the two competitors was killed in Mexico between March 31 and April 3 at
Mr. Leija-Sanchez's behest, Mr. Fitzgerald said. Plans were under way to kill
the other man at the time of the arrests, he said.

Of the 22 people charged on Wednesday, 12, including Mr. Leija-Sanchez, are in
custody. The other 10 are fugitives, and 4 are believed to be in Mexico, the
authorities said. Mr. Leija-Sanchez, 31, is also charged individually with
conspiring to commit murder outside the United States.

Prosecutors said the ring had been active since at least 2003. Customers seeking
identification documents would meet vendors in and around the Little Village
Discount Mall here. The vendors would ask what type of document the customer
wanted, according to an affidavit. Undercover agents posed as customers and
received various false documents, including driver's licenses and green cards.

Customers provided personal information they wanted to appear on documents. That
information included fictitious or stolen identities, officials said. After
having their photos taken at a shop in the mall and leaving a deposit, customers
could return hours later to pick up the documents, the authorities said.

Though the organization is based in Mexico and most of its members are of
Mexican descent, those who bought false documents were of various ethnic
backgrounds, and included United States citizens, the authorities said.

On Tuesday, armed agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement carried out a
midafternoon raid at the mall, where the authorities said the organization
maintained its primary office. Investigators seized printers, scanners and
hundreds of blank identification cards, including Social Security cards.

The raid angered some immigration-rights advocates, who said they believed that
it was carried out to intimidate the immigrant community just days before a May
1 rally on proposed changes in immigration policy.

''This has nothing to do with that,'' said Mr. Fitzgerald, who said the goal was
to catch members of the ring in action during its business hours. ''We need to
go where the criminal activity was carried out to catch them in the act.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Right Turn On the Road To Giuliani '08

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN.

E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words


Valerie Oltarsh went to work for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in 1994.

She hadn't voted for him. Her politics were decidedly to the left of his. But
when Ms. Oltarsh (now Oltarsh-McCarthy through marriage) first met with Mr.
Giuliani, she liked what he had to say about immigrants.

Immigration was her field back then. She had helped refugees adjust to life here
while with the New York Association for New Americans, an immigrant services
agency. Her interview with Mr. Giuliani was intended for him to see if she was
the right person to head his Office of Immigrant Affairs. She saw it as a mutual
look-see.

''He convinced me,'' Ms. Oltarsh-McCarthy said, ''that he was really committed
to the rights of immigrants.''

That included illegal immigrants. As mayor, Mr. Giuliani ordered that they not
be denied city services like schools and hospitals. He insisted that city
workers not serve, in effect, as immigration agents. His policies swam against
the national Republican tide.

''He had a very humanistic view of immigrants, and recognized that they
contribute to our society in many ways,'' said Ms. Oltarsh-McCarthy, now a
psychotherapist in Manhattan. ''This was a commitment to a whole population in
New York. And because he was so prominent and so vocal, he took a leadership
position and a national role.''

That was then. Things have changed.

Ms. Oltarsh-McCarthy left the Giuliani administration in 1996 after a
falling-out with senior officials. The differences, she says, were rooted in
personalities and procedures, not in core principles of immigration policy. Now,
from the distant sidelines, she watches with dismay at the way Mr. Giuliani is
courting Republican voters in his presidential race.

Where he once spoke firmly about tending even to illegal immigrants, he now puts
more stress on penalizing them. Where he once talked about their contributions,
he now urges tougher border controls. Where he once forbade his police force to
ask a person's immigration status, he now wants illegal immigrants to be issued
identity cards.

Sept. 11 changed realities, the former mayor and his aides say. That much, Ms.
Oltarsh-McCarthy agrees, is undeniable.

''It is post-9/11,'' she said. ''But it seems to me that inherent in that
assumption is that immigrants are potential criminals. He never before spoke of
immigrants as criminals. It scares me that he would move to a place where people
are demonized like this. He was steadfastly against the idea of people having to
carry ID cards. He saw it as un-American.''

Mr. Giuliani's changes on immigration are not his only ones. Nor are liberals
alone in unhappiness over his, ahem, evolutions. Some on the right are
displeased, too. In the last couple of weeks, he has been attacked in half a
dozen columns and editorials in The New York Post and The New York Sun.

That says something. Those two conservative newspapers normally criticize the
former mayor about as often as L'Osservatore Romano does a hatchet job on the
pope. Lately, though, they have run headlines like ''Giuliani's Fiscal
Flip-Flops,'' ''Giuliani's Pretzel'' and ''Rudy's Wrongs.''

THE flip-flop accusation, hardly a plus for any candidate, is especially
important in Mr. Giuliani's case because he presents himself as a singular
anchor of principle, not someone who bends in the political winds.

Yet bend he seems to have done. As mayor, he was fully for abortion rights. As a
presidential candidate, he says he would appoint ''strict constructionists'' to
the Supreme Court -- code, to many, for undermining Roe v. Wade.

As mayor, he supported federal gun-control legislation. As a candidate, he
emphasizes that states should figure out their own gun laws. (He is also a
states-rights advocate these days on flying the Confederate flag.) As mayor, he
said a federal flat tax ''would really be a disaster.'' As a candidate, he says
it ''would make a lot of sense.''

The question is when does a flip become a flop.

Of course, people can change their minds, Ms. Oltarsh-McCarthy said, adding,
''It's a mark of maturity to be able to listen.'' But given the significant
shifts that Candidate Giuliani seems to have made to play to the crowd, she
said, ''You have to wonder.''

You do. You have to wonder if Mr. Giuliani has made early Bob Dylan his muse.
When he is asked about an issue like immigration or abortion, is the answer
blowin' in the wind?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Short Life of Jose Antonio Gutierrez

BYLINE: By MATT ZOLLER SEITZ

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 6; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Film in
Review; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 255 words


Opens today in Manhattan  Directed by Heidi Specogna  In Spanish, English and
German, with English subtitles Not rated; 89 minutes

Lance Cpl. Jose Antonio Gutierrez, the subject of this nonfiction film, was a
Guatemalan immigrant who became the first American soldier killed in the
invasion of Iraq. Official accounts presented a classic tale of an
up-by-your-bootstraps immigrant -- a young man who fled poverty and violence in
his native land, then enlisted in the Marines in hopes of earning his green card
more quickly.

That description was correct, but only to a point. Directed by Heidi Specogna,
''The Short Life of Jose Antonio Gutierrez'' bypasses the official narrative and
builds a new one that's more complex and less flattering to America's
self-creation myths. The chaos that displaced the Gutierrez family and
eventually set him on a path through Mexico and the United States was itself a
byproduct of American intervention in Guatemalan politics. The Lance Corporal
Gutierrez depicted by Ms. Specogna was a troubled young man who hid his
sensitivity behind a street hustler's stony facade, and his death was probably
the result of friendly fire.

Although Ms. Specogna's film fleshes out his life to the extent that it can --
leaning heavily on still photographs and interviewing loved ones, social workers
and fellow Marines -- the portrait remains frustratingly incomplete. But given
its larger subject -- a young life trampled beneath history's forward march --
this seems entirely fitting.    MATT ZOLLER SEITZ

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lance Cpl. Jose Antonio Gutierrez, the subject of a documentary.
(Photo by Rainer Hoffmann/Atopia)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Francisco Bay Area Reacts Angrily to Series of Immigration Raids

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 27


It was not the typical Bay Area morning. Before dawn on March 6, dozens of
federal immigration agents conducted surprise raids in San Rafael and nearby
Novato, two comfortable Marin County suburbs where the idea of early morning
excitement usually involves a trip to Starbucks.

The raids are part of the government's Operation Return to Sender, in which more
than 23,000 people have been arrested nationwide, including more than 1,800 in
Northern and Central California, immigration officials said.

And while the raids have upset many pro-immigrant groups nationwide, that
displeasure has been particularly acute in the Bay Area, a region that generally
bends left politically and where many cities consider themselves so-called
''sanctuaries'' for illegal immigrants.

''These people have been here many, many years and they have an investment in
the community,'' said Mayor Al Boro of San Rafael, a city of about 56,000
residents, a quarter of whom are Latino. ''And we need to respect that.''

Several city councils have passed resolutions expressing their anger about the
raids, and local religious leaders have issued stern proclamations. The Roman
Catholic Archdiocese of San Francisco, for example, said in late March that they
were inhumane and called for their immediate end. The raids have also led to
protests in several cities, with another round planned for Tuesday in the area's
three largest cities: San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland.

The raids have even upset people in more conservative regions to the east. In
Mendota, an agricultural town in the Central Valley that calls itself the
''Cantaloupe Center of the World,'' the City Council passed a resolution last
month condemning them. The raids, according to the resolution, had driven
much-needed migrant workers underground and caused ''emotional turmoil and
financial hardship.''

In Richmond, another economically challenged city just east across the bay from
San Francisco, Mayor Gayle McLaughlin, a member of the Green Party, wrote a bill
restating an ordinance that prohibits city employees from cooperating with
federal immigration authorities. It passed the City Council unanimously in
February.

That sanctuary sentiment was also echoed on Sunday in a speech by Mayor Gavin
Newsom of San Francisco, a Democrat, who repeated his city's noncooperative
status, a move that drew a rebuke from a Republican lawmaker in Washington,
Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, who called the mayor's actions ''a
clear and direct violation of the law.''

The anti-raid sentiments have also energized some opponents of immigration. A
recent protest in San Rafael was also attended by nearly 100 members of
anti-immigrant groups, including members of the Northern California chapter of
the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, a group that advocates stronger borders.

Much of the debate has been focused in San Rafael, a genial bayside commuter
city about 20 miles north of San Francisco. Shortly after the raids, Mr. Boro
sent a letter to Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, saying they
had ''left our city in turmoil,'' with residents now distrustful of the police
and children fearful of losing their parents.

''Waking people up in the dark of night, at 5 a.m., in their homes seems more
like a scare tactic than a law enforcement necessity,'' Mr. Boro wrote.

Calls to the local police have decreased in recent weeks, Mr. Boro said, and he
attributed the dropoff to the immigration raids' ''chilling effect because
people think our police were involved.''

Educators in San Rafael said the raids sent schools into ''a state of
emergency'' as American-born children were suddenly without one or both parents
who had been caught up in the sweeps. Shortly afterward, absenteeism at school
spiked, and school officials asked teachers and others to ride buses with
students to make sure a caregiver picked them up.

A school board member, Jenny Callaway, said she feared that test scores of
anxiety-ridden students would suffer. ''Our charge is to provide a quality
education regardless of citizenship,'' Ms. Callaway said. ''How do we do this
when children are afraid to come to the bus stop?''

One student caught up in the raids was 7-year-old Kebin Reyes, who was with his
father, Noe, when he was arrested early in the morning of March 6. Mr. Reyes,
37, a Guatemalan, said that after his arrest, he was not allowed to call
relatives to come to pick up his son, and that they both were held all day in a
locked room at the offices of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in San
Francisco, an experience he says left his son traumatized.

''Before the arrest, my son was very friendly and would speak to most anyone,
very active,'' Mr. Reyes said, through a translator. ''Since the day of the
arrest, Kebin has turned to be very reserved and quiet and not as open to speak
to anyone.''

On Thursday, the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit on behalf of Kebin,
who was born in the United States and is an American citizen, charging that
federal authorities had violated his constitutional rights. Immigration
officials would not comment on the specifics of the case, but said agents had
acted appropriately.

''When we encounter minors in the course of an enforcement action, we will not
leave them unattended,'' said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the immigration
agency. ''This young man was not arrested; he was transported along with this
father to the I.C.E. office, where he was supervised until a family member came
to get him.''

Immigration agency officials say Mr. Reyes was ordered deported in 2000, the
same year his son was born. He is fighting that order, and a hearing is
scheduled in June. But there is no question, Mr. Reyes said, about his son's
status.

''My son has the same rights as any American citizen,'' he said. ''He is born
here in California.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A lawsuit was filed on behalf of Kebin Reyes, 7, an American
citizen who was held with his father after a raid. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Whole Foods, a Welcome Sign For Immigrants Seeking Jobs

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED.

E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE:
HOME FRONT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 727 words


WANGLA LAMA, 37, of Queens, has long supported himself by working in restaurant
kitchens. In his native Nepal, when he was not employed as a mountain guide, he
made his living as a cook. For most of his nine years in the United States, he
worked in a Japanese restaurant in Manhattan, he said, rising from busboy to
cook, until it closed in February.

Naissatou Doumbia, 20, of the Bronx, a college student in Ivory Coast before she
left for the United States five months ago, has never had a job selling food.
She is looking for one so she can pay for college in this country.

Mr. Lama and Ms. Doumbia were among 11 immigrants and asylum-seeking refugees in
a classroom at a social services organization in Brooklyn last month. They were
participating in an eight-day course to prepare them to seek jobs at Whole Foods
supermarkets in New York City.

Representatives of Whole Foods Market, the chain that specializes in natural and
organic foods, and the social services group Camba designed the course jointly
after Camba proposed it in 2004.

At the time, Whole Foods had two stores in the city with plans for several more.
It now has four, all in Manhattan, with a total of 1,900 employees.

''Whole Foods is not committed to hiring everyone who completes the course, but
has committed to interviewing everyone who completes it,'' said Roz Calvert,
Camba's corporate partnership developer and manager of instructional services.

Camba describes the Whole Foods course as a ''customized pre-interview training
program.'' It has the potential to give job seekers a leg up over those who
apply to Whole Foods through help-wanted ads or job fairs.

The instruction covers topics like organic foods and customer service and
includes a tour of a Whole Foods store. Those who have gone through the training
are generally ''better prepared, aware of the culture of Whole Foods, have
better skills and know what the jobs will require,'' said John Dauenhauer,
senior coordinator for team member services in the company's Northeast region.

Camba, a nonprofit organization, was formed in 1977 as a neighborhood business
group, the Church Avenue Merchants' Block Association, in the Flatbush section
of Brooklyn. It has since expanded into a social services organization with an
annual budget of more than $50 million and 800 employees. Its programs provide
education, housing, immigration, business development, employment and other
services to low-income people throughout Brooklyn, and in some cases to
residents of other boroughs, said Eileen F. Reilly, its director of work-force
development and refugee services.

All the trainees in the Whole Foods class were immigrants and refugees, from
Latin American and Caribbean countries as well as from Asia and Africa. Ms.
Reilly said financing for the program, now at $75,000 a year, comes from city
and state grants earmarked for efforts that aid these groups.

Since January 2005, Camba has offered the Whole Foods course 18 times. A total
of 202 people have completed it, and 123, or 61 percent, have been hired by the
company, Ms. Calvert said last week. Fourteen are awaiting interviews or
suitable job openings and 65 have been rejected or decided to seek work
elsewhere, she said. (Mr. Dauenhauer said he did not know the hiring rate among
applicants for Whole Foods jobs generally in the city.)

Starting wages, Mr. Dauenhauer said, would be $10 an hour for a checkout-counter
bagger with no experience and $13 to $16 for someone with cooking experience
hired to help put together the prepared foods. He said that about 80 percent of
employees work a 40-hour week, with the rest working part time.

At the Camba class last month, Mr. Lama, citing his experience at the Japanese
restaurant, said of Whole Foods, ''I'd like to get into the sushi section.''
Even more, he said, he wanted a job that provided health insurance, which Whole
Foods offers -- an improvement over the restaurant job, which did not provide
such insurance for him and his wife and two children.

As it turns out, Mr. Lama found a job in a hotel kitchen that not only provides
insurance but pays a higher wage than Whole Foods, Ms. Calvert said last week.

Ms. Doumbia, despite her lack of experience working in a food store, said she
had something to offer Whole Foods. ''I'd like to be a cashier,'' she said,
''and I work very fast.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A role-playing session run by Camba, a social services group,
and Whole Foods. From right, Wangla Lama plays a store clerk, and Naissatou
Doumbia, Sonam Tsering and C. Rodney Pierre portray customers. (Photo by Ruby
Washington/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For a People Overlooked, A Lens at Last

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; STREET LEVEL / JACKSON
HEIGHTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words


THE questions began over momo, small Nepali dumplings filled with minced chicken
and chives, in the mirror-lined dining room of Chilli Chicken, a restaurant on
Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson Heights that is run by a Nepali man who had a
Bluetooth headset attached to his ear.

''This is optional,'' began Luna Ranjit, president of Adhikaar, a Nepali
immigrant group in Queens that has just begun a survey of the estimated 30,000
Nepalese who live in the city. ''You don't have to answer any of the questions
you don't feel comfortable with.''

Ms. Ranjit, who wears her black hair in a ponytail and whose English is less
accented than that of many of her fellow immigrants, was speaking with a slim
35-year-old named Top Dangi. After he agreed to proceed, Ms. Ranjit, 29,
peppered him with questions about his health, his job prospects, his command of
English, his apartment in Sunnyside and the reasons he left Katmandu, the Nepali
capital, two and a half years ago. The man's frustrations became quickly
apparent.

''Employment is the main thing,'' said Mr. Dangi, a financial adviser in
Richmond Hill, speaking in his characteristic soft cadences. But as he continued
-- ''One thing I find out, people are not actually getting what they want'' --
it became clear that he thinks his countrymen need help with health care,
insurance and many other things besides jobs.

New York's Nepalese, whose home country is the size of Arkansas, are not easily
categorized. While many are clustered in Jackson Heights and Sunnyside, close to
immigrants from neighboring India, thousands of others live in Ridgewood,
Elmhurst, Jamaica and Astoria. Moreover, the Nepalese are divided into a wide
array of ethnic groups, from the famed mountain guides known as Sherpas to the
Newars to the Tamangs. To Nepali eyes these groups look different -- Sherpas
seem more like Tibetans, Ms. Ranjit said, and Tamangs more like Filipinos -- and
they often speak different dialects.

These differences have made it hard to get an accurate picture of New York's
Nepalese, but Ms. Ranjit hopes her survey, to be conducted over the next six
months, offers the solution.

The smallness of the group is another problem. ''We do feel that because of our
relative insignificance, our voice is not being heard,'' said Ms. Ranjit, who
was wearing a pink pashmina shawl hand-woven in Nepal as she conducted her
interview of Mr. Dangi. Whenever survey results are arranged according to ethnic
group, she added, ''there's never a column for Nepalis.''

Though professional Nepalese began coming to the United States in the 1960s,
emigration started in earnest after a Maoist insurgency began in 1996, sparking
a civil war that led to more than 13,000 deaths and did not end until last
November. With the city's Nepalese population growing, Ms. Ranjit and three
other immigrants founded Adhikaar -- the word means ''rights'' -- as an advocacy
group in 2005.

''The Nepali community is growing up now,'' said Ram Bisht, owner of the
restaurant. When he arrived in Queens in 1989, Nepali parties would typically
include no more than 100 people; now, the numbers are more likely to approach
500. But, he added, as more Nepalese arrive in New York, the connections between
them are growing thinner. He says the survey could help change that.

''Before, everyone used to know everyone, and we used to always be in contact
with each other,'' Mr. Bisht said. ''Now, it's very hard to keep count of the
people.'' With his countrymen increasing, however, Mr. Bisht plans to open
another restaurant nearby, a 24-hour fast-food place that will offer Nepali fare
like momo.

Mr. Dangi stressed the need for job placement and English training, and he
acknowledged that his own English skills need help. Five people in Katmandu,
including his wife, depend on the money he sends, and the $20,000 to $30,000 he
makes in a year is not enough. If more Nepalese could get together and share
information, he said, life might become a little brighter.

''It's very, very important,'' he said of his desire to bring Nepalese closer
together. ''Without information on basic needs, how can you help them?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

S.I.-Linked Murder Suspect Is Returned to Colombia

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN; R. M. Koster contributed reporting from Panama.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 349 words


One of the men suspected in last month's murder and dismemberment of a Staten
Island woman in Panama has been returned to his native Colombia by Costa Rica
despite being one of Panama's most wanted men, the authorities in Panama and
Costa Rica said yesterday.

The man, Camilo Castro, was arrested in Costa Rica on April 17 for entering that
country illegally, the chief of the Costa Rican Special Migration Police,
Francisco Castaing, told reporters.

Mr. Castro is one of two suspects sought in the death of Toni Grossi Abrams, 56,
a Staten Island businesswoman with real estate in Panama. Her butchered and
burned remains were found in Panama City on April 10.

Interpol had been told that Mr. Castro was wanted in Panama, said Rafael Ruiz, a
spokesman for the Panamanian Public Ministry. But instead of detaining him,
Costa Rican authorities deported him to Colombia on Friday, Mr. Castaing said.

Mr. Castaing told reporters that Costa Rica had never been notified by Panama
that there was an arrest warrant for Mr. Castro and that he was returned to
Colombia in accordance with Costa Rica's normal immigration procedures.

Panama plans to ask Colombia to extradite Mr. Castro, Mr. Ruiz said, adding that
while in the past Colombia has extradited its citizens to Panama to face drug
charges, there seemed to be no precedent for murder cases.

Shortly after Ms. Abrams's death, an American tenant of hers, Debra Ann Ridgley,
was arrested and charged in her killing. But Panamanian prosecutors have said
that Mr. Castro and Didier Osorio Garcia, another Colombian who befriended Ms.
Ridgley, were with her in Ms. Abrams's apartment the night of her death, and
that the two men helped Ms. Ridgley dispose of the body.

Mr. Garcia remains at large.

Seth Redlich, a cousin of Ms. Abrams's who lives in Panama and has been working
to solve her killing, said he hoped Colombia would undo what appeared to be the
error that set Mr. Castro free.

''It's inexcusable that this man has simply been allowed to walk out of the
country and been delivered to Colombia a free man,'' Mr. Redlich said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Latin American Companies Make Big Gains North of the Border

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; New Accents in the U.S.
Economy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

DATELINE: WILTON, Iowa


First came a wave of immigrants from Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America. Next
came tortillas and Spanish-language soap operas, made in the United States, for
a growing Hispanic audience in this country.

Now, a Mexican bakery company called Grupo Bimbo is distributing English
muffins, white bread and ready-made pizza crust across much of the country.

Mexican executives pitching Italian pizza in cities like Kansas City, Mo., a
Brazilian steel company buying up troubled mills in the Midwest, a Peruvian
cement maker breaking ground in Arizona; these are all part of a surprising,
broadening surge of investment in the United States by an intrepid group of
successful and suddenly multinational Latin American companies.

The new ''multi-Latinas'' are aggressive, resourceful enterprises that are a
developing byproduct of the market liberalization that swept Latin American
economies in the 1990s. But their broadening reach through the United States and
the rest of the world -- simmering below the surface for years -- is beginning
to turn heads.

These Latin American multinationals have even reached places like Wilton, a tiny
prairie town right out of a Norman Rockwell painting, where the neon-faced soda
shop features a syrupy concoction called the Pink Lady and friends gather for
potluck dinners at the Masonic Lodge.

''As Latin America lowered its own barriers to trade and investment, its firms
began to look at the world in a very different way,'' said Robert Pastor, vice
president for international affairs at American University in Washington and a
former adviser on Latin America to President Jimmy Carter. ''Now Latin America
is not just a destination, but an originator of capital and investment.''

Samba is not exactly a hit here in Wilton, but a Brazilian-owned steel company,
Gerdau Ameristeel, has become one of the two biggest employers in town,
importing a new management style and fresh capital to modernize and expand an
old mill and temper a tough American labor union.

Since arriving in the United States in 1999, Gerdau has swiftly acquired an
empire of 17 mills across 11 states, to become the nation's fourth-largest steel
producer.

Similarly, in the last couple of years the Mexican company Cemex has emerged as
the No. 1 supplier of cement and ready-mix concrete in the United States, with
almost 10,000 employees across the country. The Brazilian oil company Petrobras
has become one of the biggest players in deep-water exploration in the Gulf of
Mexico, using techniques developed in its own ocean waters.

''It's a trend that is clearly growing, and we see it multiplying year after
year,'' said Jerry Haar, a business professor at Florida International
University who is an expert on the multi-Latinas. ''These companies need to
expand into new markets because they have reached market saturation at home,
just as Wal-Mart has done here.''

There are no official estimates of how many Americans work for Latin American
companies in the United States, but experts say it could be as many as 100,000
out of the five million people who work here for foreigners.

Direct foreign investment from Mexico, Central America and South America rose
from a tiny base of $8 billion in 1995 to $13.5 billion by 2000, but then jumped
more sharply to $30 billion in 2005, according to the Commerce Department's
Bureau of Economic Analysis.

Analysts and government officials who track foreign investment say that number
is continuing to rise rapidly. One recent example of that growth is Cemex's $14
billion deal to buy the Rinker Group, an Australian construction supply company
with large operations throughout the United States.

Bush administration officials say that they welcome the trend. ''An open
investment climate on our side,'' Franklin L. Lavin, undersecretary of commerce
for international trade, said in an interview, ''helps keep open the investment
climate on the other side.''

To be sure, Latin American investment still pales next to direct investment from
big foreign sources like Britain or Japan. But it is growing at a faster rate
than investment coming from most other regions.

Mexican companies had little direct investment abroad before 2000. But by 2005
they had invested $6 billion outside Mexico. A Deutsche Bank report on
multi-Latinas last month predicted that total ''will be greatly exceeded'' in
2006 and 2007.

Last year for the first time, Brazil's $26 billion of investments abroad
outpaced handily the $18 billion invested by foreign firms in Brazil.

The Latin American investment trend in the United States originated with the
influx of 40 million or so legal and illegal Latino immigrants, who hunger for a
taste of nostalgia when eating at restaurants like Pollo Campero (owned by a
Guatemalan chain) or watching Mexican soap operas on Univision (produced by the
Televisa network in Mexico).

Banorte, a large regional Mexican bank, has recently bought up remittance
operations in over 40 states to capture service fees on the billions of dollars
immigrants send home.

But the surge has now gone way beyond heavily Latino cities like Miami and Los
Angeles, with Latin American companies producing, selling and providing
satellite-delivered communications, graphics software, sweets, tiles and even
guns.

The Brazilian company Embraer, which builds commuter jetliners, is servicing
airplanes in Nashville. ARPL Tecnologia Industrial, a Peruvian company, recently
started work on a $140 million cement plant in Arizona.

As Latin American executives see it, their spread through the United States is a
natural extension of their search for markets.

''The demand here in the United States is tremendous for everything -- for
goods, commodities, services, everything,'' said Gilberto Neves, chief executive
of Odebrecht Construction, a Brazilian contractor that is helping remake the
skyline of Miami with jobs like an airport expansion, a performing arts center,
an arena for the Miami Heat basketball team and many residential and office
buildings.

Since 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement has provided extensive
protections to investors in Canada, the United States and Mexico to operate in
those countries and encouraged cross-border financial services.

''The fears that some Mexicans had about Nafta was that the United States would
go down and buy Mexico,'' said Mr. Pastor, the former Carter administration
official. What actually happened, he said, is that ''the growth in foreign
investment by Mexico in the United States has been much faster than the growth
of U.S. foreign investment in Mexico.''

The wave of economic liberalization that swept Latin America in the 1990s led to
a big sell-off of state companies to domestic and foreign businesses, valued at
$400 billion in total.

Those domestic companies were forced to compete or die, and those that were
tough enough to survive became increasingly ambitious.

After the Argentine economy collapsed in 2001, many multinationals pulled out of
the region. That left the field open to private Latin American companies, which
knew the terrain and went bargain hunting. Many first invested around the
region, and then looked to the United States and beyond.

More recently, the purchasing power of Latin American companies to acquire and
invest has grown with the value of their local currencies, most stronger in the
last few years with surging commodity prices. That may partly explain why the
trend has continued, even as economic openness has slowed in Latin America in
recent years. Some companies may also see the United States as a market with
lower risk, compared with some of their own countries.

But the transition to the United States is not always easy, because of more
stringent regulatory standards and fiercer competition.

Grupo Bimbo, which also owns the company that makes Wonder Bread, had trouble
absorbing its $600 million acquisition of George Weston Brands in 2002 for its
large distribution network of American brands like Boboli pizzas and Entenmann's
cakes. For several years, the operation lost money until the Mexican company
eventually fired its American senior management team and remade its product
line.

Now, Bimbo is starting to make money from its American operations, and its
expansion in the United States continues. Gerdau Ameristeel inherited labor
problems from many of the steel mills it acquired, and staged a six-month
lockout at its plant in Beaumont, Tex., in 2005.

The company has attempted to smooth over old tensions by applying management
techniques it learned from Toyota and then applied across Brazil. The system
includes regular audits and self-evaluation and the creation of benchmarks for
production, quality and safety. It now offers bonuses to workers for achieving
the goals.

Gerdau workers here say they do not always like the new system, and managers
concede that some adjustments are needed to link the two cultures.

''In Brazil, you can have a dinner for employees and their families, and it's
considered a big deal,'' noted Carl W. Czarnik, a Gerdau Ameristeel regional
vice president who supervises the Wilton mill. ''But in America some people look
at that as an imposition on their free time.''

The Wilton mill was still profitable when Gerdau acquired it for nearly $300
million from Cargill in 2004, along with three other plants. But profit margins
had been narrowing in recent years because of increased competition from
Chinese, Russian and Turkish imports.

To increase the plant's value, Gerdau added specialty products like spring
components for trucks and S.U.V.'s to the plant's product line. The company kept
the plant's management and 320 workers while hiring 10 more employees. It agreed
to invest an additional $30 million.

Mr. Czarnik, who also managed the plant when Cargill owned it, said he lost
sleep worrying about the mill's outlook before Gerdau came in.

''I thought there wasn't necessarily a lot of future in a plant, with outdated
equipment that was depreciating, owned by a company that was not focused on
steel,'' he recalled.

But now that Gerdau owns the mill, ''it's like being adopted,'' he said. ''I
don't care what country the parents come from.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on May 2
about the expansion of Latin American companies into the United States misstated
the relationship of one such company, Grupo Bimbo, with Wonder Bread. Grupo
Bimbo makes and distributes Wonder Bread only in Mexico, where it has acquired
the rights from Wonder Bread's parent, the Interstate Brands Corporation. Grupo
Bimbo does not own Wonder Bread. The error was pointed out by Grupo Bimbo
shortly after the article appeared. This correction was delayed while another
question about the article was researched.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerdau Ameristeel of Brazil owns 17 steel mills in 11 states,
including this one in Wilton, Iowa, one of the biggest employers in town. (Photo
by Matthew Holst for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
A crane loading scrap into a crusher for recycling at the Gerdau Ameristeel
plant in Iowa, one of 17 American plants bought by a Brazilian company. An
estimated 100,000 Americans work for Latin American companies.
 Molten steel flowing from a furnace at the Gerdau Ameristeel plant in Wilton,
Iowa. The company is the fourth-biggest U.S. steel maker. (Photographs by
Matthew Holst for The New York Times)(pg. C10)  Chart: ''Booming Latin American
Investment in U.S.''  Direct foreign investment from each country  Graphs track
direct foreign investment from Brazil, Venezuela* and Mexico from 1995 to 2005.
*Negative amounts arise when American affiliates of Latin American companies
send more money back home than they get.  (Sources by Bureau of Economic
Analysis)(pg. C10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Mayor Demands Inquiry Over Immigration
Protest Clash

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 79 words


The mayor of Los Angeles, Antonio R. Villaraigosa, demanded an investigation
into a clash Tuesday between the police and pro-immigration protesters, saying
he was ''deeply concerned'' by televised images of the episode. The chief,
William J. Bratton, has already said he will open an internal inquiry into the
actions of officers who used batons and rubber bullets to clear MacArthur Park
of protesters, apparently after a small group of people began pelting them with
rocks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Action by Police at Rally Troubles Los Angeles Chief

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and JULIA PRESTON; Jennifer Steinhauer reported
from Los Angeles, and Julia Preston from New York. Ana Facio Contreras
contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 3


Chief William J. Bratton of the Los Angeles Police Department said Thursday that
the episode here in which police officers clashed with demonstrators and
journalists on Tuesday at an immigration rally was the ''worst incident of this
type I have ever encountered in 37 years'' in law enforcement.

Eight officers and at least 15 civilians were hurt, the police said, with people
still calling the department on Thursday to report injuries. Mr. Bratton said
240 nonlethal projectiles were fired by the police into the crowd.

''Clearly, something went wrong here,'' he said in a interview.

After a request by Mr. Bratton, the F.B.I. announced Thursday that it would open
a civil rights inquiry into the incident, which has drawn outrage from immigrant
and civic groups and journalists' organizations and a rebuke from the City
Council. On Wednesday Mr. Bratton announced two internal investigations by the
Police Department.

News video images of the incident that erupted at a peaceful gathering in
MacArthur Park, west of downtown, showed the police marching into the crowd,
shoving and knocking down demonstrators and journalists with batons and firing
rubber bullets at close range.

In television and press interviews throughout the day, Mr. Bratton said he was
troubled by the police action he saw on the videos, and he sought to assure the
city that he intended full disclosure of the facts.

Organizers of the May Day rally, whose theme was a call for broad changes to
immigration laws, said they had held extensive negotiations with the police in
preparing for the demonstration. They said the police did not follow the
agreed-upon procedure in case of a disturbance.

''It completely broke down,'' said Victor Narro of the National Lawyers Guild,
who was the organizers' liaison with the police.

Bob Baker, president of the Los Angeles Police Protective League, appealed in a
statement for ''no rush to judgment.'' He said the clash had started after the
demonstrators threw rocks and bottles. ''Our officers gave a legal dispersal
order and were met with violence,'' Mr. Baker said. ''In the coming days it will
become clear what transpired.''

According to demonstrators, organizers and journalists who witnessed the
incident, a band of youths who were not affiliated with organizations formally
participating in the rally confronted the police at least one block from the
park. The youths, some covering their faces with bandanas, taunted the officers
and by some accounts threw rocks and bottles at them.

Police officers in riot gear lined up in rows and pushed the youths back down
the street into the park, the witnesses said. ''They started moving in,'' said
Angela Sanbrano, executive director of the Central American Resource Center, an
event organizer. ''They started beating up on anybody that didn't move.''

The police said they declared the assembly unlawful and issued orders to clear
the park. But many demonstrators said they did not hear the orders, and others,
who spoke only Spanish, did not understand them.

Nine people were arrested for various offenses, including assault with a deadly
weapon for throwing rocks at officers, the police said Wednesday.

For the past two days, local television viewers have seen video of Christina
Gonzalez, a reporter for the Fox News affiliate, KTTV Channel 11, being
repeatedly shoved by an officer with a baton. When Ms. Gonzalez knelt to help a
camerawoman, Patti Ballaz, whom the police had pushed to the ground, an officer
angrily threatened Ms. Gonzalez with arrest and then grabbed her shoulders,
spinning her abruptly to the side.

''You can't do that!'' Ms. Gonzalez cried out. ''You know that!''

Ms. Ballaz suffered a hairline fracture of a wrist.

Another reporter, Patricia Nazario from KPCC-FM, a National Public Radio
affiliate here, said she was talking to her editor on her cellphone when an
officer struck her in the back with a baton.

Ms. Nazario said she faced the officer and told him she was a reporter. He
struck her again with the baton on her left thigh, she said.

''It happened so fast and I was on the ground,'' she said. ''It was like they
were robots, on autopilot.''

After examining videos of the events, Marc Cooper, associate director of the
University of Southern California Annenberg Institute for Justice and
Journalism, said, ''It seems to be a prima facie violation'' of policies the
police worked out with the American Civil Liberties Union in 2002 in the wake of
scuffles with the press at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in
2000.

The incident occurred as Mr. Bratton seeks to become the first police chief to
earn a second five-year term since the city imposed term limits on high-ranking
police officials in 1992. Although he has reduced the city's crime rate by
roughly 25 percent, his department has been dogged by the widely held perception
that officers are often needlessly forceful.

The 1991 beating of Rodney G. King by the police and the acquittal a year later
of the officers charged with using excessive force prompted riots; in the 1999
Rampart scandal, an antigang unit was accused of framing people, robbing
suspects and other brutal conduct.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 690 words


INTERNATIONAL A3-8   Immigration Is a Volatile Issue in French Election The
integration of second-generation immigrant youth into mainstream French society
has become a volatile subject in the runoff election for president. Segolene
Royal of the Socialist Party has said a victory by her opponent, Nicolas
Sarkozy, the leading candidate, could incite widespread violence in immigrant
communities.    A1   Politics Threaten Iraq Deal The aggressive attempts by
Democratic presidential hopefuls to shape the war debate are threatening to
complicate Congressional efforts to reach a deal on the Iraq spending bill.   A7
American soldiers broke up a weapons smuggling ring in Baghdad, detaining 16 men
who were allegedly procuring powerful, armor-piercing bombs and other arms from
Iran, the American military said.

A7   Labor Party Loses in Scotland In a historic reversal, the separatist
Scottish National Party emerged as the biggest political grouping in Scotland,
ending 50 years of dominance there by the ruling Labor Party and redrawing
Britain's political landscape.   A3   Ukraine Leaders Agree on Vote Ukraine's
warring president and prime minister reached an agreement to hold early
parliamentary elections, possibly ending a monthlong political standoff in the
former Soviet state but leaving some key details unresolved.   A5   NATIONAL
A9-11; 14   Guantanamo Detainees Rebuff Their Lawyers Many of the detainees at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, are no longer cooperating with their lawyers, adding a
largely invisible struggle between the lawyers and their own clients to the
legal battle over the administration's detention policies.   A1   Schools Chief
in New Orleans Louisiana picked one of the nation's most prominent education
reformers to run the school district of New Orleans, as schools continue to
grapple with physical and administrative damage from Hurricane Katrina.   A9
Anglican Leader Intercedes The archbishop of Canterbury, head of the worldwide
Anglican Communion, has waded into a dispute over efforts by conservative
churches in this country to break away from the Episcopal Church.   A14   White
House to Welcome Queen The White House is atwitter over Monday's visit by Queen
Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, as they prepare
for a state dinner. It is the first visit by the queen since 1991, when
President Bush's father was in office.   A1   New Inquiry on Loan Conflict The
inspector general of the federal Education Department has opened an
investigation into potential conflicts of interest at the agency that may have
led to what lawmakers have characterized as lax oversight of the student loan
industry.   A11   Religion Journal   A14   NEW YORK/REGION B1-5  Suburban School
Districts To Raise Taxes Despite Aid New York State's 671 suburban and rural
school districts plan to raise $691 million through tax increases that average
4.4 percent statewide, just weeks after the Legislature budgeted a record $900
million in new aid.  A1  Anger Over Con Ed Proposal Consolidated Edison asked
state regulators for permission to substantially raise electricity rates next
April -- by 17 percent for a typical residential customer and by 10.7 percent
for a typical business.  B1  BUSINESS DAY C1-9  Small Business Health Care
Helping small businesses afford health insurance for their workers is likely to
be a central issue faced by state legislatures, Congress and presidential
candidates.   C1   Building New Media Empires A growing global audience for
financial news that is delivered digitally is an opportunity for companies that
could be created by Rupert Murdoch's bid for Dow Jones and Thomson Corporation's
takeover approach to the Reuters Group.   C1   Fewer Jobs Added in April
Businesses across many industries pared back hiring in April, adding just 88,000
jobs, the fewest in more than two years.  C1   Business Digest C2  EDITORIAL
A12-13  Editorials: The warming challenge; trust in paper; how slow can it go?;
Francis X. Clines on unearthing real history in the capital.  Column: Atul
Gawande.  Bridge B14 TV Listings B15 Crossword B14 Weather C12 Obituaries C10

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In French Bid, Immigrant's Son Battles Anti-Immigrant Image

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

DATELINE: PARIS, May 4


The possible next president of France is the son of an immigrant with a very
un-French name who has done as much, if not more, than any other French official
to improve the status of minorities.

He knows the pain of being an outsider and even advocates American-style
affirmative action, heresy for many people in officially colorblind, egalitarian
France.

Yet the one place that the leading candidate, Nicolas Sarkozy, has dared not go
in the days before the election on Sunday are the volatile working-class
neighborhoods of France's second-generation immigrants, where he is largely
reviled.

His opponent, Segolene Royal of the Socialist Party, has played on fears that if
Mr. Sarkozy is elected, this country's minority youths may take to the streets
as they did in 2005, setting cars and buildings aflame.

On Friday she said that if he is elected, ''democracy will be threatened,'' The
Associated Press reported. She said she felt a ''responsibility to raise the
alert about the risks of this candidacy and the violence and brutality that will
be set off in the country.''

The integration of alienated, second-generation immigrant youths into mainstream
French society is one of the thorniest problems facing French politics today,
and Mr. Sarkozy, as interior minister, tackled the problem head-on with a
directness more typical of an American politician than a French one.

But his Giuliani-inspired zero-tolerance anticrime campaign, his frank,
sometimes imprudent talk (tailored to attract far-right voters during an earlier
stage of his campaign) and his combative style have turned him into an enemy for
many young minorities. Fear that a President Sarkozy would bring five years of
heightened tension and violence is an emotion operating at the core of the
presidential campaign.

''There's never been a presidential election in France in which the leading
candidate causes so much fear,'' said Kamel Chibli, who grew up in public
housing projects outside Toulouse and now acts as a spokesman on minority
affairs for Ms. Royal. ''The future of the country is at stake.''

Certainly, the hoots and jeers that Mr. Sarkozy's name brings amid the crowded
high-rise apartment blocks in the Paris suburbs suggest that a Sarkozy
presidency would face resistance, if not unrest. Even Mr. Sarkozy's closest
supporters concede that there is likely to be some car burning if he wins the
election.

But those supporters argue that, given time, his anticrime campaign and promise
of training and jobs for unemployed youths would eventually turn the tense
suburbs from increasingly stagnant ghettos into peaceful pools of hope.

''If the only reason to vote for Sego is fear of trouble in the suburbs, then
democracy is in trouble,'' said Yves Jego, the mayor of one immigrant-heavy
northern suburb and a staunch Sarkozy supporter. Sego is Ms. Royal's nickname.

Mr. Sarkozy himself has struggled as an outsider, describing himself as a
''little Frenchman of mixed blood'' who rose to the top of French politics
without going through the normal channels of the elite Ecole Nationale
d'Administration as Ms. Royal did.

His record includes a number of efforts to improve the status of members of the
country's minorities, most of whom are Muslim. He encouraged the creation of the
French Council of the Muslim Faith, which gave Islam a voice in France. He
appointed the first prefect in France who is both foreign-born and Muslim. He
has even argued for relaxing rules that restrict government support for building
mosques.

And he supports affirmative action, which the Socialists steadfastly oppose. He
has promised to find jobs for 250,000 disadvantaged youths before the end of the
year.

Ms. Royal promises to reinstate neighborhood police officers and reinstate a
state-financed youth employment program, both created by the former Socialist
prime minister Lionel Jospin and discontinued by Mr. Sarkozy. She has vowed that
no young person would remain unemployed for more than six months after leaving
school.

Even many of Mr. Sarkozy's critics concede that his proposals are broader and
deeper than those of Ms. Royal.

''He is more concrete, more precise than the left,'' said Mohamed Hamidi, editor
in chief of Bondy Blog, a fledgling online magazine focused on France's
working-class suburbs. ''But he is ready for confrontation.''

Many people blame Mr. Sarkozy for the 2005 violence, citing his tough talk and
policies during four years as interior minister. Soon after getting the job in
2002, he got rid of beat police officers in troubled neighborhoods, chastising
patrolmen in Toulouse for organizing soccer games with local youths. ''You are
not social workers,'' Mr. Sarkozy said.

His combative style exacerbated the rising tensions, even as it solidified his
credentials with the far right, whose support was critical in winning the first
round of voting last month.

While visiting La Courneuve, a working-class suburb of Paris, after a shooting
in June 2005, he vowed to clean out the suburb ''with a Karcher,'' a brand of
high-powered industrial pressure washer.

He inflamed passions further a few months later by telling people in another
suburb that he would rid the place of the ''scum'' responsible for petty crime.

The harsh language, which he and his supporters still defend, defined him as
racist in the eyes of many French blacks and Arabs who were already bristling
from the police spot checks that came with the anticrime campaign.

When two youths were accidentally electrocuted while fleeing police officers two
days after his ''scum'' remark, working-class neighborhoods across the country
erupted in an unprecedented wave of urban unrest that was largely a response to
Mr. Sarkozy and his tough tactics.

While Mr. Sarkozy has moderated his language and struck a more conciliatory tone
in the presidential campaign, he did not help matters by proposing last year
that France have a ministry of immigration and national identity to ensure that
new citizens adhered to France's secular values.

To many people in the suburbs, the idea seemed to be a way to suppress cultural
differences in favor of a traditional French way of life.

Since the 2005 violence, Mr. Sarkozy has been unwelcome in the suburbs. He made
only one visit to a troubled neighborhood during the campaign, a brief, tightly
controlled trip to the suburb of Meaux, where he bore the heckles and harangues
of angry citizens in a closed meeting with more than 300 police officers posted
outside.

But Mr. Sarkozy's supporters say that the law-and-order drive and social
programs, in time, would have a deeper impact on the stagnation in the suburbs,
for which they blame 20 years of Socialist Party policies.

''You have to be firm with people who interfere with other people's lives,''
Taymir Boungou-Pouaty said as he watched a handful of police officers intervene
to stop a fight outside La Courneuve's notorious ''city of 4,000'' housing
projects, so named because it includes about 4,000 apartments. ''You can't
coddle them.''

Mr. Boungou-Pouaty, an immigrant from Congo, was one of the handful to benefit
from Mr. Sarkozy's 2005 visit to the suburb. He was hired by a French company as
part of Mr. Sarkozy's affirmative action plan and is now a volunteer in Mr.
Sarkozy's campaign.

He said many people in the housing projects supported Mr. Sarkozy, even if they
were reluctant to talk about it.

''They speak through the ballots,'' he said, noting that while Ms. Royal won
41.1 percent of the vote in La Courneuve, Mr. Sarkozy received a respectable
22.9 percent, more than the centrist candidate Francois Bayrou, and better than
President Jacques Chirac fared in the 2002 presidential election. ''There are
people that want a little order, a little rigor,'' Mr. Boungou-Pouaty said.

He is reassured because Mr. Sarkozy himself was born to a refugee, a Hungarian.

''The name Sarkozy isn't French like Royal or Le Pen,'' Mr. Boungou-Pouaty said,
referring to Ms. Royal and the defeated far-right candidate, Jean-Marie Le Pen.
''To have a name like that at the top of France, that's something.''

But the accusations of racism have stuck. The soccer star Lilian Thuram says
that Mr. Sarkozy told him during the 2005 unrest that ''it's the blacks and
Arabs who create problems in the suburbs.'' Though Mr. Sarkozy says the story is
not true, Mr. Thuram has repeated it over and over, becoming a popular voice of
the anti-Sarkozy movement.

''If Sarkozy wins, I'm sure there'll be trouble the night of the elections,''
said Mr. Hamidi, the Bondy Blog editor. ''With Sego, things will be calm for
five years.''

In a way, Mr. Sarkozy's confrontational style has already changed the suburbs,
where economic stagnation had deepened political apathy. Many minority youths
registered to vote in the wake of the 2005 unrest, and abstentions in the
suburbs fell by half to about 15 percent in the first round of voting.

Mr. Boungou-Pouaty warns that Mr. Sarkozy would have only one chance to make
good on his message.

''We will see how he constitutes his government, whether it includes blacks and
Arabs,'' Mr. Boungou-Pouaty said. ''If they disappoint us, it's over.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taymir Boungou-Pouaty, an African immigrant, plans to vote for
Nicolas Sarkozy tomorrow. ''There are people that want a little order,'' he
said. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dwindling Funds Jeopardize Immigrant Center

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words


A Farmingdale center that has provided services and programs for Hispanic
immigrants since 2003 is in danger of closing because it is running out of
money.

La Casa Comunal, at 150 South Front Street, will be forced to shut its doors by
the end of June unless it comes up with more money, said Janet Liotta, the
president of Farmingdale Citizens for Viable Solutions, an organization that
serves as a bridge between the community and day laborers and operates La Casa
Comunal. The center needs $45,000 a year to survive, she said.

Ms. Liotta said Hispanics make up 10 percent of the population of about 9,000 in
the Village of Farmingdale. La Casa Comunal, which is Spanish for ''community
house,'' offers English classes, cultural competency workshops and computer
lessons, as well as used clothing, food and bicycles for the day laborers and
their families.

Supported initially by a grant from Catholic Health Services, La Casa Comunal
has survived through grants from the Catholic Campaign for Human Development and
donations from the community. But financing has dwindled, and a recent gift of
$2,800 from a student group at Northport High School is the only cash remaining,
Ms. Liotta said.

She said that the village had done everything possible to get rid of the
immigrants. ''They have had every opportunity to help us and have shut every
door,'' Ms. Liotta said.

David L. Mejias, the Nassau County legislator whose district includes
Farmingdale, said that many immigrants who depended on the services of La Casa
Comunal were here legally and had visas or work permits.

''Our job as elected officials is to fight for people who can't always fight for
themselves,'' he said. ''The village has had an opportunity to apply for a
county redevelopment block grant targeted at the underserved population, but no
application has been filed.''

David Smollett, the village administrator, called the accusations ''totally
unfounded and untrue.'' He said that redevelopment grants the village had
received were not meant to be used for any individual organization. ''We have to
decide how to best use the limited funds to help all of the 9,000 residents in
the village,'' he said.

For now, La Casa Comunal has packed its schedule with as many programs as
possible. Its last program, on bicycle safety, is scheduled for May 17.  Police
Commissioner Says It's Time to Leave

James H. Lawrence has unexpectedly announced plans to retire at the end of June
as Nassau County's police commissioner. He told County Executive Thomas R.
Suozzi on April 25 of his intention to leave after almost five years on the job.

''I'm at a crossroads in life and knew that it was the right time to dedicate
myself to my family,'' Mr. Lawrence, 61, said. ''Still serving on several
boards, I don't plan to drop out completely, but to devote the next few months
to family graduations and travel with my wife.''

Mr. Suozzi said he would begin a search for a new commissioner in the next month
but had no timetable for an appointment. No names for a successor were mentioned
publicly.

Mr. Lawrence came to Nassau County from the New York Police Department in 2002.
During his tenure, the county's crime rate dropped to the lowest in its history,
Mr. Suozzi said.

Mr. Lawrence said that after having come on board during a budget crisis,
focusing on organizing the department to deliver the best possible service with
a smaller staff had been one of his major accomplishments.

Mr. Suozzi said that despite the fiscal problems, Mr. Lawrence ''has managed to
modernize many aspects of the department's operations.'' The county executive
cited a crime-statistics program whose aim was to increase accountability, the
installation of global positioning systems in police vehicles, the opening of a
new police academy and the upgrading of police communications.

Mr. Lawrence has spent more than 30 years in law enforcement. After serving in
the Army, he joined the New York Police Department in 1970. Later, as the
department's chief of personnel, he was responsible for managing human resources
for 55,000 employees.  New Law Penalizes Adults Who Give Alcohol to Youths

A new law in Amityville makes it illegal for adults to serve alcohol in their
home to anyone under 21 who is not a relative. After a unanimous vote by the
village board, the law went into effect last month, with maximum penalties of 15
days in jail and a $250 fine.

Mayor Peter T. Imbert said the growing problem of under-age drinking had been
the motivation for the law. ''It's not just in this village, but all over where
we have seen episodes of violence and car accidents that result from under-age
drinking,'' he said.

Mr. Imbert said he expected the violations to be at large gatherings like
graduation parties and outdoor summer parties, where a neighbor would notify the
police.

''We're not going to be driving around with binoculars looking in windows,'' he
said. ''But there are parents we know of who are irresponsible on a regular
basis, and we will be watching them.''

The law in Amityville was modeled on one passed last August in Long Beach. Two
upstate municipalities -- Gloversville and Carmel -- also have under-age
drinking laws.

Edwin L. Eaton, the Long Beach city manager, said that two summonses had been
issued since the law went into effect. One person pleaded guilty and was fined
$150; the second case will be heard in City Court on July 2.

''At first I was a little concerned about the misuse of the law, but it appeared
to be the right thing to do,'' Mr. Eaton said. ''We all felt that it wouldn't be
used a lot, but it would let parents and kids know that we take this issue
seriously.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ON THE BRINK -- La Casa Comunal, a Hispanic center in
Farmingdale that provides English classes, cultural workshops, computer lessons
and used clothing, food and bicycles for day laborers and their families, says
that it needs $45,000 a year to survive but is down to its last $2,800. (Photo
by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Hopes, and Their Fears, Change a Westchester Town

BYLINE: By TIM MURPHY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; MOUNT KISCO JOURNAL; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y., May 4


For Alex Gregorio and Aydee Romero, these are good times in Mount Kisco.

This week the couple, both of whom left their native Guatemala more than a
decade ago, became business owners, opening the 50-seat Latino American Cafe on
Main Street in the center of town, a shopping hub for affluent communities like
Bedford, Katonah and Chappaqua.

In their new cafe, full of simple, blond-wood tables and chairs, the couple
hopes to serve the town's sizable Latino immigrant population, as well as its
more established non-Latino population, such Latin American staples as tacos,
quesadillas, sopas (soups) and Guatemala-style tamales. ''I'll be here every day
and night, seven days a week,'' said Mr. Romero, 29. Both he and his wife say
they have been well received in Mount Kisco. ''I've never had trouble with the
people here,'' he said.

Just outside the restaurant, a somewhat different story was told by Francisco,
30, from Guatemala, and Wilson, 19, from Honduras, both waiters at other
establishments, who declined to give their full names because they have been
living in Mount Kisco for years without legal papers.

''It's good and bad here,'' Francisco said. ''It's a better life than I had
before I came, but American people still look at you differently. We think we're
safe, but when we hear things, we feel really scared.''

He was alluding to two recent events that have sent waves of unease through
Mount Kisco's mostly Guatemalan immigrant population. The first came at 4:45
a.m. on March 19, when federal immigration agents swept through a downtown
building that housed several immigrant families. They arrested about 20 people
and began deportation proceedings.

The second was the death of Rene Javier Perez, a 42-year-old homeless Guatemalan
man last seen at a Mount Kisco laundry last Saturday. His body was discovered
before midnight along a road in Bedford. The police have called the death a
homicide and are pursuing several leads. He died of internal injuries, but the
police have not said how they think he might have been killed, other than that
they did not believe he was hit by a car.

The Bedford police told The Journal News, the local newspaper, that they were
looking at whether the death was related to the unsolved killings of two other
Guatemalan immigrants in Mount Kisco in the last four years. The other two men,
who like Mr. Perez were intoxicated at the time of death, were strangled.

The police have said there is no evidence to support or refute a link among the
killings, but the mere possibility has put many immigrants here on edge.

Mr. Perez had been arrested 59 times, mostly for minor disturbances, according
to Lt. Patrick O'Reilly of the Mount Kisco Police Department, and was known by
many to have a drinking problem.

Graciela Heymann, executive director of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition, said
she thought his murder was ''an issue of substance abuse, and what that leads
to,'' rather than the work of a serial killer.

The killing and the raid came just when it seemed that Mount Kisco residents
were beginning to find some peace on the issue of immigration. The town of about
10,000 people, roughly a fifth of them immigrants, has settled lawsuits accusing
it of discrimination by selectively enforcing housing codes and harassing day
laborers looking for work.

''I think this town has come a long, long way'' in dealing with immigrants, Ms.
Heymann said. ''Hard lessons were learned on all sides, and now it's setting a
model,'' she said, for nearby communities with newer influxes of immigrants.

A decade ago, residents complained about immigrant men who would cluster in the
town center looking for day labor -- only to congregate there again, sometimes
drunk, in the evening. Now many residents show up mornings at Neighbors Link, a
nonprofit agency a half-mile from downtown, to select house cleaners,
landscapers and construction workers. Immigrants who don't find work on a given
day can stick around for English lessons, family support sessions, low-cost
snacks, child care -- even games of pool.

At the center, founded in 2000, immigrants learn how seemingly small offenses
like littering the town's streets ''reflect negatively on them,'' said Carola
Otero Bracco, the center's executive director. ''My hope is that these
immigrants are treated humanely in return,'' she said.

J. Michael Cindrich, the mayor, said he believed Mount Kisco was living up to
that challenge. He cited a town-sponsored soccer league for immigrant men, as
well as a program in which the town's houses of worship took turns providing
shelter to homeless immigrants on winter nights. He expressed some dismay over
the March immigration raid and said he expected the killing of Mr. Perez ''to be
investigated and treated as if he were one of the pillars of the community, not
cast aside.''

After the raid, one person posted an approving comment on the reader forum of
the Web site for The Journal News:

''Good riddance!'' the reader wrote. ''It's about time they extract these people
from our communities and send them home.'' But not all residents seemed to share
this view.

Running errands near the train station on Friday afternoon, Carmella K. Vega,
57, a former lawyer and homemaker, said that she and her husband (who is of
Latino descent, explaining her last name) often picked up a carload of immigrant
day laborers to do work around their house or yard.

''The guys want to work, and I pay them a good wage, $15 an hour plus lunch,''
she said. ''This is the path of least resistance. It's like being at a fresh-air
fruit market. If the fruit is there, why go someplace else to buy it?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elfido Alva, seated left, and Miguel Hernandez at a restaurant
on Main Street. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Family Torn Apart by Deportation

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 908 words


To the Editor:

In ''As Pace of Deportation Rises, Illegal Families Are Digging In'' (front
page, May 1), you tell the heartbreaking story of the Mancia family, which seems
at first to have been torn in two by immigration enforcement.

Mr. Mancia is free to return to Honduras with his wife. The American Dream is so
valuable, however, that he chooses to hang on to the dream, even if it means
breaking his own family in two.

Billions of people around the world, no doubt, would love to become Americans.
Millions more have been patiently waiting for years in observance of our rules.
We should not allow something so precious to be simply taken.

The American Dream is not, as so many illegal immigrants seem to believe, just a
better job and a better life. It's about fairness, equality and, yes, the rule
of law.  Mike Elgan Santa Barbara, Calif., May 1, 2007  To the Editor:

Words cannot describe my shock when my 5-year-old Mexican friend, Maria Jose,
took me to her home made of cardboard, garbage bags and destroyed billboards
from the garbage dump next door. She lives in a neighborhood of 50 similar homes
in Isla Mujeres, Mexico.

When I saw Maria's family living in such horrible conditions, I knew that they
should be given a chance to have a better life. This life is waiting in the
United States.

I used to believe that illegal immigrants should be immediately sent back to
their native countries, but after this experience, I know that they should not
be forced to live in such a terrible environment.

It is time to provide illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. President Bush's
plan to allow illegal immigrants to work hard for their citizenship would give
people the lives they deserve.  Catie Patterson Mobile, Ala., May 2, 2007  To
the Editor:

The photos of Lilo Mancia's children, who have stopped eating because of ''acute
sadness'' at their mother's deportation to Honduras, made me ill. Surely there
are more humane ways to treat these families.

While I understand the need to uphold immigration laws, what good can be
accomplished by separating a mother and her children? It benefits no one, and
may succeed in nurturing a generation of children who despise the United States
and who wish to do it harm.

Applying the laws compassionately, and with just a touch of common sense, would
go a long way in preventing the depth of grief shown by Mr. Mancia and his
children.  Dolores Soffientini Holmdel, N.J., May 1, 2007  To the Editor:

While I have some sympathy for the children in cases like that of the Mancias,
the fact remains that their parents came here illegally, worked illegally and
were caught. No matter how bad things may be in their own country, that does not
entitle them to come to this country without permission. They could have moved
to a different area of Honduras, or to another Latin American country.

Illegal immigrants should be deported, and their children should go with them to
keep the families together.

We need to accelerate the rate of factory and other raids by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and speed up deportations to convince illegal immigrants
that we are finally getting serious about our immigration laws. It's about time
that we did!  S. R. Richardson San Angelo, Tex., May 1, 2007  To the Editor:

You did a good job of illustrating the sad plight of this family from Honduras.
It tugged at the heartstrings, as it was meant to do.

What should have accompanied this article was the amount of money spent by the
United States taxpayer for one of the sons to be born here, as well as costs
incurred by increased border security, immigration agents, lawyers and the plane
fare back to the deported wife's home country.  Kathleen Hildreth Ashland, Ore.,
May 1, 2007  To the Editor:

The deportation of Maria Briselda Amaya and the obvious hardship inflicted on
her and her family can be prevented only if we control our borders. If we
continue to have an open border, people who come over the border illegally will
always be subjected to raids that will inflict awful results for families.

If the border is secured, immigration officials will know who is here, and those
who come here for whatever reason will know their status and not have to lurk in
the dark.  Elliot Kotler Ossining, N.Y., May 1, 2007  To the Editor:

The deportation case that you report on is particularly poignant in that it
involves the forcible splitting of a family and the separation of a mother from
her children.

It bears reminding that Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1948 states, ''The
family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to
protection by society and the State.''

While the letter of federal law might direct the government to carry out
deportations, so harsh an enforcement of the laws as that you describe does not
comply with a basic precept of civilization articulated in the declaration.
Daniel Kunstler Larkspur, Calif., May 1, 2007  To the Editor:

Perhaps if the official of the anti-immigration group quoted in your article saw
firsthand the emotional destruction of the children affected by deportation, she
would take a more compassionate stance.

We must not condone the tragic consequences faced by innocent children of
deported immigrants. Immigration reform is, above all, an issue of human rights.
Gregory Moniz Tiverton, R.I., May 1, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Patrick Leger)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

SARKOZY, ELECTED IN FRANCE, VOWS BREAK WITH PAST

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Ariane Bernard and Maia de la Baume contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

DATELINE: PARIS, May 6


Nicolas Sarkozy, the passionate, pugnacious son of a Hungarian immigrant, was
elected president of France on Sunday, promising a break with the past, a new
style of leadership, and a renewal of relations with the United States and the
rest of Europe.

Mr. Sarkozy's triumph over Segolene Royal, the Socialist candidate, was a huge
blow to her party and dashed her dream of becoming the country's first female
president. But Ms. Royal tried to rally her supporters, telling them French
politics had forever changed with her candidacy.

With the entire vote counted, Mr. Sarkozy had 53.1 percent and Ms. Royal 46.9
percent, according to official Interior Ministry figures.

Ms. Royal had repeatedly appealed to the women of France to vote for her in a
show of female solidarity. But Mr. Sarkozy, a conservative who made his
reputation as a hard-line minister of the interior, got the majority of the
women's vote, according to Ipsos, an international polling company.

Its telephone poll showed that the youngest voters supported Ms. Royal,
artisans, shopkeepers and rural voters preferred Mr. Sarkozy, and city dwellers
were divided. Mr. Sarkozy's strongest support came from voters 60 years and
older.

His victory set off scattered anti-Sarkozy violence in Paris and some other
cities, but for the most part France stayed calm.

Turnout was exceptionally high. Eighty-four percent of France's 44.5 million
registered voters cast ballots, about four percentage points higher than the
level five years ago.

In an emotional acceptance speech to thousands of cheering supporters in a
rented concert hall in the chic Eighth Arrondissement, Mr. Sarkozy (pronounced
SAR-ko-zee) renewed his campaign pledge to break what he called the old,
outmoded habits of France.

''The French people have chosen change,'' Mr. Sarkozy declared. ''I will
implement that change. Because that is the mandate I received and because France
needs change.''

He vowed to ''break with the ideas, the habits and the behavior of the past''
and to ''rehabilitate work, authority, morality, respect and merit.'' Mr.
Sarkozy has pledged to remake France by, among other things, slashing
unemployment, cutting taxes, keeping trains running during strikes, making
people work harder and longer, shrinking the government bureaucracy, reforming
pension rules and making it easier to create new businesses.

Widely criticized in France for his strong pro-American sentiments, Mr. Sarkozy
sought in his acceptance speech to strike a balanced approach to the United
States.

Addressing France's ''American friends,'' he said, ''I want to tell them that
France will always be by their side when they need her, but that friendship is
also accepting the fact that friends can think differently.'' .

He specifically criticized the United States for obstructing the fight against
global warming, which he said would be a high priority.

President Bush telephoned Mr. Sarkozy to congratulate him, saying he ''looks
forward to working with president-elect Sarkozy as we continue our strong
alliance,'' Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said in a statement.

Foreshadowing activism in the world, Mr. Sarkozy called for a new union of the
Mediterranean region, vowed to fight poverty, tyranny and oppression, and forge
a new role for the European Union, declaring, ''Tonight, France is back in
Europe.''

He also struck a conciliatory note, reaching out to the huge swath of French
people who seem to fear him, especially in the country's ethnically and racially
mixed suburbs, where he is accused of fueling tensions with his provocative
language and an aggressive police presence.

''To all those French who did not vote for me, I want to say, beyond political
battles, beyond differences of opinion, for me there is only one France,'' Mr.
Sarkozy said. ''I want to tell them that I will be president of all the
French.''

In conceding defeat at her campaign headquarters on the Left Bank, Ms. Royal
acknowledged the sadness and pain of her supporters, whom she thanked for their
efforts.

''The voters have spoken,'' Ms. Royal said. ''I hope the next president will
fulfill his mission in the service of all the French people.''

But she also said the election campaign had changed the French left forever,
hinting at disarray in her party and suggesting the Socialists may seek to form
an alliance with the large following of Francois Bayrou, the centrist candidate.
''Something rose up that will not stop,'' she said, adding, ''You can count on
me to deepen the renewal of the left.''

She never mentioned Mr. Sarkozy by name.

With his raw, often divisive rhetoric, Mr. Sarkozy will have to change course to
neutralize deep-rooted hostility against him, particularly in the tough ethnic
suburbs.

About 2,000 people gathered at Place de la Bastille in central Paris to await
the election results, with some burning an effigy of Mr. Sarkozy before tearing
it apart.

But within two hours of the polls closing, the scene had degenerated into
violent clashes between the police and several hundred people in the crowd who
smashed windows and set one vehicle on fire.

By midnight, the square was shrouded in tear gas, with riot police officers
cowering from paving stones pitched by young men. Bursts of police water cannons
followed.

''Police everywhere, justice nowhere!'' some protesters shouted. Others yelled,
''Sarko, Fascist! The people will get you!'' The base of the Bastille column in
the square was left scrawled with graffiti, including, ''Sarko 2007 = Hitler
1933.''

Four policemen and one civilian were injured, the police said.

In Lyon, France's second-largest city, the police used tear gas on anti-Sarkozy
protesters in the main square. There were other isolated episodes of protest in
cities and towns across the country, including Grenoble, Rennes, Nantes,
Bordeaux, Toulouse, Metz and Marseille.

Nonetheless, there was no repetition of the orgy of unrest that gripped the
country's troubled multiracial and multiethnic suburbs in late 2005.

Meanwhile, Mr. Sarkozy celebrated. After his acceptance speech, he blew kisses
to the crowd before heading toward a restaurant on the Avenue des
Champs-Elysees.

Mr. Sarkozy's wife, Cecilia, who has been notably absent during most of the
campaign, was not with him throughout the day.

He was accompanied to his acceptance speech by his two sons from a first
marriage and his two adult stepdaughters. Mrs. Sarkozy joined her husband at the
restaurant and accompanied him to an outdoor victory party at the Place de la
Concorde.

There, 30,000 supporters filled the square where revolutionaries once
guillotined monarchists, chanting, ''Nicolas! Nicolas! Nicolas!''

Mr. Sarkozy gave another upbeat speech. He clapped as Faudel, a French singer of
Algerian origin, performed. Everyone sang the Marseillaise.

''I am very happy because he is the only one who can save France,'' said Michele
Mault, who is 50 years old and unemployed. ''Sarkozy gives hope to someone like
me who has no job, and especially to my children.''

The election was a triumph of raw ambition, efficiency and political
sleight-of-hand. The French president is an odd invention -- part monarch and
part elected politician. There is no other elected political office in Europe
that comes with as much power and grandeur.

Throughout the campaign, Mr. Sarkozy had portrayed himself as an outsider, an
immigrant's son with a foreign-sounding name, a man who never went to one of
France's elite universities. He is also the quintessential political insider,
however, a longtime figure in party politics and a member of the cabinet of
President Jacques Chirac for much of the past five years. But he succeeded in
making himself look like a political outsider, distancing himself from Mr.
Chirac, who was seen by the French as old, tired and powerless in the twilight
of his 12-year presidency.

Mr. Sarkozy ran an extraordinarily disciplined campaign with a single message:
change, but not too much to scare voters.

Ms. Royal's direct grass-roots appeal to the French people and her pledge to be
their ''protector'' was revolutionary. But Ms. Royal, a former schools and
environment minister, found herself in the odd position of being the candidate
of her Socialist Party without enjoying the support of its elite.

Her campaign was fraught with mixed messages, defections and shifting
strategies. She never seemed to convince voters that she had enough substance.

Twenty-two years younger than Mr. Chirac, Mr. Sarkozy also represents a
generational change in French politics, in which World War II and the cold war
are not determining factors.

Supporters of the centrist candidate, Mr. Bayrou, who came in third place in the
first round with nearly seven million votes, split their vote almost evenly
between Mr. Sarkozy, with 40 percent, and Ms. Royal, with 38 percent, according
to Ipsos.

The data was taken from a poll carried out by phone on Sunday on a sample of
3,609 people, representative of French registered voters.

Mr. Sarkozy officially will assume office ten days from now, a few hours before
Mr. Chirac's mandate ends. In a formal meeting, Mr. Chirac will hand over the
secret codes for France's nuclear weapons.

There will be a 21-gun salute; the Marseillaise will be played.

The President of the Constitutional Council will read the results of the
election. The Grand Chancellor of the Legion of Honor will make Mr. Sarkozy
Grand Master of the Order.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Nicolas Sarkozy celebrated yesterday in the Place
de la Concorde in Paris, after hearing the official announcement that Mr.
Sarkozy had won the runoff election for the French presidency. (Photo by Ruth
Fremson/The New York Times)
 Riot police officers fought with protesters in Paris after the election of Mr.
Sarkozy. There was scattered violence by anti-Sarkozy demonstrators there and in
some other cities, but most of France was calm. (Photo by Eric
Gaillard/Reuters)(pg. A16)  Chart/Map: ''How the French Voted'' Nicolas Sarkozy,
the conservative candidate, beat his Socialist adversary in 16 of 22 regions.
WINNER BY REGION: Nicolas Sarkozy NATIONAL TOTALS: 53%  WINNER BY REGION:
Segolene Royal NATIONAL TOTALS: 47%  Map of France highlighting Paris, Lyon, and
Marseille.  (Source by Interior Ministry)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Questions, 20 Years Old But Current

BYLINE: By ANNE MIDGETTE

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words


A wife gets a job offer in another city; her husband is reluctant to follow her.
Furthermore the couple is Puerto Rican; the job is in Texas.

Roberto Ramos Perea's play ''Bad Blood'' (''Malasangre'') operates on two
levels, and not just because it's performed alternately in Spanish and English
at the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater. There's the personal level of the couple,
Mario (Francis Mateo) and Luna (Jazmin Caratini), and what happens to their
relationship when they move to El Paso. And there's the political level of what
one might term the Immigration Question, particularly topical now as it is
debated in the presidential campaign, but no less topical 20 years ago. The play
was written in 1987, which gives an extra, unintended poignancy to Luna's
assertion that borders and nationalistic thinking are things of the past.

The play is also set in two worlds. In the first, Puerto Rican half, family ties
are represented by Mario's father, Don Augusto (Felipe Javier Corostiza), who
pushed his son away when he married Luna but needs him now that his business is
failing. The play's Texas half creates a Latino melting pot with Elsa (Gladys
Perez), Luna's co-worker, a voluptuous Cuban divorcee, and Hugo (German Nande),
a shady Mexican who pulls Mario into his deals while trying to seduce Luna.

But the personal and political levels don't always come together. Mario's role
is to fulminate against the United States and what he thinks of as immigration
as he grows increasingly angry and restless; Luna's, to defend her right to work
anywhere and reject the bonds tying her to a country (as she calls Puerto Rico)
that doesn't offer her a future. But these positions are not entirely backed up
by the characters' actions. Mr. Mateo's Mario is hotheaded from the start, but
his mounting rage against Luna once they get to Texas and his claims that she's
selling out are not fully supported by the plot.

For actors to pull off performances in two separate languages on different
nights is impressive, and after a little initial stiffness, the cast did a great
job in the English-language version. But one wondered if in Spanish the actors
were slightly more nuanced and shouted less. There's a lot of anger here and a
lot of reason to be angry; the play just doesn't illustrate all those reasons as
much as it seems to want to.   ''Bad Blood''/''Malasangre'' continues through
May 20 at the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton,
(212) 354-1293, in English on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, and in Spanish
on Saturdays and Sundays.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2007



CORRECTION: A theater review yesterday about ''Bad Blood'' (''Malasangre''), at
the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater on West 47th Street, misspelled the surname
of the actor who plays Don Augusto. He is Felipe Javier Gorostiza, not
Corostiza.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bad Blood/Malasangre at the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater
features Francis Mateo, left, and German Nande. (Photo by Jerry Goodstein)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Students Search for the Words To Go With Their Cultural Pride

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

DATELINE: CLOSTER, N.J.


Last summer, watching Al Jazeera's reports of the war in Lebanon between Israel
and Hezbollah, Fidele Harfouche was startled to realize that in addition to
understanding the Arabic spoken by the anchors, she could, for the first time,
read some of the words marching across the bottom of the screen.

Ms. Harfouche, 20, was born in Lebanon, but moved to this verdant Bergen County
borough of 9,000 people when she was 6, before learning to read and write in
Arabic, the language she and her parents still speak at home. Her mother often
tried to sit her down for lessons, but Ms. Harfouche said she avoided them,
feigning headaches or claiming that she was too consumed with schoolwork.

''I wanted to fit in so badly,'' she said. ''I figured if I practiced English,
if I spoke English well, I'd be an American, like the other kids in my school.''

But during her sophomore year at Drew University, a small liberal arts college
not far from here, Ms. Harfouche signed up for a class in classic Arabic in a
quest to become fully literate in her mother tongue. It's a move that many
immigrants who came to the United States as children and those who were born
here to immigrant parents have been making, said language experts, who refer to
such students as ''heritage speakers.''

''As more and larger immigration groups are represented in the United States,
what we're seeing is sort of a renewed sense of ethnic pride taking hold among
the younger generations,'' said Kathleen E. Dillon, associate director of the
National Heritage Language Resource Center at the University of California, Los
Angeles.

The U.C.L.A. center, with financing from the United States Education Department,
is conducting the first national count of college programs geared toward
heritage students, most of whom grew up speaking a language other than English
at home.

So far, 28 institutions have responded, from large state universities to small
private colleges in all regions of the country. In all, they reported offering
54 foreign-language courses, including 28 specifically for heritage speakers.
The survey will continue for at least another two years.

According to a survey by the Modern Language Association of America, which
promotes the study of languages and literature, the percentage of students
enrolled in foreign-language courses fell, to 9 percent in 2002 from 11 percent
in 1970, even as college enrollment nearly doubled overall. But enrollment in
certain languages exploded during that period, mirroring immigration patterns,
according to the survey.

Enrollment in Chinese classes, for example, grew to 34,000 students from 6,200.
The number of students in Arabic classes grew to 11,000 from 1,300, and
enrollment in Korean courses jumped to 5,200 from 100.

The Modern Language Association survey did not count how many of those students
were heritage speakers. Researchers at U.C.L.A. and Portland State University in
Oregon estimate, however, that about half of the college students in the United
States who are taking classes in Korean, Vietnamese, Hindi and Tagalog, one of
the main languages spoken in the Philippines, are heritage speakers.

At Rutgers University, the South Asian studies program began offering a
two-semester Bengali course in 2004 in response to requests from students of
Indian and Bangladeshi descent. They make up about 80 percent of the 17 students
in the class this term, officials said.

At the State University of New York at Stony Brook, two kinds of Russian classes
have been offered over the past decade, one for students who are new to the
language and another for those who grew up with it. The division reflects the
growth in enrollment by immigrants from Russia and other countries of the former
Soviet Union.

''A lot of the students who come from Russian-speaking homes join the class
thinking they're going to get an A,'' said Prof. Anna Geisherik, who teaches the
course for heritage speakers at Stony Brook. ''But then they find that their
Russian is not that good and that it's pretty hard to learn to read and write
using an alphabet and grammar structure that's different than the one they're
used to.''

Some of the students end up dropping out, Professor Geisherik said.

Twelve years ago, when Prof. Frances Yufen Lee began teaching Mandarin at
Cornell University to heritage speakers of Chinese and Taiwanese descent, the
course had one session per semester that enrolled about 20 students. Now, there
are four to five sessions each semester, with a total of 120 students -- and a
waiting list.

''We jokingly call it Chinese for illiterate people or Chinese for people who
can't read or write well, because that's essentially what it is,'' said Lu Ning
Yang, 20, who is in the second semester of the three-semester course.

Mr. Yang, who is ethnic Chinese, was born in Mongolia and learned a bit of
Mandarin in kindergarten before he moved to the United States in the early
1990s. He said he used to struggle to get past the headlines in Chinese
newspapers. Now, Mr. Yang said, he is able to write short compositions and read
magazine articles and letters from his Chinese relatives.

''This is going to sound nationalistic, but as I grew older, I realized that as
a Chinese man, I needed to learn Chinese,'' Mr. Yang said. ''I guess this is
about reconnecting with a big part of who I am that I had neglected for a long
time.''

Unlike courses for new learners, which are often conducted in English, classes
for heritage speakers typically are carried out in the language being taught
from the start. Students work on learning the alphabet, if needed, and the rules
of grammar while discussing politics and current events. In many cases, they
also improve their conversational skills by rooting out the bad habits they have
learned in an English-speaking environment.

Heritage speakers' language skills vary widely, depending on how much and how
often they were exposed to the language growing up and on the literacy level of
the relatives who taught them to speak it. Regardless, teachers say, they have
inherent advantages over new learners: correct pronunciation, a vast vocabulary
and familiarity with phrase construction.

Guadalupe Valdes, a professor of education and Spanish at Stanford University,
said that in most cases, it takes heritage speakers just a few semesters to
reach a level of sophistication that beginners take years to achieve.Vanessa
Guevara, 18, a student in the Spanish for Heritage Speakers class at Seton Hall
University, said she was motivated to improve her skills in the language she
learned from her Peruvian-born parents because she wants to be a diplomat.
During a recent class, she struggled to conjugate the preterito
pluscuamperfecto, or the past perfect, which is used in formal conversations, to
represent an action that began in the past and ended in the past, before another
past action.

''This is hard,'' Ms. Guevara said, scratching her head with a pencil as she
worked to fill in the blanks on an exercise sheet. ''I'm majoring in diplomacy,
so I need to be really good at it so I can say that I'm fluent on my resume.''

Roman Zrazhevskiy, 21, who immigrated from Moscow to the Nassau County hamlet of
Woodmere at age 6, said he joined the Russian class at Stony Brook, where he is
a junior, ''because with all this talk of globalization, it just seemed kind of
stupid not to be able to read and write in this language that I was pretty much
born speaking.''

At Drew, where Ms. Harfouche is pursuing a double major in political science and
Middle East studies, students of Arabic descent make up about a quarter of the
enrollment in Arabic classes, up from a handful a decade ago, said Prof. Nora
Colton.

''These individuals from Arabic background who join these classes are speaking
colloquial Arabic with their parents, so they've still got a steep learning
curve,'' Professor Colton said. ''To them, though, the classes are much more
than just learning a language; they're about reclaiming their roots.''

Ms. Harfouche said she grew up hearing her parents discuss works of Arabic
literature that she wished she could read, and she was often frustrated at
having to ask them to translate letters from cousins in Lebanon.

Now a junior, Ms. Harfouche has taken Arabic classes for three consecutive
semesters.

''It was really helpful,'' she said. ''I could learn the alphabet, I could make
up words and phrases, and my reading and writing got to reach the level of,
like, a first-grade Arabic student, even though I can speak pretty well.

''This was very fulfilling,'' Ms. Harfouche said. ''It opened a whole new world
for me. The beauty of my culture, of my Arabic culture, is in the writing, in
the poetry, and knowing that I can rely on myself to read it and understand is
really amazing.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fidele Harfouche, center, at home with her mother, Salam, and
father, Sam, used to avoid Arabic lessons. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New
York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chief in Los Angeles Cites Police Failures

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 6


Police Chief William Bratton said Sunday that up to 60 members of an elite squad
that swept into MacArthur Park and fired rubber bullets during a May Day
immigration rally are no longer on the street.

Mr. Bratton said he had spent the weekend watching video of the incident. He
said failures were widespread and that officers at all levels were responsible.
''I'm not going to defend the indefensible,'' Mr. Bratton told reporters.
''Things were done that shouldn't have been done.''

Reporters were among those roughed up when a platoon from the Metropolitan
Division went through the park, firing 148 rubber bullets to break up what had
been a peaceful and lawful rally. The police said they moved in after rocks and
bottles were thrown at them by 30 to 40 agitators, he said.

The Metropolitan Division is the city's premier police squad, made up of
experienced officers who have extensive training in crowd control.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

France Under New Leadership

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 404 words


The French (like many Americans) have grown increasingly tired of their cranky
and ineffective president, Jacques Chirac. With Nicolas Sarkozy they've
certainly gotten a very different sort of leader. A graduate of a non-elite
university, and the son of a Hungarian immigrant, he won this week's election
promising sweeping change to voters impatient with their country's long economic
and diplomatic decline. But to succeed, Mr. Sarkozy will need to keep his own
impatience, and his destructive penchant for divisive rhetoric, under firm
control.

Mr. Sarkozy hopes to strengthen ties with Washington while pursuing a more
active role in Europe. A France that is neither reflexively anti-American nor in
automatic lock step with Washington would be good for both sides of the
Atlantic. To start, more active Franco-American military cooperation in
Afghanistan and diplomatic coordination on Sudan could make a big difference.

Then there is the vexed issue of agricultural protection, and the vexing clout
of French farmers. Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Bush are both avowed free-traders. A
joint push to lower agricultural barriers could revive international trade talks
and give African countries, including those with close ties to Paris, a fairer
chance at development.

For most voters, the compelling issues were domestic, especially the challenge
of invigorating an economy weighed down by decades of slow growth, high
unemployment and suburban decay. Mr. Sarkozy's call for tax cuts, smaller
government, longer working hours and tougher labor policies won out over his
Socialist rival's contention that she could administer the needed economic jolts
while preserving the security and comfort of the social status quo.

Mr. Sarkozy's ability to carry out those changes will depend on how well his
right-wing allies fare in next month's parliamentary election and his ability to
rally a wider political coalition for what will be painful and dislocating
changes. Mr. Sarkozy will especially have to overcome the distrust of young
urban immigrants, whom he has demeaned with insulting stereotypes and frightened
with simplistic law-and-order prescriptions.

If Mr. Sarkozy means what he now says about being ''president of all the
French,'' he needs to recognize that there are many equally legitimate ways of
being French. And that the problems of poverty and unemployment require much
broader solutions than simple law and order.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles Punishes Police Official Over Clash at Demonstration

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 7


The city's mayor and its police chief said Monday that one of the
highest-ranking officials in the Police Department would be demoted and
transferred in the wake of a violent confrontation between officers and
demonstrators at an immigration rally last week.

The police official, Deputy Chief Cayler Carter Jr., a 30-year veteran of the
department, will be reduced one rank, to commander, and moved out of the Central
Bureau, which he currently heads.

Mr. Carter has been ordered to work from home while investigations into the
episode proceed. He was the highest-ranking police official present last Tuesday
when officers, in response to a group of agitators who were trying to provoke
them with taunts and thrown objects, fired 148 rubber bullets and used other
forceful tactics to break up the immigration rally, in MacArthur Park. Several
spectators and journalists were injured, as were a number of officers.

The second in command at the scene, Cmdr. Louis Gray, will also be transferred
out of the Central Bureau, a 1,700-member unit that, according to the
department's Web site, serves more than a million residents in an area roughly
the size of the District of Columbia.

''I have to be comfortable with the leadership around me,'' William J. Bratton,
the police chief, said at a City Hall news conference with Mayor Antonio R.
Villaraigosa.

The demotion of the two officials came a day after 60 members of an elite squad,
the Metropolitan Division, were removed from street duty as a result of the
clash. Mr. Bratton said they were unlikely to return to the division, made up of
highly skilled, specialized officers who are trained in relative isolation from
neighborhood streets and are on guard for riot conditions.

The episode at MacArthur Park underscored problems that have continued to dog
the department deep into the term of Mr. Bratton, who rode into town five years
ago with a plan to reduce crime, improve the department's relationship with the
city's myriad ethnic groups and change its essential culture.

Still, the swiftness of Monday's response by him and Mr. Villaraigosa, and their
profuse apologies in the last few days, signaled their determination to break
with the department's long history of disproportionate response to events on the
street and defensiveness to criticism.

That the move against the department officials was announced at City Hall, by
the mayor and the police chief together, was a sign that Mr. Bratton, whose
appointment is up for renewal this summer, enjoys the unqualified support of Mr.
Villaraigosa.

The civilians who oversee the department also made their support clear. ''I
personally still have confidence in Chief Bratton,'' John W. Mack, president of
the Board of Police Commissioners, said at the news conference.

Mr. Mack will play a major role in whether Mr. Bratton gets a second term. And
although he said he viewed the events in MacArthur Park as ''a major setback for
the department,'' he praised the chief for not being defensive about the
resulting criticism.

Mr. Villaraigosa, who was out of the country on the day of the rally, appeared
eager Monday to demonstrate that he was firmly in control of his city and the
way the department polices it.

''Accountability begins at the top,'' Mr. Villaraigosa said, adding: ''Let me be
clear about this. When I say accountability starts at the top, it starts with
me. Today we're taking decisive action.''

Though the outcome of several investigations is pending, it appears that a group
of roughly 50 agitators, throwing bottles at the police, were pushed by them
into the park among nonviolent protesters, rather than being isolated and
confined. What followed, videos of the demonstration suggest, were widespread
and fairly random acts of aggressive police tactics against a broad swath of
people in the park, including reporters.

''You see in the highly specialized, aggressive units the lack of judgment about
appropriate and proportionate use of force,'' said Connie Rice, a civil rights
lawyer who, appointed by Mr. Bratton and the civilian commissioners, led a
committee that studied the widely publicized corruption in the department's
Rampart Division.

Ms. Rice said she was glad the department's leadership had taken a firm stand.
Referring to a former Los Angeles police chief known for tough methods, she
said, ''It is important to send a strong signal that this lack of judgment and
this mindless kind of tactic may have been O.K. under Daryl Gates, but it's not
O.K. in 21st-century L.A.''

''The question for me, though,'' she added, ''is not the individuals who get
disciplined, but do they understand the mentality that led them to do what they
did?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2007



CORRECTION: A picture caption last Tuesday with an article about disciplinary
action against Los Angeles police officials after a clash at an immigration
rally referred incompletely to a scene at the rally, where officers used force
to break up the crowd. The man pictured on his knees with police officers
standing over him was a photographer for KCAL-TV in Los Angeles, Carl Stein --
not one of the people who the police said had tried to provoke them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa comforted Jose Perez on Sunday at
MacArthur Park, where, Mr. Perez said, he was injured at an immigration rally
last week as police officers fired rubber bullets and used other forceful
tactics in response to what appears to have been about 50 agitators. (Photo by
Stefano Paltera/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Rick Loomis/Los Angeles Times, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boy, 1, Dies and 3 Are Hurt In Brooklyn Basement Fire

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK and DARYL KHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 456 words


A 1-year-old boy was killed and three of his relatives were critically injured
yesterday morning when a fire broke out in an illegal basement apartment in
Brooklyn, the authorities said.

Firefighters, who responded to the blaze at 2252 East 15th Street at 7:30 a.m.,
found the basement of the two-story brick building engulfed in flames. The four
family members were taken to Coney Island Hospital, where the 1-year old boy,
Ivan Liu, was declared dead.

The injured victims were the boy's 2-year-old brother, their mother and an
uncle. All three surviving relatives were taken to specialized burn centers at
hospitals in the city, officials said.

The names of the three survivors were not released, and their conditions could
not be determined late yesterday. Fire marshals said that the blaze had been
accidental, and that no criminal charges would be sought. Investigators said the
fire was caused by a frayed extension cord in a bedroom at the back of the
basement.

Neighbors described the fire victims as a reserved family that had immigrated
from China. The section of Brooklyn where the fire occurred has become a magnet
for Chinese immigrants since the early 1990s, with some living in basement
apartments that the authorities say violate city building codes.

Yesterday, the Department of Buildings cited the owner of the two-family
building where the fire victims lived for maintaining an illegal basement
apartment and blocking a stairway from the basement to the ground floor with a
partition. The violations could result in fines of up to $17,500, officials
said.

The Buildings Department identified the owner in a press release as Ping Li
Xiao. The department said it believed the owner lived in the ground-floor
apartment of the same house. No one by that name was listed in phone records at
that address, and no one who could be identified as the owner was found during
visits to the building yesterday. Because of the fire damage, the department
ordered the building vacated.

One neighborhood resident, who identified herself only as Mrs. Liu, said she
came upon the fire scene as she walked her children to a school bus about 8 a.m.
She described a woman lying in the street and emergency workers removing two
children on gurneys. Other witnesses said the mother and uncle were both
unconscious when they were taken out of the home.

Jean Martino, 53, who has lived all her life in a house three doors away from
the one that burned, said she had been awakened by smoke. ''There was a raging
fire,'' she said.

Ms. Martino said she did not know the fire victims, but had frequently
encountered the two children as she walked her dog.

''They would say 'woof, woof' at the dog,'' she said. ''They were just so
cute.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The scene of a fire in Brooklyn where, officials say, the
victims lived in an illegal apartment. (Photo by Daniel Barry for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Immigrants, And a Town, Move Ahead

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y.


The story has the makings of a suburban film noir: a homeless Guatemalan
immigrant found unconscious and near death on a lonely stretch of wooded road;
his death a few hours later was ruled a homicide and police officers were under
investigation.

At the very least, the death of Rene Perez, a troubled vagrant with a long
criminal history whose body was found on April 28, has the feel of yet another
dark chapter in the continuing cold war between poor Hispanic immigrants and the
largely white suburban communities where they find work.

There's a much less dramatic story, but a more far-reaching one, at the gray
concrete block building in an industrial neighborhood just down the road from
Henry's Delicatessen, where Hispanic workers gather to pick up pan tostado or
pan chapin with their morning coffee.

The gray building houses a local nonprofit social service organization for
Hispanic immigrants called Neighbors Link. Started from scratch by five
residents in 2000, it has become a model for integrating immigrant workers into
suburban communities. It is a place that offers job training, education,
recreation and social service programs under one roof. Its staff is made up of
mostly local volunteers. The funding comes almost entirely from dollars donated
locally.

Along with the familiar stories of clashing cultures in the suburbs, it's a less
familiar but more uplifting piece of the tangled morass of policy and culture
that is the nation's immigration maze.

So if you dropped by yesterday morning, you would have found Luis Mendez, a
61-year-old Ecuadorean taking English classes as he works toward citizenship.
There was the daily hiring hall, which places at least 6,000 workers in jobs a
year.

On a blackboard, a group of restaurant workers were studying terms -- romaine
lettuce, iceberg lettuce, red leaf lettuce -- relevant to their work. There are
also classes available on sewing and how to start a business, and computers for
technology training. There is a Neighbors Link Cafe, with three pool tables and
a snack bar; the cafe produces 21 percent of the revenue in the organization's
$635,000 annual budget.

Will this put poor immigrants on the same footing as their affluent neighbors?
No, it won't. But does it ease the strain on those at the bottom, provide a
bridge and some common ground, and open up paths that lead beyond lawn work and
the bottom of the construction food chain? German Fernandez, a local businessman
who helped get it started, is convinced it can.

''I've started 36 companies in eight countries, and I never did anything more
difficult than this,'' said Mr. Fernandez, a native of Colombia who lives in
nearby Bedford. ''But we began with the idea of creating a bridge from the guys
standing outside the train station looking for work to the rest of the community
and that's what happened. Now that I know how to create Neighbors Link, my goal
is to help people replicate it around the country.''

Neighbors Link got its start with familiar local discord -- unhappiness with
Hispanic men who flocked to street corners looking for work. The first thought
was to come up with a hiring hall to bring order to the process, but that soon
developed into a much broader agenda of providing services to immigrants and
their families.

For three years Neighbors Link teetered on the brink. But slowly it found
leadership and a solid footing. More than 100 volunteers, including more than 35
high school students who help teach English classes, do the bulk of the work.
The idea, says Carola Bracco, the executive director, is integration that goes
both ways -- integration that helps the immigrants find their way into American
life and that helps residents see the grimy workers on the corner as real people
with families and voices and lives, not just faceless men lining up for work.

It's impossible to remove politics from immigration issues. No doubt some people
don't buy the idea that welcoming people who are here illegally is smart or fair
policy. That said, there's much less discord over immigrants now in Mount Kisco
and its surrounding communities than in many others and much more acceptance
that nothing good can come out of ignoring the reality of the strangers on the
corner.

Which is why on June 1, perhaps 400 of the people usually counted on to support
local libraries and schools and museums and causes are expected to show for a
fund-raiser to benefit Neighbors Link and the Open Door Medical Center, which
serves the poor in Port Chester, Ossining and Mount Kisco.

Organized by what's called the Backyard Foundation, the benefit will include
music by the Harlem Jam Band, tributes to worthy work done well and a
recognition that the story of immigrants in the suburbs is not just suspicion,
not just different communities passing in the night, not just whatever happened
to Rene Perez.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legal Victory by Militant Cuban Exile Brings Both Glee and Rage

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and MARC LACEY; Abby Goodnough reported from Miami,
and Marc Lacey from Mexico City. Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami,
and Neil A. Lewis from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 9


An elderly exile linked to deadly bombings in Cuba and on a Cuban airliner was
on his way back to Miami as a free man on Wednesday, his indictment on charges
of immigration fraud dismissed by a federal judge in Texas.

The exile, Luis Posada Carriles, had been in El Paso preparing for his trial in
the fraud case, which was to start Friday. Some hard-line exiles celebrated the
dismissal as a victory over Fidel Castro's government, which called the
development a reflection of American ''hypocrisy.''

Dagoberto Rodriguez Barrera, Cuba's top diplomat in Washington, said in a
statement that the White House had ''done all it can to protect the bin Laden of
this hemisphere.''

Mr. Posada, 79, has been avidly discussed in Havana and Miami since May 2005,
when he was arrested here and taken away in a Homeland Security Department
helicopter after illegally entering the country from Mexico and holding an odd
news conference to deny involvement in the 1976 bombing of the Cuban airliner.
He was held in Texas and New Mexico until last month, when he was released on
bail to await trial despite the government's efforts to keep him locked up.

The indictment, issued in January, charged Mr. Posada with lying about details
of how he sneaked into the country in 2005. It relied on a South Florida
informant who, in an extra layer of drama, found a pipe bomb under his pickup
truck soon after the charges were announced.

Mr. Castro has frequently condemned Mr. Posada -- he called him a ''terrorist
monster'' on the eve of the May Day celebration in Cuba last week -- and
questioned why the Bush administration has never charged him with anything more
than immigration fraud. The Cuban government has accused him of plotting to
assassinate Mr. Castro and says he masterminded the airline bombing as well as a
string of bombings of Havana hotels and nightclubs in 1997.

The case of Mr. Posada has presented a quandary for the administration, in part
because of his past ties to the Central Intelligence Agency dating from the
failed invasion at the Bay of Pigs, in 1961. In court papers filed in Texas last
year, the government described him as ''an unrepentant criminal and admitted
mastermind of terrorist plots and attacks on tourist sites.''

The order of dismissal was issued late Tuesday by Judge Kathleen Cardone of the
Federal District Court in El Paso and took both sides by surprise. Judge Cardone
wrote that the government engaged in ''fraud, deceit and trickery'' during Mr.
Posada's naturalization interview last year, thereby collecting the evidence it
needed for his indictment.

Rhonda Anderson, a lawyer for Mr. Posada, described him and his legal team on
Wednesday as ''jumping for joy.'' Ms. Anderson said Mr. Posada and other members
of the team were driving the 1,930 miles from El Paso to his family in Miami
because he was on the federal government's no-fly list. She said he might
address the news media later this week.

Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said the Bush administration
was reviewing Judge Cardone's order.

Mr. Posada could still face criminal charges: a grand jury in New Jersey is
investigating whether he had a role in bombings in Cuba in the 1990s. ''What's
going to happen with that remains to be seen,'' Ms. Anderson said.

In Havana, the Cuban government is displaying evidence that it says links Mr.
Posada to the 1997 hotel bombings. It includes toothpaste tubes, shampoo bottles
and other items that Cuban officials say were used by his associates to carry
explosives into the country.

And a number of new documents released last week by the National Security
Archive at George Washington University, an organization that promotes
declassification of government documents, also linked Mr. Posada to attacks
against Cuba. One was a handwritten surveillance report dating from the
mid-1970s that detailed Cuban targets in Barbados, Colombia, Panama and
Trinidad, written by Hernan Ricardo Lozano, an employee of Mr. Posada. The
report noted that a Cubana Airlines flight arrived weekly in Barbados from
Trinidad.

It was that flight that was blown up off the coast of Barbados in 1976; 73
people were killed.

Venezuela, where Mr. Posada is a naturalized citizen, has joined Cuba in
attacking him and in denouncing the Bush administration for not treating him
more severely.

''Posada should be prosecuted for murder, not for lying,'' said Jose Pertierra,
a Washington lawyer representing Venezuela in an extradition case against Mr.
Posada.

The Associated Press reported that Nicolas Maduro, the Venezuelan foreign
minister, repeated demands on Wednesday that Mr. Posada either be tried in the
United States for the jetliner bombing or be turned over to Venezuela for trial.
Venezuelan officials accuse him of plotting that bombing while he was living in
Caracas.

The courts have blocked Mr. Posada's extradition to Cuba or Venezuela, ruling
that he could be subject to torture there. No other country has been willing to
take him.

Margarita Morales Fernandez, whose father died on the bombed airliner, said
Wednesday that it hurt to see Mr. Posada walk free.

''It seems like the justice system in the United States has no interest in us,''
she said in a telephone interview from Havana. ''It's just not fair that he's
free.''

Ms. Anderson, Mr. Posada's lawyer, said he would keep a low profile in Miami,
living at his wife's suburban condominium and returning to his favorite hobby,
oil painting.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: On a lamppost in Havana, a billboard denounces Luis Posada
Carriles and says, ''The government of the United States shelters terrorism.''
(Photo by Rodrigo Arangua/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Mr. Posada helped from a car by his daughter, Janet Arguello, in April. (Photo
by Wilfredo Lee/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Large Immigrant Family, Religion Guided 3 Held in Fort Dix Plot

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and ANDREA ELLIOTT; Kareem Fahim reported from
Philadelphia and Cherry Hill, N.J., and Andrea Elliott from New York. Reporting
was contributed by Richard G. Jones in Cookstown, N.J.; Sewell Chan, David Rohde
and Maureen Seaberg in New York; Nate Schweber in Philadelphia; Ethan
Wilensky-Lanford in Cherry Hill; and Nicholas Wood in Macedonia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; TERROR ARRESTS IN NEW JERSEY;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1826 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, May 9


The three Duka brothers -- Eljvir, Shain and Dritan -- not only prayed here at
the Al Aqsa Islamic Center, but also recently began repairing its roof.

The work came naturally to them, as members of a large family of ethnic Albanian
immigrants who own more than a dozen roofing companies in New York and New
Jersey. They fixed the roof free of charge, encouraged by their imam to do good
deeds. One congregant said the men were storing up credit for ''the afterlife.''

But the job remains half finished after the brothers and three other Muslim men
were taken into custody this week, charged with plotting a terrorist attack
against soldiers at the Fort Dix military reservation. Their arrests
reverberated through the extended Duka dynasty, from southern New Jersey to the
village of Debar, in Macedonia, the family's ancestral home.

''It's fine to be a religion man,'' said Murat Duka, 55, a distant relative of
the defendants who was the first of the Dukas -- now numbering about 200 -- to
move to the Northeast and work as a roofer. ''But if you get too much to the
religion, you get out of your mind and you do stupid things.''

More than 4,600 miles away is Debar, a village near the Albanian border, where
the influence of American emigres is seen in restaurants named Manhattan, Dallas
and Miami. In Debar, Elez Duka, a first cousin of the three suspects, expressed
disbelief Wednesday that they could be involved in a scheme inspired by Islamic
radicals.

''This has to be political propaganda,'' said Mr. Duka, 29, who recently opened
an Internet cafe there with money sent by his own brothers in America. ''America
has always helped us.''

One day after the men were arraigned in United States District Court in Camden,
a portrait is emerging of the five who face charges of conspiring to kill
American military personnel, which could send them to prison for life. Much less
is known about the sixth, Agron Abdullahu, 24, who the authorities say was a
sniper in Kosovo but who faces lesser charges, carrying up to 10 years.

Serdar Tatar, 23, a Turkish immigrant who lives in Philadelphia, had grown so
religious over the last two years that his father, Muslim Tatar, said they had
become estranged. Serdar's Russian-born wife, who is pregnant with twins, said
he was so busy working that he rarely went to the mosque, but sometimes read the
Koran and helped her 11-year-old son with his homework.

Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, 22, a Palestinian born in Amman, Jordan, had for the
last year kept up an exhausting routine of work, sleep and prayer, according to
his mother. He drove a cab at night in Philadelphia, had recently dropped out of
Camden County Community College to help the family pay two mortgages and
attended services occasionally at the Al-Aqsa center.

And there were the Dukas, ages 23, 26 and 28, who came to this country
illegally, more than a decade ago. The brothers, like many of their relatives
and fellow ethnic Albanian immigrants in the area, have worked in roofing,
coming to own two companies, in addition to a pizzeria. They are not from an
Arabic-speaking nation -- though one is married to a woman from Jordan -- but
they sometimes used Arabic names for their roofing businesses: Qadr, which in
Arabic means destiny, and Inshala, an unusual spelling for a commonplace
expression that means ''if God wills it.''

It is not fully known how the Dukas met the other defendants, but their lives
began to intersect as early as 1999, when Mr. Tatar, Mr. Shnewer and Eljvir
Duka, known as Elvis, were all enrolled at Cherry Hill West High School.

One of Mr. Shnewer's five sisters married Eljvir Duka and is now pregnant. On
Wednesday, Lamese and Israa Shnewer, ages 12 and 14, stood in the threshold of
their house in Cherry Hill, holding tabloid newspapers with their brother's
picture splashed across the front. Cars slowed down as they passed. People
snapped pictures with their cellphones.

Israa pointed to a neighbor's house and said, ''They hated us to begin with.''

The criminal complaint filed against the suspects on Tuesday portrayed Mr.
Shnewer as the leader of the group, speaking most frequently in taped
conversations about tactics. But his mother, Faten Shnewer, said in an interview
that the charges ''made no sense.''

She said that televised images from the war in Iraq had angered him, and
wondered whether, while he was watching the news, he had said something that was
misinterpreted by the authorities. When the authorities searched the family's
home, they took a Koran, along with the mortgage bills and other household
items, Mrs. Shnewer said.

''He's a good boy,'' she said as she stood in the doorway of a relative's home.
''I'm proud of who we are.''

Co-workers and relatives described him as shy with a sweet nature. ''Mohamad was
like a teddy bear,'' said Jaime Antrim, the manager of a restaurant in Marlton,
where Mr. Shnewer once worked. He showed his religious devotion in some ways --
he would not eat pizza cut with a knife that had come into contact with pork --
but also served alcohol and did not break for the daily Muslim prayers.

Muslim Tatar, who owns SuperMario's Pizza near Fort Dix, from which the
authorities say his son Serdar took a map of the base, said that the young man
had gravitated to radical Islam in recent years, prompting a rift between them.

''I'm not a religious person,'' Muslim Tatar said. ''I don't want my son to be a
religious person, but he was a religious person.''

The family came to America from Turkey in 1992, settling in Cherry Hill. Muslim
Tatar said that his son fell in with the wrong crowd when he met some of the
other suspects in high school. On at least one occasion, Mr. Tatar said, his son
brought one of them to his pizza parlor in Cookstown, N.J.

''I told him, 'I don't like this kid, I don't want you together,' '' Mr. Tatar
recalled Wednesday.

Though the criminal complaint says that Serdar Tatar became familiar with Fort
Dix from delivering pizzas on the base and procured the map last November, his
wife said he had not worked at the restaurant in more than a year, and his
father said SuperMario's has been delivering to the base only for three months.

''Nobody take map,'' the elder Mr. Tatar said.

After quitting SuperMario's to gain some independence, Serdar Tatar went to work
at 7-Eleven, and recently became manager of one of the chain's stores near the
Temple University campus in Philadelphia, said his wife of a year, Khalida
Mirzhyeiva. He worked long shifts, she said, and rarely went to the mosque.

''He planned to have a child and a good family,'' Ms. Mirzhyeiva, 29, said in a
telephone interview, which was translated from her native Russian by a neighbor.
''He did not plan to kill anybody.''

''He isn't a terrorist,'' she added. ''He follows his religion, the Muslim
religion, and he cannot kill.''

Dritan, Eljvir and Shain Duka were all born in Debar, Macedonia, like many of
their relatives.

The extended family's trek to America began with Murat Duka, who opened a
roofing company in New York, in 1980, five years after he came to the United
States. Starting in 1985, a stream of relatives began going to Brooklyn, where
some learned the roofing trade from him, he said.

Today, 40 to 50 families related to the Dukas of Debar live in New York and New
Jersey. Many of them settled on Staten Island, which is home to a thriving
mosque for Albanians.

''Everybody's shocked from this,'' said Ferid Bedrolli, the imam of the Albanian
Islamic Cultural Center on Staten Island, where the three Duka defendants and
their father used to pray before moving to Cherry Hill from Brooklyn in the late
1990s. ''They didn't look like really they are bad people.''

Another imam at the mosque, Tahir Kukigi, described the father of the defendants
as a ''simple man'' and said the family ''never had any conflicts with anyone.''

At the mosque in Philadelphia, the imam, Mohammed Shehata, declined an interview
but his mosque released a statement.

''We have constantly urged our community members to report, either to us or to
law enforcement, any suspicious incidents,'' it read. ''Had we noticed anything
about these individuals that would have aroused suspicions, I can assure you
that it would have been reported.''

Experts on Albania and the Albanian-American community said they were surprised
at the ethnicity of the suspects.

Fred Abrahams of Human Rights Watch said, ''Albanians on the whole are so very
over-the-top pro-American that this news came as a shock.''

The 1999 American-led bombing of Serbia resulted in de facto independence for
Kosovo, a majority Albanian province in Serbia that had been the scene of brutal
repression by the Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic. One of the main
thoroughfares in Pristina, Kosovo's capital, was renamed ''Bill Clinton
Boulevard.''

In Macedonia, Argitim Fida, mayor of the Dukas' home village, said that on Sept.
11, 2001, students had a candlelight vigil in the town's main square. The town
council in Debar, which has a population of about 15,000, set a special meeting
for Thursday to discuss how to respond to the arrests.

''If Albanians are traditionally pro-American, we in Debar have to be more
pro-American than anyone,'' Mayor Fida said. ''Almost every family here has
relatives living in the United States.''

The Dukas are typical of those who have thrived from such ties: 28 of 37 local
family members live in America now.

The suspects' grandmother and matriarch of the family, Naze Duka, said she
visited her sons and grandsons in New Jersey last October, and said she received
$7,000 this month to put a deposit down on a new house.

''I have no idea where this came from,'' Mrs. Duka, 89, said Wednesday. ''I
don't know what could have happened. I just don't know.''

Stacy Sullivan, the author of a book on Albanian-Americans, said that a handful
of Islamic hardliners arrived in Kosovo after the American intervention and
attempted to spread radical Islam. She said they found little, if any, interest
and that Albanians derisively dubbed them the ''pajama people,'' a reference to
their traditional clothes.

Two Albanian-born businessmen in New York with ties to the Duka family said that
an uncle of the defendants became a radicalized Muslim in the early 1990s after
serving a prison sentence in New York State.

The parents and uncle of the Duka defendants could not be reached for comment.

Murat Duka, who said he knows the three brothers' father, Ferik, was stunned
that any of the Dukas could be involved in such activity.

''From the town we come, we're not a religious people,'' he said.

Told that the three brothers had been repairing the roof of the Philadelphia
mosque, Murat Duka said he had done the same at local mosques and churches, and
had also donated money to synagogues. ''You've got to donate because you don't
know next life which one is the true story,'' he said. ''So you've got to be
balanced.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Israa, left, and Lamese Shnewer at their home in Cherry Hill,
N.J., yesterday. Their brother was one of the men charged in a plot to attack
Fort Dix. (Photo by Sylwia Kapuscinski for The New York Times)
 A mosque in the Macedonian village of Debar, ancestral home of the Duka family.
Rrahim Duka, a relative, is second from right in the photograph at left.
(Photographs by Visar Kryeziu/Associated Press)(pg. B7)  Map of Macedonia shows
the location of Debar. (pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 11, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning
Photograph

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 95 words


A Mexican immigrant jailed on a drug trafficking charge was freed in a plea deal
after the authorities learned that a federal agent had him pose for a demeaning
photograph wearing a sombrero and holding a Mexican flag. The immigrant, Jorge
Hernandez-Villalvazo, a native of Mexico with permanent United States residency,
was arrested in April 2005 on a charge of conspiring to traffic in cocaine.
District Attorney C. Colon Willoughby Jr. of Wake County said the photo had been
taken by a Drug Enforcement Administration agent assisting in Mr.
Hernandez-Villalvazo's arrest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking the War Out of a Child Soldier

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1928 words


The teenager stepped off an airplane at Kennedy International Airport on Nov. 8
and asked for asylum. Days before, he had been wielding an automatic weapon as a
child soldier in Ivory Coast. Now he had only his name, Salifou Yankene, and a
phrase in halting English: ''I want to make refugee.''

Eventually Salifou's story would emerge, and in granting him asylum, one of the
system's toughest judges would find it credible: the assassination of his father
and older sister when he was 12; the family's flight to a makeshift camp for the
displaced; his conscription at 15 by rebel troops who chopped off his younger
brother's hand; and an extraordinary escape two years later, when his mother
risked her life to try to save him.

But when a lawyer took the case without fee in January, Salifou, then 17, was
almost ready to give up. Detained in a New Jersey jail, overtaken by guilt,
anger and despair, he resisted painful questions, sometimes crying, ''Send me
back!'' And the lawyer soon realized that saving Salifou would require much more
than winning him asylum.

There are 300,000 child soldiers worldwide, human rights groups say. Only a few
have ever made it to the United States, but campaigns to halt recruitment and
rehabilitate survivors are resonating here -- not least because a best-selling
memoir by one former child soldier, Ishmael Beah, has put a compelling human
face on the potential for redemption.

Yet no one has really grappled with how to handle those who make it to this
country seeking refuge.

Their violent pasts pose hard questions: Should they be legally barred from
asylum as persecutors or protected as victims? How can they be healed, and who
will help them?

Both Salifou and Mr. Beah, who testified on Salifou's behalf, show that on the
ground, the answers are haphazard, and the results may turn on the kindness of
strangers.

Mr. Beah, now a 26-year-old who exudes a gentle radiance, surged to celebrity
with ''Long Way Gone,'' showcased at Starbucks and acclaimed on ''The Daily
Show.'' The book tells how he was orphaned, drugged up, indoctrinated and made
to kill indiscriminately by government forces in Sierra Leone's civil war -- and
then reclaimed by counselors at a Unicef rehabilitation center.

But unlike Mr. Beah, who became a permanent resident without applying for
asylum, Salifou has faced legal opposition from the government. And while Mr.
Beah has had a decade to adjust to America, go to college and come to terms with
his past, Salifou's story is still raw, and changing.

Less than three weeks ago, days after his 18th birthday, immigration authorities
abruptly released Salifou alone, at 10 p.m., on a street corner in Lower
Manhattan.

''They say, 'You free to go,' '' he recalled, eyes wide. ''I say, 'Go where?' ''

That night, the former child soldier -- now over six feet tall, with toned
muscles and a diagnosis of severe post-traumatic stress disorder -- slept on a
couch in the Brooklyn apartment of his lawyer, Elliot F. Kaye, near the toy
trains of Mr. Kaye's 2-year-old son.

Salifou could still be deported. At his asylum hearing in April, the government
argued that based solely on his own account, he was a persecutor, and thus
legally barred from refuge.

When the judge disagreed, citing Salifou's youth and coercion by his rebel
captors, a government lawyer invoked a right to appeal that will not expire
until May 23.

Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said on
Friday that the agency did not comment on active cases.

Salifou testified that to satisfy leaders who punished disobedience with death,
he had looted during raids, grabbed new child conscripts and hit and kicked
civilians without pity if they resisted. He maintained, though, that while he
had shot at people, he had never knowingly killed anyone.

Many mysteries remain in the story of the escape of this adolescent, whose
sheltered, upper-middle-class childhood and French schooling in West Africa
ended abruptly with his father's murder.

One is the real identity of the foreigner his mother called Father William, who
smuggled him onto a plane to Geneva, he said, outfitted him in jeans and
Timberland boots, and sent him on to New York with a false Swiss passport.

Were Salifou deported now, concluded the judge in the case, Alan L. Page -- who
has denied 83 percent of asylum cases brought before him -- he could face jail,
torture or death from both sides in the conflict dividing Ivory Coast.

Instead, on Salifou's first day of freedom, he awoke in the Kayes' small Cobble
Hill apartment, with the French books he had collected in jail: math and physics
texts, Harry Potter paperbacks and a short story by Balzac that had made him
cry, he said, because, like Mr. Beah's testimony, ''it is my own history.''

When the lawyer took Salifou's case last winter, Mr. Beah's memoir had not yet
been published, but an adaptation in The New York Times Magazine led Mr. Kaye to
contact Laura Simms, the woman Mr. Beah calls his second mother.

''How did you do that?'' Mr. Kaye said he asked her, when he learned that she
had taken Mr. Beah into her home as soon as he arrived on a hard-won temporary
visa in 1998. ''I remember saying: 'I have a wife and a young son. He may not
even know how dangerous he still is.' ''

Ms. Simms became his mentor, the guide to an expanding circle of strangers
determined to rescue Salifou -- even, if necessary, from himself.

''At first I distrusted everyone,'' Salifou said in French. ''Elliot said, 'Life
is giving you a second chance.' All I wanted was death.''

''Little by little, Elliot changed that.''

Unlike Mr. Beah, who had major trauma therapy in his country in a residential
center staffed by trained counselors, Salifou was facing his demons in an adult
jail, and the lawyers probing for details of his life, against asylum deadlines,
were in effect his only therapists.

Sometimes, the lawyers said, they found a petulant teenager, or an angry
soldier; sometimes he was a child closing his eyes, longing to be magically
transported back to a time when his family was intact and pillow fights were his
only combat.

''We realized we had to make him remember things that he wanted desperately to
forget,'' said Bryan Lonegan, the Legal Aid lawyer who screened Salifou's case
at the Sussex County, N. J., jail and enlisted the help of Mr. Kaye and his
colleagues at the Cooley Godward Kronish law firm in Manhattan.

By then, Salifou had good reason to be confused and distrustful of the system he
had entered when he sought asylum. Like many of the 5,000 unaccompanied minors
apprehended each year, he had no valid identity documents. But based on the
birth date he gave, he had been placed in a juvenile shelter in Queens.

Within days, after confiding to a counselor that he sometimes heard voices and
had once attempted suicide, he was transferred to a mental hospital's pediatric
ward, where he was so medicated, he said, that he could barely move.

Discharged in time for Thanksgiving dinner at the children's residence, he was
suddenly declared to be over 18, not 17 years and 7 months as he maintained,
based on an immigration service dentist's interpretation of his X-rays -- a
practice that many doctors contest as unreliable. An adult immigration detention
center refused to take him, so he was locked up in a county jail in western New
Jersey.

His experience evokes the larger international confusion over how to draw the
line between juveniles and adults, and what treatment is best for former child
soldiers.

In one sense, Salifou's childhood ended on Aug. 6, 2001, according to the
25-page affidavit he signed. That was the day his father and older sister were
shot to death within earshot of the family home in Man, a market town in
northwestern Ivory Coast. He remains tormented that as a 12-year-old he was
powerless to protect his family when armed men ransacked the house and assaulted
his mother.

His father, a civil servant in the defense ministry, had been politically active
with an opposition party, but may also have dealt in arms and diamonds. He had
been able to afford to send Salifou to a French school, where he excelled.

But after the murders of his father and sister, he fled with his mother, brother
and two younger sisters. For three years, they lived in a roving camp for the
displaced, and it was all they could do to stay alive.

Late in 2004, troops of the Mouvement Patriotique, the rebel faction that
controlled the north, raided the camp for new recruits. As rebels grabbed
Salifou and his younger brother, Abdul Razack, then about 13, their mother held
on to Abdul's arm, yelling that he was too young to take. To punish her, Salifou
testified, one rebel chopped off Abdul's hand with a machete.

Abdul was left behind, but Salifou was thrown in the back of a truck with other
boys and began two years as an unwilling child soldier among thousands --
trained, armed, drugged and growing numb to violence.

''There are some who can't be healed anymore,'' he said two days after his
release, confessing that firing a machine gun had seemed ''cool,'' the power,
heady. ''There are some who can't stop killing and giving orders. There are
people who hate people. If you had a terrible childhood, if you hated your
parents '' He added, ''I loved my parents.''

In the end, he said, his mother helped him persuade his chief to let him visit
her briefly after one of his raids stumbled on her village camp again. Later,
with a well-timed gift of a yam for his leader, she had Salifou return and meet
Father William, a friend of his father's who would take him to safety.

''I told her that I wasn't going to leave,'' he said, mindful that the rebels
often hurt or killed the families of those who escaped. ''But she forced me.''

He has had no contact with his family since. The lawyers, despite tantalizing
near-misses, failed to locate Father William, who drove Salifou to the capital,
Abidjan, dressed him as a luggage handler to get him past airport security, then
guided him onto an airplane to Geneva. There, Salifou said, he gave him a
passport and instructions for a flight to the United States.

Salifou arrived in November knowing no one. Now his circle of supporters
includes the lawyers who took him on a giddy shopping spree for sneakers,
T-shirts and a Yankees cap the day after his release on April 23. It includes
Ms. Simms, who saw his descent into deep sorrow the next day, twisting his
fingers and saying he just wanted to sit in the dark.

A few days later, Salifou seemed resilient, even joyful, after a session with a
therapist at Bellevue Hospital, prayer at the 96th Street mosque and a dinner
cooked by Mr. Beah in Ms. Simms's homey kitchen.

''A family was born,'' said Salifou, who is now staying in Harlem with an
interpreter who is himself an African refugee. ''It's true what I was taught,
what the philosopher said: Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is
transformed. I thought I lost a family, but it was transformed.''

It was a lesson from physics, applied to humankind, and Mr. Beah, the writer,
echoed the sentiment.

''I realized what an intelligent, calm and sweet person he is,'' he said. ''He
just happened to have the misfortune of having his childhood taken from him. But
you can see him coming back.''

''I consider him like a brother to me,'' he added, ''because we're both coming
from a place where we have learned to deeply understand the true nature of
violence, what war really is and what it does to the human spirit.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawyers for Salifou, Elliot F. Kaye and Rachel B. Kane, went to
the International Rescue Committee office in Manhattan to seek help for him.
Salifou Yankene, 18, was abducted and forced to be a soldier in Ivory Coast at
age 15. He arrived in New York on Nov. 8 and spent months in jail awaiting an
asylum hearing. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 29)
 Above, Elliot F. Kaye with Salifou at the International Rescue Committee
office. At right, Bryan Lonegan, a Legal Aid lawyer, visiting with Salifou at
Mr. Kaye's Brooklyn apartment. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York
Times)(pg. 32)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wearing Their Hearts on the Front Window

BYLINE: By CAROLYN SLUTSKY

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES / PROTESTING;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 453 words


THE original sign in the window read ''Proud Immigrant Family.'' Then it was
replaced with a larger one bearing a starker message: ''Police Search Without
Arrest or Warrant? You Can: Just Say No. (Brought to You by the U.S.
Constitution.)''

The sign takes up much of the front window of Gibb Surette and Barbara
Jungwirth's tidy home in the Kensington section of Brooklyn, a largely immigrant
neighborhood bustling with Muslim women wearing head scarves, and convenience
stores stocked with foodstuffs from Turkey, Bangladesh, Poland and Albania.

Inside are many more missives, written in bold letters on colorful poster board.
''Corporations control the media,'' Mr. Surette explained. ''But everybody's got
a front window.''

The couple began hanging the signs right after the attacks of Sept. 11, to
demonstrate solidarity with their Muslim neighbors, but their campaign expanded
to express dismay at the Iraq war and what they see as curtailed civil
liberties. Their approach to exercising their First Amendment right of free
speech ranges from the standard, as in ''Don't let the government frighten
you,'' to the seasonal, as in ''Peace on Earth (including Iraq),'' and even the
fantastical, as in ''Frodo's not coming -- it's up to us to stop 'W' and his
evil ring.''

Mr. Surette, a 49-year-old lawyer, works for Brooklyn Legal Services and is
president of its union. Ms. Jungwirth, 47, is a translator and Web designer who
immigrated from Vienna. They have often taken to the streets to rally on behalf
of immigrant rights and an end to the Iraq war.

''It's important to us not to feel we're complicit by our silence,'' Mr. Surette
said the other day, his flowing gray hair tied back. ''We really believe it does
make a difference.''

At first, the couple steeled themselves for angry knocks on their door in
reaction to the messages, and to some extent that is what they got. A Russian
woman announced that world peace would be achieved only if the United States
conquered the rest of the world. A man wearing a yarmulke and a long black coat
said he wished the pair had died in the World Trade Center.

But most of the knocks have been from people who applaud their stance; one
elderly woman, for example, sent her home health aide up the front stoop to say
''right on.''

The couple said their biggest worry now is for non-American citizens imprisoned
without trial, on suspicion of supporting terrorism. Ms. Jungwirth is nervously
aware of her own tenuous status as a noncitizen who holds only a green card
granting permanent residency. She and her husband sometimes think of moving to
her native Austria because of her fears that she might be a target.

''But then,'' she said, ''who's left to fight?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara Jungwirth, Gibb Surette and a recent expression of
their politics. (Photographs by Nicholas Roberts for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grief and Mystery Over an Immigrant's Killing

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y.


Fourteen years ago, when Rene Javier Perez decided to leave his impoverished
hometown in eastern Guatemala in search of a more prosperous life in the United
States, his parents mortgaged the plot of land where they lived to raise $3,000
he needed for a smuggler to lead him across the border.

The plan, which Mr. Perez shared with a few of his relatives, was to move to
this placid village in Westchester County, where thousands of his countrymen had
settled before him, and find work so that he could help his parents pay off the
debt.

But jobs were hard to come by and the pay was not as good as he had envisioned,
his mother, Merced Perez, recalled. So the money he was sending home, steady at
first, turned into a trickle and eventually stopped. Unable to keep up with the
loan payments, his parents lost their modest slice of land.

Now they have lost their son, and his death on April 29 -- somewhere between a
coin laundry in Mount Kisco and the side of a desolate dirt road in nearby
Bedford -- has become a source of sadness in Apantes, the Guatemalan town where
he was born, and a mystery involving two police departments in his adopted
Westchester County.

''He was so ashamed of the trouble he caused us, he didn't call home for 10
years,'' Ms. Perez, 68, said in a telephone interview on Thursday from her
mud-brick home, where relatives and neighbors gathered to mourn over Mr. Perez's
body, which had arrived in Guatemala the previous night.

Mr. Perez, 42, who had lived on the streets here for about a year and had taken
to drinking heavily, had accumulated a string of arrests for petty crimes.

The last time he called, early last year, Ms. Perez said, ''he talked to his
father and all he said was, 'Forgive me! Forgive me!' before he started
crying.''

Mr. Perez died shortly after he was found unconscious close to midnight April
28, an hour after three Mount Kisco police officers responded to a 911 call he
had placed from a coin-operated laundry. The Westchester medical examiner's
office said he died from internal injuries, probably caused by blows to his
abdomen, and ruled the death a homicide.

On Thursday, the officers -- two patrolmen and a lieutenant -- were placed on
desk duty, two days after the police chief in neighboring Bedford said the three
were a focus of the investigation into Mr. Perez's killing.

''At this time, we're trying to account for the officers' whereabouts,'' the
Bedford chief, Christian Menzel, said at a news conference on Tuesday.

Asked if the officers from Mount Kisco might have been involved in the killing,
Chief Menzel said, ''We have not ruled that out yet.''

Mr. Perez was the third Guatemalan to die under suspicious circumstances in
Mount Kisco in the past four years, which in some ways adds to the puzzle.
Santos Bojorguez, 33, was found strangled here in 2003, and Roberto Martinez,
42, was killed the same way in 2004. Both cases remain unsolved.

Although there had been tensions here over immigrant day laborers, they subsided
after a social service organization for Hispanics, supported by local donations,
was opened here by some residents in 2000 to provide job training, education and
other services.

At a news conference outside the federal courthouse in White Plains on Thursday,
Fernando Mateo, president of Hispanics Across America, a fledgling advocacy
group based in Manhattan, called on the federal authorities to investigate the
three deaths.

The Westchester County district attorney, Janet DiFiore, announced at a news
conference on Friday that the United States attorney's office had agreed to join
the investigation of the Perez case, noting in a subsequent interview that the
events surrounding his death ''may have not only state, but federal implications
as well.''

The officers met Mr. Perez at the laundry, but it is still a mystery whether Mr.
Perez left the laundry on his own, or with someone else, or was driven away by
the officers.

F. Hollis Griffin Jr., who is representing Officer George Bubaris, the first of
the three Mount Kisco police officers to respond to Mr. Perez's 911 call, said
on Saturday that Bedford police detectives had interviewed his client twice and
that once all the documentary evidence had been analyzed, it would become clear
that he went back to patrolling the community as soon as he left the laundry. .

The two other officers under investigation are Edward Dwyer, a patrolman, and
Lt. Edward Dunnigan. Mr. Dwyer's lawyer, John Grant, could not be reached for
comment. It is unclear if Lieutenant Dunnigan has retained a lawyer.

''We don't have any reason to believe that Mr. Perez was in my client's patrol
car that night,'' Mr. Griffin said. He added, however, that it was possible Mr.
Perez's DNA and fingerprints could be found in the car, as well as in other
Mount Kisco patrol cars, because of his many interactions with the local police
over the years.

Mr. Perez was the second of four sons born to Ms. Perez and her husband, Esteban
Javier Rodriguez, whose families have lived in Apantes, near the Honduran
border, as far back as she can remember. Two of his brothers followed him to the
United States; the oldest, Israel, lives in Port Chester, and the youngest,
Anibal, has lived in Bedford for two years. Endis, the third born, remained in
Guatemala, working in the fields and caring for his aging parents.

Mr. Perez was baptized, catechized, confirmed and married in the humble church
in Apantes and attended school until age 14, when he began working in the fields
with his father, his mother said. They picked coffee beans to sell in the rural
markets in the region where they lived, Chiquimula, the birthplace of most of
the Guatemalans who have settled in Mount Kisco. Guatemalans appear to make up
most of the village's approximately 2,500 Hispanic immigrants, who are about a
quarter of the local population.

''It's fair to say that over here we can make money, but the money we make in a
day's work is hardly enough to feed us for the day,'' Endis Javier Perez, 31,
said in a telephone interview. ''My brothers left here thinking they could do
better and help us, but it seems like things didn't work too well for Rene.''

Rene Javier Perez moved here in 1992, three months after the birth of his only
child, Gladys, who is now 15 and remained in Guatemala. She said she did not
remember her father, or even his voice, since their phone conversations were
few. ''He sent me money last year to buy a cellphone,'' she said from her home
in Apantes.

Gladys's mother, whom Mr. Perez married in 1990, four years after leaving the
Guatemalan Army, has lived with another man for several years, Mr. Perez's
relatives said.

To many of the Guatemalans who have settled here, Mr. Perez was a source of pity
-- a sullen man of few words whom they saw fishing bottles from trash cans and
occasionally begging for food.

''He'd show up here drunk once in a while and I'd give him a plate of chicken,
rice and beans because I felt sorry for him,'' said Adan Villeda, from
Chiquimula, who owns the American Latino Deli on Main Street. ''He was a drunk,
but he was harmless.''

But to the police here and in Bedford, Mr. Perez was a nuisance, a drunken
vagrant who urinated in public, exposed himself, trespassed and occasionally
robbed local stores. He had been arrested 59 times in the past six years; last
year, he served five months in the county jail after pleading guilty to petty
larceny.

None of his close relatives know for sure when he started drinking heavily, and
they can only suspect why -- depression, shame, guilt over his parents' loss of
the only thing of valuethey had ever owned.

''He told me many times he wanted to go back to Guatemala, but he didn't have
the money for the trip,'' said Betty Duarte, a cousin who grew up with Mr. Perez
in Apantes and has lived in the Dutchess County town of Dover for 12 years. ''I
knew he was unhappy here, and that he had his troubles, but I had no idea how
bad things were.''

Two hours before Mr. Perez called 911 from the Lexington Laundry here, the
police in Bedford had picked him up at a department store in their town, where
he was said to have been drunk and harassing customers. The officers ferried him
to Main Street in Mount Kisco in what Chief Menzel described as a ''courtesy
ride.''

At the news conference on May 8, Chief Menzel took pains to note that the
Bedford officers could not have inflicted the fatal injuries.

''The medical examiner has informed us that a person with that serious an injury
could not have survived that injury for a long time,'' he said.

Whatever happened to Mr. Perez, the chief added, occurred between 8:43 p.m.,
when the Bedford officers dropped him off here, and 11:55 p.m., when he was
found unconscious on Byram Lake Road in Bedford.

In Mount Kisco, police logs indicate that the patrolman who first responded to
the 911 call, Officer Bubaris, arrived at the laundry at 10:47 p.m., followed a
minute later by the two other officers.

The two patrol cars used -- which were later seized and examined by the state
police -- have since been returned to the Mount Kisco Police Department,
although Chief Menzel of Bedford said on Thursday that no conclusions should be
drawn from that. Still, it seems likely that had any evidence showed up in the
cars, they would have been held longer.

For now, the mystery of how Rene Javier Perez was killed and who killed him
lingers.

''If he was so much of a problem, why didn't they just deport him?'' his mother
asked before his burial on Thursday in Apantes. ''Now, he's dead and I'll never
have a chance to tell him that we forgive him and that he was a good son, in
spite of it all.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hispanics Across America, an advocacy group, is seeking a
federal inquiry into the deaths of three Guatemalans in Mount Kisco in four
years. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
About an hour after the officers met Mr. Perez, he was found, beaten, along a
dirt road in Bedford.
 The Mount Kisco laundry where Rene Javier Perez, seen in a photograph on the
flier, called 911 on April 28. Three Mount Kisco police officers responded to
the call. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


A picture caption last Tuesday with an article about disciplinary action against
Los Angeles police officials after a clash at an immigration rally referred
incompletely to a scene at the rally, where officers used force to break up the
crowd. The man pictured on his knees with police officers standing over him was
a photographer for KCAL-TV in Los Angeles, Carl Stein -- not one of the people
who the police said had tried to provoke them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 16, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing New England: Massachusetts: Labor Law Violations Claimed In
Suit

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 111 words


A federal lawsuit was filed claiming violations of wage and overtime laws at a
New Bedford leather company where an immigration raid took place in March. The
suit asserts that workers were denied overtime pay and wages for unpaid time
spent in the factory. The suit, filed by Greater Boston Legal Services, also
asserts that employees who worked a shift for Michael Bianco clocked out for 15
minutes and then returned for a second shift working the same job, but for Front
Line Defense, a company the suit says is headed by the wife and daughter of
Michael Bianco's owner, Francesco Insolia. Mr. Insolia and his family could not
be reached for comment.    KATIE ZEZIMA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 16, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Couple Held Two Servants Captive for Years, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP, N.Y., May 15


Federal prosecutors charged a wealthy Long Island couple on Tuesday with keeping
two Indonesian domestic workers as virtual prisoners in their home for more than
five years under conditions they called ''modern-day slavery,'' beating one
severely and paying them very little.

The couple, Varsha Mahender Sabhnani, and Mahender Murlidhar Sabhnani, 51, who
the authorities say run a multimillion dollar perfume business from their home
in Muttontown, pleaded not guilty to the charges at their arraignment here
before Magistrate Judge Kathleen Tomlinson of United States District Court. They
were charged under a federal law that makes it illegal to force someone to work
under threat of violence.

Their lawyers, Charles A. Ross and Alexandra Tseitlin of Manhattan, said the
accusations against the Sabhnanis amounted to nothing more than ''an assault
allegation.''

Police and federal immigration agents developed the case against the couple
after one of the women, identified only as ''Samirah'' in court papers, was seen
wandering near a Dunkin' Donuts shop in Syosset on Sunday morning, wearing only
pants and wrapped in a towel. Her face was bruised, and when shop employees
tried to communicate with her, she made gestures of slapping herself and
uttering what sounded to them like the word ''master,'' prosecutors said.

The police took Samirah to Nassau University Medical Center, where, with the
help of an Indonesian translator, she told them that she and a second woman,
identified in papers only as ''Nona,'' were forced by the Sabhnanis to work long
hours, given little food, forced to sleep on mats on the floor, kept hidden when
company came, threatened with violence, and in Samirah's case, frequently beaten
by Mrs. Sabhnani.

In court documents, prosecutors said Samirah's employer had promised to pay her
$300 a month when they offered her a job in 2002 during a visit to Indonesia.
They paid only $100, however, and the money was sent directly to Samirah's
daughter in Indonesia. Mrs. Sabhnani was also charged in the papers with having
cut Samirah with a knife, burned her with cigarettes and subjected her to a
series of tortures, in one instance forcing her to eat many hot chili peppers.

Immigration agents searched the family home on Monday, and found Nona hiding in
a closet under the stairs. Prosecutors said she confirmed the story Samirah had
told them. Both servants held temporary work visas that had expired.

Mr. and Mrs. Sabhnani, who have two daughters away at college and a younger son
and daughter living at home, were held without bail yesterday pending a bail
hearing scheduled for Thursday.

Demetri M. Jones, an assistant United States attorney for the Eastern District,
told Magistrate Tomlinson that the couple were a flight risk and should be held
without bail for the duration of their prosecution because they had extensive
business and family contacts throughout Asia.

But the defendants' lawyers said the couple were highly unlikely to flee since
they had two homes here, a flourishing business, and four children born in the
United States. ''What we have here is one person's version of what happened,''
Mr. Ross said. ''There are no allegations of slave trading. This is basically an
assault allegation by one person.''

He said the case would prove to be ''much more involved and complicated'' than
the initial story told by the two servants to federal agents.

It is unusual for the employers of domestic servants to be charged under a 2000
federal law that bans human trafficking. Most prosecutions under that law have
involved traffickers in prostitution.

Human rights advocates have said that domestic workers are often kept hidden
away, and are rarely willing to risk deportation by seeking help.

Magistrate Tomlinson asked the lawyers to produce an accounting of the family's
assets at Thursday's bail hearing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Letter To Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 133 words


The state attorney general's office will not file criminal charges against a
former Congressional candidate whose campaign mailed letters to Hispanic
immigrants warning that they could be deported or jailed for voting. The
candidate, Tan Nguyen, was trying to unseat Representative Loretta Sanchez, a
Democrat. Ms. Sanchez beat Mr. Nguyen, a Republican, to earn a sixth term
representing the 47th Congressional District in Orange County. ''We had to prove
that they intended to intimidate lawfully registered voters,'' said Gary Schons,
a senior assistant attorney general. ''We found no evidence that they intended
to intimidate lawfully registered voters. In fact, the first line of the letter
said, 'If you're a lawfully registered voter, we encourage you to vote.' A lot
of people missed that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Central Islip: Bail Set For Couple Accused Of Abuse

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 114 words


A federal judge set bail yesterday at more than $3 million for a couple accused
of keeping two Indonesian women as prisoners for five years, beating them and
paying them almost nothing. A court complaint alleged that the couple, Varsha
Mahender Sabhnani and her husband, Mahender Murlidhar Sabhnani, who live in East
Muttontown, kept the two women in their home as servants, barring them from
leaving the house. The Sabhnanis were charged this week after one of the women
was found wandering outside a doughnut shop wearing only pants and a towel. They
have pleaded not guilty. The women, who arrived in the United States legally on
B-1 visas in 2002, were being cared for at a hospital.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Tentative New Reality

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION: NEWS
ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18


Six months after Republicans lost control of Congress, President Bush is
learning the rules of a game that, for six years, he seemed to have forgotten:
the Capitol Hill edition of ''Let's Make a Deal.''

In the last eight days alone, talks involving cabinet secretaries and other
high-ranking White House officials have produced two surprises: a major
compromise with Democrats on trade and Thursday's fragile bipartisan accord on
immigration. The question now is whether the sudden burst of deal-making will
extend from these easier targets to the most intractable issue in Washington:
the war in Iraq.

It is still far from clear whether the Bush administration and Congressional
Democrats can be flexible enough to reach an accommodation on war spending --
and indeed, the Iraq talks stumbled on Friday. What is clear is that both Mr.
Bush and his rivals are shying from the path of confrontation. Democrats, for
the most part, are refraining from muscle-flexing, showers of subpoenas and
other displays of new clout. And a White House hungry for legislative victories
is working hard to negotiate a vastly changed political landscape.

''The president has become belatedly pragmatic,'' said Ross Baker, an expert in
presidential-Congressional relations at Rutgers University. ''I think it took a
while for him to recognize that the ground rules have changed, but he seems
finally to have come around to the realization that he's not working with a
docile Congress of his own party, but with people who really have decided that
they are going to challenge him.''

The White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, who is the president's lead
negotiator on the Iraq bill, conceded in an interview earlier this week that it
had been difficult for the administration to get accustomed to not controlling
the legislative agenda.

Yet despite ''a fair amount of substantive tension'' in the relationship with
Democrats, Mr. Bolten said, the immigration and trade deals have left him
feeling encouraged.

''We have some ways to go,'' he said, ''but there is a process of confidence
building that accumulates over time.''

Maybe so, but after six years of being virtually ignored by the administration,
many Democrats remain wary. Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota,
complained on Friday that the Bush White House had ''never been very interested
in anything except the way they wanted to do business.'' Mr. Dorgan said he was
not impressed with the fact, given the change of party power, that they are
talking.

''That gives credit for low expectations,'' he said.

Others, less in the thick of things, sounded more upbeat. Leon E. Panetta, a
former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, said he had been concerned,
once the Democrats took control of Congress, that ''an awful lot of blood in the
water'' would prevent the parties from coming to terms on ''low-hanging fruit''
like immigration and trade.

In Mr. Panetta's view, the talks are a good sign. ''Whether it can go into
bigger areas like the war remains to be seen,'' he said. ''But it clearly helps
build at least a rapport that you absolutely need if you're going to try to come
to a deal.''

Mr. Bush, of course, is not the first president who was forced to come to grips
with a new political reality after losing control of Congress. Mr. Clinton did
just that after Democrats lost the House of Representatives in 1994. That loss
created the political climate that enabled Mr. Clinton to make good on his
promise to revamp the nation's welfare system.

Likewise, the change in November has made it easier for Mr. Bush to pursue his
trade agenda and his long-cherished goal of immigration overhaul.

In the trade deal, the administration's unlikely partner was Representative
Charles B. Rangel, the tough-talking Democrat from Harlem. The White House
acceded to his demands for child labor and environmental protections in several
pending trade pacts, a move that would have been unthinkable when Republicans
controlled the House, because Mr. Rangel's Republican predecessor as chairman of
the Ways and Means Committee, Bill Thomas of California, would have blocked it.

On immigration, Mr. Bush's position already seemed nearer that of Democrats than
Republicans, and some in his own party are highly nervous about the deal.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican whip, who was majority leader
when Mr. Clinton was president, said Republicans would criticize the
administration as giving away too much on immigration, just as Democrats
criticized Mr. Clinton as giving away too much on welfare overhaul.

''But,'' Mr. Lott said, ''I would argue that the White House is coming to terms
with the reality of the situation in Washington, and they don't have any choice.
We can all get into our partisan crouches and get nothing, or we can go through
a process of responsible negotiations.''

Administration officials say both sides seem to be learning as they go. But Iraq
is an area where Mr. Bush has been especially unwilling to yield. He has made
clear he has little interest in sharing his power as commander in chief.

While Mr. Bush has been trying to strike a conciliatory tone -- he said Thursday
that he would accept benchmarks for the Iraqi government -- the breakdown in
talks on Friday was a reminder that Iraq is not immigration or trade, and the
president will only go so far.

Some say the trade and immigration deals could actually work against compromise
on Iraq. After cutting two big deals, Democrats and Republicans might not be
inclined toward another one, for fear that they will look wishy-washy with their
respective political bases.

On the other hand, one force pushing toward compromise is that neither side can
afford to get blamed for holding back money from the troops. Even so, Mr.
Panetta says it is too early to be optimistic.

''There's some light at the end of the tunnel,'' he said, ''but it could get
dark real fast.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joshua B. Bolten, White House chief of staff, center, leaving
the speaker's office. Mr. Bolten said talks with Democrats were encouraging.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, both
Democrats, after meeting with White House officials on Iraq yesterday.
(Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A11)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words


INTERNATIONAL 3-14  U.S. Pays for Ebbing Patrols The United States is paying
roughly $1 billion a year to Pakistan for conducting counterterrorism efforts
along the border with Afghanistan, even though Pakistan's president decided
eight months ago to slash patrols through the area where Al Qaeda and the
Taliban are most active.   1   Africa's Universities in Crisis Africa's best
universities are collapsing, forcing the continent's best and brightest to seek
their education abroad and depriving Africa of the home-grown expertise that
could lift millions out of poverty.   1  Immigrants Wooed in Quebec Quebec's
separatist movement is rethinking its political foundation as the number of
immigrants, a group with no historical stake in the traditional French-English
divide, has nearly doubled since the last referendum on independence.

6  Bringing Light to Africa's Poor A former foreign service officer has
developed a solar-powered flashlight. Over the past year, he and corporate
benefactors have donated 10,500 flashlights to United Nations refugee camps and
African aid charities.   8  Israel Strikes Militants in Gaza The Israeli army
struck a Palestinian rocket-launching cell near Beit Hanoun in the northern Gaza
Strip, first with tank shells and then from the air, a spokesman said.   14
Iraqi Insurgent Raid Kills 15 Gunmen wearing Iraqi Army uniforms dragged 15
Shiite Kurds into the street in an eastern Iraqi village and shot them dead,
Iraqi government officials said.   12  The 4,000 American soldiers searching for
their three comrades who were abducted a week ago have been dogged by a deadly
threat: bombs buried far away from roads, striking at them as they fan out to
cover the rural terrain.   12  Afghan Bomber Kills 3 Germans A suicide attacker
blew himself up near German soldiers in a street market in Afghanistan, killing
three of the soldiers and at least six civilians, officials said.   14  NATIONAL
16-21  Data for Sale Aids Fraud Telemarketing fraud, once limited to small-time
thieves, has become a global criminal enterprise, and elderly Americans are
especially vulnerable. Companies sell vast databases of personal information to
thieves, and major banks have made it possible for criminals to dip into
victims' accounts.   1  Fine Print on Immigrant Deal A compromise announced last
week to overhaul immigration law has offered a glimmer of hope to illegal
immigrants. But advocacy groups say the bill would place onerous restrictions on
illegal workers.   1  Clinton's Ties to Wal-Mart As a member of Wal-Mart's board
of directors in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton
was largely silent on organized labor. Though now critical of the company, Mrs.
Clinton maintains close ties to Wal-Mart executives.   1  Judges Fear Terror
Threat A proposal to build a parking garage near an Akron, Ohio, federal
courthouse has worried some judges, who say it would let terrorists get
dangerously close to their courtrooms.   18  NEW YORK/REGION 23-27  Acquitted
Officer Sues Seven years after being acquitted in the killing of the unarmed
West African immigrant Amadou Diallo, Kenneth Boss is still a New York City
police officer, but he is forbidden to carry a gun and he works at tasks like
repairing power tools. He has filed a federal lawsuit demanding a return to full
enforcement duty. 23  Chess 27 Weather 29

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Slaves of New York

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 503 words


New York City and its wealthy suburbs are full of desperate immigrants who
suffer greatly at the hands of abusive employers. Many factors help to wrap
these crimes in silence, especially the immigrants' ignorance and shame, and
their fear of arrest and deportation.

It is thus cause for considerable cheer that New York State's leaders last week
agreed on a long-awaited measure that would crack down on the trafficking of
people for sex and labor while offering help to the victims. Any doubts that we
badly need such a law were dispelled by a horrifying story of exploitation and
cruelty that surfaced last week in Long Island.

According to federal prosecutors, a couple in Muttontown, a wealthy enclave near
Oyster Bay, kept two Indonesian women in virtual slavery for years, paying them
a pittance for long hours of domestic labor punctuated with sickening abuses.
The couple, Varsha Mahender Sabhnani and Mahender Murlidhar Sabhnani, who run a
multimillion-dollar perfume business from their home, are said to have given the
women little food and forced them to sleep on mats on the floor and to hide when
visitors came. According to court papers, Mrs. Sabhnani often beat one of the
women with a stick and burned her with cigarettes and scalding water.

The story came to light early on Mother's Day, when one of the women showed up
at a Dunkin' Donuts, bruised and disheveled, wearing only pants and a towel.
Employees invited her in and offered her a jacket and coffee, then called 911
after seeing her injuries. The couple have been charged with violating a federal
law against slavery.

The Sabhnanis are entitled to the presumption of innocence about what their
lawyers say is merely ''an assault allegation.'' But the accusations against
them should jolt people awake to a wider problem that law enforcement officials
and human-rights advocacy groups have been warning about for years. Although
there is a federal law against human trafficking for sex and labor, the Justice
Department is usually forced to spend its limited resources in breaking up
larger operations, like prostitution rings, and not individual cases of
exploited nannies or maids.

For its part, New York has long needed an aggressive anti-trafficking law that
contains tough penalties, helps victims to escape their tormenters and offers an
array of social services once they do. A good bill sponsored last year by
Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz, a Bronx Democrat, was badly weakened in committee,
and the session ended without a chance to improve it and hammer out a final bill
with the Senate.

The news is better this year. Gov. Eliot Spitzer and the Legislature reached a
deal last week on an anti-trafficking bill that would turn such forms of modern
slavery, particularly prostitution, into felonies and offer victims emergency
housing and health care and other services from the state. Their action comes
too late for the Indonesian women. But for others who are out among us,
suffering mutely, the hope for justice has improved.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 503 words


INTERNATIONAL A3-13  In Baghdad, Shiite Enclave Points to Fractured Future In
the Baghdad district of Kadhimiya, religious Shiite leaders and their militias
have consolidated control, transforming the neighborhood into what could be a
model for much of Iraq if the Shiites have their way -- a model that may not be
democratic, inclusive or just, according to observers.  A1  Pressure Builds on
Musharraf Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, is being advised by his
political supporters to make a dramatic change of course or risk losing power
after a series of political blunders in the last two months.

A1  China Unrest Over Birth Control Acampaign to enforce strict
population-control measures, including forced abortions, set off clashes between
the police and local residents in southwestern China, alarming officials in
Beijing. A12   Lebanon Fighting Goes On Lebanese tanks and artillery pounded a
Palestinian refugee camp in Tripoli for the second day, trying to trap members
of the radical Islamist group Fatah al Islam. Government officials said at least
60 people had been killed. A13  NATIONAL A14-20   Critics in Senate Vow To Alter
Immigration Bill Critics of a comprehensive immigration bill fought back in the
Senate, with lawmakers from both parties seeking to alter the measure
substantially and Senate leaders agreeing to extend debate beyond the Memorial
Day recess.   A1  Milestone in Abortion Ruling Last month's Supreme Court
decision upholding the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act marked a milestone for a
different argument advanced by anti-abortion leaders. They say that abortion, as
a rule, is not in the best interest of the woman and that the interests of the
pregnant woman and the fetus are, in fact, the same.   A1  Birth Certificates
for Stillborn During the last six years, 19 states have enacted laws allowing
parents who have had stillbirths to receive a certificate of birth.   A16
Victory for Families of Disabled A Supreme Court decision gave parents of
children with disabilities the right to go to court without a lawyer to
challenge their public school district's individualized plan for their child's
education.   A14  NEW YORK/REGION B1-6  Long Island Police Jobs Considered Most
Desirable More than 28,000 people have registered to take the Suffolk police
exam on June 9, some from far-flung states and many from the New York Police
Department, who say they are seeking the high pay and lower risk of working in
law enforcement on Long Island.   A1  BUSINESS DAY C1-14  Doubts on Diabetes
Drug An article in The New England Journal of Medicine raised safety questions
about the diabetes pill Avandia and renewed skepticism about the vigilance of
federal drug regulators. It showed that the drug increased the risk of heart
attacks.   C1  Business Digest C2   EDITORIAL A22-23  Editorials: Macho mistakes
at Ground Zero; Iran's centrifuges; paying for college; wealth as a clue in
running.  Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.  Crossword E2 TV Listings E10
Weather D7

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Workers Provide A Resort Island's 'Backbone'

BYLINE: By ANA FACIO CONTRERAS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; AVALON JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 868 words

DATELINE: AVALON, Calif., May 16


The flames and smoke are gone, the tourists are coming back and the Rufino,
Campos and Hernandez families, part of the Latino immigrant work force keeping
things running here, are again receding into the background of this island known
more for its bison and bungalows than as a center of immigration.

''Thank God that the fire didn't destroy the island or else I would be out of
work,'' said Agustina Rufino, 48, a Mexican who has lived here on Santa Catalina
Island for several years and drives a tourist trolley and taxi along this town's
picturesque streets.

The large Mexican community on the island emerged to the wider public when
nearly 200 Mexican immigrants who evacuated the island stayed overnight at a Red
Cross shelter on the mainland.

The majority of people who stayed at the shelter were of Mexican descent, most
of them with roots in the state of Jalisco. They form ''the backbone of our
tourism industry labor force,'' said Wayne Griffin, president of the Catalina
Island Chamber of Commerce.

Nearly half of the town's population of 3,400 is Hispanic, according to the
census, but Mayor Robert Kennedy said he thought the figure was closer to 70
percent.

Angelica Campos, 22, arrived in Avalon four years ago from Jalisco, following
family members. ''Relatives tell other relatives about how calm and beautiful it
is here,'' Ms. Campos said, ''and they come looking for work and a better
life.''

The immigrants mostly keep a low profile. An untold number are here illegally,
and their presence has caused friction in the past but, by and large, residents
said, incidents have been few.

While most residents of the island headed for ferries to the mainland during the
fire last week, an unknown number of illegal residents stayed behind in
apartments, fearing that the Coast Guard would discover them and turn them over
to immigration agents.

Last year, some young people and a few adults organized a march for immigrant
rights along Avalon's narrow streets, most often navigated with golf carts. It
took some non-Latino residents by surprise, said Irene Rufino, 18, Mrs. Rufino's
daughter. ''I did it because I felt it was giving support to the immigrants,''
Irene Rufino said.

But generally the national immigration debate can seem a distant echo here.

''Our community of Avalon is ethnically diverse,'' Mayor Kennedy said. ''We're
one big happy family. There is a difference in culture, but Americans here
embrace the Mexican culture.''

But that has not always been the case. In 1994, Ralph J. Morrow Jr., then the
mayor, asked federal authorities to crack down on businesses that employed
illegal immigrants. Soon afterward, Mr. Morrow's house was pelted with eggs and
limes.

Residents who remember the 1994 crackdown said that only a handful of people
were arrested and taken away by immigration officers. ''They walked them to the
boat in front of everybody on the street as an example to others who didn't have
papers,'' said Mrs. Rufino's husband, Gregorio. Now, he said, you hear of a few
arrests, but the raids do not appear to be frequent.

The pastor of Catalina Bible Church, Jason Gant, said he had tried to reach out
to Latinos with little success. He said that English classes at the church were
sparsely attended and that immigrants did not often show up for town hall
meetings or other gatherings. The lack of participation, Mr. Gant said, ''causes
a conflict in the community and troubles the community.''

''We try to integrate them in a loving way, and they're unresponsive,'' he said.
''I want them to stay and integrate into the community.''

Josefina Hernandez, 25, who works as a maid, said she had heard stories of white
Americans on the island who warned illegal immigrants of raids or identification
checks on the ferries. Americans, she said, generally treat her and other
immigrants well.

''They try to learn Spanish and we try to learn English,'' Mrs. Hernandez said.
''And when we speak English, they encourage us to keep learning.''

Celia Barriga, 47, said Mexican immigrants filled many jobs here that Americans
did not want. ''They tolerate us because they need us,'' she said.

Gabriel Valdez, a seasonal worker, said one problem immigrants found on Catalina
was the lack of affordable housing, which ''limits immigration to the island.''

Mexicans have a long history on Catalina. Until 1848, the end of the
Mexican-American War, the island was Mexican territory. In 1919, William Wrigley
Jr., of the chewing gum empire, bought the island and transformed it into the
resort town it is today. That change was aided by many Mexicans who were hired
to help build various projects on the island.

''They have been an important part of the island going back to the 1920s and
'30s,'' said Mr. Griffin of the Chamber of Commerce.

Mr. Valdez, 51, a waiter, said the immigrants needed the work to improve the
lives of their families in Mexico.

Mr. Valdez, a former teacher in Mexico who has been working on the island on and
off for 20 years, has made far more than he did in his native Mexican state of
Sinaloa, enough to pay for private school for his two children there. ''I make
more here without working myself to death,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Agustina Rufino works driving a tourist trolley and taxi in the
town of Avalon.
 On Santa Catalina Island off Southern California, immigrants from Mexico make
up much of the labor force. Gabriel Valdez, a waiter, has worked on the island
off and on for 20 years, paying for his children's education in Mexico.
(Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raid Leaves Sense of Dread In Hispanic Students

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

Samuel G. Freedman is a professor of journalism at Columbia University. His
e-mail address is sgfreedman @nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page ; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1041 words

DATELINE: WILLMAR, Minn.


The day before everything happened, Alex Sorto left Willmar High School as usual
at 2:30, and grabbed a ride to his night job as a janitor at the Jennie-O turkey
processing plant. He had been working there for four months, saving money for
college tuition, and hoping to study art even though his mother wanted him to be
a lawyer.

Alex had already heard there were immigration agents in town, raiding the
trailer parks and rented homes of the Hispanics who had flocked to this county
seat on the Minnesota prairie in search of work at Jennie-O. Alex believed that
because he was a citizen, he was safe.

So he put in his eight hours sweeping and swabbing, and went home to finish up
the portfolio that was his final project for communications class. The portfolio
consisted mostly of an autobiography. In it Alex recalled his early years in Los
Angeles, the child of two Honduran immigrants, and the divorce that sent him and
his mother, Rosa Sorto, to a green-shingled duplex on Ann Street in Willmar.

As a senior, just a few weeks from graduation, Alex had already passed the
required state tests, which were being administered at Willmar High the next
morning.

So he knew he could sleep late, a rare treat on a weekday, before starting his
regular classes.

The next thing he knew, at the unfair hour of 6:30 a.m. on April 13, he heard a
banging noise. Groggy, he at first assumed the racket came from the family
upstairs.

By the time he tugged on a pair of jeans and walked toward the living room, he
could hear nearby voices shouting. He saw his mother on the couch, being
peppered with questions by four immigration agents -- questions about her
papers, questions about his, questions about two single men who rented rooms
from them. In his entire life, all 18 years, Alex had never seen her so close to
crying.

In the end, the agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement accepted the
proof that Alex and his mother, who has permanent resident status, were legal.
The two renters, Roberto and Augustine, were led away in handcuffs, Roberto
wearing only his boxer shorts.

Then Ms. Sorto discovered how the agents had apparently entered her apartment;
the window of the locked side door, intact the previous night, was now broken.

Even after all the tumult, Ms. Sorto insisted that Alex go to school. Even
though it was 8:30, and he had no classes for another hour, she drove him there.
He watched her hands quake as she tried to steer. In art class, his favorite, he
could not get his pencil to move. All he could think about was what would become
of him if his mother were taken away.

Such was the triumph of Operation Cross Check, the federal raid against illegal
immigrants that went on for four days last month in this community of about
18,500 people. To the Department of Homeland Security, the operation was a
success, catching a convicted sex offender and several welfare cheats among its
49 arrests. In a news release announcing the toll, an immigration enforcement
director for Minnesota said, ''Our job is to help protect the public from those
who commit crimes.''

Yet more than half of those arrested had committed no crime other than being in
the United States illegally, doing the jobs at Jennie-O that prop up the local
economy. And, as the experience of Alex Sorto demonstrates, the aggressive,
invasive style of the sweep instilled lasting fear among Willmar's 3,000
Hispanics, many of them students born or naturalized in the United States. These
young people are the political football in America's bitter, unresolved battle
about immigration.

''All of us are scared,'' said Andrea Gallegos, a junior at the high school.
''When you go to school, you don't know if your parents will be there when you
come home. I don't feel safe anywhere -- walking to the school bus, walking
outside the school building.''

Sharon Tollefson, a guidance counselor, had one promising student vanish in the
aftermath of the raid. The young man, whom she identified by only his first
name, Santiago, had been attending both day and night classes to graduate this
spring. Ms. Tollefson was helping to arrange for him to visit a local college,
where he planned to study law enforcement with the goal of becoming a police
officer.

The first morning of the raids, April 10, Santiago took his required state test
in writing. The next day, when he was supposed to sit for the math exam, he did
not show up at school. Ms. Tollefson has since heard rumors that he was deported
to Mexico.

''He was working his fanny off,'' Ms. Tollefson said, almost wistfully, in an
interview last week. ''I keep saying I'm not taking him off my roster. I can't
believe he won't be coming back.''

THE objections to the immigration raid go far beyond the anecdotal. A group of
about 30 Hispanic residents of Willmar, including Alex and Rosa Sorto, has filed
suit in United States District Court in Minneapolis, alleging that the
immigration and domestic security agencies violated the Constitution. The suit
maintains that the armed officers engaged in racial profiling, and that they
broke into private homes without search warrants as part of a ''campaign of
terror and intimidation.''

Tim Counts, a spokesman for the immigration agency in Minnesota, declined
yesterday to answer the suit's allegations in detail, beyond saying that the
operation was ''fully within the law and appropriate.'' He also said that homes
were entered only with the permission of residents, and added, ''We will make
our case in the court of law.''

When Alex Sorto moved to Willmar in the late 1990s, he said he kept quiet about
his past. He felt as if he was the only child in school with divorced parents.
Over time, he grew comfortable enough to share the secret without being
ostracized.

Since that April morning, Friday the 13th, he has reacquired the habit of
silence. His communications teacher suggested that he try to put the whole
experience out of his thoughts. But she isn't the one who worries about what
could happen if his mother gets stopped by ''la Migra,'' as the immigration
agents are known, on a day she left her driver's license at home.

''This was the year everything was supposed to go right for me,'' Alex said.
''And then all this happened.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Sorto, 18, a senior in high school in Willmar, Minn., and
his mother say immigration agents broke into their home in April. (Photo by Bill
Zimmer for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Presidential Hopeful Confronts Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


Of all the candidates running for president, none have weathered more
crosscurrents of the immigration battle than Gov. Bill Richardson, the New
Mexico Democrat.

Mr. Richardson, whose mother is Mexican, is the governor of a border state with
the highest percentage of Hispanics in the country. He has been entangled in the
issue at home and a player in the ongoing struggle in Washington over rewriting
the nation's immigration laws. He is the first Hispanic to seek the Democratic
presidential nomination.

Mr. Richardson initially said he would support the immigration compromise
announced earlier this week. But on Wednesday, he said that after reading it in
detail, he had decided to oppose it, saying the measure placed too great a
burden on immigrants -- tearing apart families that wanted to settle in the
United States, creating a permanent tier of second-class immigrant workers and
financing a border fence that Mr. Richardson had long opposed.

''This is fundamentally flawed in its current form, and I would oppose it,'' he
said. ''We need bipartisanship, but we also need legislation that is
compassionate. I'm not sure that this is.''

Mr. Richardson said he did not want to be pigeonholed as the immigration
candidate, but the moment is forcing him to take a stand on a volatile issue
that carries major risks for all the presidential candidates. In aligning
himself with the view that the bill is insufficiently compassionate, he is in
agreement with a key segment of his party, including many Hispanic voters, that
want more focus on reuniting families.

At the same time, though, Mr. Richardson risks identifying his candidacy with
the efforts in Congress to ease strictures against immigrants who are in this
country illegally, exposing himself to the strong anti-immigration currents that
have been unleashed by this battle.

He is the first major Democrat to call explicitly for defeat of the bill in its
current form, a decision that he said would no doubt echo across the
presidential playing field and in Washington. And his is a voice that carries
particular weight: he grew up in Mexico, but went on to became a state governor
who once declared a state of emergency in response to turmoil and violence on
the border caused by illegal immigrants.

Mr. Richardson said he wanted his candidacy to be identified with other issues
-- an immediate withdrawal of troops from Iraq, a national health care program
-- rather than immigration. Revealingly, he addressed just four sentences of a
365-page political autobiography he wrote in advance of the presidential
campaign, ''Between Worlds: The Making of An American Life,'' to immigration.

Still, Mr. Richardson said he realized that might be difficult in this political
environment in which the immigration debate was stirring so many passions across
the country. He said he had to speak out against what he suggested was an
anti-immigrant fervor, be it from television news hosts like Lou Dobbs or
Republican candidates for president.

''I was just very disheartened by all the Republican candidates at the
debates,'' he said. ''They were trying to overtake each other over who could be
the most anti-immigrant. That is not going to help them in a general election:
It might help them in a primary.''

''I'm going to be speaking out on this issue, given that I'm a border governor
and my heritage,'' he said. ''Maybe it won't help me nationally -- but I believe
it is my responsibility to do that and not take a mushy position. I notice
everyone else is taking murky positions.''

Mr. Richardson's personal history illustrates the struggles that families endure
to obtain citizenship in the United States. In November 1947, when his mother
was pregnant with him, Mr. Richardson's father, an American banker who wanted
his son to be a United States citizen, sent her on a train to Pasadena, Calif.,
where she gave birth. The mother then went back with her newborn to Mexico City,
where Mr. Richardson remained until he returned to the United States at age 13.

Mr. Richardson made mention of this aspect of his life earlier this week when he
formally announced his candidacy in Los Angeles; at the time he said he was
beginning his campaign there because he thought the state's substantial Hispanic
population made him a strong contender to win its Feb. 5 primary. ''I was born
here because my father, an American citizen, wanted me to be born in America,''
he said.

Mr. Richardson has over the years been identified with many sides of the
immigration debate. He drew a storm of criticism from Hispanic groups two years
ago when he declared a state of emergency at the Mexican border, warning that
illegal immigrants were jeopardizing the safety of his state.

But he has vehemently opposed construction of a fence on its border with Mexico.
He supported letting illegal immigrants obtain driver's licenses and legislation
that would permit their children to obtain college scholarships.

Mr. Richardson said he supported some sort of immigration bill that would permit
people who entered the United States illegally to become citizens, and
particularly opposed anything that would divide families, echoing a main
criticism by opponents of the current bill. But he sounded like one of his
Republican counterparts when asked if he would use the word ''amnesty'' to
describe what should be granted people who had entered the country illegally.

''I don't use that word -- no, no, no,'' he said. ''I want a legalization
program that does not provide amnesty.''

Mr. Richardson said he felt closest to the stance of Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona and another presidential candidate -- or at least where
Mr. McCain was two years ago in drafting an immigration bill with Senator Edward
M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

F. Chris Garcia, a University of New Mexico political science professor who has
followed Mr. Richardson's career, said the governor's position on the bill in
Congress reflected what he described as the often nuanced positions Mr.
Richardson had taken in running New Mexico. Professor Garcia noted that Mr.
Richardson had said that he did not want to be defined as simply a Hispanic
politician, and suggested that the governor's outspokenness now could work
against that effort.

''Governor Richardson has to be particularly careful because this is a very
controversial issue and he doesn't want to be branded as taking a position that
would draw attention to his ethnicity,'' he said.

But Brian Sanderoff, the head of a New Mexico polling firm, said Mr. Richardson
had handled the issue adroitly in New Mexico, presenting himself as both tough
and compassionate. Mr. Sanderoff said that might serve Mr. Richardson well as he
tried to navigate this more complicated national terrain.

''This is typical Bill Richardson,'' he said. ''Bill Richardson tends to take a
middle of the road empathetic position with an act of toughness with it. That's
Bill. He's hard to pigeonhole as being definitely anti-immigration or
pro-immigration. He's going to take a middle stance where he'll seem to have
positions on both sides of the fence.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about the presidential campaign of Gov. Bill
Richardson of New Mexico, and how it could be affected by the battle over
immigration, referred incorrectly in some copies to his state's Hispanic
population. New Mexico has the highest percentage of Hispanics in the country;
it does not have the highest percentage of Hispanic immigrants in the country.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The immigration issue has entangled Gov. Bill Richardson, a
Democratic candidate for president, seen here in his office in Santa Fe, N.M.
(Photo by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Provisions Gain Wide Support in Poll

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Megan Thee, Marina Stefan and
Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words


As opponents from the right and left challenge an immigration bill before
Congress, there is broad support among Americans -- Democrats, Republicans and
independents alike -- for the major provisions in the legislation, according to
the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.

Taking a pragmatic view on a divisive issue, a large majority of Americans want
to change the immigration laws to allow illegal immigrants to gain legal status
and to create a new guest worker program to meet future labor demands, the poll
found.

At the same time, Americans have mixed feelings about whether the recent wave of
immigration has been beneficial to the country, the survey found, and they are
sharply divided over how open the United States should be to future immigrants.

Half of Americans say they are ready to transform the process for selecting new
immigrants as proposed in the bill, giving priority to job skills and education
levels over family ties to the United States, which have been the foundation of
the immigration system for four decades.

Point by point, large majorities expressed support for measures in the
legislation that has been under debate since Monday in the Senate.

The nationwide telephone poll did not ask respondents about the immigration bill
itself, but there were questions about its most significant provisions. It was
conducted May 18 to 23 with 1,125 adults, and has a margin of sampling error of
plus or minus three percentage points.

The bill, which is backed by President Bush and a bipartisan group of senators,
would allow illegal immigrants who were in the United States before Jan. 1 of
this year to obtain legal status by paying fines and passing background checks.

Two-thirds of those polled said illegal immigrants who had a good employment
history and no criminal record should gain legal status as the bill proposes,
which is by paying at least $5,000 in fines and fees and receiving a renewable
four-year visa.

Many Republican lawmakers have rejected this plan, calling it amnesty that
rewards immigrants who broke the law when they entered the United States. But
the poll showed that differences are not great between Republicans and Democrats
on this issue, with 66 percent of Republicans in the poll favoring the
legalization proposal, as well as 72 percent of Democrats and 65 percent of
independents.

Rick Nunez, a 29-year-old quality control technician from Pennsauken, N. J., who
identified himself as a Republican, said in a follow-up telephone call that he
favored a legalization plan.

''Illegal immigrants are imbedded in our nation, so allowing them to apply for a
work visa would be a good way to draw them in and set a path for them to become
legal,'' said Mr. Nunez, whose family came from Puerto Rico. ''If they have been
working here and are law abiding and can contribute to our country, they should
be allowed to stay and become citizens.''

Most of those polled agreed that illegal immigrants should eventually be allowed
to apply to become American citizens. But 59 percent said illegal immigrants
should be considered for citizenship only after legal immigrants who have played
by the rules.

Under the Senate bill, illegal immigrants would have to wait eight years before
they could become permanent residents and at least 13 years to become citizens.

Two-thirds of Americans in the survey favored creating a guest-worker program
for future immigrants. The bill would create a temporary-worker program in which
immigrants would come for three stints of two years each, going home for one
year between each stint and returning home for good after the third.

More than half of those who favored the guest-worker program said the workers
should be allowed to apply to become permanent immigrants and eventually
American citizens, if they maintain a strong work history and commit no crimes.
About a third of those who favored the program disagreed, saying guest workers
should be required to return home after their temporary period.

The bill does not include a path to citizenship for guest workers. In the
debate, Democrat senators have sharply criticized the temporary-worker plan,
saying it would create an underclass of easily exploited low-skilled workers. On
Wednesday, senators voted to cut back the number of guest workers to 200,000
from the 400,000 proposed in the bill.

The bill also calls for reinforcing the country's borders, cracking down on
employers who hire illegal immigrants and eliminating the backlog of visa
applications from aspiring legal immigrants. In the poll, 75 percent of those
who responded favored tougher penalties for employers of illegal workers, and 82
percent said the federal government should do more to reinforce the border. But
only 15 percent favored fences as the main method to reduce illegal border
crossings.

The poll showed that Americans are uncertain about the benefits of the most
recent wave of immigration, and divided over how many immigrants should come in
the future. Fifty-seven percent said recent immigrants had made a contribution
to the United States. But 35 percent said that in the long run, the new
immigrants would make American society worse, while only 28 percent said they
would make it better.

A plurality of 48 percent favored imposing some controls on immigration. But
large minorities on either side disagreed, with a quarter of respondents saying
the United States should open its borders to all immigrants, and a quarter
saying that the borders should be completely closed. These polarized positions
may help explain the acrimony of the immigration debate across the nation.

By large margins, people in the poll are aware that the majority of the
immigrants who have arrived in recent years are illegal, and 61 percent said
that illegal immigration was a very serious problem. A large majority, 70
percent of respondents, said they believed that illegal immigrants weaken the
American economy because they use public services but do not pay corresponding
taxes.

''This has nothing to do with any particular person or group of people, but
housing and schooling are going to illegal immigrants,'' said Barbara Jackson,
55, a visiting nurse from the Bronx who identified herself as a Democrat. ''You
build affordable housing and then put someone in it who hasn't paid their dues.
Do Americans' tax dollars pay for us to be second?''

Economists have found that many undocumented workers have Social Security and
other taxes deducted from their paychecks, and have contributed as much as $7
billion to the Social Security Administration while claiming no benefits because
of their illegal status. But Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, a
conservative group, has reported that low-skilled illegal immigrant families
cause an overall fiscal drain.

Among those polled, a majority of 51 percent favored overhauling the American
immigration system to make it more attuned to economic demands, giving priority
to job skills and educational accomplishment. Only 34 percent said that
immigrants with family ties in the United States should take precedence.

Family reunification has been the cornerstone of the immigration system since
1965. The bill proposes to move to a merit system in which points would be
assigned for work skills and education.

''I think this country would benefit from having people relocate here who have
an educational background that would be an asset to the country,'' said Delores
Mitchell, 66, a retired social worker from Highland Hills, Ohio, who identified
herself as an independent.

''I just don't feel it should be based on whether family is here or not. We need
people who have more job skills,'' Ms. Mitchell said in a follow-up interview to
the poll.

Most Americans in the poll said they believed the country will be served if
immigrants can work legally. ''When immigrants do take jobs, they're hard
workers,'' said Anna Cooper, 55, a homemaker in Venice, Fla., who identified
herself as an independent. ''They just want to work, that's the bottom line.
They need a paycheck to take care of their families.''

FAVOR: 66% OPPOSE: 30  How should priority be given when admitting immigrants?
EDUCATION, JOB SKILLS AND WORK EXPERIENCE: 51% FAMILY IN THE U.S.: 34 IT
DEPENDS: 5  Should illegal immigrants get a renewable visa if they pay a fine,
have a clean record and pass a background check?

YES: 67% NO: 27  What should happen to illegal immigrants who have been in the
U.S. for at least two years? SHOULD BE DEPORTED: 33 SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO APPLY
FOR LEGAL STATUS: 62%  (pg. A1)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Views on Immigration'' How serious a problem do you think the
issue of illegal immigration is for the country right now? Very serious: 61% Not
too serious: 6 Not serious: 1 Somewhat serious: 30  Should America welcome all
immigrants, some but not others, or none at all? All: 24 Some: 48 None: 24 No
opinion: 4  In the long run, will today's immigrants make American society
better or worse, or will they have no overall effect? Better: 28 Worse: 48 No
effect: 24 No opinion: 8  Do you think that most recent immigrants to the United
States contribute to this country, or do most of them cause problems?
Contribute: 57 Cause problems: 28 Both: 6 No opinion: 8  Do you think illegal
immigrants coming to this country today take jobs away from American citizens,
or do they mostly take jobs Americans don't want? Take jobs from citizens: 30
Take unwanted jobs: 59 Both: 9 No opinion: 3  Would a guest worker program
increase or decrease illegal immigration? Increase:45 Decrease: 41 Neither: 5 No
opinion: 8  Views on Iraq  Do you think the United States should set a timetable
for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq sometime in 2008? Should: 63% Should
not: 34 No opinion: 3  Would you say that sending more than 20,000 additional
U.S. troops to Iraq is making the situation in Iraq better, making it worse, or
having no effect? Better: 20 Worse: 28 No impact: 50 No opinion: 4  Should
Congress block all funding for the war in Iraq, allow funding as long as the
Iraqi government meets benchmarks set by the U.S., or allow all funding for the
war without any benchmark conditions? Block funding: 13 Fund with benchmarks: 69
Fund unconditionally: 15 No opinion: 3  Totals may not add to 100 percent
because of rounding.  Based on nationwide telephone interviews with 1,125
adults, conducted May 18-23.  (pg. A16)  Chart Would you favor or oppose a guest
worker program?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Opens a Sheltered Path To Asylum for Some Iraqis

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ and THOM SHANKER; James Glanz reported from New York and
Thom Shanker from Washington. Ali Adeeb contributed reporting from Baghdad.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1262 words


An obscure program that bypasses the State Department's normal immigration
procedures has granted a form of temporary asylum to a former minister who led
Iraq's troubled Health Ministry and to more than 100 other Iraqi professionals,
witnesses of potential crimes by Americans, and children wounded in the
conflict.

Asylum through ordinary channels has been granted to only a tiny number of the
thousands of Iraqi translators, drivers and security guards who work for the
Pentagon and its contractors, and who face retribution because of their ties to
Americans. When the regular channels do work, the process often takes months or
years, but the alternate route takes days at most.

The program has recently been the focus of questions by Senator Edward M.
Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, both Democrats, who
have expressed concerns about the plight of Iraqis who have worked with the
United States and its contractors.

The expedited program, officially known as Significant Public Benefit Parole, is
administered by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the investigative agency of
the Department of Homeland Security.

The program coordinates closely with the military because it is Iraqis assisting
the American war effort who may apply for protection. Among those Iraqis are
some who have testified at courts-martial of Americans.

The former health minister, Ali al-Shammari, is the most senior official known
to have sought asylum. He is said by his supporters to have fought corruption at
his ministry.

But the Health Ministry itself is widely seen as deeply corrupt by those who
have worked with it, particularly in the way it distributes drugs and medical
devices.

The ministry also has a reputation for Shiite partisanship. A few weeks after
Dr. Shammari took over in the spring of 2006, a Sunni physician who led the
Diyala Province Health Department was kidnapped from the corridors of the Health
Ministry itself, and was never found.

Among Dr. Shammari's supporters is Dr. Jon Bowersox, who is a professor of
surgery at the University of Cincinnati and was health attache in the American
Embassy in Baghdad from October 2005 to July 2006.

''There were widespread shortages, despite over 60 percent of the Ministry of
Health budget being directed to procuring medicine, bandages and other essential
supplies,'' Dr. Bowersox said.

He and other supporters said Dr. Shammari tried to reform the ministry. Dr. Said
I. Hakki, director of the Iraqi Red Crescent Society, said that after Dr.
Shammari fired hundreds of corrupt or inept ministry employees, he began
receiving death threats. ''He tried to make changes,'' Dr. Hakki said. As a
result, ''he was put on the death list.''

The Health Ministry is also thought to be under the sway of Shiite militias
affiliated with the radical cleric Moktada al-Sadr; Dr. Shammari was in the Sadr
political bloc. Colleagues say that even though Dr. Shammari reluctantly
followed orders from Sadr political leaders to leave the government in April,
along with five other members of the bloc, his anticorruption efforts made him
unpopular with his former allies.

Whatever the reason, it is clear there is now substantial friction between Dr.
Shammari and the Sadr bloc. Mahdi al-Mutairi, head of the political bureau of
Mr. Sadr's office, said in a telephone interview yesterday, ''The performance of
Ali al-Shammari as a minister was bad.''

''There are many problems between us and him,'' Mr. Mutairi said. ''He didn't
carry out his role as he was supposed to.''

Hours after landing in New York last week on a flight from the Middle East, Dr.
Shammari spoke briefly with a reporter in the lobby of a Times Square hotel
where he was staying with two American officials. The Americans asked not to be
named because of concerns that their work in Iraq would be compromised, but one
confirmed that he had accompanied Dr. Shammari from Iraq as part of the parole
program.

''He is my parolee,'' the official said, looking at Dr. Shammari.

Dr. Shammari declined to discuss his case but said he would like to talk about
his work eventually, ''I would like to tell a positive story about the Health
Ministry.''

Responding to questions from Senators Kennedy and Levin in a previously
unreported letter, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said last week that between
2004 and 2006, the Pentagon processed 117 cases in the parole program. The cases
included ''Iraqi nationals whose service in support of U.S. forces in Iraq has
put their lives in imminent, documented danger,'' Mr. Gates said, or who are in
need of medical treatment not available in Iraq.

But he also disclosed for the first time the tally of about 22,000 Iraqis
working for Pentagon contractors and subcontractors in Iraq.

In a statement yesterday, Senator Kennedy said: ''Tens of thousands of Iraqis
work for our military in Iraq, and it's essential that we develop a
comprehensive approach to meet their needs and those of Iraq's countless other
refugees who have supported our government in the past.

''We obviously need to know far more about how the Significant Public Benefit
Parole program is being used to bring Iraqis into the country. Our priority
ought to be saving the lives of those vulnerable Iraqis whose service to our
military and our nation has left an assassin's bull's-eye on their backs.''

Michael Keegan, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
parole authority was granted to the secretary of homeland security under the
Immigration and Nationality Act.

''Parole is a discretionary authority used only on a case-by-case basis for
urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit,'' Mr. Keegan said.
''Parole is an extraordinary measure that is sparingly used to bring an
otherwise inadmissible alien into the United States for a temporary period due
to a compelling emergency. Parole does not convey any immigration benefit.''

A potential subject for parole is first identified by American military
officials in Iraq, but the approval of senior Defense Department civilian
officials is necessary to forward that parole application to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, Pentagon and military officials said.

In making a parole decision, I.C.E. officers look at the entire situation, Mr.
Keegan said. For example, officers look at whether the case rises to the level
of an emergency. Officers also look at whether any other form of immigration
relief or another immigration benefit applies in the case. Using parole to
circumvent the normal visa process is not permitted.

Each parole request is weighed by two officers working independently, and a
supervisor then reviews the decision, he added.

''Paroles are temporary, so they do have an expiration date,'' Mr. Keegan said.
''Paroles are authorized for the time required to address the emergency
circumstances.''

Still, about 10 percent of the Iraqis brought to the United States under the
program do apply for and generally receive permanent asylum through the State
Department, said Dr. Shammari's parole officer.

And the program is not restricted to officials. Dr. Laurence Ronan, a physician
at Massachusetts General Hospital, said Dr. Shammari's parole officer had also
brought four or five wounded Iraqi children to the hospital for treatment. The
parole officer confirmed that the children had been brought here on parole.

The program, Dr. Ronan said, had been able to bring children ''from the villages
and the very battlefield of the Iraq war to the steps of Massachusetts General
in Boston.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A parole program helped Ali al-Shammari, ex-health minister in
Iraq. (Photo by Karim Kadim/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Winning on Iraq, Bush Turns to Immigration

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


Having won his fight with Congressional Democrats on an Iraq war spending bill,
President Bush is now waging an equally aggressive battle with Republicans, as
he tries to persuade them to support an immigration bill that he hopes will be a
signature domestic achievement.

As the Senate debated the immigration measure, Mr. Bush spent the past week
lobbying behind the scenes to build support for it. A dozen Republican senators,
including some of the staunchest opponents to the bill, were summoned to Oval
Office meetings to hear the president deliver an impassioned appeal for the
legislation.

In return, participants said, they gave Mr. Bush an earful about complaints from
their constituents, including some loyal Bush supporters.

''He may have this legacy thing in mind -- he may think that it's Nixon going to
China, that only he can get this done,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican
of Alabama. Describing the meeting as positive, Mr. Sessions said Mr. Bush
''took it well'' when he told him pointedly that he did not intend to vote for
the measure.

''I think he's made a big mistake,'' Mr. Sessions added. ''I think he put
himself in a position of weakness by making this something that he desperately
wants.''

The White House was making its push on immigration as it wrapped up what
Republicans said was Mr. Bush's first good week in as long as they could
remember, one capped by the president's signing of the Iraq war spending bill at
Camp David on Friday evening. Passage of the bill without the timelines for
withdrawal that Mr. Bush had opposed was cause for celebration at 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue, as were tentative signs of progress on the immigration
bill.

The Oval Office meetings are part of a campaign, including Thursday's
presidential press conference in the Rose Garden and a speech planned for
Tuesday in Georgia, to prod the Senate into passing the measure. But at the same
time, the White House is nervous that the fragile bipartisan coalition that put
the immigration bill on the Senate agenda could collapse over the Congressional
recess next week, as senators confront passionate feelings on the issue from
voters.

''Look, he understands, having been involved in this debate for many years, that
it is an extremely emotional and emotionally charged issue, so he is not
surprised that it engenders strong reaction,'' said Joel Kaplan, the White House
deputy chief of staff. ''I think everybody is pleased here that we are making
progress.''

On Iraq, Mr. Bush's aides and allies were more than pleased. After months of
anemic approval ratings, and a string of woes including the conviction of the
top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney and calls for the resignation of the
attorney general, they were practically ecstatic.

''We got our No. 1 priority accomplished: our funding for Iraq,'' said Tony
Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary, in an interview Friday. ''That's
a big moment for us; it feels good. It's good to have an accomplishment, and
it's good to start debate on immigration, something that the president sees as
so critically important.''

Ed Gillespie, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, said,
''Pendulums swing, and it feels like the start of a pendulum swing.''

Of course, it was too soon to tell whether the pendulum is truly swinging, on
Iraq or immigration. The war spending bill had barely left the Capitol for Mr.
Bush's signature before some members of his own party were signaling that they
would press for a change of course in September.

''I think that the handwriting is on the wall that we are going in a different
direction in the fall, and I expect the president to lead it,'' the Senate
Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, told reporters.

Mr. Bush has long said that his troop buildup in Iraq was designed to stabilize
Baghdad and give Prime Minister Nouri Kamal al-Maliki breathing room to get his
government in order, and some Republicans said passage of the spending bill now
gave Mr. Bush some breathing room.

Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, attended one of the
president's Oval Office meetings this week. Mr. Alexander credited Mr. Bush with
taking ''a real leadership role'' on immigration in a way that, he said, Mr.
Bush did not last year.

''He's engaged, and that's a big help,'' Mr. Alexander said.

Whether Mr. Bush can sway Republicans to his side remains to be seen. Mr.
Alexander said he left the meeting the same way he came in -- undecided.

Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, who is ordinarily a close
ally of the president but who has broken with him on immigration, said she came
away feeling that Mr. Bush ''now better understands'' the depth of opposition to
the bill.

Asked if Mr. Bush had changed her mind, Ms. Hutchison answered, ''I wouldn't say
that there's been a change of mind.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Many Employers See Flaws as Immigration Bill Evolves

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


Employers, a major force in the national debate over immigration, say their
discontent with the bill shaping up in the Senate has deepened over the last
week because of changes that could make it more difficult for them to hire
foreign workers.

High-tech companies, like Microsoft and Oracle, and employers of lesser skilled
workers, like restaurants and construction contractors, already had qualms about
the original version of the legislation, forged in three months of talks between
the White House and a dozen senators.

But from the point of view of many employers, the bill has become worse in the
last week.

E. John Krumholtz, director of federal affairs at Microsoft, said senators were
well intentioned and ''really wanted to help us'' find the skilled professionals
needed to design computers and write software.

But Mr. Krumholtz said: ''The deal is worse than the status quo, and the status
quo is a disaster. We are troubled by the grand bargain.''

The deal was announced on May 17, and the text of the legislation became
available two days later. The Senate began debating it on Monday.

Mr. Krumholtz said, ''The package would have benefited from greater scrutiny --
the hearings, review and analysis that occur in the normal legislative
process.''

Supporters of the bill had a good week on the Senate floor. On Monday, they got
69 votes to begin consideration of the bill. They mustered 66 votes on Thursday
in favor of the most contentious provision in the bill, which would offer legal
status to most of the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

The bill calls for a ''merit-based system'' of awarding green cards, which gives
greater weight to education and job skills.

But Daryl R. Buffenstein, a former president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association whose clients include many Fortune 500 companies, said: ''The
reforms in the Senate bill do not help the business community. Indeed, they hurt
the business community. Under the current system, employers file petitions with
the government to show why a particular employee is needed and should get a
green card. The Senate bill would eliminate the employers' ability to petition
for specific workers.''

The bill would increase the number of visas for highly skilled workers, a goal
long sought by the high-tech industry. Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of
Vermont, won adoption of an amendment that would increase the fee charged to
employers for such a visa, known as an H-1B, to $5,000, from $1,500. The money
would be used to finance scholarships for American citizens studying
engineering, mathematics, computer science or health care.

Robert P. Hoffman, a vice president of Oracle, said the higher fees represented
''an onerous tax increase on America's most innovative companies.''

Companies that employ lower-skilled workers also objected to changes made on the
Senate floor.

The bill, as drafted by senators and the Bush administration, would have allowed
American companies to bring in 400,000 lower-skilled workers on two-year visas.
The number could have increased to 600,000 in response to employers' needs.

The Senate lowered the limit to 200,000 and eliminated the automatic adjustment
for market conditions. Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said
the foreign workers would put ''downward pressure on American wages.''

R. Craig Silvertooth, director of federal affairs at the National Roofing
Contractors Association, said employers were dismayed by the Senate's action.

''It's a travesty,'' Mr. Silvertooth said. ''It eviscerates the temporary worker
program, which was one of the central reasons for the business community to be
involved in the immigration debate.''

Employers strongly support the provision that would offer legal status to
illegal immigrants.

With a legal work force, employers say, they could avoid fines and raids by
immigration officers. Such raids have disrupted operations at some companies,
forcing them to recruit and train replacement workers.

Jeffrey S. Passel, a former Census Bureau demographer who works at the Pew
Hispanic Center, estimates that more than 7 million of the 12 million illegal
immigrants are employed. They account for nearly 5 percent of the nation's
civilian labor force, with higher shares in some occupations: 29 percent of
roofers, 24 percent of agricultural workers and 25 percent of construction
laborers.

But employers said they were still deeply concerned about a provision of the
Senate bill that would require them to check federal and state databases to
verify that employees were eligible to work in the United States. The
requirement applies to all current and future employees, whether they are
citizens or not.

If the employee verification system had even a small error rate, it could cause
big problems for large companies like Wal-Mart, which has 1.3 million employees.

John F. Gay, senior vice president of the National Restaurant Association, said
the verification system should be phased in, to make sure it could handle the
large number of inquiries that would be made.

Farmers, by contrast, are generally pleased with the bill, which has many
provisions tailored to their needs. Under the bill, the government would create
a special program to legalize the status of illegal immigrants working in
agriculture, and it would speed the approval of employers' petitions to bring in
seasonal workers.

''The bill would secure the essential labor force in agriculture today, and it
would go a long way to meet our need for seasonal labor in the future,'' said
Luawanna M. Hallstrom, a tomato grower in Oceanside, Calif., who is a vice
president of the National Council of Agricultural Employers.

John H. Young, director of the New England Apple Council, said the new procedure
for seasonal farm workers would be ''more reliable than the current system,
which is so cumbersome that you can't be sure you'll have workers when you need
them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 1, 2007



CORRECTION: A chart on Sunday about occupations in which illegal immigrants
account for a large proportion of all workers misstated the size of the civilian
labor force in 2005. It was 148.6 million, not 48.6 million.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Working Under the Radar'' Occupations in which illegal
immigrants account for a large proportion of all workers.  OCCUPATION:
Insulation workers Estimates based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 56,000
PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 36%  OCCUPATION: Miscellaneous agricultural workers
Estimates based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 839,000 PERCENTAGE
UNAUTHORIZED: 29  OCCUPATION: Roofers Estimates based on 2005 Census data TOTAL
WORKERS: 325,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 29  OCCUPATION: Drywall installers and
ceiling tile installers Estimates based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS:
285,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 28  OCCUPATION: Contruction helpers Estimates
based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 145,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 27
OCCUPATION: Meat, poultry and fish processing workers Estimates based on 2005
Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 322,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 27  OCCUPATION:
Pressers of textile, garment and related materials Estimates based on 2005
Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 83,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 26  OCCUPATION:
Grounds maintenance workers Estimates based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS:
1,204,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 25  OCCUPATION: Construction laborers
Estimates based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 1,614,000 PERCENTAGE
UNAUTHORIZED: 25  OCCUPATION: Brickmasons, blockmasons and stonemasons Estimates
based on 2005 Census data TOTAL WORKERS: 198,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 25
OCCUPATION: Overall civilian labor force Estimates based on 2005 Census data
TOTAL WORKERS: 48,615,000 PERCENTAGE UNAUTHORIZED: 4.9%  (Source by Pew Hispanic
Center analysis)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Laugh Lines; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words


Jay Leno

The price of gas just keeps going up. Gas is so expensive Jimmy Carter and
President Bush are carpooling.

Immigration is the big issue; proponents say we need immigrants from Mexico to
take the jobs Americans don't want to do. Now, don't confuse that with India,
where the people are taking the jobs Americans want to do. That's totally
different.

According to The (New York) Daily News, presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani is
paying his wife $10,000 a month to help write his speeches. That's every wife's
dream, huh? To be able to put words in your husband's mouth and get paid for it.
Conan O'Brien

C-Span is launching a new satellite radio station that will be completely
dedicated to covering the 2008 presidential election. Experts say that listening
to C-Span is the perfect solution for people who find watching C-Span too
stimulating.

This week, Congress is considering a ''no confidence'' resolution concerning
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. After hearing this, President Bush said,
''You know, that's not going to help his confidence.''

Today, in England, a new theme park opened that is devoted to the legendary
author Charles Dickens. Experts say the Charles Dickens Theme Park is perfect
for the family sick of spending every vacation at Jane AustenWorld.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

America the Generous: A Lost Story of Citizenship

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 779 words


When people bicker over immigration, it's often not long before the topic turns
to My Family Came Here Legally. People whose roots go to Ellis Island or deeper
like to say that. It fills their family trees with hard-working people who were
poor but played by the rules, who got with the American program. It draws a
bright line between upstanding Americans and those shadowy illegal workers
hiding one big secret and who knows how many others.

It's that line -- that moral chasm between Us and Them, and between an idealized
history and the muddled present -- that informs the worst parts of the Senate
immigration bill. It's not only the provisions that create an incredibly
grudging path to citizenship for illegal immigrants -- charging them $5,000
apiece and requiring them to jump through pointless and punishing hoops that
include a ''touchback'' trip home to Mexico, say, or Manila. It's also the
belief that immigrants with little to offer us but their toil and sweat should
be brought in only as guest laborers, with no hope of becoming citizens, and
that the paths to entry for immigrants' relatives must be narrowed.

Congress has taken the week off from the debate, with members going home to
districts that have already been inflamed by the loud and loony right, which has
decided that the bill is that filthy thing ''amnesty'' and that the nation's
character would be defiled if it ever forgave illegal immigrants for coming here
to do our worst jobs, or let too many more people in to put down roots. You
could call that view unkind and uncharitable. You could also call it unwise,
given economic realities.

I would add un-American.

My view has been informed by ''Americans in Waiting,'' a book by Hiroshi
Motomura, a law professor at the University of North Carolina, about what he
calls a lost story of a confident young country that opened itself to newcomers
in ways that seem unthinkably generous today.

For about 150 years, Professor Motomura writes, from shortly after the country's
birth to the end of the Ellis Island heyday in the 1920s, when there were no
numerical limits to immigration and the flow was mostly from western Europe, new
immigrants could gain many of the rights of citizens by signing a document
declaring their intention to naturalize. They became Americans in waiting, able
to work, vote, buy land and clear homesteads.

The elegant idea was that immigration was simply the beginning of an inevitable
transition toward full membership in a growing country. The ancestors of so many
Americans, including today's immigration hard-liners, benefited from it.

It's important not to romanticize that history. The doors were more open for
white Europeans than for members of other groups, like the Chinese and Japanese,
who were almost entirely shut out. Many white immigrants -- the Irish, Italians,
European Jews -- suffered profound discrimination once they arrived. Over time,
the era of Ellis Island gave way to quotas, country and employment categories,
and long waiting lists for everyone. With long waiting lists came people
desperate enough to jump them.

The newcomer, once a citizen's near equal, has come to be viewed as a perpetual
outsider. The dominant view of immigration is no longer what Professor Motomura
calls ''immigration as transition'' but immigration as ''contract'' and
''affiliation.'' Immigrants must meet ever-more-demanding terms of entry and
slowly forge connections here before equality becomes an option.

Professor Motomura does not argue that ''immigration as transition'' is the
superior or only model, but rather that it should be restored to its place
beside the other two. He would go much farther than today's politicians in
giving rights to new legal immigrants -- even granting government benefits --
but on the condition that they take advantage of the chance to become citizens
after five years. Those who do not would revert to a more limited status.

Professor Motomura contends that the machinery of assimilation will work if we
let it. Immigrants who are unduly insecure, he says, who are worried not only
about jobs, health and finances but also contractual obligations that the United
States could revoke at any time, naturally retreat to ethnic enclaves. Those who
are confident in their welcome, he argues, are more likely to plunge headlong
into American life.

Professor Motomura, whose parents immigrated from Japan, is convinced that
immigrants will cherish citizenship more if it is easier to get. Maybe that's
crazy. But it's American, and reflects a confidence in this country that the
architects of the restrictive parts of the Senate bill have lost, if they ever
had it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bloomberg Assails Congressional Bill on Immigration

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in unusually pointed and broad language, criticized
Congress yesterday for parts of a comprehensive immigration bill now being
debated in the Senate.

Speaking after a Memorial Day parade in Laurelton, Queens, which has a thriving
Caribbean community, Mr. Bloomberg said in response to a reporter's question,
''Shame on Congress, who can't get together'' on the immigration issue.

The Senate bill has come under partisan attack even before the House of
Representatives can propose its version.

Lawmakers ''should all look back on their history,'' said Mr. Bloomberg, a small
American flag draped on his lectern as he spoke to reporters, ''and realize that
if we had had the laws that they are proposing in many cases, they wouldn't be
here because their parents or grandparents would not have been here.''

The mayor spoke near what is known as Veterans Memorial Triangle, a patch of
green maintained at 225th Street, 143rd Avenue and North Conduit Avenue by the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post 5298.

The teenage musicians of the Elite Marching Band of St. Albans, Queens,
performed an earnest rendition of the national anthem. Cub Scouts fiddled with
their kerchiefs during the grown-ups' speeches. Toddlers covered their ears and
cried during a four-gun salute.

Mr. Bloomberg was especially critical of the guest-worker provision of the
Senate bill, strongly supported by many in his own Republican Party. Immigrants
would enter the country for three stints of two years each, going home for one
year between each stint and returning home permanently after the third.

''The guest-worker program is a joke,'' he said. ''Nobody's going to go home for
a year and come back. Nobody could ever enforce that. Nobody in their right mind
would ever try to do it.''

He reiterated his praise for the bill's rejection of mass deportations of the
country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. About 400,000 undocumented
immigrants are thought to be in New York City.

''We don't have an army big enough to deport them,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''It
would destroy the economy if you deported them. They are here, yes, against the
law, but they're here with the complicity of the U.S. government. The U.S.
government deliberately looked away since 1986, the last time we had immigration
reform.''

He praised the bill's citizenship provisions as a promising start. ''Having
something that gives them permanent status and some road to citizenship is a big
step forward,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''You don't want that road to be so
impossible that they can't do it.

''On the other hand,'' he continued, ''you don't want to also make that road
something that doesn't include learning to speak English, learning the culture
of this country, the laws of this country and the history of this country.''

The mayor said immigrants were important to the economy because the population
was not growing fast enough, millions of baby boomers were set to retire and too
few younger workers would be left to finance Social Security.

''We need to have 400,000 to 500,000 more people coming into this country every
year,'' he said, ''or you will not have anybody paying for Social Security.
There is no Social Security trust fund. We spend the Social Security money that
you're paying now, and when you get to the age you want to receive benefits,
somebody else will have to pay that.''

Not all the policy questions came from reporters. Adrienne Gordon, 14, an eighth
grader at Tri-Community Junior High School 231, said she had three questions for
the mayor.

''How come,'' she said quietly, ''teachers these days in school, they don't base
their grades that they give the students on what they do in class? They base the
grades on if they like the student or not?''

The mayor smiled and said: ''I can't promise that every one of our 80,000
teachers does it the right way. But I think that most of them base it on what
you do in the classroom.''

Then, Adrienne asked what the mayor was doing to reduce class size. He
acknowledged that even with the largest school construction budget in municipal
history, the city had been able to reduce class size by only a small percentage.

''But what the teacher does in front of the classroom is more important than
class size'' in the long run, he said.

The third question? In a voice that could barely be heard, Adrienne asked, ''I
was wondering if you could take a picture with us?''

''That's the one I don't know how to answer!'' the mayor replied. ''Who has the
camera? Is everyone in the picture?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, left, discussed immigration on
Memorial Day at the Veterans Memorial Triangle in Queens. Above, members of
V.F.W. Post 5298 at a ceremony to honor soldiers killed in past wars.
(Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Change on Immigration Turns Senator Kyl Into Lightning Rod

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1340 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


Angry calls poured into Senator Jon Kyl's office this week by the thousands,
expressing outrage beyond anything he said he had witnessed in his 20-year
political career. The callers were inflamed by Mr. Kyl's role in shaping the
bipartisan immigration compromise announced May 17, which lawmakers continue to
debate.

''Yes, I have learned some new words from some of my constituents,'' Mr. Kyl, an
Arizona Republican, said at a news conference on Thursday, drawing titters from
those in the room.

Mr. Kyl, 65, who garners top ratings from conservative groups every year, is the
unlikely linchpin to the fragile alliance of Democrats and Republicans trying to
push the sprawling immigration bill through the Senate.

Labeled by its backers as the ''grand bargain,'' the measure has the potential
to be the most far-reaching piece of domestic legislation taken up by the Senate
this year.

An ardent foe of the immigration bill that passed the Senate last year but was
later stymied by House Republicans, Mr. Kyl is seen as essential to attracting
conservative Republicans to the new proposal. As his party's conference
chairman, Mr. Kyl is the third-ranking Republican in the Senate and a fervent
spokesman for conservative principles.

Although the bill's backers have praised Mr. Kyl for his political courage, his
about-face was not ushered in by either a high-minded refusal to demagogue on
the issue or a conscious summoning of historic compromises from the Senate's
past.

A technocrat who has labored in Arizona in the shadow of his much more visible
colleague, Senator John McCain, Mr. Kyl has traditionally shunned the spotlight
and worked behind the scenes immersed in the details of legislation. It was that
affinity for working in the trenches on policy, and pragmatism about the art of
legislating, that led him to become a legislative partner of Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who has been a major voice for immigration
overhaul.

After winning a bruising re-election battle last November in which immigration
featured prominently, Mr. Kyl said he returned to the Senate convinced that
something needed to be done on the issue. Inaction was no longer an option, he
said.

''The situation in Arizona is horrible today,'' he said in an interview.

Mr. Kyl said he also realized that his approach needed to change, now that
Republicans were a minority in the Senate. With or without him, Mr. Kennedy and
others in the new Democratic majority were poised to draw up immigration
legislation that Mr. Kyl knew he would dislike.

''I had a choice,'' Mr. Kyl said. ''Do I sit on the sidelines and say, 'That's a
bad bill?' Or do I get in the fight and try to shape it as best I could to meet
the objectives that I think are more appropriate?''

But many of his peers in the Republican Party's right wing, who dismiss the
measure as amnesty for illegal immigrants, are now vilifying him.

''This legislation is such a monstrosity that no conservative can feel
comfortable with the final product that was put together,'' said Brian Darling,
director of Senate relations for the Heritage Foundation, a conservative
research group. ''He's a great attorney and a great senator, but this is going
to create a speed bump in his conservative credentials. It's definitely a
blemish.''

On the immigration issue, even officials of the Arizona Republican Party have
turned against Mr. Kyl, who served four terms in the House before being elected
to the Senate in 1994. The state party chairman called a news conference to
denounce the bill.

The day after the proposal was announced, the eight phone lines at the party
headquarters were so jammed that staff members almost decided to close the
office.

''Every single line was literally off the hook most of the day,'' said Sean
McCaffrey, the state party's executive director. ''None of these were happy
calls. Truly, from our headquarters to the 15 county parties, the ratio was 100
to zero. Not a single county chairman, not a single legislative district
chairman reported having a single call from a grass-roots individual saying,
'Please pass this immigration bill.' ''

Mr. Kyl's conservative critics argued that he conceded too much to the Democrats
and should have walked away.

The bill would increase border security, establish a new system for employee
verification, create a temporary-worker program and begin to shift immigration
preferences away from family ties to a merit-based system. It also would create
a path to citizenship for many of the country's 12 million illegal immigrants.

''This bill seems to be 90 percent Ted Kennedy and 10 percent Republican,'' said
Brett Mecum, a spokesman for the Arizona Republican Party.

Mr. Kyl and other conservative Republicans who back the compromise counter that
it includes improvements over last year's bill, including the requirement that
certain border enforcement benchmarks would have to be met before illegal
immigrants could win their first legal visas, and limitations on immigrants'
bringing over members of their extended families.

Mr. Kyl initially began meeting several months ago with a small group of fellow
Republicans to discuss their views. The group eventually came to include both
conservative opponents of last year's bill and more moderate supporters.

The Republicans went to Mr. Kennedy and began to work alongside him, other
Democrats, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and other top Bush
administration officials who were pushing the matter. The group came up with the
outlines of the legislation after marathon meetings that often pitted Mr. Kyl
against Mr. Kennedy in contentious exchanges.

''I spent half my time refereeing arguments between Kyl and Kennedy,'' said
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

Mr. Kyl said he ''hates'' certain aspects of the bill, including the provision
that would grant people who came here illegally a means to stay, and considered
quitting at points in the negotiations, though ''not for long.'' He pointed out
that he had yet to see a workable plan to round up all illegal immigrants and
deport them. Mostly, however, he credited the commitment among members of the
group to working out a solution amenable to both sides.

''The people on the other side, or frequently, Secretary Chertoff, would come
back and say, 'Well, what about this?' '' Mr. Kyl said. ''And he'd walk both
sides from the precipice.''

When the final text of the legislation was made public on May 22, Mr. Kyl's
Washington office fielded more than a thousand calls. The outcry on talk radio
and in conservative blogs was similarly ferocious.

Mr. Kyl's response has been in keeping with his wonkish style. While some
colleagues defended themselves by invoking lofty ideals, Mr. Kyl preferred to
dive into the specifics of the legislation.

On Wednesday, in a session with reporters, he almost jumped out of his seat with
eagerness to clear up an erroneous assumption about an obscure detail.

''I'm glad you asked the question,'' Mr. Kyl said before starting on a detailed
explanation. ''That would be a misconception.''

Afterward, he even cited a page number for the reporter, crinkling his eyes and
looking skyward as he summoned the detail. ''You can read the bill, at about
Page 153,'' he said.

He was quiet when asked to reflect about the bill's potential effect on his
legacy. Although he does not face re-election until 2012, Mr. Kyl conceded that
for good or ill, his name would probably be forever attached to the measure.

''I've thought about that,'' he said, before lapsing into a long silence.

''I would have rather ended my political career with people saying, 'Throughout
his political career, he was recognized as one of the top reasonable spokesmen
for conservativism in this country,' '' Mr. Kyl said. ''I would hope those who
really know me and understand what we were able to achieve in this negotiation
process, if this legislation passes, will at the end of the day continue to
believe that. But I'm not sure.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After Democrats won control of the Senate, Jon Kyl, an Arizona
Republican, knew he had to change tactics, he said last week in an interview.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Make a Bad Bill Better

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 556 words


The great immigration struggle of 2007 has moved from the Senate chamber in
Washington to the continent at large. With Congress taking the week off, it's
time for constituents to weigh in. You can be sure of this much: The debate will
get louder before it gets better.

The problems with the restrictionist provisions of the Senate immigration bill
are serious and many. It includes a path to citizenship for 12 million illegal
immigrants, which is a rare triumph for common sense, but that path is strewn
with cruel conditions, including a fine -- $5,000 -- that's too steep and
hurdles that are needlessly high, including a ''touchback'' requirement for
immigrants to make pilgrimages to their home countries to cleanse themselves of
illegality. The bill imposes an untested merit-point system that narrows the
channels through which family members can immigrate.

And it calls for hundreds of thousands of guest workers to toil here temporarily
in an absurd employment hokey-pokey -- you put your two years in, then one year
out, then repeat that twice and go home forever. It would be massive indentured
servitude -- colonial times all over again, but without any hope of citizenship
for those taking our most difficult and despised jobs.

Those who want this bill to be better are horribly conflicted by it. Their
emotions still seem vastly overmatched by the ferocity of the opposition from
the restrictionist right, with talk radio lighting up over ''amnesty,'' callers
spitting out the words with all the hate they can pour into it.

It is encouraging that the bill survived several attempts by that camp to blow
it apart, including an amendment that would have stricken the legalization
section outright. The center held last week. But it will take a real effort to
make the Senate bill much better, given that a core group of senators are bound
to the ungainly architecture of their ''grand bargain'' and that any progress in
significantly altering or improving it could unravel the deal.

The Senate bill is repellent in many ways. Its fragrant blossoms are grafted to
poisonous roots. But it is also bipartisan, and there lies the kernel of
possibility that may ultimately redeem it. A good bill may yet emerge if enough
lawmakers -- with encouragement from the White House and Americans at large,
whose moderate views on immigration were reflected in a New York Times/CBS News
poll published on Friday -- realize that striking hard-line poses matters less
than drafting legislation marrying reality, justice and decency. Advocates of
comprehensive immigration reform -- which this bill is not -- should not give up
the fight.

Americans, meanwhile, should look closely at what they have been offered, and to
imagine what a strange country this would be if the bill passed as is, if it
morphs into a harsher one, or if it is shot down and we are left with the dismal
status quo. We would rattle around in our fortified chunk of North America,
bristling at our southern border -- nothing is stopping that process -- as we
check our turnstiles carefully for those bright enough to merit entry, bask in
the labor of a churning class of serfs, check people's ID's, raid workplaces and
fill our detention centers. The antiamnesty fringe will be pleased with itself,
but it won't be an America the rest of us will want to brag about.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 212 words


Bush Takes On Critics Of Immigration Bill In Georgia, President Bush accused
opponents of his proposed immigration measure of fear-mongering to defeat its
passage in Congress. Few places in the United States could be more deeply
affected by the bill than New York, scholars and demographers say.    PAGES A16
AND B1  Sanctions and Sudan's Oil New American sanctions aimed at pressuring
Sudan to take action in Darfur are likely to have limited effects on the
country's oil production and exports.   BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C3  Obama Offers
Health Plan Senator Barack Obama proposed an overhaul of the nation's health
care system, intended to cover the uninsured and reduce premiums for everyone
else.   PAGE A18   TB Inquiry on Flights  Officials are tracking down people on
two flights who may have been exposed to a man with a dangerous form of
tuberculosis.   PAGE A14   Now, the Random Symphony A sound artist and
concertgoer who has been secretly recording orchestral sounds made during
intermission has a CD.   THE ARTS, PAGE E1  Rethinking the Kids' Menu Some
families and restaurateurs are starting to rebel against the children's menu,
with its ever-present pizza, fries and nuggets, saying it encourages a reliance
on a bland, fatty ''kids' cuisine.''   DINING, PAGE F1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)  Drawing (Drawing by Lisa
Adams)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Calls Attacks on Immigration Bill 'Empty Political Rhetoric'

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Carl Hulse and Robert Pear contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: GLYNCO, Ga., May 29


President Bush took on parts of his conservative base on Tuesday by accusing
opponents of his proposed immigration measure of fear-mongering to defeat its
passage in Congress.

''If you want to scare the American people, what you say is the bill's an
amnesty bill,'' Mr. Bush said at a training center for customs protection agents
and other federal agents here in southeastern Georgia. ''That's empty political
rhetoric trying to frighten our citizens.''

It was some of Mr. Bush's toughest language as he started an intensified effort
to build support for the compromise bill in the Senate.

The measure hews to Mr. Bush's long-sought goal of a new system with a path to
citizenship for 12 million illegal immigrants, a guest-worker program for
noncitizens and tighter borders.

The compromise, which leaders of both parties struck almost two weeks ago, has
met stiff resistance from the left and right of both parties. Liberals tend to
oppose the section that would add emphasis on admitting immigrants with
education and job skills and less on family reunification. Conservatives tend to
dismiss the plan as an amnesty bill.

It was the conservative opponents to whom Mr. Bush seemed to speak most
forcefully here.

''If you want to kill the bill,'' he said, ''if you don't want to do what's
right for America, you can pick one little aspect out of it. You can use it to
frighten people.''

A senior official said later, ''In no way was he questioning anyone's patriotism
or desire to do what's right.''

It was a rare case of the president's taking on the coalition that helped him
win and keep the Oval Office, the same conservative radio hosts, bloggers,
writers and members of Congress who contributed significantly to the defeat of
immigration measures last year.

Mr. Bush spoke at a critical time, as lawmakers return home to hear from
constituents on a 10-day break.

In the late spring recess last year, grass-roots opponents of an immigration
bill barraged their representatives with complaints that it would amount to
amnesty for lawbreakers, effectively killing its chance for passage.

Unlike the circumstances last year, when the White House was willing to put
party unity above a controversial presidential initiative in an election year,
Mr. Bush is determined to head off a similar result this time.

Lawmakers already saw echoes of last year. In California, two conservative talk
show hosts urged listeners to bombard the telephone lines of Senator Dianne
Feinstein, a Democrat, to register their opposition.

In South Carolina, Senator Jim DeMint, a Republican critic of the proposal, said
that on a walk in downtown Spartanburg and lunch with more than 100 people at
Wade's restaurant on Tuesday he was hard pressed to find anyone who backed the
Senate plan. Concern centered on whether promised enforcement would materialize,
Mr. DeMint said.

''This is not playing well in South Carolina,'' he said.

But like the president, business groups, advocates for immigrants, and religious
and civil rights organizations urged Congress to keep working to shape a
comprehensive immigration bill.

In Phoenix, the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry praised the bill and
said it ''provides the proper framework for restructuring the flawed U.S.
immigration system.''

The chief Republican architect of the bill, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, has been
criticized by some in his state party who object to offering legal status to
illegal immigrants.

Glenn E. Hamer, president of the Arizona Chamber of Commerce, praised Mr. Kyl as
''demonstrating tremendous leadership on this critical issue.''

Mr. Hamer said a spokesman for his organization conveyed this message on
Spanish-language radio and television stations: ''The Senate bill has all the
necessary ingredients. It's a huge step forward.''

An umbrella group, the Coalition for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, reached
out this week to members of Congress in 23 states and urged them to act on the
question.

''Congress has a historic opportunity to fix our immigration system and must not
waste it,'' said Clarissa Martinez, campaign manager of the coalition, which is
holding rallies and vigils, making telephone calls and sending letters and
postcards to lawmakers.

Ms. Martinez said her group, whose 43 members include the Center for Community
Change, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, the National Council of La
Raza and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, sought substantial
changes in the Senate bill to promote the reunification of families and to
change the guest worker program so that temporary workers would not have to
leave for 12 months between two-year stays.

Mr. Bush's visit to the training center here was primarily meant to demonstrate
that he has imposed strong measures to improve border security lapses, a problem
that conservatives have loudly complained about.

Now, he said, it is time to relieve pressure on the border by creating a
''rationalized'' system.

''People in Congress need the courage to go back to their districts and explain
exactly what this bill is all about,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The fundamental question
is will elected officials have the courage necessary to put a comprehensive
immigration plan in place that makes it more likely we can enforce our border
and, at the same time, uphold the great traditions of immigrant traditions of
the United States of America?''

The address, given under a blazing sun before several hundred trainees and
instructors, was his most direct attempt to brush back critics from both sides
who the administration says have distorted the details of the bill.

The appearance followed nearly two weeks in which officials have given dozens of
interviews to radio hosts, editorial pages and newspapers pushing for the plan.

Mr. Bush and his allies have faced an important rhetorical disadvantage,
particularly from the right. Conservative opponents can use one word, amnesty,
against the bill.

Supporters, the president included, are forced into the complex weeds of policy
and the nuances of legislative language. Mr. Bush tried to offset the difference
by discrediting the amnesty accusation.

''Amnesty is forgiveness for being here without any penalties,'' Mr. Bush said.
''That's what amnesty is. I oppose it. The authors, many of the authors, of this
bill oppose it. This bill is not an amnesty bill.''

Under the Senate bill, illegal immigrants who want to become citizens would have
to pay back taxes and pay thousands of dollars in fines.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with border agent trainees after speaking about
his immigration proposal yesterday at a federal training center in Glynco, Ga.
(Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Raising Visa Fees 66% on Average, to Advocates' Dismay

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 659 words


The federal agency that handles immigration visas confirmed yesterday that it
would raise its fees by an average of 66 percent starting July 30. The step made
final an increase first proposed in January, and drew a new outcry from
immigration lawyers and advocacy groups.

The announcement by the agency, United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services, followed its review of some 3,900 letters it received during a
two-month period for public comment. Given those comments -- posted online at
www.regulations.gov -- the agency made minor adjustments to its proposal,
unveiled on Jan. 31.

Among the many fees that will rise is the one for a legal immigrant to apply to
become a United States citizen; it will increase 66 percent, to $675 from $405.
An immigrant applying to become a legal permanent resident will pay $1,010, a
155 percent increase over the current $395 fee.

To limit the cost increases for immigrant families with children, the fee for
each child 14 years and under who applies with at least one parent to become a
legal permanent resident was set at $600. That is a 25 percent reduction from
the agency's proposal. But the $1,010 fee for adults is a slight increase, of
$25, over the proposal.

The agency also said it would waive fees for victims of human trafficking, for
refugees who are granted asylum in the United States, for some teenage
immigrants and for immigrants fleeing domestic abuse who seek residency under
the terms of the Violence Against Women Act.

Fees for a visa for a child adopted from a foreign country will increase to $700
from $545. But for parents facing long waits for children, the agency said, it
will extend the adoption visa petitions once at no cost.

The agency said it would use the additional revenue to improve efficiency and
upgrade its buildings and computer systems, and officials promised to reduce the
average time for processing visa applications by 20 percent by the fall of 2009.

As a matter of policy, the agency pays its annual operating costs, which vary by
year, from its fees. Its officials rejected calls from some immigrant groups
that Congress be asked to provide money to offset some fee increases, said Chris
Bentley, a spokesman for the agency.

Leaders of immigration advocacy groups said the higher fees would discourage
legal immigrants from becoming American citizens. One such critic was William
Ramos, director of the Washington office of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, a group that has been leading
a naturalization drive for legal immigrants in Los Angeles.

''This is a fundamentally flawed system of financing our immigration services,''
Mr. Ramos said. ''It places an unfair burden on folks who want to become
citizens and participate in all the nation has to offer.''

Immigration lawyers predicted that the increases would in effect disenfranchise
many legal immigrants who might otherwise vote in 2008.

''A large proportion of people eligible for citizenship are low-wage workers,
and they will have to save their pennies to pay these fees,'' said Crystal
Williams, deputy director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''The
practical effect will be that they are going to miss the 2008 election.''

The director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Emilio T. Gonzalez, was
ready to announce the increases last month, but held off until Senate and White
House negotiators could reach agreement on a bipartisan bill to overhaul the
immigration system, administration officials said.

If the Senate bill becomes law, the agency will face an immense new workload.
Among other measures, the bill includes provisions to eliminate the current
backlog of four million visa applications within eight years.

Mr. Gonzalez said yesterday that the fee increases were ''both fair to our
customers and vital to our nation as we continue to build a secure and efficient
national immigration service.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mexican Baby Boom in New York Shows the Strength of a New Immigrant Group

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Tanzina Vega contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words


When Lilian Vazquez was born in Brooklyn on Thursday, a rosy 8 pounds 12 ounces
and 20 1/2 inches, she joined a baby boom among Mexican New Yorkers -- one that
bucks an overall decline in New York City births.

A new analysis by city demographers showed a 28 percent increase in births to
Mexican women living here from 2000 to 2005, with 8,234 babies born in 2005, the
last year for which statistics were available. For the first time, the number of
babies born to Mexican women surpassed births to Dominican-born women, which
dropped by more than 10 percent in the same period.

Native-born mothers, who account for fewer than half of all births in the city,
had 7 percent fewer babies over the five years. And with births to foreign-born
women showing only a small increase, the total was down by 3 percent.

To Dr. Iffath Hoskins, who oversaw Lilian's delivery at Lutheran Medical Center
in Brooklyn -- a hospital whose patients include immigrants from more than 100
countries and which was founded more than a century ago to care for the families
of Norwegian sailors -- the numbers open a new chapter in a familiar story.

''We've seen the shift,'' said Dr. Hoskins, chairwoman of obstetrics and
gynecology at the hospital and a 30-year veteran of delivering babies in a city
where Dominicans have been the largest immigrant group since 1990. ''The
Dominican population came earlier, and they have done what every immigrant
population does: They have assimilated more, so their lives are beginning to
mirror the native-born -- getting married at later ages, working in offices,
seeking education and having smaller families.''

Mexicans are now estimated to be among the city's top three immigrant groups,
joining Dominicans, who are still No. 1, and Chinese. Mexicans began arriving in
large numbers in New York only within the last 10 years, and most of them are
here illegally. Lilian's 19-year-old mother, Teresa Vazquez, came from the state
of Puebla, where agricultural traditions encourage big families. Ms. Vazquez, a
housecleaner married to a busboy, joined two brothers and a sister in New York
two years ago and has another four siblings in Mexico.

''They're fresh immigrants,'' Dr. Hoskins said. ''Girls are having babies,
becoming wives and mothers at a far earlier age. They tend to have more children
because they bring their Mexican culture with them.''

On Friday, with newborn Lilian nestled on her chest, Ms. Vazquez was focused on
her firstborn's American future. ''I'm very happy,'' she said in Spanish of her
daughter's United States citizenship, ''because she won't have problems with her
papers.''

Downstairs, at a prenatal class about labor and delivery, six women in advanced
stages of pregnancy spoke of the advantages their children would have as
citizens -- and of the hope that they would grow up to be educated
professionals. Five of the women were from Mexico, one from the Dominican
Republic, and all lacked legal immigration status.

It is difficult to forecast the shape the Mexican baby boom will take in New
York City, experts say. Mexican men still outnumber women among immigrants, and
the rise in births partly reflects the arrival of wives, sisters and daughters
who had been left behind. On the other hand, a study released last week by the
Pew Hispanic Center found that the growth of Mexican immigration to the United
States, mostly illegal, had slackened since mid-2006. And like those who
preceded them, Mexican immigrants are already having fewer children.

''It's striking to see the dramatic shift in family sizes within one
generation,'' said Alyshia F. Galvez, a cultural anthropologist engaged in a
two-year research project concerning Mexican women who give birth in New York.
''These women are coming from families of 6, 7, 11, 12 siblings. Usually they
have two children, and when you ask, 'How many would you like to have?' they
usually say three.''

Ms. Galvez has interviewed more than 60 women for her project, which examines
what is known as the Mexican birth weight paradox: that recent Mexican
immigrants with many risk factors for low-weight babies and high infant
mortality actually have healthier babies and lower infant mortality rates than
Mexican-American women or immigrants who were raised here.

Census data show that Mexican immigrants in New York have the least schooling,
the lowest per-capita income and the lowest rate of English proficiency of the
city's immigrant groups. But Ms. Galvez, who teaches at New York University,
said she had been impressed by the extraordinary cultural strengths and swift
adaptation of these young parents.

''Families are deciding to have, as they say, the number of children they can
care for,'' she said. ''Earlier, it was about having as many children as you
could possibly feed because you needed them for agricultural labor. Now, it's
not just about giving them food, it's about communication and education and
love.''

For women like Hanet Cortes, 26, a Mexican mother with a daughter born in New
York and another due soon, schooling is a primary concern. ''An American diploma
is worth something all over the world, while a Mexican diploma is worth nothing
here,'' said Ms. Cortes, who also is a patient at Lutheran Medical Center.

Educating such children to their potential will not be easy, said Robert
Courtney Smith, a sociologist and author of ''Mexican New York: Transnational
Lives of New Immigrants.''

''On the one hand, Mexicans are the hardest-working people I have ever met, and
many children of immigrants are jumping into the middle class in one
generation,'' Professor Smith, who teaches sociology and immigration studies at
Baruch College, wrote in an e-mail message. ''On the other hand, Mexicans will
present a particular challenge for the educational system.''

Nearly half of Mexicans in the city aged 16 to 19 are neither in school nor high
school graduates, he said. At age 14, about 95 percent of boys are in school,
but by age 18 or 19, the number is down to 26 percent. For girls, it falls to 31
percent from 96 percent. But the city's Mexican population -- conservatively
estimated at about 350,000, including children born here -- is so dispersed that
there is no political leader focused on this issue, Professor Smith added.

''What is desperately needed is some targeted intervention that will help fight
the high dropout rate among Mexicans,'' he said. ''Because it is the first large
cohort of young Mexicans to come of age in New York, we can make a huge
difference if we intervene now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Teresa Vazquez, 19, and her day-old daughter, Lilian, at
Lutheran Medical Center. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg.
B1)
 Women at a prenatal class at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn discuss labor
and delivery issues. Five of the six expectant mothers in the class were born in
Mexico. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. B2)  Chart:
''Growing Number of Mexican Mothers'' More infants in New York City are now born
to Mexican women than to any other foreign-born women, according to city
statistics. More than half of babies born in the city have foreign-born mothers.
Infants born in New York City . . .  . . . to native-born mothers IN 2000 --
57,481 IN 2005 -- 53,486  . . . to foreign-born mothers IN 2000 -- 62,505 IN
2005 -- 63,269  Top countries of origin for foreign-born mothers and number of
births  Mexico IN 2000 -- 6,412 IN 2005 -- 8,234  Dominican Republic IN 2000 --
8,945 IN 2005 -- 8,028  China IN 2000 -- 5,677 IN 2005 -- 6,698  Ecuador IN 2000
-- 2,596 IN 2005 -- 3,261  Jamaica IN 2000 -- 4,050 IN 2005 -- 3,146  Guyana IN
2000 -- 2,723 IN 2005 -- 2,286  Trinidad and Tobago IN 2000 -- 1,941 IN 2005 --
1,842  Bangladesh IN 2000 -- 1,414 IN 2005 -- 1,594  Haiti IN 2000 -- 2,053 IN
2005 -- 1,577  India IN 2000 -- 1,588 IN 2005 -- 1,405  (Source by New York City
Department of City Planning)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reid Says He Will Seek to End Debate on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Carl Hulse and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5


The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, said Tuesday that he would try to force
an end to debate on a comprehensive immigration bill, leaving the fate of the
legislation in question.

Mr. Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said the Senate would vote Thursday on whether to
limit debate, a process that requires 60 votes to succeed. He said he would pull
the bill if he failed to get the necessary votes.

The majority leader said he wanted to complete work on the legislation this
week, and he suggested that Republicans were trying to ''stall this bill'' with
amendments. ''When is enough enough?'' he asked.

''People are looking for excuses on the Republican side to kill this bill,'' he
said.

His announcement provoked an outcry from Republican supporters and opponents of
the bill, who said the Senate needed more time.

Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chief Republican architect of the bill, said
''it would be a big mistake'' to try to invoke cloture this week.

A motion to cut off debate would be ''an extreme act of bad faith,'' Mr. Kyl
said, and he asserted on Tuesday afternoon that ''we are not anywhere near
finishing this bill.''

The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said, ''The
overwhelming majority of our conference would insist on having additional days
to make sure that all of our important amendments have been given an opportunity
to be considered.''

Even Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, a strong supporter of the
bill, said, ''I would not support cloture at this point because I don't think
that enough of our members have had an opportunity to have their amendments
heard.''

Behind the scenes, senators were trying to work out agreements on what
amendments to consider, so the legislation would not fail on a motion to limit
debate.

Democrats have offered amendments to promote unification of families, by
providing more green cards for relatives of American citizens and lawful
permanent residents who want to come to the United States. For their part,
Republicans have offered amendments to deny legal status to illegal immigrants
who have defied deportation orders.

On Tuesday, the Senate had already slipped behind schedule because lawmakers
spent several hours paying tribute to one of their colleagues, Senator Craig
Thomas, Republican of Wyoming, who died Monday of leukemia.

Mr. Reid said that if he could not muster the votes needed for cloture, he would
move on to other matters -- a vote of no confidence in the attorney general,
Alberto R. Gonzales, and then energy legislation.

Mr. Reid said he saw only a tiny possibility that the Senate might return to
immigration at a later date, but he added, ''I never say never.''

If the immigration bill fizzles, it would disappoint some Democrats and Hispanic
groups who see it as the best opportunity to gain legal status for many of the
nation's 12 million illegal immigrants.

Mr. Reid's move could be a tactic to put pressure on the Senate to speed work on
the measure by whittling down the number of amendments.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said she understood why Mr.
Reid would want to do that. On the other hand, Mrs. Feinstein, a co-author of
the bill, noted that it had not gone through any committee. ''There is every
reason why people would want to offer amendments,'' she said.

By a vote of 71 to 22, the Senate on Tuesday adopted an amendment that seeks to
protect American workers by requiring employers, in all cases, to try to recruit
Americans before hiring foreign workers.

The Senate Democratic whip, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, joined Senator
Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, in offering this proposal. Theirs is
one of the many unlikely alliances forged in the immigration debate.

''American workers should have the first chance to get every available job,''
Mr. Grassley said.

By a vote of 62 to 31, the Senate rejected a proposal, by Senator Wayne Allard,
Republican of Colorado, to alter the ''merit-based system'' that would be used
to select future immigrants. Under this system, the government would evaluate
would-be immigrants by awarding points for job skills and other attributes.

Mr. Allard wanted to eliminate a ''supplementary schedule'' of extra points that
could be awarded to illegal immigrants who gain legal status and then apply for
permanent-residence visas, or green cards.

He said the bonus points would give an ''enormous advantage'' to people who had
entered the United States illegally.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the extra points were
a way to help agricultural workers. Without the extra points, he said, they
would ''lose out in any competition'' with highly skilled, highly educated
workers.

As members of Congress returned to Washington on Tuesday, Republican leaders in
the House said they were still angry over the way in which President Bush had
rebuked members of his own party on the issue. Mr. Bush said those who called
the bill amnesty were resorting to scare tactics.

Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the Republican whip, said the president's
comments ''were unhelpful and uncalled for.''

''This is a legitimate debate,'' Mr. Blunt said. ''You don't need to
characterize your people who feel differently than you do, and it's not helpful
for the president to do that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, outside the Senate
chamber after making remarks Monday to open debate on the immigration bill.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Coptic Christian Fights Deportation to Egypt, Fearing Torture

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 835 words


An Egyptian Coptic Christian who was permitted to stay in the United States
because of the probable threat of torture back home is now fighting deportation
on a murder charge in Egypt.

The office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement has decided to deport the man,
Sameh Khouzam, 38, of Lancaster, Pa., because Egypt's government has given
diplomatic assurances that Mr. Khouzam will not be tortured upon his return.

In fleeing to the United States nine years ago, Mr. Khouzam maintained that he
was repeatedly detained and tortured because he refused to convert to Islam. He
denies the murder accusation.

Human rights organizations, including Human Rights Watch and the American Civil
Liberties Union, argue that the use of torture in Egypt is so routine and
well-documented that deporting Mr. Khouzam would expose him to harsh treatment
and would amount to a violation of the Convention Against Torture.

Under the convention, foreign citizens cannot be repatriated to countries where
they stand a reasonable chance of being tortured.

Mr. Khouzam's lawyers have won a temporary stay of deportation in federal court
until tomorrow. The A.C.L.U., which has taken his case, is trying to get the
stay prolonged so that it might argue for Mr. Khouzam's ultimate release. He is
being detained in Pennsylvania.

''The fundamental issue is whether the United States government can circumvent
its obligation under CAT by obtaining inherently unreliable diplomatic
assurances from the government of Egypt,'' said Amrit Singh, staff lawyer at the
A.C.L.U.'s immigrants' rights project. ''It's particularly outrageous when the
record is replete with evidence that he has been repeatedly tortured.''

According to court documents, Mr. Khouzam is accused of killing Zaki Mohammed
Youssef, but the circumstances are not specified. Mr. Khouzam first heard of the
accusation when he arrived in the United States in February 1998. He was
detained for the next eight years by immigration authorities.

Karim Haggag, press attache for the Egyptian Embassy, said that Mr. Khouzam had
been tried in absentia in Cairo and found guilty of murder, and that he would
serve a prison term upon his return.

''We have been involved with the Department of Justice regarding the evidence we
had,'' Mr. Haggag said. ''They wanted to have the full facts of the case, so
that is why it took such a long time.''

Marc Raimondo, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that
the nature of the diplomatic assurances made by Egypt were confidential but that
there were extensive deliberations within the government about deporting Mr.
Khouzam.

''The determination was made that under our regulations about implementing the
torture convention, these assurances were sufficiently reliable,'' Mr. Raimondo
said.

Mr. Haggag also denied Mr. Khouzam's accusations of religious persecution.

Yet according to Kathleen Lucas, a friend of Mr. Khouzam's in York, Pa., and a
volunteer for Amnesty International, Mr. Khouzam said that from 1992 to 1998,
various members of his family in Cairo were detained and tortured to force them
to convert to Islam. When Mr. Khouzam's mother, Georgette Shehata, came to the
United States to testify on his behalf during his eight years in detention, she
was granted asylum because of fears of reprisal and religious persecution in
Egypt, Ms. Lucas said.

An accountant who worked for American firms and who had a multi-entry visa to
the United States, Mr. Khouzam fled to New York one night after he was taken to
the hospital for treatment for injuries he had sustained during detention, he
said. Mr. Khouzam's account could not be independently verified, but a
Pennsylvania doctor signed an affidavit that he showed signs of torture.

In 2004, a federal appeals court denied Mr. Khouzam asylum, but allowed him to
stay in the United States because he risked being tortured in Egypt. In early
2006, Mr. Khouzam was released and has recently worked as the controller for a
real estate developer in Lancaster.

He was detained when he went to immigration authorities for a routine visit on
May 29, after he was told that he would be deported because Egypt had provided
diplomatic assurances that he would not be harmed.

The Egyptian government so far seems to have a mixed record in adhering to its
anti-torture pledge. Mr. Raimondo, of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
that the government has monitored an Egyptian who was deported under a
diplomatic assurance and has found no evidence of torture. But the Egyptian
government failed to adhere to such assurances in the case of two men deported
from Sweden, the United Nations found.

The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, an agency
created by Congress, placed Egypt on its watch list of countries, noting that it
had ''a poor overall human rights record.''

Mr. Haggag denied the prevalence of torture or its sanction by state
authorities, asserting that if it did occur, it was only in ''isolated acts.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2007



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about Sameh Khouzam, a man accused of murder
who says he will be tortured if he is deported back to Egypt, misspelled the
surname of a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement who said there
were extensive deliberations within the government about deporting Mr. Khouzam.
He is Marc Raimondi, not Raimondo.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Khouzam of Lancaster, Pa., was convicted of murder in Egypt
in absentia. He denies the charge.
 Sameh Khouzam's mother, Georgette Shehata, was granted asylum because of fears
of religious persecution in Egypt, a family friend said. (Photographs by Kalim
A. Bhatti for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Compromise Divides Republican Senators

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6


Senator Jeff Sessions, a conservative former federal prosecutor from Alabama,
says he is anything but anti-immigration. But he is dead set against what he
says is a misguided and flawed immigration proposal he says will not secure the
nation's borders while rewarding those who have sneaked across them.

''I just don't think that all 12 million people, including single people who
broke the border last December, need to be put on a guaranteed path to
citizenship,'' Mr. Sessions, a Republican, said Wednesday as the Senate neared a
pivotal vote on its immigration overhaul.

Mr. Sessions is part of what might be called the disloyal opposition, a small
but determined group of Senate Republicans leading the charge against
legislation championed not only by President Bush, but by some of their closest
Congressional comrades -- notably Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona. ''On
this deal, I can't be with him,'' Mr. Sessions said ruefully of his partner in
past immigration battles.

The sharp split has created tensions in the usually united Republican ranks and
led to occasional harsh words as lawmakers who typically train their fire on
Democrats take shots at one another.

''They either don't know about the bill or understand it, either one,'' said
Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican and presidential contender who has
been defending the legislation against what he says are distortions and
demagogic attacks.

Despite such complaints and suggestions that opponents of the bill are motivated
by bigotry, Mr. Sessions and Republican colleagues like Jim DeMint of South
Carolina, Jim Bunning of Kentucky and David Vitter of Louisiana have dug in
against what they describe as a travesty. Others, including Senators John Cornyn
of Texas and John Thune of South Dakota, both Republicans, have raised serious
objections as well.

Mr. Sessions, who refers jokingly to the negotiators as the ''masters of the
universe,'' distributed a list of what he says are 20 serious loopholes,
including the prospect that an illegal immigrant convicted of child sexual abuse
could qualify for residency if the crime occurred before the bill becomes law.

Backers of the measure say they have already moved to restrict eligibility for
those who commit serious crimes and that the opponents of the bill are making
sensational but unsupported claims to stir up opposition.

Outgunned on the floor against some of the most skilled legislators of both
parties, the opponents have suffered a steady string of defeats in trying to
reshape the bill, most recently on Wednesday as the bipartisan coalition behind
the measure beat back a series of conservative amendments. Late in the evening,
Mr. Sessions finally won a victory with approval of his proposal to limit income
tax benefits for illegal immigrants who qualify for residency, and Mr. Cornyn
scored a victory as well. But even as they lose most of the bigger fights, the
opponents say they are exposing fundamental problems with the measure and
building a broader case against it.

''This outnumbered handful of senators has done amazing work in forcing both the
other senators and America to see what is in this bill,'' said Rosemary Jenks,
director of government relations for Numbers USA, a group opposed to the bill.
''They take a lot of heat from their colleagues, but they are on the side of the
American people.''

The opponents have tried to highlight what they see as glaring inadequacies in
the legislation, working with outside interest groups to point out problems,
potential costs in social services and the fact that it was drafted in closed
negotiations by the administration working with about a dozen senior lawmakers.

''There is always the possibility and the likelihood that people will
misrepresent what is in the bill and then differ with it,'' said Senator Edward
M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and one of the legislative veterans
shepherding the measure. ''It's an old technique. I have used it even myself.''

Supporters of the legislation have also accused their foes of being callous in
their push to deny residency to illegal immigrants. ''If you want to be the
person who keeps families apart, bring this bill down,'' Senator Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina and another of its architects, said Wednesday on
the floor.

Opponents of the measure say that while such criticism, particularly coming from
fellow Republicans, can sting, it will not deter them.

''It is not helpful, and I don't think it reflects where a lot of people are,''
said Mr. Thune, who noted his grandfather came to the United States from
Scandinavia. ''We have an appreciation that we are a welcoming country, but
coupled with the fact that we are a nation of laws and have to respect those
laws.''

In addition to the Republicans, there are a handful of certain Democratic votes
against the immigration bill but lawmakers in both parties say there has been
little coordination or effort to mount a bipartisan effort to defeat the
measure.

''I was here in 1986 and heard all the promises about border security and am
hearing the same things now,'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North
Dakota. ''But I am just voting and offering amendments on my own.''

Mr. Sessions is hopeful that a critical mass can be achieved against the
measure, particularly on the procedural vote set for Thursday to cut off debate,
a move that would require 60 votes to avert a threat by Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, the Democratic leader, to put the measure aside and move on to other
issues.

Mr. Sessions is calling for a national dialogue on the volatile issue. ''I do
not oppose immigration,'' he said. ''I just think we ought to create a system
that serves our national interest, that allows talented people from around the
world to apply and come here, those persons most likely to flourish.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Rejects Most Efforts to Change Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6


The Senate signaled support for major provisions of a comprehensive immigration
bill on Wednesday by rejecting many proposed amendments, including one that
would have made it much harder for many illegal immigrants to achieve legal
status.

Architects of the legislation said they hoped that by plowing through the
amendments, they would gain support for a motion to end debate on the
legislation. The motion, scheduled for a vote on Thursday, needs 60 votes to
succeed.

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said, ''We have made
a lot of progress,'' adding, ''The end really is in sight.''

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, who opposes the bill, said, ''The
train is moving down the tracks.''

While senators struggled with the complex legislation, which calls for the
biggest changes in immigration policy since 1986, executives from high-tech
companies descended on Capitol Hill to express concerns.

Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, was among the businessmen
pleading with Congress to increase the number of H-1B visas and green cards
available to skilled foreign professionals. Ginny Terzano, a spokeswoman for
Microsoft, said such visas were urgently needed to help meet ''a talent crisis''
in the industry.

Two amendments intended to reunify families, by providing additional visas for
close relatives of United States citizens and lawful permanent residents, failed
on procedural votes. The amendments were offered by Senators Hillary Rodham
Clinton of New York and Robert Menendez of New Jersey, both Democrats.

Republicans raised points of order, saying the proposals violated budget rules
because they would increase federal spending with no way to offset the costs.

The Senate bill, which embodies a fragile bipartisan compromise strongly
supported by President Bush, would offer legal status to most of the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Administration officials
said they hoped that the Senate would pass the bill with 70 votes, to build
momentum in the House, where the legislation faces stiff headwinds.

By a vote of 51 to 46, the Senate on Wednesday rejected an amendment proposed by
Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, that could have made hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants ineligible for legal status.

Under Mr. Cornyn's proposal, gang members, terrorists and other convicted felons
would have been permanently barred from the United States and denied immigration
benefits. Most significant, the amendment would have denied legal status to
illegal immigrants who had flouted deportation orders or been convicted of
identity theft or fraudulent use of identification documents.

Mr. Cornyn said his purpose was not to cater to ''racists, nativists or
know-nothings,'' but to exclude ''felons who have shown contempt for American
law.'' But Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Mr. Cornyn's
amendment would ''gut the bill.'' And Senator Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of the bill, said: ''Almost every
hard-working immigrant in this country has been forced, at one time or another,
to use false documents to get a job.''

Mr. Cornyn said his amendment was a defining issue for presidential candidates.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, a co-author of the overall bill,
voted against Mr. Cornyn's amendment and for a Democratic alternative.

The four senators seeking the Democratic nomination -- Joseph R. Biden Jr. of
Delaware, Mrs. Clinton, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Barack Obama of
Illinois -- also voted against Mr. Cornyn's proposal.

Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, a candidate for the Republican presidential
nomination, voted for it.

By a vote of 66 to 32, the Senate approved the Democratic alternative, which
would increase penalties for illegal immigrants who have been convicted of sex
offenses, crimes of domestic violence or the use of firearms in alien-smuggling
operations.

In a surprise, the Senate approved another Cornyn amendment that would give law
enforcement and intelligence agencies access to information in applications for
legal status that are denied. The vote was 57 to 39.

Mr. Cornyn said his proposal would give law enforcement ''a critical tool to
prevent document fraud and to prosecute those who have broken our immigration
laws.''

But Mr. Kennedy said that without the guarantee of confidentiality, illegal
immigrants would be extremely reluctant to come forward and apply for legal
status.

The Senate rejected a proposal to change the structure of the bill's guest
worker program. Under the program, foreign workers could get two-year visas,
which could be renewed twice, but the guest workers would have to leave the
United States for a year in between their stays here.

Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, said the requirement for workers
to leave the country would ''cause enormous instability in the work force.'' Mr.
Bingaman proposed an amendment to admit guest workers for a maximum of six
consecutive years, but the Senate rejected it, 57 to 41.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After the Immigration Bill Stalled

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 928 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Grass Roots Roared, and an Immigration Plan Fell'' (front page, June 10):

While waiting for a new immigration plan, let's enforce the existing laws to
prevent anyone from illegally working in the country. If employers had followed
and the government enforced the existing laws for hiring only workers legally
entitled to work in the United States, we wouldn't be in this situation.

The laws passed decades ago with the last amnesty were intended to prevent the
current situation from occurring.

Employers and governments are as responsible for the current situation as those
who enter illegally, and they are the only ones who can make the United States a
less attractive place to come illegally.  Denise Nitterhouse Chicago, June 10,
2007  To the Editor:

Too many Americans need to be reminded that when millions of our ancestors came
to this country, they had to deal only with Ellis Island, not a failed
immigration policy that by its impotence invites millions, with similar
yearnings as our ancestors had, to risk everything to be here, though virtually
doomed to live in the shadows thereafter.

We put our wishes on paper that, no matter how desperate you are, ''you'' can't
come here, and created a law that has no more sanctity than Prohibition.

And so I say to the Senate with regard to immigration: Get back to work, fellas,
and don't stop working until you fix it!  William B. Vorsteg Verona, N.J., June
10, 2007  To the Editor:

What is it about the notion of ''amnesty'' that riles so many on the issue of
immigration reform? Is there not a long and revered tradition that requires
forgiveness as an essential ingredient to solving problems?

The simple truth is that those who enter illegally work at jobs that are at the
bottom of the wage scale; what is the benefit to them that is so onerous to us?
They pay taxes, often overpaying because they are fearful of collecting refunds
on bogus Social Security numbers.

They cut our lawns, our meat, they build our houses, clean them, take care of
our children, and cook and serve us our fast-food meals.

Those who have sought legal entry into our country should not be disadvantaged
by any immigration reform, but keep in mind that they are more likely to be
better educated than the illegal immigrants, are more likely to have earned a
decent wage in their home countries, and will earn far more than the illegal
immigrants when they arrive here.

Surely there is a way to make a fair accommodation between illegal entries who
have demonstrated good will and legal applications. Let us keep in mind the good
example of South Africa's truth and reconciliation program and stop using
''amnesty'' as a bad word.  Francis Day Arlington, Va., June 10, 2007  To the
Editor:

It is amazing how people who are ready to send an army halfway across the world
to fix an undemocratic nation cannot find it within their souls to help 4
percent of the American population.

Like it or not, the 12 million illegal immigrants are our next-door neighbors,
and they will not go away with or without amnesty.  Michael Ifrim New York, June
9, 2007  To the Editor:

Maybe an immigrant could take my spot. After reading ''Grass Roots Roared, and
an Immigration Plan Fell,'' I feel like leaving the country. It's painful to be
ashamed of the government, but it's truly terrible to see my fellow Americans so
bitter and hateful.  Jennie Kaufman Brooklyn, June 10, 2007  To the Editor:

I agree with conservatives on virtually nothing, but the failure of the
immigration bill was not a ''failure of leadership'' (editorial, June 9). Our
government has systematically failed to secure our borders over the years, and
that is what has created the 12 million illegal immigrant problem.

The first step in addressing this problem shouldn't be some ''grand bargain''
with incomprehensible point systems, a complicated and expensive ''path to legal
status'' (that most won't do anyway), but should be simply to enforce the law!
That will cap the problem at 12 million and certainly make conservatives more
open to dealing with the illegal immigrants, whose numbers will decline with the
mere passage of time.  John Garand Santa Barbara, Calif., June 10, 2007  To the
Editor:

As the two sides argue over how many people should be new citizens, what's
missing is a scientific assessment to establish a national population limit
based on resources, particularly plentiful, clean water.

This assessment will determine what combination of natural increase (births
minus deaths), net immigration and consumption can be tolerated to live in
harmony with nature at home and globally with a reduction in our greenhouse gas
emissions.

We must encourage family planning, small families and efficient consumption, and
shrink the large pool of illegals. And we should have a moratorium on
immigration until the policy study is completed and its results are carried out.
Alan Kuper Cleveland Heights, Ohio June 10, 2007  The writer is president of
CUSP (Comprehensive (approach to) U.S. Sustainable Population.  To the Editor:

Re ''A Failure of Leadership'' (editorial, June 9): You say the immigration bill
would have helped illegal immigrants get right with the law. On the contrary,
the bill would have helped the law get right with the illegal immigrants.

I believe that most opponents of the bill would favor legalizing the immigrants'
status if border security were accomplished first. When a boat is leaking, one
should fix the leak first before bailing.  David Skurnick Menlo Park, Calif.,
June 9, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Felix Sockwell)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Lobbies G.O.P. Senators for Stalled Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JEFF ZELENY; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12


In an effort to revive a crippled immigration bill, President Bush visited the
Capitol on Tuesday to try to assure wary Senate Republicans personally that
border security was a driving force behind his push for changes in immigration
law.

The president, intensifying his lobbying on behalf of the stalled measure, also
told lawmakers he would put more emphasis on the measure's border protection
elements as he tries to sell it to a skeptical public in appearances beginning
this week.

''We've got to convince the American people that this bill is the best way to
enforce our border,'' Mr. Bush said after he concluded one of his infrequent
meetings with lawmakers on their turf.

The trip to the weekly Senate party luncheon -- his first since 2001 -- came on
the first full day of his return from a trip to Europe, where he attended an
international summit meeting while the immigration measure collapsed at home.

But the president, who has made the overhaul a chief goal of his final months in
office, said he was not willing to let the opportunity slip away because of
stiff resistance over an approach that meshes new border protections with the
chance for millions of illegal immigrants to qualify for legal residency.

''The status quo is unacceptable,'' Mr. Bush said, adding that ''the time is now
to move a comprehensive piece of legislation.''

Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, who is chairman of the Republican National
Committee, said the new focus on security measures was intended as ''a
confidence-building measure'' to shore up support among Republicans uneasy with
the proposal rather than convert die-hard opponents.

''I don't think he changed any minds, but I think he helped those who may be on
the fence who may be still trying to make a decision,'' Mr. Martinez said.

Just hours before the lunch, two Georgia Republicans, Senators Saxby Chambliss
and Johnny Isakson, wrote Mr. Bush and urged him to propose emergency spending
on border controls to reassure Americans that safeguarding the border would come
before citizenship for illegal entrants.

''Such a move would show your commitment to securing the border first and to
stopping the flow of illegal immigrants and drugs in our nation,'' said the
letter from the two senators, who had helped draft the compromise legislation
but pulled back after an outpouring of criticism from home-state voters.

In a trip to Georgia two weeks ago, Mr. Bush angered critics of the bill when he
suggested opponents were spreading ''empty political rhetoric trying to frighten
our citizens.'' But those who attended the lunch said that the questions to the
president and the exchanges were cordial and substantive and that the president
did not take aim at conservatives who helped torpedo the legislation last week.

''He made clear that he wasn't there to threaten anybody or do anything that
would be hostile to anybody who disagrees with him,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions
of Alabama, a leading opponent of the bill. ''He was there to appeal to our
sense of commitment to do the right thing.''

But like several others, Mr. Sessions said that he had not been won over by Mr.
Bush and that he would oppose any move to bring the legislation back quickly for
a vote.

Even before the president arrived with a retinue of administration officials,
authors of the compromise were trying to come up with a defined list of changes
to the bill that would be considered should Democrats consent to resurrecting it
before the Fourth of July recess.

Democratic leaders said it would be up to Mr. Bush, whose influence over
Congressional Republicans has shown signs of waning, to prod skeptical members
of his own party to get behind the measure.

''We'll move onto immigration when they have their own act together,'' said
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, shortly after the president
left the Capitol.

While Mr. Bush was meeting with Republican senators, two cabinet officers
pleaded for passage of the bill and sought to rebut criticism.

One of the cabinet members, Michael Chertoff, secretary of homeland security,
said the administration was willing to consider a number of proposed Republican
amendments, including one that would require illegal immigrants to ''touch
back'' in their home countries (or some other country) to apply for legal
status.

''That's doable,'' Mr. Chertoff said, referring to the proposal by Senator Kay
Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas. He said the administration was consulting
with senators on a package of amendments ''that might win over some additional
support'' for the bill.

Under the bill as it now stands, illegal immigrants who have been in this
country since Jan. 1 could get legal status and special ''Z visas,'' renewable
every four years. They would have to leave the United States if they wanted to
apply for permanent-residence visas, or green cards.

Nine conservative Republican senators, including Jim DeMint of South Carolina,
sent a letter to Mr. Bush urging him to enforce border security laws already on
the books, regardless of whether the Senate passes the bill.

Mr. Chertoff said the administration had already made a commitment to meet many
goals set forth in the bill, like hiring more Border Patrol agents and putting
up more fence along the border with Mexico. But he said that without the bill,
his agency did not have the authority to require employers to check federal and
state databases to verify that employees were eligible to work in the United
States.

''The single most important thing we need is a mandatory employment verification
system,'' Mr. Chertoff said. The system, he said, would relieve pressure on the
border by reducing the incentive for unauthorized immigrants to seek jobs in
this country.

The other cabinet officer, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, said that
failure to pass the bill would hurt the economy. ''We will see rotting fruit''
in the fields, Mr. Gutierrez said. ''We will see lawns that don't get cared for.
We will see patients who don't get cared for.''

At the lunch, where aides said, Mr. Bush dined on a peanut butter and jelly
sandwich, the president also told Republicans that he would not sign ''just any
bill,'' Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi said. That comment was meant to answer
a concern of critics who fear the president is so eager for a domestic
achievement that he would agree to flawed legislation.

Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a Republican supporter of the plan,
said the president also noted that he could be more committed to making security
a central feature of the immigration law than future presidents. ''I think he
made a very good point that if we fail to act, others will,'' Mr. Graham said.

Still, it remained far from certain whether the president's visit -- or his
renewed emphasis on border security -- would move the bill closer to passage.

''It was a good give and take,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the
Republican leader. ''We didn't expect anybody to stand up and holler that they
had an epiphany.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Bronx: Man Seeks Permission To Stay In U.S.

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 110 words


The West African man who lost his wife and four children in a Bronx fire in
March that claimed 10 lives in all asked immigration officials yesterday to
allow him to stay in the United States now that he has returned from burying his
family in his homeland of Mali. The man, Mamadou Soumare, 48, is an illegal
immigrant, and he received temporary travel permission for the trip. One of Mr.
Soumare's lawyers asked the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
to grant his case ''deferred action'' status, which removes the threat of
deportation. A spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services said the
request is being reviewed.    MANNY FERNANDEZ

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Great Divide on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 672 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Next Culture War'' (column, June 12):

Millions of people who have entered our country and remained here illegally have
broken our laws. If we are going to give all of them a pass -- amnesty with full
citizenship upon a few years' wait and a minimal fine -- why don't we simply
open our borders and accept everyone in the world who wishes to immigrate to the
United States? How many millions will come?

Whenever thoughtful people wish to discuss these policies, we are accused of
racism or bias against certain immigrant groups. I have no doubt that such views
exist, but not everyone who opposes the immigration bill shares them.

In school, we are taught that the United States is a nation of laws. Why have we
lost control of our borders? I would be happy to see more immigrants from
different parts of the world, but let's find the will to put this in a legal
context. Education has less to do with many opponents' reasoning than simple
common sense.  Mary St. Laurent Corning, N.Y., June 12, 2007  To the Editor:

As someone who spent 30 years as a machinist and is now retraining in paralegal
studies, I believe I've seen both sides of the divide that David Brooks speaks
of in regard to attitudes toward immigration.

In my experience, the root of the national schism over immigration policy is not
cultural attitude but economic reality. The fact of the matter is that few if
any of the estimated 12 million people here in the United States illegally are
here to work as actuarials or English professors or newspaper columnists -- the
sorts of jobs normally held by university grads. They are here to work as
bricklayers or welders or landscapers.

I would posit that if illegal immigration were undermining the wages of editors
and lawyers instead of janitors and kitchen staff, the current debate might
sound quite a bit different.  Glenn Baldwin Chicago, June 12, 2007  To the
Editor:

David Brooks notes that immigration is not a partisan issue and does not
dovetail with racist or nativist attitudes. He then suggests that the current
controversy is a cultural clash between an educated elite, favoring a
cosmopolitan approach to the world, and a less educated class, worried that
increased diversity would threaten ancient ties of community and social
solidarity. I believe that this last analysis is wrong.

As a well-educated liberal, I favor cultural diversity and enabling of
individualism, but not at the cost of widening the gap between the haves and
have-nots in our society. The Bush-Kennedy-McCain immigration bill was
impossibly complex and tried to encompass too much.

Furthermore, it sided with the Chamber of Commerce in helping unscrupulous
businesses attract and exploit illegal immigrant workers, whose subpar wages add
to the profits of the rich and lower the prospects of American workers seeking
fair employment.

When it comes to the distribution of America's income and wealth, economists
indicate that the disparity between the wealthy and the rest of society is
greater than at any time since the Great Depression. This is a trend that must
be resisted and reversed.  William Reusch Okemos, Mich., June 12, 2007  To the
Editor:

David Brooks argues that immigration is not a partisan issue, but study after
study has shown that self-identifying as a Republican, particularly a
conservative Republican, is one of the most potent predictors of hostility
toward immigration.

Republican politicians have run on anti-immigration platforms because this is an
issue that works for them. It is highly effective in mobilizing the part of the
Republican base that is culturally conservative and angry about immigrants who
are perceived as abusers of tax-supported programs.

Republicans and Democrats may dislike the current immigration bill in roughly
equal proportions, but it is Republican voters who oppose it most intensely.
Wayne A. Cornelius Director, Center for Comparative Immigration Studies
University of California-San Diego La Jolla, Calif., June 12, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Matt Rota)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Impounded Fathers

BYLINE: By Edwidge Danticat.

Edwidge Danticat is the author of the forthcoming ''Brother, I'm Dying,'' a
memoir.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


MY father died in May 2005, after an agonizing battle with lung disease. This is
the third Father's Day that I will spend without him since we started
celebrating together in 1981. That was when I moved to the United States from
Haiti, after his own migration here had kept us apart for eight long years.

My father's absence, then and now, makes all the more poignant for me the
predicament of the following fathers who also deserve to be remembered today.

There is the father from Honduras who was imprisoned, then deported, after a
routine traffic stop in Miami. He was forced to leave behind his wife, who was
also detained by immigration officials, and his 5- and 7-year-old sons, who were
placed in foster care. Not understanding what had happened, the boys, when they
were taken to visit their mother in jail, asked why their father had abandoned
them. Realizing that the only way to reunite his family was to allow his
children to be expatriated to Honduras, the father resigned himself to this,
only to get caught up in a custody fight with American immigration officials who
have threatened to keep the boys permanently in foster care on the premise that
their parents abandoned them.

There is also the father from Panama, a cleaning contractor in his 50s, who had
lived and worked in the United States for more than 19 years. One morning, he
woke to the sound of loud banging on his door. He went to answer it and was
greeted by armed immigration agents. His 10-year asylum case had been denied
without notice. He was handcuffed and brought to jail.

There is the father from Argentina who moves his wife and children from house to
house hoping to remain one step ahead of the immigration raids. And the
Guatemalan, Mexican and Chinese fathers who have quietly sought sanctuary from
deportation at churches across the United States.

There's the Haitian father who left for work one morning, was picked up outside
his apartment and was deported before he got a chance to say goodbye to his
infant daughter and his wife. There's the other Haitian father, a naturalized
American citizen, whose wife was deported three weeks before her residency
hearing, forcing him to place his 4-year-old son in the care of neighbors while
he works every waking hour to support two households.

These families are all casualties of a Department of Homeland Security
immigration crackdown cheekily titled Operation Return to Sender. The goals of
the operation, begun last spring, were to increase the enforcement of
immigration laws in the workplace and to catch and deport criminals. Many women
and men who have no criminal records have found themselves in its cross hairs.
More than 18,000 people have been deported since the operation began last year.

So while politicians debate the finer points of immigration reform, the
Department of Homeland Security is already carrying out its own. Unfortunately,
these actions can not only plunge families into financial decline, but sever
them forever. One such case involves a father who was killed soon after he was
deported to El Salvador last year.

''Something else could be done,'' his 13-year-old son Junior pleaded to the New
York-based advocacy group Families for Freedom, ''because kids need their
fathers.''

Right now the physical, emotional, financial and legal status of American-born
minors like Junior can neither delay nor prevent their parents' detention or
deportation. Last year, Representative Jose E. Serrano, a Democrat from New
York, introduced a bill that would allow immigration judges to take into
consideration the fates of American-born children while reviewing their parents'
cases. The bill has gone nowhere, while more and more American-citizen children
continue to either lose their parents or their country.

Where are our much-touted family values when it comes to these children? Today,
as on any other day, they deserve to feel that they have not been abandoned --
by either their parents or their country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jordin Isip)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Demagogues Play the Leprosy Card, Watch Out

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 881 words


People who want to reform immigration by putting America in lockdown have not
been shy about using fear and revulsion to get their point across. Illegal
immigrants, they say, are invading the country to reconquer it, to erode our
Anglo-Saxon culture and to make us all sick.

Here's Representative Tom Tancredo, complaining in the Republican presidential
debate about pressing 1 for English. (Aliens -- they're in your telephone!) And
there's Lou Dobbs on CNN, helping racist tract-writers to peddle made-up
statistics about immigrants and leprosy. (Did the country suddenly have 7,000
cases in three years? No, only a few hundred. But it sure sounds scarier.)

I know at least one person who finds the fear-mongering particularly offensive.
She is Nicole Holmes, an American citizen who is a threat to nobody. She is an
immigrant, and she has had leprosy.

Ms. Holmes, a cheerful 28-year-old, was born in Trinidad, grew up in Brooklyn
and now lives outside Atlanta with her husband, Zakee, and two sons, Aaron, 3,
and Andrew, 2. She told me her story by phone recently while her boys ran around
the house, tormenting each other. (''Andrew, stop the biting, please,'' she
said. ''Just share the car.'')

Ms. Holmes learned she had leprosy, or Hansen's disease, when she was 18 and a
student at Pace University. Her husband, then in the military, stood by her,
taking her to doctor's appointments and helping her through a difficult
treatment complicated by lapses in medical insurance and frequent moves.

She is now fully recovered. She has no signs of the disease except for some
scars on her arms where doctors took tissue samples for biopsies. She runs an
Internet support group for leprosy patients and doctors, and is a board member
of the International Association for Integration, Dignity and Economic
Advancement, or IDEA, an organization that works to erase the stigma of leprosy,
which it calls ''one of the most persistent and pervasive forms of social
injustice that society has forced upon its fellow human beings.''

Many people are surprised to learn that leprosy still exists. It is entrenched
in parts of the third world, and people with it suffer greatly -- often in
secret, because their shame is so profound. But leprosy is nothing but a
bacterial infection that has been curable for more than 50 years. It is very
hard to catch -- 95 percent of humans have a natural immunity. Patients are no
longer infectious after one treatment, and those who are cured need not fear a
relapse.

While the disease has greatly abated around the world, the social side-effects
-- abuse, discrimination, exile -- have not gone away. People with leprosy face
obstacles that people with cancer or AIDS do not. Their disease has been feared
for millennia. It is in the Bible, linked to sin and uncleanliness and imbedded
in the language, as a metaphor for anything loathsome or untouchable.

We think we know about leprosy, but our knowledge is incomplete and full of
errors. The leprosy patients we have heard of are superhuman or anonymous. They
are either Father Damien of Molokai, who died with the disease, or they are the
forgotten Hawaiians he served, who lived in exile and lie by the thousands in
unmarked graves.

People with leprosy have learned to be especially wary of writers whose works
are often warped by disgust or its sickly cousins, pity and condescension. A
recent book, ''The Colony: The Harrowing True Story of the Exiles of Molokai,''
created a furor when its subjects accused the author, John Tayman, of stealing
and distorting their biographies. They had the support of historians like Anwei
Law, international coordinator of IDEA, who said the book twisted reality for
melodrama, beginning with its cover, a photograph of the Amalfi coast of Italy
that looks a lot more ominous than the sea cliffs of Hawaii. They begged to be
removed from the book. Mr. Tayman, while defending his accuracy and sensitivity,
refused.

Between the possibly well-meaning Mr. Tayman and the blundering Mr. Dobbs, who
invited a furor by defending grossly exaggerated leprosy statistics -- ''If we
reported it, it's a fact,'' he said -- advocates like Ms. Holmes and Ms. Law
have their work cut out for them.

It's not surprising that people who oppose immigration reform would try to
harness the powerful fear of leprosy to their cause. It's true that nations have
been destroyed by waves of newcomers carrying exotic diseases -- Google
''European,'' ''measles'' and ''Indian.'' But the public threat of leprosy in
the United States -- a few hundred cases a year in a country of 300 million --
is small.

Most of those cases are among immigrants. But it is a grotesque extrapolation to
claim that illegal immigration is causing a leprosy epidemic and to follow with
the sweeping conclusion that all immigrants are diseased and dangerous. And
anti-amnesty hard-liners are just compounding fear-mongering with foolishness
when they seek to crack down on illegal immigrants with an enforcement blanket
that would keep anyone who might be ill hidden, off the books and away from
doctors.

Villagers in rural Brazil, India and Africa, where leprosy and poverty are
endemic and medical care is spotty, have understandable reasons to fear the
disease. I'm not sure what our excuse is.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Bush's Promises, Georgians Remain Skeptical About Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1068 words

DATELINE: MARIETTA, Ga., June 18


If President Bush thought he could win support for a comprehensive immigration
bill by promising to secure the border and step up law enforcement, he would be
dismayed by the reaction here.

''It's all window dressing,'' said Mark A. Johnson, a real estate lawyer in this
fast-growing suburb of Atlanta. ''We don't believe the government has the will
to enforce any of these promises. Everybody can see the folly of it, everybody
but the politicians.''

Georgia's two Republican senators would almost certainly be on the list of
politicians arousing Mr. Johnson's skepticism. The two, Saxby Chambliss and
Johnny Isakson, were part of the small bipartisan group that wrote the original
bill. But they have been edging away from it since being strongly  criticized in
the state.

The storm raging around the bill shows no sign of abating despite reassuring
presidential words about strengthening border security.

Reagan W. Dean, a Georgia state employee, said: ''Maybe it is possible to secure
the border. Maybe it is possible to establish an employee identification system.
But I don't have any confidence that it will be done.''

''It really upsets me to find out that my government says, 'Yes, we can secure
the border, we can detain illegal aliens, we can take all sorts of actions to
enforce the law, but we will do so only if Congress provides legal status to
those who are here illegally,' '' Mr. Dean said.

The provision of the bill that appeals most to Hispanic groups and many
Democrats -- a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants --
generates the most opposition from conservatives. After the measure stalled in
the Senate on June 7, President Bush and sponsors of the bill pledged to
strengthen its security provisions in an effort to defuse opposition to the
legalization program. The legislation,  Mr. Bush's top domestic priority, is
expected to return to the Senate floor late this week.

If a sampling of Georgia opinion is any evidence, the bill's path has not gotten
much smoother.

Louis S. Hunter, a pollster and political analyst based in Atlanta, said,
''Congress and the president are completely out of touch with how people here
feel about illegal immigration.''

Senator Chambliss, who is up for re-election next year, was booed last month
when he defended the bill at the state Republican convention. In nearby Gwinnett
County, the local Republican Party adopted a resolution last week urging both
senators to ''vote no on this amnesty bill.''

Jane V. Kidd, chairwoman of the Democratic Party of Georgia, said: ''This is not
a partisan issue in Georgia. A small percentage of Democrats are supporting the
bill as it stands, but a majority of Democrats and Republicans in the state do
not like it.''

Three Democrats who hope to unseat Mr. Chambliss have criticized the bill and
his role in drafting it, Ms. Kidd said.

Joan Kirchner, a spokesman for Mr. Isakson, said he had ''heard the message loud
and clear.'' The senator believes that border security and law enforcement
''should be decoupled'' from proposals to legitimize the status of illegal
immigrants and establish a guest-worker program, Ms. Kirchner said.

Douglas C. Dromey,  a land broker in Kennesaw, Ga., said, ''I have written off
both parties on this issue.''

In a speech last week, Mr. Bush said, ''This bill sets clear benchmarks for
border security that must be met before other elements of this legislation are
triggered.'' The president  endorsed a proposed amendment to provide $4.4
billion to help secure the border and enforce a 1986 law that forbids the hiring
of illegal immigrants.

Mr. Hunter, a former Republican member of the Cobb County Board of
Commissioners, in Marietta, said: ''Words on paper don't mean anything. When I
see the fence built and guards on the border, that's when they -- Congress and
the political class -- will have done their job.''

On the other hand, Jeffrey M. Smith, an Atlanta lawyer with many clients from
China, India and Mexico, said: ''The idea of a fence is just nuts. It will not
stop people coming to this country. It will cost a lot of money. It will create
a lot of ill will in Central and South America. It will look as if we are
keeping out Hispanics, and that's what we would be doing.''

Mr. Smith endorsed the idea of legal status for illegal immigrants.

''They should be naturalized, become citizens and pay taxes,'' Mr. Smith said.
''If you don't give them an amnesty, you will drive them further underground.''

Mr. Dean, the state employee and a lifelong Republican, said: ''I can understand
why Ted Kennedy and the Democratic Party are behind this bill. What I don't
understand is why President Bush and some Republican senators are behind it. I
frankly see this legislation as assisted suicide, for America, for the
Republican Party and for all the individual politicians who support it.''

Senator Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of the bill,
has been its staunchest defender.

People here say they believe that Mr. Isakson, a resident of Marietta, shares
their concerns. More than a year ago he insisted on ''border security first,''
as a prerequisite to ''any immigration reform.'' On May 17, he and Mr. Chambliss
joined Mr. Kennedy at a news conference announcing agreement on the bill.

Mr. Johnson, the real estate lawyer, said: ''Senator Kennedy must have some sort
of Svengali influence on people. They go into a backroom negotiation with him,
and they come out bamboozled.''

Some Georgians say that politics helps explain support for the bill by President
Bush and some Republican senators.

''It's a political calculus,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''They believe that the
Hispanic vote is in play, and that if we're friendly to them, they'll vote
Republican.''

A streak of economic populism runs through the comments of many Georgians.

''This problem was created by corporate America, which wants to keep the
low-wage labor already here and bring in more through a temporary-worker
program,'' said Mr. Hunter, the pollster and analyst.

Farms, poultry plants, a booming construction industry and thousands of
landscaping jobs have attracted illegal immigrants to Georgia.

''Nobody thinks you can round them all up and send them home,'' Mr. Hunter said.
''Nor would we want to. But if we enforce the laws, the job market will diminish
somewhat. And for every job that's lost, somebody is going home.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark A. Johnson, with his wife, Ann. ''Everybody can see the
folly of it, everybody but the politicians,'' Mr. Johnson said of the
immigration bill.
 Louis S. Hunter, center, said, ''Congress and the president are completely out
of touch with how people here feel about illegal immigration.'' With him in
Marietta, Ga., are Jimmy Meehan, left, and Douglas C. Dromey.(Photographs by
Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Report Lauds Immigrants' Positive Effects

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19


Hoping to influence Congressional debate, the White House issued a report on
Tuesday saying, ''Immigration has a positive effect on the American economy as a
whole and on the income of native-born American workers.''

But it acknowledged that some research had found ''small negative effects'' on
the wages of the least-skilled American workers.

The report, prepared by the president's Council of Economic Advisers, says
immigrants enhance the productivity of native-born workers and increase their
earnings a significant amount, estimated at $37 billion a year.

In an interview, Edward P. Lazear, a labor economist who is the council
chairman, gave the example of a construction site with many immigrants working
as roofers.

''They might drive down slightly the wages of roofers in the United States,''
Mr. Lazear said. ''But as a result of having this valuable supply of labor from
abroad, other people on the construction project like carpenters and
electricians are more productive. They have better people to work with, more
people to work with. The cost of doing the job is lower, and some of that is
passed on to consumers in the form of lower prices.''

The study reinforces President Bush's campaign for a comprehensive immigration
bill that calls for more border security, a guest worker program and a
''merit-based system'' of selecting immigrants that emphasizes education and job
skills. The bill, pending in the Senate, would also offer legal status and work
permits to most of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United
States.

Many Democrats say the bill could depress the wages of American workers. Senator
Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said the guest worker program would
''put downward pressure'' on the wages in construction, manufacturing and other
industries.

The White House is entering a debate that has been raging for years.

In one study, George J. Borjas, a professor of economics at Harvard, found that
''by increasing the supply of labor between 1980 and 2000 immigration reduced
the average annual earnings of native-born men by an estimated $1,700, or about
4 percent.''

''Among natives without a high school education, who roughly correspond to the
poorest tenth of the work force,'' Professor Borjas said, ''the estimated impact
was even larger, reducing their wages by 7.4 percent.''

''Over time,'' Professor Borjas said in an interview, ''the economy adjusts to
the presence of immigrants. But in the long run, after all the adjustments, the
wages of low-skill workers still go down by 4 percent or 5 percent.''

The White House report is more consistent with the findings of David Card, a
professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, who said in an
interview, ''The overall effect of immigration on the average wages of natives
is slightly positive.''

In their report, the White House economists said, ''The difficulties faced by
high school dropouts are a serious policy concern.''

But the economists added, ''Immigration is not a central cause of those
difficulties, nor is reducing immigration a well-targeted way to help these
low-wage natives.''

On another volatile question, the White House said immigrants and their children
tended to have ''a slightly positive fiscal impact'' because, in the long run,
they pay more in taxes than they consume in benefits.

The White House study acknowledged that ''the positive fiscal impact tends to
accrue at the federal level, while net costs tend to be concentrated at the
state and local level,'' where education and health care are provided.

Immigrants sometimes compete with native-born workers. But the White House said,
''Immigrants tend to complement -- not substitute for -- natives'' in the
workplace.

Over all, foreign-born workers make up 15.3 percent of the civilian labor force
and account for half the growth in the labor force in the last 10 years. They
differ in significant ways from native-born workers.

''In contrast to their 15 percent share in the total labor force,'' Mr. Lazear
said, ''foreign-born workers accounted for much higher proportions of workers
without high school degrees and of those with Ph.D. degrees, especially for
those working in scientific occupations.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward P. Lazear, whose Council of Economic Advisers issued a
report praising immigrants' role. (Photograph by Carol T. Powers/Bloomberg News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Takes Up a Revised Immigration Bill, but Obstacles Remain

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26


By a vote of 64 to 35, the Senate decided on Tuesday to take up a revised
version of a comprehensive immigration bill that was pulled from the Senate
floor nearly three weeks ago.

The vote did not guarantee passage of the bill, which calls for the biggest
changes in immigration law in more than 20 years. But it did clear the way, with
four votes more than the 60 needed, for the Senate to debate numerous amendments
before a final vote on the legislation, which could occur late this week.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of
the bill, said the vote showed that ''there is new life in this legislation,''
which embodies President Bush's top domestic priority.

Many conservatives said they were still determined to defeat the measure because
it would offer legal status to most of the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants.

One of the leading critics, Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina,
insisted Tuesday on a full reading of 27 amendments that had, for procedural
reasons, been put together in one package.

A Senate clerk, Kathleen Alvarez, began reading page after page of legislative
language. This went on for about 45 minutes. Finally, opponents of the bill
withdrew their demand after being told they could study the package of
amendments overnight.

The vote earlier Tuesday reflected lobbying by Mr. Bush and a new willingness by
the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, to let the Senate
work its will on the legislation, which he pulled from the floor on June 7.

Since then, in an effort to pick up votes, supporters of the bill have added
$4.4 billion to pay for border security measures and a crackdown on employers
who hire illegal immigrants.

Mr. Bush kept up the pressure on Tuesday, saying, ''Our spirit is invigorated
when people come here and realize the blessings of America.''

In an apparent gaffe, he  seemed to suggest that the bill would provide amnesty.
Speaking to supporters of an immigration overhaul, Mr. Bush said, ''Amnesty
means that you've got to pay a price for having been here illegally, and this
bill does that.''

The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, moved swiftly to clarify the remark.

''In speaking about comprehensive immigration reform, President Bush misspoke,''
Mr. Snow said. ''This has been construed as an assertion that comprehensive
immigration reform legislation before the Senate offers amnesty to immigrants
who came here illegally. That is the exact opposite of the president's long-held
and often-stated position.''

Mr.  Reid said the White House must deliver about 25 Republican votes to ensure
passage of the measure, which he said ''is not a Democratic bill, it's the
president's bill.''

On the roll call Tuesday, 39 Democrats joined 24 Republicans and one independent
in voting to take up the revised immigration bill. Twenty-five  Republicans, 9
Democrats and one  independent voted no.

Two leading opponents of the bill, Mr. DeMint and Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of Alabama, said they believed that at least 51 senators would
probably vote for the bill if it cleared all the procedural hurdles needed to
reach that point. A 60-vote majority is needed to overcome some of those
hurdles.

The Senate began debating the bill on May 21 and worked on it for nearly two
weeks. Mr.  Reid pulled it from the floor after the Senate voted, 50 to 45,
against ending debate.

The bill seemed to have collapsed at that time, when only seven Republicans
voted to end the debate.

Several senators who voted to revive the bill on Tuesday emphasized that they
had not decided how to vote on final passage. That may depend, they said, on how
the bill changes as a result of amendments.

On the other side of the Capitol, the House Republican Conference  adopted a
resolution on Tuesday saying it ''disapproves of the Senate immigration bill.''
The vote, 114 to 23, indicated the problems facing the legislation.

''There are large numbers of House Republicans who have serious concerns about
the Senate bill,'' said the House Republican leader, Representative John A.
Boehner of Ohio.

In the Senate, Republicans are pushing an amendment that would punish people who
overstay their visas and would require illegal immigrants to leave the United
States if they wanted to apply for legal status.

''If you overstay your visa, you will be detained until you are deported,'' said
Senator Mel Martinez, a Florida Republican who helped write the amendment and
said that it  was ''a confidence-builder, to show people that we are serious
about enforcement.''

Senators of both parties are trying to change a section of the bill that would
require employers to check government databases to verify that employees were
eligible to work in the United States. The requirement would apply to all
current and future employees, including citizens.

About 146 million people are employed in the United States. But people are
continually changing jobs and entering or leaving the work force, so  employers
typically hire 50 million to 60 million people a year, according to the Labor
Department.

Under the proposed amendment, employers would have to use the new electronic
verification system for current employees only when the government had reason to
believe that the workers were ''unlawfully employed,'' based on Social Security
and tax data.

Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, attacked  this proposal,
saying it would ''allow unscrupulous businesses to continue to freely hire
illegal workers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush gave a briefing yesterday on his support for
comprehensive immigration legislation in the Eisenhower Executive Office
Building. (Photograph by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Prompts Some Menacing Responses

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27


The threat came in the weekend mail.

The recipient was Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, who has been a
leading advocate of the proposed legislation for changing the immigration
system. His offices in Washington and across Florida have received thousands of
angry messages in recent weeks, but nothing as alarming as that letter he
received at his home.

''I'll turn it over to Capitol police, and we'll go from there,'' said Mr.
Martinez, who declined to elaborate on the nature of the threat.

On the eve of a crucial vote on the immigration bill, the Capitol Hill
switchboard was deluged  again Wednesday as thousands of citizens called their
members of Congress -- and, perhaps, someone else's -- to weigh in. Not since
the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, several Senate aides said, have the
lines been so jammed by a single issue.

Republicans who support the immigration bill are facing unusually intense
opposition from conservative groups fighting it. This is among the first times,
several of them said, that they have felt the full brunt of an advocacy machine
built around conservative talk radio and cable television programs that have
long buttressed Republican efforts to defeat Democrats and their policies.

While the majority of the telephone calls and faxes, letters and e-mail messages
have been civil, aides to several senators said, the correspondence has taken a
menacing tone in several cases.

Senator Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican who is undecided on the final
immigration bill, said his office received a telephone call recently that ''made
a threat about knowing where I lived.'' Mr. Burr passed it along to the
authorities. ''There were enough specifics to raise some alarm bells,'' he said.

Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who is one of the architects
of the immigration overhaul, said he also had received threats in telephone
calls and letters to his office. Mr. Graham said several other senators had told
him privately that they also received similar messages.

''There's racism in this debate,'' Mr. Graham said. ''Nobody likes to talk about
it, but a very small percentage of people involved in this debate really have
racial and bigoted remarks. The tone that we create around these debates,
whether it be rhetoric in a union hall or rhetoric on talk radio, it can take
people who are on the fence and push them over emotionally.''

The immigration legislation, a priority of President Bush's, has divided the
Republican Party. For the past month, no other issue has been debated as
passionately among conservatives as this  bill, which calls for the most
sweeping changes to immigration law in two decades.

At the heart of the opposition rests conservative hosts on talk radio and cable
television, which often are a muscular if untamed piece of the Republican
message machine.

Several senators said Wednesday that they did not care to be identified speaking
critically of the  broadcasters, fearing the same conservative backlash that
befell Senator Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican, this month when he
declared: ''Talk radio is running America. We have to deal with that problem.''

Organizations that have mobilized tens of thousands of people to speak against
the immigration legislation said they did not advocate threats. A leading group,
Grassfire .org, said that its members had made 250,000 contacts this week with
offices of United States senators.

Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, said he had never seen an issue
stir such a public response. ''In my 29 years, I've experienced all the events
in that period of time,'' he said, ''but this is clearly the high-water mark.''

Since Mr. Warner arrived in the Senate, technology advances have made it easier
to deliver more messages to members of Congress. Many e-mail messages sent to
the Senate are copied to multiple offices, including one that was forwarded to
the authorities this week. Referring to supporters of the bill, it closed with
the line: ''They need to be taken out by ANY MEANS.''

Sgt. Kimberly Schneider, a spokeswoman for the United States Capitol Police,
said it was the department's policy not to discuss potential threats against
lawmakers.

As Mr. Graham walked back to his office on Wednesday, he said he doubted that
senators would be deterred by any threats. ''I'm sure a lot of the people who
have taken a high-profile position on this have been threatened, but what are
you going to do?'' he said. ''You saw what happened to Senator Daschle.''

Mr. Graham was referring to Tom Daschle, the former Democratic majority leader
from South Dakota, whose office received a mailing of anthrax in 2001. The case
remains unsolved.

''One of the requirements of public service in modern America is dealing with a
few voices that are full of hate,'' Mr. Graham said. ''And our discourse and the
way we politic, the way we engage each other, brings that out.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Mel Martinez, center, Republican of Florida, said he had
received a threatening letter related to the immigration bill that he planned to
turn over to the authorities. Other senators report similar experiences.
(Photograph by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Proposals From Both Sides Fail in Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27


The Senate on Wednesday killed proposals from the left and the right for major
changes in a comprehensive immigration bill, but the outlook for the bill
remained in doubt as senators prepared for a crucial vote on whether to end
debate and move to final passage.

Democrats failed in efforts to promote family unification by providing more
visas to parents of United States citizens. Republicans lost in their bid to
toughen the requirements for illegal immigrants who want to become permanent
residents and ultimately citizens. Those results preserved the fragile
bipartisan compromise embodied in the bill, President Bush's top domestic
priority, which would make the biggest changes in immigration law in more than
20 years.

The debate became unusually testy, and senators tied themselves in procedural
knots as they tried to work through a package of 27 amendments. Some stonewalled
normally routine requests by their colleagues -- raising objections, for
example, when senators asked to dispense with further proceedings under a quorum
call or to explain their reasons for opposing requests for unanimous consent.

''We are in trench warfare,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of
Pennsylvania, a strong supporter of the bill.

A leading opponent of the measure, Senator David Vitter, Republican of
Louisiana, said, ''I am being railroaded.''

The conflict was leading to a critical vote, set for Thursday morning, on
whether to end debate. Supporters of the bill said that if they got the 60 votes
needed to close debate, then passage would be likely.

But senators of both parties said they were unsure the bill would clear that
hurdle. Several senators who voted to keep the bill alive Tuesday said they
would probably oppose efforts to shut off debate.

The bill would provide $4.4 billion for border security, increase the penalties
for hiring illegal immigrants, create a new guest worker program and offer legal
status to millions of illegal immigrants.

By a vote of 53 to 45, the Senate killed a Republican proposal that would have
required most adult illegal immigrants to return to their home countries to
apply for legal status, in the form of special ''Z visas,'' which would allow
them to work in this country.

The vote does not mean that the ''touchback requirement'' is dead. The overall
bill includes such a requirement for people who want permanent residence visas,
known as green cards. And the Senate is scheduled to consider another version of
the touchback requirement supported by many Republicans. The proposals respond
to criticism from conservatives who denounce the bill as a form of amnesty for
people who have broken the law.

The bill would establish a point system to evaluate would-be immigrants, giving
more weight to job skills and education and less to family ties. The Senate on
Wednesday rejected two proposals intended to promote the reunification of
families.

One of the amendments, offered by Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New
Jersey, would have awarded 10 extra points, on a 100-point scale, to adult
children and siblings of United States citizens and legal permanent residents.
The other, by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, would have
set aside more green cards for parents of American citizens.

By a vote of 56 to 41, the Senate killed an amendment by Senator Christopher S.
Bond, Republican of Missouri, that would have prohibited illegal immigrants from
obtaining green cards. In general, under existing law, permanent residents can
apply for citizenship after living in the United States for five years.

''If they come here illegally just to work, they have not earned citizenship,''
Mr. Bond said. ''We are all immigrants, but we did not come here illegally and
expect to get citizenship.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic architect of
the bill, said illegal immigrants would be easily exploited if they could never
become lawful permanent residents. ''We can imagine the resentment, the
hostility that will seethe and grow,'' Mr. Kennedy said.

By a vote of 79 to 18, the Senate killed a proposal by Senator Jim Webb,
Democrat of Virginia, that would have reduced the number of illegal immigrants
who could gain legal status. Under the bill, legal status would be available to
immigrants who have been in the United States since Jan. 1. Mr. Webb would have
pushed the date back to 2003, requiring four years of ''continuous physical
presence.'' He would also have eliminated the touchback requirement, which he
said was unworkable.

Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, complained that the Senate
majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, had ''handpicked the
amendments'' to be considered this week.

Mr. Reid said he had chosen the amendments in consultation with the minority
leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. Aides to Mr. McConnell confirmed
that.

Influential labor and Hispanic groups urged the Senate to pass the bill and send
it to the House, where they said flaws could be corrected. The groups included
the Service Employees International Union, the National Council of La Raza, the
United Farm Workers and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

''The price of failure will be hundreds of more people dying in the desert,''
said Eliseo Medina, an executive vice president of the service employees union.
''The price of failure will be more workplace raids and families separated as
breadwinners are arrested and deported. The price of failure will be more public
anger at the broken immigration system. More states and cities will pass
punitive laws that target immigrants.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections: For the Record

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


A front-page article on Tuesday about deaths in immigration detention misstated
the year that one immigrant detainee died, and the amount of time that elapsed
between then and an announcement this month of a federal investigation into her
death. Young Sook Kim, who was detained at a privately run center in
Albuquerque, died in 2006, not in 2005; the announcement of the investigation
came nearly a year after her death, not nearly two years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Detention, Needing Care

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 186 words


To the Editor:

Re ''New Scrutiny as Immigrants Die in Custody'' (front page, June 26):

Problems accessing health care for those in immigration detention are nothing
new. In a 2003 study conducted by the Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of
Torture and Physicians for Human Rights, we found that more than half of the
individuals we interviewed with serious health problems reported substantial
difficulty in accessing care.

Detainees suffering from chronic conditions or those in need of specialized care
were often denied care while in detention, and ultimately spent many months or
years in severe pain without receiving treatment.

Our study, which focused on asylum seekers in detention, also found worsening
levels of psychiatric distress the longer individuals were in detention. Severe
depression and suicidal thoughts were often addressed by solitary confinement.

Clearly, there is a need for a review of the health services provided to
immigrant detainees and more humane parole policies.

Allen S. Keller, M.D.

Dir., Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program

for Survivors of Torture

New York, June 26, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Detentions

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

Re ''New Scrutiny as Immigrants Die in Custody'' (front page, June 26) and
''Gitmos Across America'' (editorial, June 27):

Nearly one million people came through detention facilities in the same time
period covered by the articles. Each of them received taxpayer-financed medical
treatment, including a comprehensive health screening, or care management
provided by the Division of Immigration Health Services of the Department of
Health and Human Services' Health Resources and Services Administration to the
tune of $259 million.

Last year alone, the division identified chronic conditions in 24 percent of
detainees screened. In each case of a death, the local medical examiner is
notified and makes a determination whether an autopsy or further investigation
is warranted.

In a population that typically has little preventive or continuing medical care,
it's sadly unsurprising that health issues are prevalent and that some chronic
conditions result in death.

We don't believe that only healthy individuals should be accountable for
violating the law, while others should get a pass. When we do detain those with
illnesses, we have a moral obligation to care for them, which we uphold each and
every day in a manner of which the American people can be proud.  John P. Torres

Director, Detention and

Removal Operations

Immigration and

Customs Enforcement

Washington, June 29, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Lawyers to Sue Over Change in Visa Policy

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 994 words


A national association of immigration lawyers said yesterday that it would bring
a class-action lawsuit against the federal immigration agency for refusing to
accept thousands of applications for work-based permanent visas from highly
skilled immigrants who were encouraged by the government to apply.

According to accounts yesterday by officials and lawyers, the immigrants were
caught in a confrontation between the two federal bodies that control the
immigration system, the State Department and the Citizenship and Immigration
Services.

The hopes of thousands of foreigners who have been working legally in the United
States were unexpectedly raised and then abruptly dashed as a result of the
disagreement. They had responded last month to an announcement that permanent
residency visas would be available, but on Monday learned there were none.

The immigration lawyers said the about-face by the immigration system had no
precedent in at least three decades of legal practice, and said that it violated
the immigration agency's regulations. The American Immigration Lawyers
Association's legal action arm was preparing the lawsuit, said Crystal Williams,
deputy director.

Federal officials said a misunderstanding had arisen from an effort by both
agencies to reduce huge backlogs of applications for permanent residence visas,
known as green cards. Immigration officials acknowledged that the effort was
poorly handled.

''Was there a lack of communication between us and the State Department?'' said
William G. Wright, a spokesman for the immigration agency. ''Certainly.''

The episode started on June 12, when the State Department announced in a monthly
bulletin that green cards would be available starting July 2 for applicants
across the range of high-skilled categories. That was a signal to immigrants who
have been working in this country on temporary visas that they would be able to
apply to become permanent residents.

Thousands of immigrants rushed to obtain certified documents, assemble employer
sponsorship papers, take medical examinations and dispatch their applications.
Many canceled travel plans so they could be in the United States when their
applications arrived on July 2, as the law required.

But on Monday, the State Department announced that no more green cards were
available.  Snared in the turnabout were well-educated, highly skilled, legal
immigrants, many of them doctors and medical technicians, with long work
experience in this country. All had obtained federal certification that no
American workers were available for the jobs they hold. The episode laid bare
conflicting interests between the State Department, which manages the offering
of visas, and the Citizenship and Immigration Services, a branch of the
Department of Homeland Security that processes the visa applications.

By law, only about 140,000 employment-based visas are available annually, so
there are huge backlogs of applications.

State Department officials said their June alert that visas were available was
intended to prompt the immigration agency to speed its processing so that no
visas would go unused. Since 2000, a total of 182,694 work-based visas have not
been given out because the immigration agency had fallen behind in processing
applications, according to the 2007 report of the immigration agency's
ombudsman.

''We were determined that every employment number that was available would be
used,'' June Kunsman, the acting deputy assistant secretary of state for visa
services, said yesterday.

Immigration agency officials said they were surprised by the department's
action. They said they immediately advised the department that they had already
finished approving enough applications to use 60,000 visas of those offered.
Department officials did not revise their public notice offering visas.

''We said we already have more than enough applications and we expect to
complete them in time to use the visa numbers,'' said Mike Aytes, director of
domestic policy operations at the immigration agency.

To complete the applications in time, the immigration agency put employees to
work both days last weekend at service centers in Texas and Nebraska,
immigration officials said. They said that 25,000 applications were processed in
the final 48 hours before Monday's deadline.

In some cases, security clearances required by the F.B.I. were not entirely
completed, immigration officials said. The agency approved some applications
''when we were certain the process will be completed very shortly,'' Mr. Aytes
said.

In its bulletin on Monday, the State Department said that ''unexpected action''
by the immigration agency had used up all the visas for the 2007 fiscal year.

The news was crushing to Murtuza Bahrainwala, a 38-year-old occupational
medicine doctor from India who works at Decatur Memorial Hospital in Illinois.
After nearly 12 years working as a physician on temporary visas, Dr. Bahrainwala
believed in June that his chance for a green card had finally come.  ''Apply for
citizenship, that's absolutely what we want to do,'' he said. Once he has a
green card, his wife would also be authorized to work, and he could accept
promotions and change jobs, which he cannot do with a temporary visa.

But because the application he delivered on Monday was not accepted, Dr.
Bahrainwala may have to wait four or five years to apply again.

''Right from complete ecstasy, you go down to the depths of depression,'' Dr.
Bahrainwala said. ''I have never been illegal a single day in this country.''

''Maybe I should have just crossed the Rio Grande,'' he added.

Immigration lawyers said that the situation punished immigrants who were
identified as highly desirable by the system and who have always gone by the
book.

''They've played by the rules for years,'' said Daryl Buffenstein, co-chairman
of the global immigration practice at Paul Hastings, a law firm. ''Now the
government is not playing by the rules.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

So Far, Both Sides in Suffolk Tax and Immigration Impasse Are Ahead

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

DATELINE: BABYLON, N.Y., July 2


When black and Hispanic members of the State Legislature blocked a routine
renewal of a 1 percent sales tax for Suffolk County, they seemed to be hitting
the county executive, Steve Levy, where he lives.

But the lawmakers' gambit, intended as leverage to pressure Mr. Levy on the
issue of creating halls for hiring immigrant day laborers, may have backfired:
Many here agree with Mr. Levy's aggressive stance against illegal immigration,
and seem far more outraged by the far-off legislators' withholding of $320
million from the county's budget than by their much-loved local leader whose
views provoked it.

''They gave him a wonderful platform to be at center stage on immigration,
again, and set himself up as the protector of the people of Suffolk,'' said
Vivian Viloria-Fisher, one of two Hispanic members of the Suffolk Legislature,
who disagrees with Mr. Levy, a fellow Democrat, on the immigration issue. ''I
attended several events, and the message everywhere was, 'Good for Steve -- he's
defending Suffolk.' If you throw down the gauntlet, you're feeding into what he
does best.''

Two weeks after the showdown in Albany, the two sides remain at impasse.
Assemblyman Robert K. Sweeney, a Suffolk Democrat who is sponsoring the sales
tax legislation, said that he was talking to both sides almost every day to
broker a deal and that ''there have been moments when I thought we were close,
and then we're not.''

The chairman of the Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus,
Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns of Brooklyn, said in an interview that ''it's time
for two former colleagues to have a cup of coffee,'' noting that Mr. Levy had
supported antidiscrimination bills during his years in the State Legislature.

But while Mr. Levy said that ''Darryl is a great guy'' and that he would be
happy to meet privately with him ''to bring down the decibel level,'' he
insisted that the sales tax for Suffolk must first be approved, warning of
onerous service cuts and property tax increases if it is not. The tax is due to
expire at the end of November.

A compromise had seemed possible when some Assembly members proposed a
state-financed hiring site, in hopes of lowering the number of laborers
gathering on street corners in Farmingville, a sight that has aroused tense
demonstrations.

Mr. Levy, who ardently opposes all hiring sites, acknowledged that he had no
legal authority to block a state-financed site, a statement that Assemblyman
Adriano Espaillat of Upper Manhattan called ''a big victory for the caucus.''

Indeed, if Mr. Levy has benefited from the skirmish, the caucus claims to have
as well. ''I got calls not only from my district but throughout the city and
from immigrant groups commending the work we did'' in challenging Mr. Levy, Mr.
Espaillat said. ''The caucus has emerged as an entity that he has to deal
with.''

Settling the dispute will prove ticklish for Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a
Democrat. With a hefty majority of 108 Assembly seats out of 150, the Democratic
tent increasingly includes diverse interests, from the liberal New York City
base to more moderate and conservative suburban and upstate members.

''The speaker doesn't want trouble in his own conference,'' said Arthur J.
Kremer, a former Democratic assemblyman from Nassau. ''The caucus has gotten so
large that it is a power in Albany, and the speaker must pay attention.'' But,
he added, the caucus misjudged Mr. Levy: ''They pitched him a softball, and he
hit it out of the park.''

Here in Suffolk County, where Mr. Levy has been endorsed for re-election this
fall by both the Democratic and Republican Parties, residents and experts alike
said the incident only seemed to have buoyed his esteem.

''If they thought they were going to shove Steve Levy in a corner and he's going
to cave, I'm telling you they picked the wrong guy,'' said Michael D. Dawidziak,
a political consultant who has worked for both parties and is a friend of Mr.
Levy's but disagrees with him on the hiring halls.

Mr. Dawidziak said that he had conducted a poll for his consulting firm in the
week after the legislative standoff and found Mr. Levy had an 80 percent
approval rating among registered voters, up from 70 percent on the same question
six months ago.

At Montrose Auto Electric Service shop on Main Street here in Babylon, a
customer, Max O. Mull, 72, said of the dispute, ''Whatever Steve Levy says, they
should do.''

John Taylor, standing with a cup of coffee outside his Village Art and Frame
shop nearby, echoed Mr. Levy's feeling that illegal immigrants are taking jobs
and undermining wages, saying of the caucus: ''What is it about the word
'illegal' that people don't understand?''

For his part, Mr. Levy said calls and e-mail to his office on the issue have
been ''99-to-1 favorable'' to his position.

But Ricardo Montano, the chairman of the Budget Committee in the Suffolk
Legislature, said that while he agrees with Mr. Levy that the revenue should not
be held hostage to the immigration fight, he also blames the county executive
for the delay. ''We're suffering a backlash for his intransigence,'' he said.
''This needs to be fixed.''

And Wendell Mandra of Islip Terrace, a retired medical imaging specialist, said
she liked Mr. Levy, ''but as for immigration, he needs to sit down and think
about it.''

Nola Corrdon, a clerical worker from Trinidad who became a citizen here in 1972
and lives in Farmingville, said she had been confused by the latest chapter in
the immigration wars. ''I don't know who is right,'' she said. ''Actually,
everybody is right.''

Jeb Ladouceur, 73, the retired publisher of Fire News, a monthly publication for
volunteer firefighters, said of Mr. Levy, ''I'm not nuts about his rhetoric,''
but said   the caucus was ''engaging in a lot of rhetoric, too.''

Patrick Halpin, a former Suffolk County executive, said that among local
Democratic politicians, ''I have yet to find someone who agrees with Steve and
the way he's handling this.'' But he added, ''Steve's playing to an audience
that wants to see somebody being tough on immigrants,'' and when critics attack
''in a perverse way, it works to his political advantage.''

Mr. Espaillat, the Manhattan lawmaker who is part of the caucus, cautioned that
while Mr. Levy ''is clearly popular in his district,'' the incident could limit
his political future. ''If he ever has any aspirations to run statewide, he's
going to be in a lot of trouble,'' Mr. Espaillat said. ''He's burned a lot of
bridges.''

The Assembly has gone on recess without setting a date to return to clean up
unfinished business. Most politicians say it is unthinkable that the Assembly
would continue to block the sales tax, and several people involved in the
dispute welcomed the holiday break.

''Things reached a fever pitch,'' said Assemblyman Sweeney, the Suffolk Democrat
trying to arrange a deal. ''A couple days to cool down might be the best way to
get away from the personalities and rhetoric.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, has seen his approval
rating rise to 80% during the dispute over hiring halls for immigrant laborers.
(Photograph by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Longtime Advocate for Immigrants Now Faces Deportation

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 917 words


For Victor Toro, last week seemed like any other week in his life as one of the
best-known advocates for immigrants and other dispossessed people in New York
City. He met with other activists in Rochester to discuss what they should do
about the recent collapse of the immigration bill in Congress.

On Friday, his meetings completed, Mr. Toro boarded an Amtrak train to return to
his home in the Bronx. But Mr. Toro is an illegal immigrant. And it was on that
train that he was discovered. He was arrested, jailed and then released early
Monday morning after posting bond.

He now faces deportation.

Yesterday he was home with his wife and daughter, awaiting what is next in his
odyssey. It began in the 1970s when he was a political prisoner in the jails of
Gen. Augusto Pinochet in Chile, veered for a time into Europe and Mexico, then
into New York City, where he became known for more than two decades of community
and political activism.

Belatedly, Mr. Toro now plans to seek political asylum, but where he once feared
only Chile, he said he now fears the United States as well.

Mr. Toro, a striking figure who wears his long white hair in a ponytail and has
a luxuriant white mustache, foresaw none of this when he boarded the train in
Rochester.

Suddenly, United States border patrol agents entered Mr. Toro's car and went
from seat to seat, asking passengers whether they were citizens, residents or
visitors. Mr. Toro answered, in Spanish, that he was not an American citizen.

Did he have any identification? the agents asked. Mr. Toro showed them a Chilean
passport, which had expired in 2005 and had no entry stamps for the United
States. Can you explain the lack of entry stamps? the agents asked.

''I am here illegally,'' Mr. Toro said in Spanish, according to his daughter,
Rosa Toro, who acted as interpreter during a phone interview.

Mr. Toro was handcuffed, placed in a van with other immigrants who could not
provide papers, given an orange jumpsuit, and imprisoned at Cayuga County Jail
in Auburn, N.Y.

Ramon Rivera, a spokesman for United States Customs and Border Protection, said
such random checks were becoming increasingly routine at train stations, bus
stops and airports since the terror attacks of 9/11.

Detainees like Mr. Toro are asked during processing whether they seek political
asylum, Agent Rivera said, and there is no record that Mr. Toro sought such
asylum last week.

For Mr. Toro, 65, interactions with governments are filled with dread. When he
was a left-wing political activist, General Pinochet's regime tortured him after
the coup that toppled Salvador Allende on Sept. 11, 1973, he said.

Both he and Nieves Ayress, now 56, who later became his wife, have said they had
electrodes attached to their genitals in Chilean jails.

In 1976, he fled Chile for Sweden, Norway and other European countries, but he
did not seek asylum anywhere there, said Carlos Moreno, Mr. Toro's lawyer. For
years, Mr. Toro went from country to country, finding himself at last in Mexico.

In 1984, he illegally crossed the border into the United States at El Paso,
settling later in the Bronx, Mr. Moreno said.

Mr. Toro and Ms. Ayress, both political activists, started Vamos a la Pena del
Bronx in 1987, a storefront group that provided clothing and food for poor
people, help with immigrants' problems, shelter for battered women and health
education for those who were H.I.V. positive.

In 1998, the group won an award and a $50,000 grant from Union Square Awards in
Manhattan for community service. ''We were looking for groups that were
operating on pure passion but who had no economic resources,'' said Iris
Morales, director of the philanthropy.

During more than two decades in the public eye, Mr. Toro was hiding his
immigration status in plain sight, his lawyer said. Mr. Toro was arrested three
times in the 1990s for nonviolent offenses: once for a political demonstration,
a second time for a noise complaint, and a third for a building permit dispute.

Mr. Toro was never asked about his immigration status after his arrests, Mr.
Moreno said. In addition, his home is opposite the 40th Precinct police station.

General Pinochet died last year, his regime replaced by a freely elected
government, so why doesn't Mr. Toro simply return to his homeland?

Rosa Toro said that the Chilean government declared him officially dead, a fact
that chills her father.

''In Chile, the dictatorship would declare a person dead,'' Ms. Toro said, ''so
that if you came back and something should happen to you, no one would know
because you were already dead, officially.''

Ms. Toro, 27, was born in Havana and is a legal resident. Her mother is an
American citizen. Mr. Toro had hesitated seeking asylum, in part, because the
recent failed immigration bill seemed to promise amnesty for illegal immigrants
like himself, Ms. Toro said. He had sought a new Chilean passport, but both
times Mr. Toro was told that he was dead.

''Now, in both places, no one is very concerned about my father,'' said Ms.
Toro, a schoolteacher. ''In the U.S. he could be deported, and in Chile he
doesn't exist.''

Mr. Moreno acknowledges that he faces substantial hurdles when Mr. Toro appears
before an immigration court. No court date has been set.

Nonetheless, Mr. Toro has a strong case for political asylum because he has
contemporary witnesses and photographs documenting physical abuse in Chile, Mr.
Moreno said.

''Yes, he has some explaining to do,'' Mr. Moreno said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hunts for 'Fugitive Aliens' Lead to Collateral Arrests

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 512 words


When teams of federal agents unexpectedly show up in an immigrant neighborhood
early in the morning, bang on doors, search through bedrooms and leave with a
busload of people they have arrested as illegal immigrants, residents and city
officials call it a raid.

But in a four-page letter defending such an operation in New Haven last month,
Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, rejected the term.

''It is not our policy,'' he wrote, ''to take an ad hoc approach to enforcing
immigration law.''

Instead, he described what unfolded in New Haven as part of a year-old
''nationwide interior enforcement initiative'' called Operation Return to Sender
''that applies an organized and methodical approach to the identification,
location and arrest of fugitive aliens'' -- immigrants with outstanding orders
of deportation.

The Fugitive Operations Teams responsible do not carry search warrants or arrest
warrants approved by a judge, Mr. Chertoff noted, and their administrative
warrants of deportation do not allow entry into dwellings without consent. But
others they encounter during an operation can be questioned as to their right to
be in the United States, and ''if deemed to be here illegally, may be arrested
without warrant.''

The number of such teams nationwide is expected to increase to 75 this year,
from 53 last year, Mr. Chertoff said in the letter. But with an agency count of
more than 632,000 ''fugitive aliens'' among an estimated 11 million immigrants
in the United States illegally, how do the teams choose where to go?

''Once intelligence is gathered on several fugitives located within the same
general vicinity,'' a team ''will develop an operational plan for the swift and
safe arrest of the fugitive aliens in the most fiscally efficient way,'' Mr.
Chertoff wrote in response to pointed questions from Connecticut's two senators,
Joseph I. Lieberman and Christopher J. Dodd, and Representative Rosa L. DeLauro,
whose district includes New Haven.

According to agency policy, wrote Mr. Chertoff, the teams prioritize their
efforts in the following order: ''(1) fugitives who are a threat to national
security; (2) fugitives who pose a threat to the community; (3) fugitives who
were convicted of violent crimes; (4) fugitives who have criminal records; and
(5) non-criminal fugitives.''

Yet by Mr. Chertoff's count, only five of 29 arrested in New Haven fit the
priorities, apparently the lowest. Lawyers, who count another three in their
tally of those picked up in the operation from June 6 to 11, say this bolsters
their argument that the operation was unconstitutional retaliation for the
city's initiative to offer all its residents identification cards.

The initiative, believed to be the first of its kind, was described in a March 5
article in The New York Times and approved June 4. Mr. Chertoff said the New
Haven operation was planned in April by the team in Hartford.

''I want to assure you there is no relationship between the operation's
execution date and the City of New Haven's immigration policy,'' he wrote.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Officials Admit Delays In Issuing Visas to Iraqis

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23


Bush administration officials said Monday that they were trying  to help Iraqis
working for the American Embassy in Iraq to immigrate to the United States, but
they also conceded that  a gap remained between American words and actions on
the issue.

Efforts to assist Iraqis who work for the embassy have vaulted to the top of an
informal State Department priority list at a time when the United States is
struggling to respond to the ever growing number of refugees seeking to flee
sectarian fighting. Many of those employees run the risk of being the targets of
various militias because of their association with the American government.

As of June 30, the United States had admitted  69 locally employed Iraqis on
''special immigrant visa'' status this year, with 93 more cases pending, State
Department officials said. But that status, as defined by Congress, can be
applied only to interpreters and translators, which excludes a range of Iraqis,
from drivers to soldiers.

State Department officials said they were working with Congress and the Homeland
Security Department to accelerate the processing of immigrant visas and grant
refugee status to the American Embassy's local employees in Iraq. As first
reported Sunday in The Washington Post, Ryan C. Crocker, the United States
ambassador to Iraq, sent a cable to Washington on July 9 pressing the
administration to issue immigrant visas to all Iraqis employed by the American
government.

Administration officials said that Mr. Crocker's sentiments were widely shared
in the State Department, and that the administration had been working with
Congress and the Department of Homeland Security to try to work through the
backlog of immigration requests. ''Everybody has the same concern here,'' said
Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman. ''They want to take care of the
people with whom they work on a daily basis -- those of whom might feel under
threat.''

A senior administration official said, though, that ''sometimes in government,
as in any large organization, there is a lag between intent and the output of a
program.''

Employees not eligible for the special immigrant visas have been left to try to
get to the United States through a ''refugee'' category. The office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has referred 8,295 Iraqis who were
locally employed by Americans to the United States for processing, but as of
Monday, the Department of Homeland Security had interviewed only 2,368 of them,
administration officials said.

''The tie-up is Homeland Security and vetting,'' said James Zogby, head of the
Arab-American Institute. ''They're arguing that working for the U.S. is one
thing, trusting them over here is another.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has introduced a bill that
would establish an immigrant visa program for all Iraqis who have worked for the
United States government, including the military, for at least a year.

In a statement on Monday, Senator Kennedy said that divisions in the Senate over
the war in Iraq ''shouldn't obscure the fact that all of us on both sides of the
aisle agree that America owes an immense debt of gratitude to these Iraqis, and
we have a special responsibility to help them.

''They've supported our effort, saved American lives and are clearly at great
risk because of it.''

The effort to allow more Iraqi employees to resettle in the United States is
symptomatic of a larger problem of Iraqi refugees that experts expect to get
worse in the months to come. The United Nations estimates that some two million
Iraqis have left for Syria, Jordan and other neighboring countries; 60,000 more
flee Iraq every month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryan C. Crocker, the United States ambassador to Iraq, seeks
visas for all Iraqi employees. (Photograph by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refugee Aid Group Identifies With Clients

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 815 words


The caseworkers, immigration lawyers and resettlement specialists at the
International Rescue Committee spend their days helping refugees flee their
troubled homes and make their way to the United States.

But in the last week, the 250 workers at the agency headquarters became refugees
themselves, locked out of their offices by the steam pipe explosion at 41st
Street and Lexington Avenue that displaced thousands of people.

It did not take long for the paradox of their situation to sink in. ''The
analogy is striking because our people left the office with just the clothes on
their back,'' said George E. Rupp, the president of the organization. Still, he
said, ''at least our people went home after they left.''

Instead of sitting in his office in the Chanin Building, at 122 East 42nd
Street, Mr. Rupp, a former president of Columbia University, was camped out with
a laptop in a large conference room at Abelman, Frayne & Schwab, a law firm
around the corner on Third Avenue that has provided free office space to  the
rescue committee.

In another, smaller conference room, half a dozen workers were trying to
recreate documents stuck in the organization's database in the Chanin Building.
Before the blast, the caseworkers were in the process of helping about 20
refugees meet a  July 30 deadline to file citizenship papers.

Meeting that deadline now may not be possible because the caseworkers have not
been able to retrieve all  the paperwork, and because they have been unable to
locate some of the applicants.

''We're worried about the condition of those documents,'' said Christine Petrie,
the deputy vice president of the resettlement program. ''We haven't gotten a
single piece of paper out of the building.''

In another office down the hall, caseworkers greeted an Iranian family who had
come  to collect an assistance check. Another worker explained to a woman, Mama
Konneh, a 19-year-old from Liberia, how to apply for a green card.

One Burmese refugee who arrived three weeks ago happened to be in the agency's
offices during the explosion. While escaping the building, he became separated
from his caseworker, Zaw Win, who is also Burmese. The refugee tried to return
to his family in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, by subway but, unsure of his way, rode
the trains all night until he reached home at 7 a.m. the next day, Mr. Win said.

New refugees have been arriving almost every day. One Burmese man arrived the
day after the explosion, and a Burmese family of five arrived in New York on
Monday. Like others, they are receiving help finding homes and work, and
learning how to use the subway system.

But for the caseworkers, it has been taking far longer to complete even ordinary
tasks, with their tools harder to reach.

''We don't have the ability to multitask because we're not in our regular
offices,'' said Philip Thomas, an immigration lawyer.

Keeping in touch with refugees has also been a challenge, particularly those
with limited English language skills. The agency pasted a paper sign at  the
entrance of the Chanin Building directing clients like Ms. Konneh to its
temporary encampment.

Assuming they have Internet connections, refugees can find updates on the
agency's Web site, www.theirc.org.

Other teams from the agency are working in donated space at several other
locations around town. Many are working from home.

One constant challenge has been keeping in touch with the agency's 25 offices in
the United States and 25 overseas. Caseworkers around the country typically file
information about incoming refugees in a database that is maintained in the New
York office and automatically updated; that data is now being collected over the
telephone. The company is relying on a backup e-mail system and cellphones to
keep in touch with co-workers and refugees both here and overseas.

The Chanin Building, which occupies the entire block of Lexington Avenue from
41st to 42nd Street, will be inspected today and, if no problems are detected,
workers on the 30th to 54th floors may be able to return to work early next
week.

Unfortunately, the rescue committee  occupied the 11th, 12th and 14th floors in
the southeast corner of the building, nearest to the blast, and is among 17
tenants whose offices were badly damaged. Cleaning crews have had to spray down
walls and floors to remove dust, which may have ruined equipment and papers.
''These offices have significant damage that they can't simply be approved by
the city'' to be reoccupied, said Brian Maddox, a spokesman for the Stahl Real
Estate Company, the owner of the building. ''They need rehabilitation.''

A facilities manager at the agency will meet representatives from the building
management, Colliers A.B.R., today  to assess the damage to their offices.

''We're preparing for the long term, but we're waiting until we know what
happened to our offices,'' Mr. Rupp said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: George E. Rupp, the president of the International Rescue
Committee, in temporary quarters. The resettlement agency was displaced by the
steam pipe explosion at 41st Street and Lexington Avenue on July 18. (Photograph
by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tabloid Eaten by Aliens! Fake Columnist Loses His Job!

BYLINE: By CATE DOTY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 903 words


In Ed Anger's America, Vanna White is the perfect role model for Sarah Lee, Mr.
Anger's overweight daughter. Latino immigrants speak ''chili-pepperese'' and the
obese of America simply need to stop eating as much.

''I'm pig-biting mad!'' Mr. Anger screams in his column, ''My America by Ed
Anger,'' which has been running in the tabloid Weekly World News for almost
three decades. In that time, he has routinely criticized Communists, immigrants,
women, overweight children, liberals and pretty much anyone who is not a
conservative white American male.

After years of talk radio and cable-news pundits, Ed Anger's America may feel
very familiar, but Ed Anger himself does not. Perhaps that is because he isn't
real.

''I always thought of him as a little buffoonish, myself,'' said Rafe Klinger,
who created the Ed Anger persona in 1979, during his stint at The News. ''The
funny thing is, you have people like Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter and Hannity,
and to me, they're not too far from Ed.''

Unlike his more successful real-life counterparts, however, Ed will no longer be
able to complain in print. American Media Inc., which also publishes The
National Enquirer, The Star and The Globe, announced that it was closing The
News last week.

The Weekly World News had long specialized in the sensational and weird -- Elvis
sightings, UFO abductions, the continuing adventures of Bat Boy -- and in
attention-grabbing headlines like ''Garden of Eden Found: Original Apple
Recovered!'' and ''Grossed-out Surgeon Throws Up Inside Patient.'' But its
circulation began to lag as competitors turned to full-color (The News remained
defiantly black and white) and to celebrity news.

In a March earnings statement, American Media said that single-copy sales of The
News had dropped to 83,000 in 2006, down from 153,000 in 2004. Recently, the
parent company has been slashing its staff numbers and cutting publications,
while struggling with heavy debt.

Bloggers lamented the paper's demise. ''My lifelong dream of writing for them,
shattered,'' one woman wrote. ''Who's going to report on spontaneous combustion
now?''

And while Bat Boy was The News's most famous creation -- an off-Broadway play
''Bat Boy: The Musical'' appeared in 1997 -- Ed Anger epitomized the paper's
say-anything tabloid spirit.

After revelations of child sexual abuse by priests shook the Catholic Church, he
suggested that child molesters should be ''butchered like hogs.'' He also ranted
on the use of politically correct language: ''When did rain become a
'precipitation event?' '' he once complained.

Mr. Klinger said he based the character -- a white, middle-aged veteran of the
Korean War who displays a portrait of John Wayne in his den -- on the
anti-Communist rants of a fundamentalist preacher about whom he had once written
a straight news story.

''I thought about doing a column with somebody who was kind of like that, who
had these ideas that were almost satirical,'' said Mr. Klinger, who now writes
for The Globe. ''But his bible was the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Even
though he was constantly criticizing people, he still believed in freedom of
speech.''

Elizabeth Bird, the author of ''For Enquiring Minds: A Cultural Study of
Supermarket Tabloids,'' said that Ed Anger reflected a certain kind of
stereotypical xenophobia.

''There was this over-the-top anger, the sort of sense of the beleaguered white
male who saw everything going to hell in a handbasket around them -- uppity
women, foreigners and all that sort of thing,'' Ms. Bird said. ''That is to some
extent like Rush Limbaugh; it's the same sort of genre.''

Ed Anger stirred up trouble for Mr. Klinger in 1989, when he sued The News for
continuing the column after he left the tabloid in 1987. Mr. Klinger claimed
that Anger's persona -- and the columns themselves -- belonged to him. A federal
jury ruled against him in 1994.

After Mr. Klinger left, a number of writers picked up Anger's pen, including the
late Eddie Clontz, who edited The News until 2001 and who was widely revered as
the ''King of the Supermarket Tabloids.'' During Mr. Clontz's tenure, Anger
proposed to pave the rainforests and suggested that Mr. Limbaugh should run for
president. (The radio host responded gratefully, saying that ''we have the
trailer-park crowd all wrapped up.'')

Justin Mitchell, a freelance writer who wrote the ''My America'' column from
2001 to 2003, said he had difficulty inhabiting the character. ''I had to sort
of assume an Archie Bunker role in my head to do it, and also rely on some sort
of tattered satirical instincts I had,'' he said. ''There were times I just
didn't have it in me. I couldn't be outrageous enough.''

Anger's readership evolved over the years, from those sympathizing with  his
point of view to a group of mostly male college students who, rather than
standing on the supermarket checkout line, laughed at Anger's columns online.

''In the old days, there were audiences that sort of liked it and believed it,''
Ms. Bird said. ''But it's gone to talk radio now, and what's left is the people
reading it and knowing that it's just a parody.''

American Media said that The News would maintain its Web site
(www.weeklyworldnews.com). Anger's column will appear there, but for Mr.
Klinger, it just won't be the same.

''I guess now, he's retired as a serious journalist,'' Mr. Klinger said. ''So
the laugh's on me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 2000, the Weekly World News reported its phony space alien's
endorsement for George W. Bush. (Photograph by Eric Draper/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Housing Crackdown Hits Indian Immigrants

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J., Aug. 3


With the workweek behind him, Deepu Dass focused on a pesky bald spot in his
front lawn here. As he sprayed the patch with water, urging the grass toward the
perfection achieved by several neighbors, he said confidently: ''I planted
seeds.''

Two of his three roommates chatted behind Mr. Dass on the porch, waiting to sit
down to a dinner of chicken biryani, followed by a nighttime trip to Atlantic
City.

The men -- all Indian immigrants here on worker visas without their families --
rent rooms month to month in this white, four-bedroom Cape Cod, where the
kitchen shelves are stocked with food in bulk and the walls are decorated with
reminders of home. ''That's Kerala,'' said Mr. Dass, pointing to a silkscreen of
a village fishing scene from his home state. ''They call it God's own country
because it's so beautiful.''

There have been up to six men sharing the house, whose owners include Suresh
Kumar, president of NexAge Technologies USA, a nearby software company where the
tenants work. But the unusual arrangement -- and the unsightly lawn -- caught
the attention of local housing inspectors, and in May Woodbridge Township cited
Mr. Kumar for several violations, including an unauthorized boarding house and
an illegal multifamily dwelling. He has until Aug. 16 to resolve the situation,
which may mean kicking his workers out.

Mr. Kumar's were among more than 300 notices of violation that the authorities
handed out from January through May to homeowners in the 10 communities that
make up Woodbridge Township, part of a stepped-up inspection effort the mayor
announced last year. Additional inspectors were hired and given computers for
quicker access to housing records. A hot line was set up for anonymous
complaints. (Officials said they did not keep records of how many citations they
gave last year.)

But in a twist to the familiar tales of suburban authorities breaking up
illegally subdivided homes crowded with Hispanic day laborers, the mayor's
crackdown here has hit another group of immigrants: middle-class Indians who
rent rooms or parts of rooms to Indian students, technology workers and others
seeking a first foothold in this country.

Homeowners with South Asian surnames have received nearly a quarter of the
violations, according to records provided by the township; the 2000 census
showed Indians made up about 9 percent of the population, and their numbers have
almost certainly grown since.

Officials say many of their investigations begin with complaints from neighbors
or contractors. The inspectors have found small houses overcrowded with people
who are not related to one another, but have also questioned an extended family
of seven and a couple who split their house with another family.

In another case, a house with five renters, including a few students, was
cleared out by the owner after the township sent him a violation letter. A
family of eight has moved in, three more people than were there before.

''You buy a house and you're a family, you expect families to live around you,''
explained John E. McCormac, the mayor of Woodbridge, a central New Jersey
township of nearly 100,000 residents. ''We're a community of single-family
residential streets. We should stay that way.''

Mr. McCormac said that housing inspectors were not singling out any ethnic group
and that none of the inspections had prompted arrests by federal immigration
authorities or the police, as they have in places with many day laborers.
Indian-American community leaders said they had good relations with the mayor,
and there has been no suggestion that the residents of these houses are here
illegally.

But the mayor's rationale for the crackdown -- to clean up potentially dangerous
living situations, like a house in Iselin found to have as many as 10 people
living in a basement, and another house that was used as an unlicensed day care
center -- is similar to those cited by leaders in heavily Hispanic areas.

Sharmila Rudrappa, a sociology professor at the University of Texas at Austin
and the author of ''Ethnic Routes to Becoming American: Indian Immigrants and
the Cultures of Citizenship,'' said it was common for Indian families to live in
joint households both in their homeland and in the United States.

''My father's brother is married to my mother's sister,'' she said. ''The two
families had five kids between them. We lived together for a few years, and it
was kind of a wonderful way to grow up.''

The joint family arrangements have become harder to maintain in crowded Indian
cities, but in American homes the practice is alive and well.

''It's a way to ease immigration,'' Professor Rudrappa said. ''You help family
out. Family members coming from India might not know how to drive, and grocery
stores can be unnerving.''

The stepped-up inspections reveal the extent to which immigration is
transforming suburban swaths like Iselin, the source of almost a third of
Woodbridge's violations. Oak Tree Road, the congested artery that runs through
Iselin's downtown, is lined with Indian businesses, including supermarkets,
bridal centers and jewelry shops.

Indian families started moving here in large numbers in the 1980s and early
1990s, and by the 2000 census, 17 percent of Iselin's 16,700 residents
identified themselves as Asian Indian. Some  moved for the affordable homes, to
open businesses and for the convenience: the town has its own New Jersey Transit
train station and an exit off the Garden State Parkway.

Many have brought relatives, though the census data for the township indicates
that the size of Indian households here -- three people -- is no larger than
average.

Rakesh Patel, 34, a technology worker at a New York investment bank, said he had
his three-bedroom, two-story house built here seven years ago ''for family and
friends.'' He and his wife, two children and his parents moved from a cramped
apartment in Edison. Mr. Patel's cousin's sister has joined the household, and
Mr. Patel's sister and three family members may soon come to stay for a while.
Other relatives often visit for months at a time.

''Why not?'' asked Mr. Patel, noting that he also stayed with his uncle when he
first came to the United States from India in 1996. ''I pay $9,000 a year in
taxes.''

Tom Rokita, who lives across the street from the Patels and several other large
South Asian families, said that cars had lately clogged the neighborhood, and
garbage had drifted onto his well-tended garden.

''The mayor is clamping down on the violations very nicely,'' said Mr. Rokita,
who has lived in Iselin 45 years. Of his neighbors, he said: ''I have no problem
with them. Except for the litter.''

After an anonymous complaint, inspectors paid three separate visits to Mr.
Patel's home in May. Mr. Patel was surprised by the visit and said he had had a
good relationship with town officials in the past, when he worked with them to
make sure his basement met local regulations. It is now a place where his
children play, and where his father, age 59, does his morning yoga.

Finally, inspectors determined that everyone living in the house belonged to one
family, and found the property to be ''in compliance.''

Mayor McCormac conceded that many of the complaints had been unjustified and, as
in Mr. Patel's case, turned out to be cases of cultural differences in the
definition of family more than illegal subdivisions.

''The town is not bothered by the big families,'' said Mahesh Shah, a past
president of Iselin's Indian Business Association, who has consulted with the
mayor about the crackdown. ''But if someone buys a place as a hostel and doesn't
take care of the house, that's the situation they are talking about.

''Neighbors are complaining,'' he added. ''They are voters, and the township has
to do something about it.''

Pradip Kothari, a community leader who is known as Peter, received violations at
two properties in the township this year, and he said they were fair. But he
also questioned whether the housing ordinances were being applied evenly across
ethnic groups.

''It looks like something is not right,'' Mr. Kothari said of the high numbers
of Indians receiving citations. ''I'm not going to say the mayor is
discriminating.    But the guidelines should be very clear and loud. People
should not have any perception that selective enforcement of the law is taking
place.''

Mr. Kumar, the owner of the house where Mr. Dass lives, said he was unsure what
he was supposed to do. There is no outright ban on unrelated roommates
cohabitating. Owners can register with the township to use their homes as rental
properties, but questions remain as to what makes such an arrangement a rooming
or boarding house, which requires a separate license.

''There are a large number of I.T. companies in the Woodbridge and Iselin areas,
and a lot of them rent houses for their workers,'' Mr. Kumar noted. For the new
arrivals, the houses in Iselin are a soft landing in familiar surroundings.

''Who can stay there?'' he asked. ''Is it only families?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deepu Dass lives in Iselin, N.J., with three other Indians in a
four-bedroom home that town officials consider an unauthorized boarding house.
(Photograph by Alex di Suvero for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Siddhi Patel, left, and her brother Jay at home in Iselin, N.J.  (Photograph by
Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trenton: Panel To Study Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 92 words


Gov. Jon S. Corzine yesterday created a panel to study how best to integrate
immigrants in New Jersey. The 27-member panel will have 15 months from its first
meeting to make recommendations on education, citizenship status, civil rights,
housing, health care, language proficiency and job training. The state public
advocate, Ronald K. Chen, will serve as chairman. According to federal census
figures, one in five of the state's 8.7 million residents were born in other
countries. Federal officials estimate that the state has 221,000 illegal
immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deported in Error, Missing And Months Later Home

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 7


An American missing in Mexico for nearly three months after being wrongfully
deported has been found and reunited with his family here.

The man, Pedro Guzman, 29, was taken into custody on Sunday at the border
crossing in Calexico, Calif., as he tried to enter the United States, said Mark
D. Rosenbaum, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California, which has represented the family.

Mr. Guzman, appearing exhausted and confused, did not offer much information on
where he had been, Mr. Rosenbaum said. Relatives have said he is mildly
developmentally disabled. State Department officials said the family had told
them that he had no mental incapacity.

The A.C.L.U. released a statement saying Mr. Guzman told family members on
Tuesday that he had walked from Tijuana, Mexico, to Mexicali, across from
Calexico, a distance of some 100 miles, and ate out of trash cans.

A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Lori Haley, declined to
comment, because the family was suing the government. The agency has said it
followed proper procedure in deporting Mr. Guzman.

Mr. Guzman had served about 20 days of a jail sentence for misdemeanor
trespassing and vandalism until May 11, when, in a screening of inmates' status,
he apparently indicated he was from Mexico and was turned over to the
immigration agency,  which deported him to Tijuana.

Family members said that Mr. Guzman, who was born and raised here, called them
from Tijuana but that the conversation ended before he could say more precisely
where he was and that they did not hear from him again.

The family and its lawyers said the deportation demonstrated a failure on the
part of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and immigration authorities
to verify properly his status.

An immigration agent, Pilar Garcia, said in a deposition that agents did not
normally investigate whether someone claiming to be foreigner was a United
States citizen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

3rd Suspect, 15, Held in Newark Killings as Hunt Continues

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and ANDREW JACOBS; Reporting was contributed by John
Eligon, David Kocieniewski, Serge F. Kovaleski and Jonathan Miller.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 10


A 15-year-old youth on Friday became the third person arrested in the fatal
shootings of three young people on a Newark playground last week. An intense
police manhunt continued for at least two other suspects, including another
teenager.

The arrest came hours after the man suspected of being the ringleader in the
crime pleaded not guilty. The authorities revealed that he is an illegal
immigrant from Peru who could have been detained by federal authorities after
one of his two previous arrests in the past year. Instead, the immigrant, Jose
Lachira Carranza, a 28-year-old construction worker, was free on $150,000 bail
at the time of the killings last week, despite pending felony charges of
aggravated assault and sexual abuse of a child.

''The system is overwhelmed from top to bottom,'' said Armando B. Fontoura, the
Essex County sheriff, whose office discovered Mr. Carranza was in the country
illegally, and reported it to the federal government, after he turned himself in
on Thursday. ''This guy got through the cracks.''

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the agency was not notified about Mr. Carranza's status until
Thursday.

''Had we been contacted, that would have almost certainly triggered a
detainer,'' Mr. Raimondi said, referring to the mechanism by which the
immigration service prevents criminal suspects from being released on bail and
moves to deport them once charges are resolved. When an immigrant faces a charge
as serious as one of those against Mr. Carranza, accused in the rape of a
5-year-old, he said, ''we are going to bring that person into our custody
posthaste.''

Local authorities are not required to report the immigration status of people
they arrest. Some municipalities, like Suffolk County on Long Island, have made
aggressive efforts to do so as part of a crackdown on illegal immigrants, while
others consider themselves ''sanctuary cities'' and avoid such questions, in
part because of concerns that it could have a chilling effect on immigrants'
relationship with the police.

Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark expressed frustration on Friday that Mr. Carranza
had been returned to the street.

''Whether he is documented or undocumented is irrelevant,'' Mr. Booker said.
''What matters is he is a murderer, and he shouldn't have been on the streets.
It's obvious the system is broken.''

Investigators believe that at least five people -- including Mr. Carranza, a
15-year-old arrested Thursday, and the one arrested Friday -- formed the group
that set upon the young people last Saturday night, using at least one gun and a
machete that was found near the scene. At least one of the victims, Iofemi
Hightower, was attacked with the machete, investigators said. She had slashes
across her face and cuts on her forearms, the latter seen as evidence that she
had tried to resist.

Ms. Hightower, 20; Dashon Harvey, 20; and Terrance Aeriel, 18, were forced to
kneel in the weed-strewn lot at Mount Vernon School and were killed with bullets
to the back of the head. Natasha Aeriel, 19, Mr. Aeriel's sister, was also shot;
she survived, and picked Mr. Carranza out of a photo array from her hospital
bed.

At the Ivy Hill Park Apartments, where at least one of the teenage suspects
lives and Mr. Carranza lived several years ago, Jason Toomer, 20, said that Mr.
Carranza pulled a gun on him in March after accusing Mr. Toomer of taking his
cellphone, but that another man calmed Mr. Carranza down.

''He was running them,'' Mr. Toomer said, referring to Mr. Carranza and the
teenage suspects. ''He was telling them what to do.''

When officers suspect that a person is in the country illegally, they can send a
message to the immigration's service's Law Enforcement Center in Williston, Vt.

Paul M. Loriquet, a spokesman for the Essex County prosecutor's office, which is
handling the assault and sexual abuse cases against Mr. Carranza, said his
office notified immigration authorities about defendants' status only ''upon
conviction and sentencing.'' He added that Mr. Carranza, whose passport was
seized after an earlier arrest, ''has been appearing at all his hearings -- he
has not been a risk of flight.''

Capt. John Buoye of the West Orange police, which arrested Mr. Carranza in
connection with an assault last fall, said his department had no set protocol
for dealing with illegal immigrants, though it does have a long list of
''consular notifications,'' for when citizens of certain countries are arrested;
Peru, Mr. Carranza's native land, is not on the list.

Sheriff Fontoura said that an investigator in his office decided to check on Mr.
Carranza's Social Security number on Thursday and discovered it was false, which
led to the detainer.

Sheriff Fontoura said his investigators routinely checked the Social Security
numbers of people they arrest. In addition, when processing prisoners arrested
by other agencies, sheriff's deputies frequently call immigration authorities if
they suspect the prisoners are in the country illegally, he said.

A spokesman for the Newark Police Department would not comment on Friday on the
policy for reporting criminal suspects' immigration status.

At the arraignment Friday morning, Judge Michael R. Casale asked Mr. Carranza,
who wore an orange jumpsuit and had his hands shackled to his waist, whether he
had a Social Security number. ''I don't have any,'' he said, almost inaudibly,
in Spanish, as a translator conveyed his answer to the court.

Judge Casale asked Mr. Carranza's lawyer, Felix Lopez-Montalvo, whether his
client was in the country legally; Mr. Lopez-Montalvo replied that Mr. Carranza
was not.

The Essex County prosecutor, Paula T. Dow, said Mr. Carranza would stand trial
and, if convicted, serve his sentence before being deported. ''He's not leaving
our system until these matters are adjudicated,'' she said.

According to Mr. Carranza's older brother, Jesus Lachira Carranza, the family
came to Newark in the early 1990s from Chimbote, Peru, a fishing town on the
country's north coast. The younger Mr. Carranza worked in construction, living
in the Ivy Hill neighborhood until about four years ago, when he and his
siblings together bought three properties in Orange.

When asked why he moved to the United States, Jesus Carranza laughed and said
that, like most immigrants, he wanted to ''come here and work.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shalga Hightower, right, the mother of Iofemi Hightower, one of
the victims, was comforted by supporters in court yesterday.
 Jose Lachira Carranza, in court in Newark yesterday with a translator, pleaded
not guilty to murder charges. Mr. Carranza, 28, came here illegally from Peru.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY POOL PHOTO BY MIKE DERER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Influx

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1040 words


The Immigration Influx

As Alex Kotlowitz reports, the contradictions and complexities of the
immigration influx encourage cultural clashes and the accompanying fear and
resentment (Aug. 5). Carpentersville, Ill., is a perfect microcosm of the
national situation. People are inherently leery of the unknown. Just as the
primary force spurring the illegal immigration explosion is economics, the
impetus behind the backlash is fear. The result is that threatened Americans
strike out at threatened immigrants, driving them farther underground and away
from assimilation. Kotlowitz, with his probing look into circumstances and
opinions of all sides involved, attempts to answer many questions, but one
remains unresolved. When does fear and animus turn into bigotry? There is no
conclusive evidence that Judy Sigwalt or Paul Humpfer are bigots, but many of
their policies foster bigotry and are self-defeating. Compassion and compromise,
not truculence and intimidation, will resolve the current immigration stalemate.

Wayne Trujillo

Denver

Kotlowitz uses an Orwellian doublespeak term, ''without papers,'' to describe
the state of persons who are in the country illegally. This is like calling a
car thief a driver ''without papers'' because he does not have a title in the
glove compartment with his name on it.

Scott Pomerantz

Venice, Calif.

The saddest part of the article was that after 28 years working for the largest
employer in town, Darlene Hutchins makes a little over $10 an hour. If that is
''comparable with what other area factories pay if not actually more,'' it's not
hard to imagine that America's middle class is disappearing completely. I can't
believe that people are seriously considering a guest-worker system that will
only accelerate the erosion of wages and buying power.

Michael Kauffman

Roslyn, N.Y.

Our founding fathers considered, and rejected, designating English the new
nation's official language. In the spirit of valuing linguistic diversity, let's
put an end to the old joke: What do you call someone with two languages?
Bilingual. What do you call someone with one language? American.

Susan J. Behrens

Brooklyn

Getting Iraq Wrong

Michael Ignatieff (Aug. 5) dismisses many of the early (and prescient) critics
of the invasion of Iraq for ''indulging in ideology'' rather than ''exercising
judgment.''

It takes extraordinary chutzpah for those like Ignatieff, who were so
passionately wrong about Iraq, to accuse the opponents of the war of being
ideological, when in reality we were challenging the extremely ideological,
indeed messianic, views of the war's proponents.

The critics were not only right in predicting the disastrous consequences of the
invasion but also in judging that those consequences flowed from the motives
behind it, which we correctly said were rooted in the geopolitics of energy in
the resource-rich Middle East. Ignatieff offers nothing, other than more
ideology, to challenge this view.

Anthony Arnove

New York

We were glad to see Michael Ignatieff addressing the problem of his support for
the invasion of Iraq. But he fobs off his earlier warmongering as an example of
a more general problem: academic naivete and intellectual fantasizing.
Apparently, ''a sense of reality doesn't always flourish in elite institutions''
-- too much time at Harvard warped his judgment.

But trying to suggest that the minute he walked into Harvard Yard, his critical
faculties stopped working just won't do. We, too, were at Harvard in the run-up
to the war, and the campus was convulsed with protests.

If Ignatieff has spent the last five years praising the mistakes of credulous
politicians, it isn't because too few people had a sense of reality about the
war, either inside or outside academia; he just wasn't listening.

Daniela Cammack

David Grewal

Cambridge, Mass.

Ignatieff quotes his former mentor Isaiah Berlin as stating that academics care
more about the interest of ideas than their truth. This may be true in the
humanities and some of the social sciences, but it is definitely not true for
the fields that really dominate the modern academy, the natural sciences. In the
natural sciences, academics regularly kill their own interesting ideas in the
pursuit of mundane truth, and admitting mistakes is a regular part of a
scientist's life.

Roger L. Albin

Ann Arbor, Mich.

As a good and friendly neighbor, this Canadian would like to apologize to all
those on your side of the border for the lame, windy excuses now emanating from
my fellow countrymen who, in light of current tragic realities, are rethinking
their support for your president, his incompetent manipulators and their
doomed-from-the-start, militaristic foray into Iraq.

Please remember in the future that the main reason those like Ignatieff or the
''axis of evil'' coiner David Frum are down there messing in your affairs is
that we long ago stopped listening to their cloistered ramblings up here.

Wayne Scott

Toronto

Babys First Diet Pill

''Remaking the age-old survival mechanisms of the human body'' is, in the case
of infant feeding, completely unnecessary (Annie Murphy Paul, Aug. 5). The
age-old survival mechanism is still in place and still works. Human milk
contains the appetite-regulating hormone leptin, and the act of breast-feeding
allows a baby to be in control of how much he eats. These factors help explain
why babies who are breast-fed are less likely to become obese as children and
adults. Furthermore, breast-feeding is free, unlike specialty formulas. Mother
Nature has it right.

Margaret Bickmore

Longmont, Colo.

Questions for Mary Gordon

Thinking (out loud, in a highly public forum) that ''no woman is electable in
America'' is a sure way to help make it true (Deborah Solomon, Aug. 5). Mary
Gordon is a role model for this country's female intelligentsia. Her publicly
defeatist attitude is deplorable.

Martha Woodworth

Las Vegas

Vacation, All I Never Wanted

What's with Walter Kirn (Aug. 5)? ''Strip-mall day spas'' instead of vacs? He
forgets to offer Disneyland in place of France, Spain, Italy and Thailand.
American parochialism in operation. Just keep working, you slobs, and go down
the corner for an ice cream!

Gus Franza

Moriches, N.Y.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL D'AMATO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Presidential Candidate Blames Killings on Newark Sanctuary Policy

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 907 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 20


Federal officials said on Monday that a second man among the suspects in the
schoolyard slayings of three young friends was in the United States illegally,
and a conservative presidential candidate flew into town to denounce the city's
leaders as complicit in the murders because they had declared Newark a
''sanctuary'' for immigrants.

''If the suspects are found guilty, Newark and its political leadership share a
degree of responsibility,'' Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado,
said on the steps of the gold-domed City Hall, surrounded by a dozen supporters
and slightly more protesters who rallied against him. ''I encourage the family
of the victims to pursue a lawsuit against the city.''

Mr. Tancredo, whose bid for the Republican nomination is based largely on an
aggressive stance against illegal immigration, is among the many conservatives
nationwide who seized on the killings after it was reported that one of the
suspects, Jose Lachira Carranza, 28, was an illegal immigrant from Peru.

Before the killings, Mr. Carranza had been arrested three times on felony
charges but had been released on bail, in part because the authorities never
checked his immigration status. Doing so would likely have triggered a federal
''detainer'' that would have kept Mr. Carranza in custody to await deportation
proceedings.

On Monday, the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency placed a
similar detainer on Melvin Jovel, 18, who on Sunday was the sixth person to be
arrested in the case. Immigration officials said Mr. Jovel, who was from
Honduras, also was in the country illegally.

A third man, Rodolfo Godinez, 24, a legal resident  who immigrated from
Nicaragua, and three teenagers also face murder and robbery charges for the
shooting deaths of Iofemi Hightower, 20; Dashon Harvey, 20; and Terrance Aeriel,
18, on Aug. 4 behind the Mount Vernon School. Mr. Aeriel's sister Natasha, 19,
was also shot, but survived.

At a news conference that was held before Mr. Tancredo's speech, Paula T. Dow,
the Essex County prosecutor, whose office was one of several law enforcement
agencies that failed to examine Mr. Carranza's immigration status, shifted the
blame to the federal authorities. Officials in Ms. Dow's office had said their
policy was to not notify immigration officials until suspects were convicted,
which they believed was the officials' preference.

Ms. Dow also pointed out that an official from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement had been stationed in the county jail since March and that Mr.
Carranza had been held there in May.

''They would have an opportunity to perhaps take action,'' Ms. Dow said,
referring to Mr. Carranza. Concerning Mr. Tancredo's visit, Ms. Dow said, ''I
think it's absolutely abysmal that anyone would challenge and accuse or lay the
blame on the Newark Police Department or anyone in law enforcement for the
status of Carranza.''

Newark's mayor, Cory A. Booker, found himself answering questions about Mr.
Tancredo at the news conference. He reacted angrily to the visit.

''These folks descend from out of town to protest in front of City Hall at this
time; I find that troubling,'' he said. ''Talking about anyone being complicit
in such a heinous crime -- I find those words vulgar.''

Mr. Booker; his police director, Garry F. McCarthy; and the police chief,
Anthony Campos, flanked by detectives, gave few additional details about the
night of the shooting.

For the first time, Mr. Booker acknowledged the ''gang overtones'' of the case.
Several of the suspects boasted, to friends and on Web pages, of an affinity
with MS-13, a gang from El Salvador.

In an interview on Monday at their office, Detective Lydell A. James, the lead
Newark investigator on the case, and Sgt. Darnell Henry spoke about their work
over the last two weeks, during which the six suspects were arrested in three
states. They said the investigation was exhausting but had produced results more
quickly than anticipated.

''It was smooth,'' Sergeant Henry said.

They spoke only generally about the evidence, saying they did not wish to
compromise the prosecution.

Ms. Aeriel, despite her serious injuries, was able to begin speaking to
investigators almost immediately, and her help was essential  in finding the
suspects, they said. They also praised security guards, many of them retired
police officers, who worked at the Ivy Hill Park Apartments, where all of the
suspects were current or former residents. ''They knew the six,'' Detective
James said. ''They knew the troublemakers.''

The investigation has taken its toll. Sergeant Henry rifled through bills in his
drawer that he had meant to pay weeks ago. Detective James pointed to a couch in
an adjoining room, saying he would catch an hour or so of sleep there or in a
green chair in his office. The detective said he visited Ms. Aeriel in the
hospital every day.

''I love that girl to death,'' he said, adding that he was angry that her
identity had been released to the public. ''This is why witnesses are reluctant
to come forward.''

There were fights between the detectives -- soon resolved, they said -- and
thrilling moments when they could see the end of the chase.

One came over the weekend, as the two of them raced back in a car from Virginia,
having found the evidence they needed to arrest Mr. Jovel. ''We're on the
highway, and it's getting dark,'' Detective James said. ''We had enough probable
cause.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Outside City Hall, Jim Behan, left, protested illegal
immigration as demonstrators rallied against Representative Tom Tancredo.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SYLWIA KAPUSCINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: The Suspects:
Six men and boys have been arrested since the late-night shootings on Aug. 4.
Aug. 8 The first suspect, a 15-yearold, is arrested. Aug. 10 A second
15-year-old is arrested hours after Mr. Carranza pleads not guilty.
Aug. 18 Rodolfo Godinez, 24, is arrested in a Maryland apartment. Mr. Godinez
has been called the other leader of the group. His 16- year-old half brother is
arrested about an hour later in Virginia.
Aug. 9 Jose Lachira Carranza, 28, is arrested after his lawyer calls a mayoral
aide to arrange Mr. Carranza's surrender to the mayor, Cory A. Booker. Mr.
Carranza allegedly shot the only survivor and is considered one of the leaders
of the group.
 Aug. 19 Melvin Jovel, 18, the final suspect, is arrested. One of the other
suspects told detectives that Mr. Jovel fired a weapon the night of Aug. 4.
Chart shows timeline from August 8th-August 19th with photos for each suspect.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecticut Court Nominee Withdraws Over Immigrant Remark

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Aug. 22


Judge John R. Downey of State Superior Court, Gov. M. Jodi Rell's nominee for
the State Appellate Court, withdrew his name from consideration on Wednesday
after court transcripts showed that he had mistakenly claimed that only legal
residents could use the court system.

The withdrawal took place a day after Judge Downey was questioned by lawmakers
about that remark and comments he made during a court proceeding praising former
Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, a longtime segregationist.

Judge Downey, in a letter to the leaders of the legislature's Judiciary
Committee, apologized  and said his views on the illegal immigration issue
''have evolved.''

''I would like to state unequivocally that it is my position that all people
have the right to access our courts to seek redress for legal injury,'' he
wrote.

Judge Downey, 56, of Redding, called Mr. Thurmond a ''great American'' in 2003,
the day after the Republican senator's death. He told the lawmakers in the
letter that it was a mistake to make the remarks in the courtroom.

Lawmakers adjourned a confirmation hearing for Judge Downey on Tuesday after
receiving the transcripts.

Mrs. Rell said she would submit a new nominee. Judge Downey said he planned to
stay on the Superior Court, where he has been a judge for six and a half years.

In 2002, he told a lawyer during a divorce matter involving an immigrant couple
that ''only people legally allowed in the United States can make use of our
court system.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Carolina: Raid at Hog Processing Plant

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 67 words


Immigration agents raided the world's largest hog processing plant Wednesday and
also homes in four surrounding counties, arresting 28 people suspected of
identity theft, the authorities said. Agents from the federal Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency arrived at the Smithfield Foods plant in Tar Heel
about 4 a.m. to remove some workers. In January, immigration agents arrested 21
plant employees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Won't Delay Raids On Immigrants for Census

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 358 words


In contrast to the months before and after the 2000 census was conducted,
federal officials say they will not suspend raids on illegal immigrants during
the population count in 2010.

''We would not even consider scaling back our efforts,'' said Pat A. Reilly, a
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The census
counts all residents, legal and illegal.

This month, Preston Jay Waite, the Census Bureau's deputy director, cautioned in
an interview that raids during the population count would further discourage an
already distrustful group from cooperating with government enumerators. Mr.
Waite  said federal officials did not conduct raids for several months before
and after the 2000 census.

Given how politically volatile an issue immigration has become, however, Mr.
Waite was quoted by The Associated Press as saying that enforcement agencies
''may not be able to give us as much of a break'' in 2010.

The Pew Hispanic Center has estimated that in 2005 nearly half of the 16 million
foreign-born Hispanics living in the United States were here illegally.

Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior research associate at the center, said the bureau
did an effective job of reaching out to Hispanics in 2000, in part by
emphasizing  the confidentiality of the census. The count that year was higher
than anticipated.

''We're in a different climate right now,'' Mr. Passel said. ''It would be much
more difficult to take the census and get the same degree of cooperation.''

This week, C. Louis Kincannon, the Census Bureau's director, said that the
bureau had not asked federal agencies to refrain from enforcing immigration laws
in 2010 and that any such request would be premature.

''While previous administrations sought to have law enforcement raids curtailed
somewhat to help obtain greater accuracy, we respect I.C.E.'s statement that
they will not suspend raids,'' Mr. Kincannon said.

He added that the bureau would ''rely heavily on trusted individuals and
organizations within hard-to-count populations to partner with us to increase
public awareness that it's important and safe to participate in the 2010
census.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trenton: Immigrant Forced To Work

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH DWOSKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 170 words


A West Windsor woman pleaded guilty yesterday in State Superior Court to
criminal restraint for forcing a Filipino immigrant to care for her sick husband
and do housekeeping, state prosecutors said. The woman, Angelita Reyes, 68,
admitted that she had exploited the immigrant, Arlene Gado, 23, by paying her a
fraction of what she was promised and forbidding her to leave the Reyes house
unless accompanied by her employers. Prosecutors said Ms. Gado agreed to come to
the United States to care for the children of Ms. Reyes's son-in-law Anthony
Mandap, who is the Philippines' vice consul in San Francisco. But instead of
working for Mr. Mandap, Ms. Gado was forced to care for Ms. Reyes's ailing
husband, Norberto, prosecutors said. Ms. Gado's passport and visa were taken
away and she was told she could not leave the house alone because she would be
arrested, prosecutors said. If the judge accepts Ms. Reyes's plea, she will be
sentenced to probation, said Peter Aseltine, a spokesman for the attorney
general's office.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Forget the Border

BYLINE: By Janet Napolitano.

Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, is the governor of Arizona.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Who Likes the Immigration Bill?;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


IMMIGRATION is a tough issue and the Senate deserves our thanks for moving a
bill forward this year. But as with all things related to immigration, the devil
is in the details. As a border state governor with a close-up view of how
immigration policy works on the ground, I have seen how easily plans can fall
apart, or lose the support they need from Washington.

For example, even as the Senate debates its bill, the Bush administration is
reducing by nearly half the number of National Guard members assigned to support
the Border Patrol in the Southwest. Illegal immigration is a problem not yet
solved, and the need for Border Patrol agents has not diminished. In light of
the Guard reduction, it is imperative that we have more Border Patrol agents and
fund their sustained presence.

The reduction in border security comes at an odd time, given that the compromise
legislation specifies that all its measures to enhance border security --
chiefly, putting up hundreds of miles of more fence along the border and
doubling the number of Border Patrol agents -- be in place before any visas are
issued to temporary workers. I strongly favor enhanced border security, but I am
concerned about delaying a temporary worker program until those security
measures are instituted. The Department of Homeland Security has already
demonstrated that it takes a long time to hire agents and to award contracts for
fencing. A temporary worker program should not be burdened with this unnecessary
delay.

The temporary worker program in the Senate legislation, however, needs
improvement. The proposed notion that temporary workers stay here for two years,
return home for a year, then repeat that strange cycle two more times makes no
sense. No employer can afford this schedule -- hiring and training, only to have
a worker who soon will leave. It will only encourage employers and workers to
find new ways to break the rules.

Equally troubling is the so-called ''touchback'' provision aimed at the
estimated 12 million people already here illegally. The compromise requires
''heads of household'' to return to their country of origin to apply for
permanent resident status, with their re-entry guaranteed. This would create an
exponential increase in work for the State Department, which can barely handle
the load it carries now. Without more resources and a streamlined system, the
touchback idea won't work.

These and other issues should be addressed in the Senate debate. Lawmakers
should not forget that immigration reform must be truly comprehensive. The
country has waited too long to accept anything less.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Back Door For Terrorists

BYLINE: By Richard A. Clarke.

Richard A. Clarke, the former head of counterterrorism at the National Security
Council, is the author of ''Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on
Terror.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Who Likes the Immigration Bill?;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 483 words


AMID all of the xenophobia and nativism surrounding the immigration debate,
there is a real security concern. In the language of the bureaucracy, the
problem is referred to as the ''O.T.M.'s,'' or Other Than Mexicans.

Thousands of non-Mexicans are caught crossing the United States border every
year. They cannot be sent back to Mexico, but must be deported to their home
country. Until recently, most were given a deportation hearing date and then
simply released. Not surprisingly, few showed up for their scheduled
appearances. Beginning last year, however, most who are caught are put into
detention. They are then put through a procedure called expedited removal, under
which many are flown back home within a few weeks.

Many of these non-Mexicans come from Iraq, Pakistan, Yemen, the Palestinian
territories and other areas of concern to counterterrorism officials. What we
don't know is how many others are evading the Border Patrol every year and what
happens to them when they leave the border area. It's not too hard to imagine
that these illegal immigrants, who have clearly spent a lot of money getting to
Mexico and then into the United States, are able to buy themselves an identity
and corroborating papers once in an American city.

Since 9/11, it has been far more difficult to get a visa to enter the United
States if you are a citizen of a country considered a terrorism concern. But it
is not difficult for a Pakistani, for example, to enter Mexico or another
Central American country from which he can get to our border relatively easily,
cross it and blend in.

The Real ID Act of 2005, which among other things established standards for
state-issued driver's licenses and non-driver's identification cards, has now
been put off until at least 2009. And many states are in open revolt against its
tough requirements for issuing driver's licenses.

The result is that potential terrorists here illegally can easily use phony
licenses or, in many states, get real ones issued to them, along with credit
cards and all of the other papers needed to blend into our society. (The only
places in this country that seem to check the validity of drivers' licenses are
bars in college neighborhoods.) Indeed, those arrested for allegedly planning to
attack Fort Dix in New Jersey included illegal immigrants who apparently had
little difficulty getting along in this country.

In his commencement speech at the Coast Guard Academy last month, President Bush
was right to express concern that Al Qaeda is trying to bring terrorists into
the United States. He was wrong, however, to claim that fighting in Iraq somehow
helps stop such attempts. In the absence of a secure border and verifiable
biometric identification systems, preventing terrorists from getting in to this
country and setting up sleeper cells here is almost impossible. Maybe we will
get serious after the next attack.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Point System For Immigrants Incites Passions

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


Ekaterina D. Atanasova, a civil engineer from Bulgaria who lives in southern
Maine, wants to bring her husband to the United States. Under the Senate
immigration bill, he would get high marks -- at least 74 points -- because he
too is a civil engineer, has a master's degree and is fluent in English.

But Herminia Licona Sandoval, a cleaning woman from Honduras, would have no hope
of bringing her 30-year-old son to the United States. He works as a driver at an
oil refinery, lacks a high school diploma, speaks little English and would fare
poorly under the Senate bill, earning fewer than 15 of a possible 100 points.

The point system, one of the most significant features of the Senate immigration
bill, will be at the heart of the debate as Congress resumes work on the
legislation after a weeklong recess. It has already stirred passions because it
would profoundly change the criteria for picking future immigrants.

President Bush and some senators champion the point system as a way to select
immigrants most likely to make long-term economic contributions to the United
States. Supporters say it would be the most systematic effort in the nation's
history to evaluate would-be immigrants, using objective criteria to measure job
skills, education and other attributes.

But the plan is provoking strong opposition from leading Democrats, who say it
smacks of social engineering and reflects a class bias.

Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said, ''The point system would
have prevented my own parents, a carpenter and a seamstress, from coming to this
country.''

This week, the Senate is expected to vote on an amendment offered by Senator
Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, to end the point system after five years.
Senators will also vote on a Republican proposal to eliminate ''bonus points''
that could be given to many illegal immigrants who gain legal status and then
seek green cards.

The bill, written by the White House and a bipartisan group of a dozen senators,
would establish ''a merit-based system'' to evaluate people seeking the green
cards, as permanent-residence visas are known.

An applicant could receive a maximum of 100 points. Up to 75 points would be
allocated for job skills and education, with 15 for English-language proficiency
and 10 for family ties.

The criteria favor professionals with graduate degrees in science, technology,
engineering and mathematics. But the point system would also reward people who
work in 30 ''high demand'' occupations, like home health care and food service.

Spouses and minor children of United States citizens would still be allowed to
immigrate without limits. But siblings and adult children of citizens and lawful
permanent residents would be subject to the point system. They could get a
maximum of 10 points for family ties, provided they had already earned 55 points
for job skills, education and English language ability.

Under the bill, Congress would set the number of points for each attribute. The
selection criteria could not be changed for 14 years. Decisions on individual
cases would be within the ''sole and unreviewable discretion'' of the secretary
of homeland security.

Supporters of the point system say it would make the United States more
competitive in a global economy by admitting people with skills needed in the
American workplace -- people who might otherwise go to work for foreign
companies.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said: ''America needs an
immigration system that can compete for the best minds that exist in the world.
The new system does it better than the old system.''

But Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who is chairwoman of the
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said she had found no one in her Silicon
Valley district who thought it was a good idea.

''The point system is like the Soviet Union,'' Ms. Lofgren said. ''The
government is saying, in effect, 'We have a five-year plan for the economy, and
we will decide with this point system what mix of skills is needed.' That is not
the way a market-based capitalist economy works best.''

The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, has also expressed ''serious objection to the
point system,'' saying it could split families.

As the Senate resumed debate Monday on the point system and other features of
the immigration measure, the leadership explored whether to try to force a final
vote by the end of the week or let lawmakers continue to propose changes.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said, ''We need to
have the maximum opportunity for the largest number of amendments to be
considered before we entertain the notion of shutting down debate on this
important measure.''

But prolonging debate provides opponents of the measure more opportunity to win
changes that could shatter the bipartisan coalition behind it. Senator Jon Kyl
of Arizona, a chief Republican architect of the bill, warned of looming ''killer
amendments'' on issues like guest workers and family migration that, if adopted,
would lead him to oppose the bill.

Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the majority leader, said he and Mr.
McConnell were still trying to devise an end game for the legislation.
''Everyone has been home and has been barraged on all sides of this issue,'' Mr.
Reid said Monday.

The debate has major implications for the economy. About 23 million workers --
one in seven -- were born abroad. In the last decade, foreign-born workers
accounted for half of the growth in the labor force. The Labor Department says
the nation will need immigrants to meet looming labor shortages.

Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell University, said:
''A key theoretical advantage of a point system is the ability to respond to
changing economic needs. Unfortunately, the Senate bill would lock in the
criteria for at least 14 years. The economy changes much faster than that.''

The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research center, analyzed the
likely effects of the Senate bill by examining Census Bureau data. It reached
these conclusions:

Immigrants from many Asian countries would do well. In the last 15 years, more
than three-fourths of immigrants from India, and more than half of those from
China, the Philippines and South Korea had bachelor's degrees or higher. Most
immigrants from India and the Philippines report speaking English well.

Immigrants from Latin America would ''face more difficulties'' in getting green
cards. More than 40 percent of recent immigrants from this region are in the
preferred age range, 25 to 39, but many lack educational credentials and English
language skills. More than 60 percent of adult immigrants from Mexico have not
completed high school. Just 5 percent have college degrees. Only 15 percent of
recent Mexican immigrants are proficient in English.

The United States has received comparatively few immigrants from Africa, but
many of them have characteristics that would help them earn points.

About two-fifths of recent African immigrants are in the preferred age group.
Two-thirds are proficient in English. And 38 percent have a bachelor's or higher
degree.

The proposed point system would help people like Ms. Atanasova, who is not yet a
citizen, and her husband, Nikola K. Nikolov, both 29 years old.

Mr. Nikolov could get 20 points because he has a specialty occupation, an
additional 8 points because he is an engineer, 28 points because he has a
master's degree in engineering, 3 points because he is in the preferred age
group and 15 points because he is fluent in English.

Reached at his home in Bulgaria, Mr. Nikolov said he believed he could ''manage
quite well'' in the United States.

But the point system would adversely affect people like Ms. Licona Sandoval, the
Honduran who cleans government offices at night. ''It will be impossible to
bring my son, Jose Lionel Duron Licona,'' she said.

Australia, Britain and Canada use point systems. But experts in Australia and
Canada said the United States was ignoring lessons that could be learned from
their experience.

Arnold J. Conyer, a lawyer who is president of the Migration Institute of
Australia, said it was important to accept some immigrants specifically
sponsored by employers, a feature of current law that would be largely replaced
by the point system.

''Employers with an immediate need can sponsor a particular person for a
particular job opening,'' Mr. Conyer said. ''On the other hand, the point system
is used to build up a supply of good-quality stock that will be available to
Australian employers in the future.''

Howard D. Greenberg, an immigration lawyer in Toronto, said Canada's experience
showed the risks of relying too heavily on a point system.

''A candidate can succeed under the Canadian point system without having a job
offer,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''As a result, we have some professionals, like
doctors, who perform low-skill occupations such as driving taxis until they can
find more appropriate work.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A point system at the heart of the immigration bill before
Congress would bode poorly for Herminia Licona Sandoval, above, but well for
Ekaterina D. Atanasova, left. Ms. Atanasova wants her husband to come the United
States, and Ms. Licona Sandoval, her son. (Photo by Cheryl Senter for The New
York Times)
 (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)(pg. A18)  Chart: ''Rating The
Immigrants'' The Senate immigration bill would eventually allocate 380,000 visas
a year under a merit-based point system. Applicants with the highest number of
points, out of a possible 100, could obtain permanent residence visas, or green
cards.  MAXIMUM POINTS  47: Employment 20: Specialty occupation 16: High-demand
occupation 8: STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathemetics) or health
occupation 6: Job offer or recommendation from a U.S. employer 2: For each year
of work for a U.S. company (10 points maximum) 3: Worker's age from 25 to 39
years  28: Education 20: M.D., M.B.A. or other graduate degree 16: Bachelor's
degree 10: Associate's degree 6: High school diploma or G.E.D 8: Degree in STEM
or health occupation 8: Completed apprenticeship program 5: Completed Perkins
vocational education program  15: English and civics 15: Native English speaker
or has score of 75 or higher in TOEFL, an English proficiency test 10: Has a
score of 60-74 in TOEFL 6: Pass citizenship tests for English and civics
Following can be applied if the applicant has 55 points from categories above:
10: Extended family 8: Adult child of a U.S. citizen 6: Adult child of a U.S.
permanent resident 4: Sibling of U.S. citizen or permanent resident  (pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Voters Gain New Clout With Democrats

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Patrick Healy contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1763 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


Helped by the fight over immigration, Democratic presidential candidates are
courting Hispanic voters like never before, prompted by a string of early
primaries in states with sizable Hispanic voting blocs.

It has forced candidates to hire outreach consultants, to start Spanish-language
Web sites and to campaign vigorously before Hispanic audiences.

The battle for Hispanic voters is a result of the decision by several states
with large Hispanic populations to move their presidential primaries to early
2008, including California, Florida and New York. Roughly two-thirds of the
nation's Hispanic residents live in nine of the states holding Democratic
primaries or caucuses on or before Feb. 5.

Republican and Democratic strategists, as well as independent analysts, say the
influence of Hispanic voters is likely to be amplified next year because of an
unusually intense response in many Hispanic communities to immigration policy.
Conservative Republicans, with the help of some left-leaning Democrats, teamed
up on Thursday to derail an immigration bill in the Senate that would have
provided a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

It is in the new early primary states where Democrats hope the outreach efforts
bear fruit. In the last presidential election, Hispanic voters accounted for a
significant part of the overall Democratic primary electorate in California (16
percent), New York (11 percent), Arizona (17 percent) and Florida (9 percent),
all states that will hold primaries by Feb 5.

Sergio Bendixen, a pollster hired by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign
to study Hispanic voting trends, said: ''The Hispanic vote has never been all
that important in the presidential primary process in the United States. But
that will change in 2008.''

At this early stage, Mrs. Clinton, a New York Democrat, appears best poised to
benefit from the heightened Hispanic role in the primary process. She has
already captured a prized endorsement, of Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los
Angeles, one of the nation's most prominent Hispanic politicians.

Mrs. Clinton is also well known and liked by many Hispanics, with several
national New York Times/CBS News polls from the past few months showing that
about 60 percent of registered Hispanic voters who identify themselves as
Democrats have a favorable view of her, while a quarter do not.

Meanwhile, Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, remains a blank slate to
many Hispanic voters, polls show, with 40 percent having no opinion of him. But
his aspirational biography could prove a draw as more Hispanic voters get to
know him.

Former Senator John Edwards is even less well known among Democratic Hispanic
voters. While a third have a positive view of Mr. Edwards and fewer than 10
percent have an unfavorable view of him, 6 in 10 are unable to offer an opinion.

The only Hispanic in the race, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat,
is working to build a base and establish a political identity beyond the
Southwest.

Many Democrats were as troubled by the Senate immigration bill as were
Republicans, but for decidedly different reasons. Mrs. Clinton expressed
concerns about the legislation, particularly a provision that makes it harder
for legal immigrants in the United States to bring relatives from abroad. Mr.
Obama said that he would have supported the bill, but that he too had similar
concerns about the provision, according to his aides.

On the Republican side, two of the main candidates, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mitt
Romney, opposed the immigration bill, while Senator John McCain played a main
role in drafting the legislation, only to face a huge backlash from conservative
Republicans raising alarms about what they call a flood of immigrants.

The bill's setback -- a major defeat for President Bush -- could complicate
Republican efforts to win over the fast-growing Hispanic electorate and help
Democrats solidify their hold on these voters, an electoral prize expected to
increase in importance in coming decades. Surveys showed that Hispanics were a
small part of the Republican primary vote in 2000, with their greatest influence
being in California, where they made up 9 percent of the vote.

The debate over immigration has spurred Hispanic leaders and voters to mobilize
like few issues in recent memory have. The National Association of Latino
Elected Officials has joined with the Hispanic television network Univision on a
national campaign to help Hispanic residents fill out citizenship applications
and to help those who are already citizens register to vote.

Stephanie Pillersdorf, a spokeswoman for Univision, said the number of Hispanic
residents who had applied for citizenship in Los Angeles County alone had gone
up 146 percent since the campaign started several months ago.

The scramble for Hispanic support is evident both within the campaigns and out
on the trail.

On Friday, Mrs. Clinton spoke to Hispanic leaders in the Bronx, where she
accused Republicans of undermining the immigration bill in the Senate. ''The
bill was mostly killed by people who don't want any immigration reform and don't
want a path toward legalization,'' she said. ''There's a very big anti-immigrant
feeling that is influencing the problem right now, particularly on the
Republican side.''

Earlier this month, Mr. Obama traveled to Nevada, a heavily Hispanic state that
moved its caucus to Jan. 19, and sat down for interviews with Spanish-language
television and newspaper reporters.

Mr. Edwards, who hopes his populist appeal will draw support from Hispanics, is
dispatching his political director, David Medina, to meet with members of
Democratic Hispanic Caucus of Florida. Mr. Richardson alternates between English
and Spanish on the campaign trail. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of
Connecticut, also often likes to display his fluency in Spanish, including when
he announced his candidacy on CNN en Espanol.

Republicans have been making similar efforts. Mr. McCain has been making
appearances before Hispanic audiences around the country, including in Miami,
where he recently gave a speech on immigration. He also has access to a deep
bench of prominent Hispanic leaders who fill in for him on Spanish-language
radio and television programs, including Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart,
Mario Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, all of Florida. The senator himself
has also made appearances on Univision and Telemundo. Mr. Romney, in turn,
announced on Friday the creation of a steering committee to help him attract
Hispanic voters.

Strategists for several Democratic campaigns say the new calendar has set the
stage for Hispanic voters to have much more influence in picking the parties'
presidential nominees than they did when states like Iowa and New Hampshire were
essentially alone among the early states in the nominating process.

In fact, in the 2004 race, Senator John Kerry did not assemble a Hispanic
outreach and media operation until about five months before the general
election.

By contrast, the Clinton campaign has already put in place a driven Hispanic
outreach team that, among other things, issues press releases in Spanish on a
regular basis and has a stable of Spanish-speaking surrogates to fill in for
Mrs. Clinton at events that focus on Hispanics. It has also assigned a prominent
role to its campaign manager, Patti Solis Doyle, a woman of Mexican descent who
has been one of Mrs. Clinton's most trusted advisers and friends since her days
as first lady of Arkansas. Mrs. Doyle, who played a crucial role in getting the
recent endorsement from Mr. Villaraigosa, has made herself available for
interviews with Hispanic organizations of all sorts.

Democrats are optimistic about their prospects of making large gains among
Hispanic voters, mindful of the progress they made in the 2006 midterm
elections, when only 26 percent of Hispanics voted for Republican Congressional
candidates. That was down from 44 percent in 2004, when Mr. Bush was at the top
of the ticket, according to nationwide exit polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky.

While Mr. Bush's popularity with Hispanics had been a factor in drawing large
numbers of them to the Republican Party, many Hispanics appear to be returning
to the Democratic fold as conservative efforts gained momentum last year to
restrict immigration and build a wall along the Mexican border.

Democrats are doing what they can to encourage that return. Mr. Obama has
traveled to Nevada several times to meet with members and leaders of a culinary
workers' union, most of whom are Hispanic women who work in Las Vegas hotels and
casinos. The Obama campaign says the union could play a decisive role in
generating voter turnout when the state holds its caucus next January.

The campaign is also sending dozens of volunteers this weekend to pass out
Spanish-language literature in heavily Hispanic cities like Los Angeles, San
Diego, Las Vegas, Phoenix, Houston and San Antonio, and is making videos
available on its Web site with closed captioning in Spanish.

Mr. Edwards, in turn, is betting that his antipoverty campaign of the last few
years, including helping unions organize in industries with large numbers of
Hispanic workers, will give him an edge.

Earlier this year, he met with Arturo Rodriguez, the president of the farm
workers' union, and several hundred union members in Fresno, Calif. Mr.
Edwards's campaign has also sent prominent Hispanic supporters to act as
surrogates for him on the campaign trial, including Patricia Madrid, the former
attorney general of New Mexico, who recently went to Nevada to meet with
Hispanic politicians and activists.

If any candidate can appeal to the ethnic pride of Hispanic voters, it is Mr.
Richardson, the New Mexico governor, who often points to his Mexican roots (his
mother is a native of Mexico) when appearing before Hispanic audiences.

The main problem for Mr. Richardson is that he is a relatively unknown figure
among Hispanic voters, as well as the general electorate. To raise his profile
among Hispanics, Mr. Richardson has turned to prominent Hispanics, including
Gloria Molina, a Los Angeles County supervisor, who introduced him at the rally
where he recently announced his candidacy.

David Contarino, Mr. Richardson's campaign manager, predicted that his candidacy
would become a matter of ''interest and pride'' among Hispanic voters once they
learned of his record and roots.

''His name is Bill Richardson; that does not necessarily communicate his
background,'' Mr. Contarino said dryly.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barack Obama in Nevada last month. He has courted members and
leaders of a culinary workers' union there, most of whom are Hispanic. (Photo by
Andy Barron, Reno Gazette-Journal, via Associated Press)
 Hillary Rodham Clinton in April in Nevada, a state with a large Hispanic
population. Her campaign has a team focusing on Latino votes. (Photo by David B.
Parker/Reno Gazette-Journal, via Associated Press)(pg. 35)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grass Roots Roared, and an Immigration Plan Fell

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Los
Angeles.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Mich., June 8


The undoing of the immigration bill in the Senate this week had many players,
but none more effective than angry voters like Monique Thibodeaux, who joined a
nationwide campaign to derail it.

Mrs. Thibodeaux, an office manager at a towing company here in suburban Detroit,
became politically active as she never had before. Guided by conservative
Internet organizations, she made calls and sent e-mail messages to senators
across the country and pushed her friends to do the same.

''These people came in the wrong way, so they don't belong here, period,'' Mrs.
Thibodeaux, a Republican, said of some 12 million illegal immigrants who would
have been granted a path to citizenship under the Senate bill.

''In my heart I knew it was wrong for our country,'' she said of the measure.

Supporters of the legislation defended it as an imperfect but pragmatic solution
to the difficult problem of illegal immigration. Public opinion polls, including
a New York Times/CBS News Poll conducted last month, showed broad support among
Americans for the bill's major provisions.

But the legislation sparked a furious rebellion among many Republican and even
some Democratic voters, who were linked by the Internet and encouraged by radio
talk show hosts. Their outrage and activism surged to full force after Senator
Jon Kyl, the Arizona Republican who was an author of the bill, suggested early
this week that support for the measure seemed to be growing. The assault on
lawmakers in Washington was relentless. In a crucial vote Thursday night, the
bill's supporters, including President Bush, fell short by 15 votes. While there
is a possibility the legislation could be revived later this year, there was a
glow of victory among opponents on Friday.

''Technologically enhanced grass-roots activism is what turned this around,
people empowered by the Internet and talk radio,'' said Colin A. Hanna,
president of Let Freedom Ring, a conservative group.

Mr. Hanna suggested the passion and commitment were on the side of the
opponents.

''The opposition to the amnesty plan is so much more intense than the intensity
of the supporters,'' said Mr. Hanna, speaking of the bill's provisions to grant
legal status to qualifying illegal immigrants, which the authors of the
legislation insisted was not amnesty.

In the end, supporters conceded that they were outmaneuvered by opponents who
boiled down their complaints to that single hot-button word, repeated often and
viscerally on talk radio programs and blogs.

''It's a lot easier to yell one word, 'amnesty,' and it takes a little more to
explain, 'No, it's not, and if you don't do anything you have a silent amnesty,'
'' said Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat who backed the measure.

Christopher Sabatini, senior director of policy at the Americas Society/Council
of the Americas, which follows Hispanic immigration, described the bill as
''born an orphan in terms of popular support.''

''You got the sense of a deafening silence from the supporters, and the roar of
the opposition,'' Mr. Sabatini said.

For Mrs. Thibodeaux and others on her side, the immigration debate was a battle
for the soul of the nation because it seemed to divert taxpayer-financed
resources to cater to foreigners who had not come to this country by legal
means.

''This hit home with me because I knew it was taking away from our people,''
said Mrs. Thibodeaux, 50, who works at Ruehle's Auto Transport. ''What happened
to taking care of our own people first?''

Rosemary Jenks, a policy advocate at NumbersUSA, which calls for curbing
immigration, said that 7,000 new members signed up for the organization in a
single day last week. Other groups reported a similar outpouring as proponents
of the Senate bill claimed to be gaining momentum.

''We had way more response than we could handle,'' said Stephen Elliott,
president of Grassfire.org, a conservative Internet group that called for
volunteers for a petition drive and instructed people how to barrage lawmakers
with telephone calls and e-mail.

The group gathered more than 700,000 signatures on petitions opposing the bill,
delivering them this week to senators in Washington and in their home states.

Organizers described a new Internet-linked national constituency that emerged
among Republicans, much like the one that Democrats pioneered during the
presidential candidacy in 2004 of Howard Dean. But many of these Republicans are
enraged at their party leaders, including Mr. Kyl and Senator Trent Lott of
Mississippi, who supported the bill, and they feel betrayed by Mr. Bush.

Opposition to the Senate bill brought together many Americans in states where
immigration was not traditionally a fervor-inspiring issue, but where illegal
immigration has become more visible in recent years.

''Every state is now a border state,'' said Susan Tully, the national field
director for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which has long
supported a crackdown on illegal immigration. The bill's opponents also objected
to how it was handled, with the huge measure negotiated behind closed doors
between White House and Senate lawmakers, without any hearings or other public
input.

''Ordinary people like me rose up and put a stop to it,'' said William Murphy, a
retired policeman from Evansville, Wis., one of the Grassfire.org volunteers who
delivered petitions to his senators. On Thursday before the vote, he said, he
put in new calls to 15 senators.

Mr. Murphy said he felt strongly about the bill because he believed it would
degrade the value of American citizenship.

''If I come from Mexico, I can jump the fence and get all those American
benefits,'' he said. ''It's outrageous when you can buy your citizenship for
$5,000,'' he said, referring to the fines that illegal immigrants would pay
under the bill to become legal permanent residents.

When asked about Mr. Bush's support for the bill, Mr. Murphy, a longtime
Republican, had to pause to temper his words.

''I was stunned, really,'' he said. Mr. Bush ''has always been a person who
stood for some basic human values, and now he's going to give away the
country?''

In Virginia, Allen Price, another Grassfire.org member who was formerly a talk
show host in Richmond, decried the Senate bill as an attempt by corporate
business to secure cheap labor.

''I called up everybody I knew and told them to make calls,'' said Mr. Price,
also a Republican. He delivered 15,000 petitions to the offices of his senators,
John W. Warner, a Republican, and Jim Webb, a first-term Democrat, both of whom
voted against closing debate on the bill on Thursday night.

In California, a challenge was started by ''The John & Ken Show,'' a popular
talk radio show critical of the bill, for 30,000 opposition calls to Senator
Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, who supported the measure. All of Ms. Feinstein's
phone lines were clogged, with calls from opponents of the bill and from
supporters seeking to undermine the challenge.

Here in Michigan, speaking at her neatly maintained home under hickory trees in
Washington, a town north of Detroit that has been battered by auto company
layoffs, Mrs. Thibodeaux said the immigration bill worried her like no other
political issue. She believed it would reward undeserving immigrants who do not
speak English and would soon become a burden on public services that Americans
need in a time of economic uncertainty.

''A lot of our American people in Detroit are hurting,'' Mrs. Thibodeaux said,
noting thatshe has often done volunteer work in poor neighborhoods here. ''It's
just not right.''

Her strong feelings about the immigration issue came gradually, she said. A
nephew who works as a house painter had trouble finding high-paying work because
of competition from illegal immigrants. Some Mexican teenagers hassled her on
the street, seeming to mock her because she walks with a cane. She spotted
immigrants shopping with food stamps at the grocery store.

Mrs. Thibodeaux said she favored orderly legal immigration, but did not think
illegal immigrants should benefit from American generosity.

''I have a very hard time with illegal,'' she said. She proposes that all
illegal immigrants be given a 90-day period to leave voluntarily. After that,
immigration agents, local police and the National Guard, if necessary, should be
mobilized to deport them, she said.

Republican voters and organizers said they were ready for a long fight on the
immigration issue, even if the debate is reopened in Congress.

''This bill represented something so big that people noticed,'' said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research
group. He said the Senate debate was not ''just stirring up the hornet's nest,
but is actually changing the dynamics of this issue for the future.''

Mrs. Thibodeaux agreed. If the immigration issue comes before Congress again,
she said, ''I'm going to get a microphone and start yelling.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Monique Thibodeaux made telephone calls and wrote senators to
express her opposition to the immigration measure. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini
for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Representatives Steve King, left, and Ed Royce with Steven Elliott, second from
left, and Ron Dejong, right, of Grassfire.org, which presented a petition signed
by nearly 700,000 opponents of the immigration bill. (Photo by Brendan
Smialowski for The New York Times)
 William Murphy of Wisconsin said he thought the bill would degrade the value of
American citizenship. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. 35)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Revisiting Immigration Bill Is an Option, Democrats Say

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10


Senate Democrats opened the door to reviving the stalled immigration measure on
Sunday, calling on Republicans to resolve their internal divisions and produce
an agreement on how to move the legislation forward.

With Bush administration officials and Republican authors of the overhaul saying
they had not given up on the bill, the spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, the majority leader, said Mr. Reid would be willing to try again if
Republicans agreed to a defined number of amendments and a time limit on debate.

''If and when Republicans can agree on a limited number of amendments and agree
on the need to get this bill passed, Senator Reid is committed to finding room
on the Senate schedule as soon as possible,'' said Jim Manley, the spokesman,
who said President Bush needed to play a role as well. ''The hope is that he can
apply enough pressure to provide the votes we need to get the bill out of the
Senate.''

Mr. Bush is scheduled to visit the Capitol on Tuesday for a lunch with Senate
Republicans. That meeting will come just days after the immigration proposal,
one of his chief domestic priorities, was derailed when an effort to bring a
two-week debate to a close came up far short of the votes needed.

On Sunday, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez said the administration was
''more determined than ever'' to push the measure, which has drawn strong
opposition from conservatives.

''Walking away from this bill suggests that we are comfortable with the status
quo,'' Mr. Gutierrez said on ''Late Edition'' on CNN. ''And I think that's a big
mistake.''

The Senate effort on immigration collapsed Thursday night when Mr. Reid pulled
the bill after Republicans could not agree among themselves on what amendments
they wanted debated in exchange for moving to a final vote. Republican
supporters of the bill joined its opponents to block a final vote, saying they
needed more time.

Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, one of the main Republican proponents of the
measure, suggested Sunday that he was running out of patience with some of his
colleagues and was prepared to override their objections if there was not
progress soon on an agreement.

''I want to make it clear that while I voted to allow my Republican colleagues
more time to bring their amendments forth, they've had a good chance to do
that,'' Mr. Kyl said on the CNN program. ''And I'm ready to vote to limit the
further debate if they don't come forward and give us the amendments that they
want so that we can get it done.''

Faced with Mr. Reid's deadline on Thursday, some Republicans -- led by Senators
Jim DeMint of South Carolina and Jeff Sessions of Alabama -- blocked the Senate
from considering even Republican amendments and called for much more debate than
Democrats would accept. Democrats said that Mr. Kyl and Senator Mitch McConnell
of Kentucky, the Republican leader, needed to squeeze concessions from the
senators fighting the bill though they were skeptical it could be done since
some critics appear determined to kill the measure.

''We need a breakthrough on the Republican side,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of
Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat, said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''It will take some
leadership on the Republican side to agree on the number of amendments, to agree
that we're not going to waste more time on procedural slowdowns, and really get
to the heart of the issue.''

Republican critics of the bill have called for more chances to eliminate
provisions they describe as amnesty. The bill would allow some of those who
entered the country illegally an opportunity to qualify for legal residency by
paying fines and meeting other conditions. Members of the bipartisan coalition
that drafted the bill also want another chance to overturn some changes that
were made, such as a provision that would limit to five years a new temporary
worker program sought by business interests.

Even if there is a new agreement, it is unlikely the Senate would return to the
bill immediately. On Monday the Senate is to consider a politically charged
proposal for a ''no confidence'' vote on Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales,
followed by a week or more of debate on energy legislation. Given high gasoline
prices, Democratic leaders of the Senate are intent on showing the public they
are taking steps to curb energy costs.

But Mr. Kyl predicted Sunday that the Senate would return to the bill and pass
it before its Fourth of July recess, even though he acknowledged that the
immigration battle was taking a political toll on the Republican Party.

''There is no political winner in this for us,'' Mr. Kyl said on CNN. ''But
sometimes there are big problems that have to be addressed, and there's no
political gain in it and maybe even political loss. You've got to do it,
nonetheless.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, far left, and Senator Jon
Kyl, Republican of Arizona, proponents of the stalled immigration bill. Mr. Kyl
said yesterday that he was running out of patience with his colleagues. (Photo
by Jamie Rose for The New York Time)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: A.C.L.U. Files Suit Over Missing Man

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 153 words


A developmentally disabled man who was born and raised in Los Angeles County and
is a United States citizen was illegally deported to Mexico last month by
immigration agents screening inmates at a jail, according to a federal lawsuit
filed by the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. The man,
Pedro Guzman, 29, of Lancaster, Calif., has now been reported missing in
Tijuana, Mexico, family members said. The lawsuit accuses federal authorities of
failing to ascertain his citizenship and refusing to help find him in Mexico.
Mr. Guzman, who was serving a sentence for misdemeanor trespassing, said in a
brief telephone conversation with a family member after he was removed that he
told jailers he was born in California, the lawsuit said. Virginia Kice, a
spokeswoman for the federal immigration agency, said it ''had no reason to
believe that it improperly removed'' Mr. Guzman.   RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Next Culture War

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 763 words


The conventional view is that an angry band of conservative activists driven by
nativism and economic insecurity is killing immigration reform. But this view is
wrong in almost every respect.

In the first place, immigration is not now, nor has it ever been a primarily
partisan issue. A Pew Research Center poll released last week found that 36
percent of Republicans support the bill, along with 33 percent of Democrats and
31 percent of independents. That's hardly a party-line chasm.

In the second place, immigration attitudes have never dovetailed neatly with
racist or nativist ones. Hostility to immigration often increases in periods
when racist attitudes are on the decline. Moreover, established immigrants are
nearly as suspicious of new and illegal immigrants as native-born Americans.

And in the third place, decades of research have failed to show any clean link
between economic insecurity and anti-immigrant views. Pollsters ask voters if
they feel their own wages are affected by immigrant labor. There is no strong
connection between feelings of personal risk and anti-immigration opinions. Some
studies find no link at all between income levels and those views.

What's shaping the immigration debate is something altogether deeper and more
interesting. And if you want to understand what it is, start with education.
Between 1960 and 1980, the share of Americans enrolled in higher education
exploded. The U.S. became the first nation in history with a mass educated
class. The members of this class differed from each other in a thousand ways,
but they tended to share a cosmopolitan approach to the world. They celebrated
cultural diversity and saw ethnocentrism as a sign of backwardness.

Their worldview, which they don't even understand as a distinct worldview, was
well summarized by Richard Rorty, who died this week. The goal of any society,
he wrote, was to create ''a greater diversity of individuals -- larger, fuller,
more imaginative and daring individuals.'' Social life should widen. New
cultures should be explored. And, as Rorty concluded, ''Individual life will
become unthinkably diverse and social life unthinkably free.''

Liberal members of the educated class celebrated the cultural individualism of
the 1960s. Conservative members celebrated the economic individualism of the
1980s. But they all celebrated individualism. They all valued diversity and
embraced a sense of national identity that rested on openness and global
integration.

This cultural offensive created a silent backlash among people who were not so
enamored of rampant individualism, and who were worried that all this diversity
would destroy the ancient ties of community and social solidarity. Members of
this class came to feel that America's identity and culture were under threat
from people who didn't understand what made America united and distinct.

The two groups clashed whenever a political issue arose that touched on
America's identity or role in the world: immigration, free trade, making English
the official language or intervening for humanitarian reasons in Kosovo or
Darfur.

These conflicts were and are primarily cultural clashes, not economic or
ideological ones. And if you want to predict which side a person is likely to be
on, look at his or her educational level. That'll be your best clue.

As the sociologist Manuel Castells generalized, ''Elites are cosmopolitan,
people are local.'' People with university values favor intermingling. People
with neighborhood values favor assimilation.

What's made the clashes so poisonous is that many members of the educated class
don't even recognize that they are facing a rival philosophy. Many of them
assume that anybody who disagrees with them on immigration and such must be
driven by racism, insecurity or some primitive atavism. This smug attitude sends
members of the communal, nationalistic side into fits of alienation and prickly
defensiveness. It's what makes many of them, in turn, so unpleasant.

The bottom line is that the immigration debate is part of a newer culture war
that has succeeded the familiar and fading culture war. This longer culture war
is not within the educated class. It's not the '60s versus the '80s. It's -- to
mimic Mark Lilla -- between the people who have absorbed both the '60s and the
'80s, and everyone else.

It's between open, individualistic cosmopolitans and rooted nationalists. It's
between those who ride the tides of the cultural mainstream and those so driven
by marginalization that they're destroying the best compromise they will get.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 401 words


Bush Lobbies Senate on Immigration Bill  In an effort to revive a crippled
immigration bill, President Bush visited the Capitol to try to assure Senate
Republicans that border security was a driving force behind his push for changes
in the law. The president pressed his case in a visit to the weekly Senate party
luncheon -- his first since 2001 -- then appeared with Senators Trent Lott,
left, and Mitch McConnell.    PAGE A16  Overseas Voting Problems The Defense
Department has spent millions trying to find an efficient way for Americans
living abroad to vote in elections back home, but its Web-based system is
plagued by problems.

PAGE A19  Reversal on Coach's Death The Jamaican police said Bob Woolmer, the
coach of the Pakistani cricket team who died during the World Cup tournament in
Jamaica, was not murdered, as they had previously announced, but instead died of
natural causes.   PAGE A12   Dining Whole Hog A counterculture of chefs, perhaps
reacting to decades of sushi and small plates and grazing, is serving fatty fare
like deviled eggs on fried pork jowl. Critic's Notebook by Frank Bruni.
DINING, PAGE F1   Big Ad Push by Romney Mitt Romney has stepped up what is
already the most expensive early advertising push in a presidential campaign, an
effort credited with helping vault him to the lead in the Republican field in
some polls in Iowa and New Hampshire. He has spent $4 million on television
advertising since February.   PAGE A19  Property Tax Break Highlights Budget
Deal New York City taxpayers would get a larger-than-expected break on their
property taxes under a $59 billion budget deal that city leaders announced last
night. The pact, which comes weeks earlier than usual, would also use a record
$4.4 billion surplus to eliminate taxes on clothing and shoes and increase
library service to six days a week.   PAGE B1  Sudan Agrees to Peace Force After
resisting for months, Sudan has agreed to a joint United Nations and African
Union force of nearly 20,000 peacekeepers in Darfur, its western province and
the site of one of the world's worst humanitarian crises.   PAGE A3   Spurs
Close In on Title San Antonio prevented the Cleveland star LeBron James from
attempting a potential game-tying shot in the final seconds and held on to win,
75-72, in Game 3 of the best-of-seven N.B.A. finals. The Spurs lead, 3-0, with
Game 4 tomorrow in Cleveland.   SPORTSWEDNESDAY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broad Effort to Get Senate To Return to Immigration

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15


At 4:30 p.m. on June 7, the Roman Catholic Church defied the sponsors of a
comprehensive immigration bill and urged the Senate not to move toward final
passage of the measure without significant changes.

A few hours later, after the Senate rejected his motion to end debate on the
bill, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, pulled it from
the Senate floor.

His action prompted advocates to rally behind the bill. Within 24 hours, the
Catholic Church and many business, labor and Hispanic groups were urging the
Senate to resurrect it.

They had all complained about various provisions of the measure. But when it
appeared that the bill might be dying, they were flummoxed. Separately and
together, they mobilized scores of lobbyists. They put pressure on the Senate
and on Mr. Reid, in particular, to revive the bill.

''We were not happy with the bill,'' said J. Kevin Appleby of the United States
Conference of Catholic Bishops. ''But we did not want it to die.''

In public, Mr. Reid and the White House blamed each other for the apparent
demise of the legislation, while conservative politicians and talk radio hosts
criticized it as ''amnesty'' for illegal immigrants.

But behind the scenes, Mr. Reid was inundated with telephone calls, letters,
faxes and e-mail urging him to bring the bill back up. The pleas came from
groups as diverse as the National Restaurant Association, the National Council
of La Raza, the New England Apple Council and the business software company
Oracle.

Farmers and ranchers from coast to coast told the Senate to get the job done.

''We are tired of the politics, we're tired of the excuses, and we're not going
away until Congress reforms the broken immigration system,'' said Maureen J.
Torrey, who grows vegetables and raises dairy cows in western New York.

Unite Here, a union representing apparel, hotel and laundry workers, said the
bill could be a boon to illegal immigrants who live in constant fear of being
arrested and deported.

''We are the biggest union in the state of Nevada,'' said Thomas G. Snyder,
political director of Unite Here, which has nearly 60,000 members in Las Vegas
casinos. ''We have a long relationship with Harry Reid. He knows where we stand
on immigration reform. We have been in constant contact with his office.''

Business trade associations weighed in on Monday, four days after the bill
appeared to have collapsed.

The United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of
Manufacturers, the National Federation of Independent Business and the Business
Roundtable told the Senate to go back to work.

The impasse could provide a ''cooling-off period,'' they said in a letter to all
senators, urging them to pass a comprehensive immigration bill.

Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, said the efforts
of business executives, combined with President Bush's visit to Capitol Hill on
Tuesday, ''created an echo-chamber effect.''

The message resonated with the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, and Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chief Republican architect of the
bill, who kept plugging for a deal.

Laura Foote Reiff, a lobbyist for companies that employ millions of immigrants
in the hotel, construction and health care industries, fired off a letter to
Senate leaders expressing ''deep concern and distress with the Senate's
perceived inability to complete work on the bill.''

In opposing the effort to limit debate on June 7, the United States Conference
of Catholic Bishops said the Senate needed more time to correct ''significant
flaws'' in the bill: ''the evisceration of the family preference system'' and a
legalization program that ''may well be unworkable.''

The bishops cited those concerns when it urged the Senate to take up the bill.

''The issue of immigration is too important for our elected officials to
abandon,'' said Bishop Gerald R. Barnes of San Bernardino, Calif. ''It cannot
wait for several more years. Human beings are suffering and dying.''

Hispanic officials echoed that concern in urging Mr. Reid to revive the bill.

''Immigration is a life and death issue,'' said Representative Luis V.
Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois and chairman of the immigration task force of
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ''Each day that goes by without action means
more people will die in the desert.''

Mr. Bush did his part to whip up support for the bill by cajoling Republican
senators and giving a speech on the issue. That put pressure on Mr. Reid to
respond.

In addition, Mr. Reid was pummeled in some newspaper editorials and op-ed
columns, which said it was shameful for him to let the bill die.

James P. Manley, a spokesman for Mr. Reid, said the news media criticism had
''zero effect'' on the majority leader. Many have questioned the strength of his
commitment, but Mr. Reid insisted, ''I have every desire to complete this
legislation.''

On Friday, Mr. Reid said he would keep the Senate in session on weekends if
necessary to complete work on the immigration bill this month.

Aides to Mr. McConnell, the Republican leader, said he had not promised to
deliver any specific number of votes for efforts to shut off debate on the bill.

Only seven Republicans voted to end debate on June 7. Mr. Reid and the authors
of the bill hope that more Republicans will support such a motion if they are
allowed to offer amendments.

One amendment would add $4.4 billion to the bill to increase border security and
enforcement of the immigration law. Others would expand a guest worker program
for low-skill workers and provide more temporary visas and green cards for
high-tech professionals sought by companies like Microsoft, Intel and Google.

One of the more contentious amendments, proposed by Senator Kay Bailey
Hutchison, Republican of Texas, would require illegal immigrants to return to
their home countries before they could obtain even temporary legal status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Losing The West

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN.

Timothy Egan, a former Seattle correspondent for The Times and the author of
''The Worst Hard Time,'' is a guest columnist.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 733 words


SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.

He was loud, he was blustery and he was clear: our country is being overrun by
Mexicans. To back his bark, he wrote, ''Whatever It Takes,'' as subtle as a
cactus poke. He had money, and he had the power of office, a 12-year incumbency.

In the end, J. D. Hayworth, a Republican, was kicked out of his Congressional
seat here last year. In the glossy white suburbs of Phoenix, immigrant-bashing
backfired.

Farther south, in a district that is ground zero in the border wars -- the
seared-over patch of Arizona desert where the Minutemen patrol, more Mayberry
than Concord -- another Republican took an even harsher stance. The
anti-immigration extremist, Randy Graf, was crushed.

For Republicans in Arizona, the result was a net loss of two Congressional
seats.

Americans are genuinely conflicted and troubled about porous borders and the 12
million or more illegal immigrants in our midst. But to hear politicians who
have been scorched by the blowhard fringe tell it, they're facing a tidal wave
of opposition to a consensus change in the status quo.

Last week, Senator Trent Lott, the Republican whip, blamed talk radio for the
possibly fatal collapse of the immigration reform bill.

''Talk radio is running America,'' he told The Times. ''We have to deal with
that problem.''

Just a few years out of probation for praising the Old Confederacy vision of a
Paleolithic senator, Mr. Lott knows what it's like to be burned by free speech
friction. But he is wrong to confuse the medium with the electorate.

The front lines of this problem are in the fast-growing states of the American
West. And the closer you get to the border, the more voters back politicians who
are looking for middle ground -- and punish those who follow the
rant-for-ratings route.

In just the last six years, Arizona's population grew by 20 percent, Nevada's by
25 percent, Colorado's by 10 percent and New Mexico's by 7.5 percent. These four
states may be the biggest battleground in next year's presidential race, with 29
electoral votes -- more than Florida or Ohio.

Hispanics make up 28 percent of Arizona, 24 percent of Nevada, 20 percent of
Colorado and 43 percent of New Mexico. The rap is that they don't vote. Not yet,
at least. But they're the fastest-growing part of the electorate.

Still, on the air it's open war against the browning of America -- tinged with
slurs that disrespect all Hispanics. Consider Hayworth, who gives helium a bad
name. Ousted from his seat, he now uses the megaphone of a Phoenix talk station
to promote his solution: all undocumented immigrants would be given 120 days to
leave the country -- or face a massive, forceful roundup and deportation.

Right. And this would be done, no doubt, by the same people who couldn't stop a
single tuberculosis carrier from entering the country.

The syndicated talker Neal Boortz chuckles at the human collision along an
advanced border fence. ''I don't care if Mexicans pile up against that fence
like tumbleweeds in the Santa Ana winds,'' he said on Monday. And two hosts of
something called the ''Patriot Radio News Hour'' here mocked the Hispanic Games,
held last weekend in Phoenix. They suggested ''jumping the fence'' and ''leaving
the scene of an accident'' as competitive events for Latino athletes. Ha-ha.

Democrats are laughing all the way to a new Western majority. In 2004, they
picked up a Senate and a Congressional seat in Colorado, with two Hispanic
brothers in cowboy hats. And they did it with counties where an NPR liberal is
hard to find.

''Arizona is in play like never before,'' said David Waid, chairman of the
state's Democratic Party. ''And the Republicans are literally handing it to
us.''

Some Republicans know this. Nationwide, Hispanic support for Republican
candidates dropped 10 points from 2004 to 2006 -- to about 30 percent of the
vote. Yes, this state's two Republican senators, John McCain and Jon Kyl, favor
the comprehensive immigration bill. And yes, President Bush is the bill's chief
proponent.

But pragmatism is being drowned out by the bullies with electronic bullhorns,
who've got their party leaders running scared.

''If they get their way and the bill dies, so too may Republican electoral
prospects for the foreseeable future,'' wrote Clint Bolick, a conservative
scholar, in The Arizona Republic this week.

Remember that prediction on Election Day 2008.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pennsylvania: 81 Immigrants Arrested In Raid On Plant

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 86 words


Federal agents arrested 81 suspected illegal immigrants on Tuesday in a raid at
a manufacturing plant in the Poconos. All the workers arrested at the plant, the
Artube division of Iridium Industries Inc. in East Stroudsburg, have been placed
in removal proceedings for eventual deportation, said Ernestine Fobbs, a
spokeswoman with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Iridium's plant manager,
Wayne Migliaccio, said the raid was focused on an  agency that supplied
temporary workers to the plant, not on Iridium itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Town, Now Divided, Forged Bush's Firm Stand on Immigration

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

DATELINE: MIDLAND, Tex.


Late last spring, Republicans in this West Texas oil town called for a boycott
of Dona Anita's Mexican restaurant, a retaliatory step against its owner, Luz
Reyes, for closing shop and showing up at a rally against proposed new penalties
for illegal immigrants.

But President Bush's three best friends here defied the boycott and went to the
restaurant, Mr. Bush's favorite when he lived here, regardless. One of them, the
president's close confidant and former commerce secretary, Donald L. Evans, told
Ms. Reyes: ''Luz, you didn't do anything wrong. We love you.''

The hometown divide helps to shed light on a broader rift, as Mr. Bush and
like-minded Republicans engage in an unusually contentious fight with the rest
of their party in the national debate over immigration.

Mr. Bush has pursued a goal of providing citizenship for the millions of illegal
immigrants with rare attacks on  his conservative supporters, who have derided
his approach as tantamount to amnesty. There are various political motivations
for Mr. Bush to push for his plan, including the rapid growth in the nation's
Hispanic population, a voting group that he has long considered to be
potentially Republican.

But the roots of Mr. Bush's passion lie here in Midland, now heavily Hispanic,
the city where Mr. Bush spent much of his childhood and to which he returned as
a young adult after spending his high school and college years in the more
genteel settings of Andover and Yale.

As a boy, and later as a young, hard-drinking oilman, his friends say, Mr. Bush
developed a particular empathy for the new Mexican immigrants who worked hard on
farms, in oil fields and in people's homes and went on to raise children who
built businesses and raised families of their own, without the advantages he had
as the scion of a wealthy New England family.

The symbiosis fit with the Bush family's Northeastern, free-trade Republicanism,
which took on a Mexican flair, especially after Mr. Bush's parents hired a
live-in Mexican maid in Texas who became part of the family, and his brother,
Jeb, married a young woman from Mexico who initially spoke little English.

But interviews in Midland also tell another story, of how a place that Mr. Bush
credits with informing his relatively liberal views on immigration has started
to move away from him.

Central to the shift is the perception among some in this city of about 100,000
people that he does not understand the sense of siege that has set in about the
illegal population that has grown considerably since he traded the Texas
governor's mansion for the White House seven years ago.

''There's just a real disconnect between the folks of West Texas and the
president right now,'' said Mike Conaway, who was the chief financial officer
for Mr. Bush's oil exploration company here in the 1980s and now represents the
area as a Republican in Congress.

The disconnect has been exacerbated by a steady increase of illegal immigrants
since Mr. Bush left the state, and newspapers reported on the strains on social
services that they have brought. It is visible on a grand scale, with Mr.
Conaway and this state's two Republican United States senators, Kay Bailey
Hutchison and John Cornyn, breaking with Mr. Bush on immigration in recent
months after having followed his lead with Rolex reliability for most of his
term.

And it is visible in smaller, more personal terms here in Midland, with the
boycott that some Republicans called against Ms. Reyes's restaurant. The dispute
put Mr. Evans and the rest of Mr. Bush's friends -- who used to join Mr. Bush
and his wife there nearly every Friday night -- on the opposite side of the
local Republican Party, including its chairwoman, Sue Brannon.

Mr. Evans said his appearance at the restaurant after the boycott had been
called was ''just dinner, not a political statement'' against fellow local
Republicans including his close friend Ms. Brannon.

But to Ms. Reyes, who has known Mr. Bush and his wife since their twins were in
baby carriers, and who recounted the encounter with Mr. Evans in an interview at
her restaurant, it was an important show of support from a group she still calls
''the Bush clique.''

New Beginnings

George H. W. Bush came to the Midland-Odessa area in 1948 when his son George W.
was 2, hoping to make his own fortune in oil. He eventually formed a drilling
company, the Zapata Petroleum Corporation -- named for the movie ''Viva
Zapata!'' about the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata -- and later took as a
partner Jorge Diaz Serrano, a contender for the Mexican presidency before being
imprisoned for fraud.

Friends of the current president have recalled how they occasionally saw Mexican
workers in his father's oil fields, part of a steady trickle of new immigrants
from the other side of the Southern border who also took jobs as ranch hands,
maids and groundskeepers.

Randall Roden, one of Mr. Bush's close childhood friends, recalled an upbringing
that included ''being aware that there were people who were poor and
hard-working, and just looking for better opportunity, and a chance to do just
about anything.''

Joe O'Neill, another friend from the time who remains close with Mr. Bush to
this day and who helped introduce Mr. Bush to the first lady, said of the
newcomers, ''They were hard-working and they were usually very close families --
there was generally a father and a mother at home; you noticed it.''

Mr. Bush's closest boyhood contact with anyone of Hispanic descent seems to have
been in Houston, where the Bushes moved when George W. Bush was in middle
school, two years before he went to boarding school at Andover in Massachusetts.
His mother sought household help in the local paper, and answered an
advertisement for a Mexican woman who was seeking sponsorship in return for
housekeeping services. The woman, Paula Rendon, moved in and has stayed on with
the Bush family for decades, following George H.W. and Barbara Bush to the White
House and back home.

The current president has mentioned her only rarely, but he has described her as
''a second mother.'' Mr. Bush declined several interview requests. But in a
brief e-mail exchange, Mr. Bush's younger brother Jeb said of Ms. Rendon, ''I
adore her,'' and added, ''I got pretty good at Spanish thanks to her.'' But, he
said, he became fluent through his wife, Columba, with whom he has three
children whom George H. W. Bush once famously, and affectionately, called ''the
little brown ones.''

The Son Returns

Mr. Bush returned to Midland in 1975 to find a much more Hispanic town than the
one he left behind, because of an influx of Mexicans who went there to cash in
on the 1970s oil boom just as Mr. Bush did.

''When the president and I came here we saw more and more Hispanics moving into
the oil fields, working on well-servicing rigs -- 12-hours-a-day kind of
stuff,'' said Mr. Evans, who arrived in Midland around the same time and married
one of Mr. Bush's grammar school friends. ''So we saw a lot of Hispanics coming
into that sector of our economy here, and of course, migrating their way into
the community, and the schools.''

Mr. Bush became a man about the small city, drawn to its Mexican restaurants and
the entrepreneurs behind them feeding on the boom times.

''The sky was the limit and who we were mattered less than where we were
going,'' said one of his friends from the time, Jose Cuevas, a third-generation
Mexican American who established a fast-food burrito chain with a few thousand
dollars.

Mr. O'Neill said, ''He had a great deal of admiration for someone like Jose who
started with a lot less and built it up.''

Another Hispanic friend from the time, George Veloz, recalled playing basketball
at the Y.M.C.A. with Mr. Bush and sometimes ''sharing a few cold ones.''

Mr. Bush's parents had eaten at the small Mexican restaurant Mr. Veloz's parents
started after immigrating from Mexico, and which Mr. Veloz went on to build into
a statewide chain. ''As important as that family is, he didn't treat me any
different than any of the friends he grew up with,'' Mr. Veloz said.

A Different Climate

In a telephone interview, Ms. Brannon, the local party chairwoman who has known
Mr. Bush for decades, said Mr. Bush did not understand the new realities of
illegal immigration.  She said the friends he made in the Hispanic community
when he lived in Midland were ''not here illegally and taking freebies.''

''I love George and Laura dearly, and I respect him,'' she said, ''but this
immigration thing is going to ruin our country.''

In winning election as governor in 1994, and winning re-election in 1998, Mr.
Bush succeeded in drawing an unexpectedly high level of support from Hispanic
voters.

He did so in part by speaking out against efforts by Pete Wilson, then the
governor of California, to push initiatives intended to cut off services for
illegal immigrants in his state.

Mr. Bush also spoke out against antitrade sentiment at the time in an Op-Ed
article in The New York Times that had as its headline, ''No Cheap Shots at
Mexico, Please.''

In a state that had for the most part reacted negatively to the amnesty
provisions enacted under Ronald Reagan in 1986, Governor Bush found Texas to be
largely receptive to his push to provide a bilingual education program for the
children of Hispanic immigrants.

In the current climate, that seems like a distant memory, a casualty of what Mr.
Bush's longtime political adviser, Karl Rove, a Texan, said reflected how ''the
feelings about immigration have waxed and waned over the years'' in Texas. In
the 1990s, Mr. Rove said, Texans felt as if the immigration problem was
relatively under control -- an assessment of that time that even Ms. Brannon
shared. But now, she said, ''there's just more and more coming in.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luz Reyes, owner of Dona Anita's Mexican restaurant, at the
table where George W. Bush ate most Friday evenings while he lived in Midland,
Tex. Some Republicans boycotted her restaurant in 2006 for a position she took
on immigration. At right, the young George Bush on a trip with his father to the
oil fields in the mid-1950s. (Photographs by Erin Trieb for The New York
Times)(pg. 22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Town, Now Divided, Forged Bush's Firm Stand on Immigration

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

DATELINE: MIDLAND, Tex.


Late last spring, Republicans in this West Texas oil town called for a boycott
of Dona Anita's Mexican restaurant, a retaliatory step against its owner, Luz
Reyes, for closing shop and showing up at a rally against proposed new penalties
for illegal immigrants.

But President Bush's three best friends here defied the boycott and went to the
restaurant, Mr. Bush's favorite when he lived here, regardless. One of them, the
president's close confidant and former commerce secretary, Donald L. Evans, told
Ms. Reyes: ''Luz, you didn't do anything wrong. We love you.''

The hometown divide helps to shed light on a broader rift, as Mr. Bush and
like-minded Republicans engage in an unusually contentious fight with the rest
of their party in the national debate over immigration.

Mr. Bush has pursued a goal of providing citizenship for the millions of illegal
immigrants with rare attacks on  his conservative supporters, who have derided
his approach as tantamount to amnesty. There are various political motivations
for Mr. Bush to push for his plan, including the rapid growth in the nation's
Hispanic population, a voting group that he has long considered to be
potentially Republican.

But the roots of Mr. Bush's passion lie here in Midland, now heavily Hispanic,
the city where Mr. Bush spent much of his childhood and to which he returned as
a young adult after spending his high school and college years in the more
genteel settings of Andover and Yale.

As a boy, and later as a young, hard-drinking oilman, his friends say, Mr. Bush
developed a particular empathy for the new Mexican immigrants who worked hard on
farms, in oil fields and in people's homes and went on to raise children who
built businesses and raised families of their own, without the advantages he had
as the scion of a wealthy New England family.

The symbiosis fit with the Bush family's Northeastern, free-trade Republicanism,
which took on a Mexican flair, especially after Mr. Bush's parents hired a
live-in Mexican maid in Texas who became part of the family, and his brother,
Jeb, married a young woman from Mexico who initially spoke little English.

But interviews in Midland also tell another story, of how a place that Mr. Bush
credits with informing his relatively liberal views on immigration has started
to move away from him.

Central to the shift is the perception among some in this city of about 100,000
people that he does not understand the sense of siege that has set in about the
illegal population that has grown considerably since he traded the Texas
governor's mansion for the White House seven years ago.

''There's just a real disconnect between the folks of West Texas and the
president right now,'' said Mike Conaway, who was the chief financial officer
for Mr. Bush's oil exploration company here in the 1980s and now represents the
area as a Republican in Congress.

The disconnect has been exacerbated by a steady increase of illegal immigrants
since Mr. Bush left the state, and newspapers reported on the strains on social
services that they have brought. It is visible on a grand scale, with Mr.
Conaway and this state's two Republican United States senators, Kay Bailey
Hutchison and John Cornyn, breaking with Mr. Bush on immigration in recent
months after having followed his lead with Rolex reliability for most of his
term.

And it is visible in smaller, more personal terms here in Midland, with the
boycott that some Republicans called against Ms. Reyes's restaurant. The dispute
put Mr. Evans and the rest of Mr. Bush's friends -- who used to join Mr. Bush
and his wife there nearly every Friday night -- on the opposite side of the
local Republican Party, including its chairwoman, Sue Brannon.

Mr. Evans said his appearance at the restaurant after the boycott had been
called was ''just dinner, not a political statement'' against fellow local
Republicans including his close friend Ms. Brannon.

But to Ms. Reyes, who has known Mr. Bush and his wife since their twins were in
baby carriers, and who recounted the encounter with Mr. Evans in an interview at
her restaurant, it was an important show of support from a group she still calls
''the Bush clique.''

New Beginnings

George H. W. Bush came to the Midland-Odessa area in 1948 when his son George W.
was 2, hoping to make his own fortune in oil. He eventually formed a drilling
company, the Zapata Petroleum Corporation -- named for the movie ''Viva
Zapata!'' about the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata -- and later took as a
partner Jorge Diaz Serrano, a contender for the Mexican presidency before being
imprisoned for fraud.

Friends of the current president have recalled how they occasionally saw Mexican
workers in his father's oil fields, part of a steady trickle of new immigrants
from the other side of the Southern border who also took jobs as ranch hands,
maids and groundskeepers.

Randall Roden, one of Mr. Bush's close childhood friends, recalled an upbringing
that included ''being aware that there were people who were poor and
hard-working, and just looking for better opportunity, and a chance to do just
about anything.''

Joe O'Neill, another friend from the time who remains close with Mr. Bush to
this day and who helped introduce Mr. Bush to the first lady, said of the
newcomers, ''They were hard-working and they were usually very close families --
there was generally a father and a mother at home; you noticed it.''

Mr. Bush's closest boyhood contact with anyone of Hispanic descent seems to have
been in Houston, where the Bushes moved when George W. Bush was in middle
school, two years before he went to boarding school at Andover in Massachusetts.
His mother sought household help in the local paper, and answered an
advertisement for a Mexican woman who was seeking sponsorship in return for
housekeeping services. The woman, Paula Rendon, moved in and has stayed on with
the Bush family for decades, following George H.W. and Barbara Bush to the White
House and back home.

The current president has mentioned her only rarely, but he has described her as
''a second mother.'' Mr. Bush declined several interview requests. But in a
brief e-mail exchange, Mr. Bush's younger brother Jeb said of Ms. Rendon, ''I
adore her,'' and added, ''I got pretty good at Spanish thanks to her.'' But, he
said, he became fluent through his wife, Columba, with whom he has three
children whom George H. W. Bush once famously, and affectionately, called ''the
little brown ones.''

The Son Returns

Mr. Bush returned to Midland in 1975 to find a much more Hispanic town than the
one he left behind, because of an influx of Mexicans who went there to cash in
on the 1970s oil boom just as Mr. Bush did.

''When the president and I came here we saw more and more Hispanics moving into
the oil fields, working on well-servicing rigs -- 12-hours-a-day kind of
stuff,'' said Mr. Evans, who arrived in Midland around the same time and married
one of Mr. Bush's grammar school friends. ''So we saw a lot of Hispanics coming
into that sector of our economy here, and of course, migrating their way into
the community, and the schools.''

Mr. Bush became a man about the small city, drawn to its Mexican restaurants and
the entrepreneurs behind them feeding on the boom times.

''The sky was the limit and who we were mattered less than where we were
going,'' said one of his friends from the time, Jose Cuevas, a third-generation
Mexican American who established a fast-food burrito chain with a few thousand
dollars.

Mr. O'Neill said, ''He had a great deal of admiration for someone like Jose who
started with a lot less and built it up.''

Another Hispanic friend from the time, George Veloz, recalled playing basketball
at the Y.M.C.A. with Mr. Bush and sometimes ''sharing a few cold ones.''

Mr. Bush's parents had eaten at the small Mexican restaurant Mr. Veloz's parents
started after immigrating from Mexico, and which Mr. Veloz went on to build into
a statewide chain. ''As important as that family is, he didn't treat me any
different than any of the friends he grew up with,'' Mr. Veloz said.

A Different Climate

In a telephone interview, Ms. Brannon, the local party chairwoman who has known
Mr. Bush for decades, said Mr. Bush did not understand the new realities of
illegal immigration.  She said the friends he made in the Hispanic community
when he lived in Midland were ''not here illegally and taking freebies.''

''I love George and Laura dearly, and I respect him,'' she said, ''but this
immigration thing is going to ruin our country.''

In winning election as governor in 1994, and winning re-election in 1998, Mr.
Bush succeeded in drawing an unexpectedly high level of support from Hispanic
voters.

He did so in part by speaking out against efforts by Pete Wilson, then the
governor of California, to push initiatives intended to cut off services for
illegal immigrants in his state.

Mr. Bush also spoke out against antitrade sentiment at the time in an Op-Ed
article in The New York Times that had as its headline, ''No Cheap Shots at
Mexico, Please.''

In a state that had for the most part reacted negatively to the amnesty
provisions enacted under Ronald Reagan in 1986, Governor Bush found Texas to be
largely receptive to his push to provide a bilingual education program for the
children of Hispanic immigrants.

In the current climate, that seems like a distant memory, a casualty of what Mr.
Bush's longtime political adviser, Karl Rove, a Texan, said reflected how ''the
feelings about immigration have waxed and waned over the years'' in Texas. In
the 1990s, Mr. Rove said, Texans felt as if the immigration problem was
relatively under control -- an assessment of that time that even Ms. Brannon
shared. But now, she said, ''there's just more and more coming in.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luz Reyes, owner of Dona Anita's Mexican restaurant, at the
table where George W. Bush ate most Friday evenings while he lived in Midland,
Tex. Some Republicans boycotted her restaurant in 2006 for a position she took
on immigration. At right, the young George Bush on a trip with his father to the
oil fields in the mid-1950s. (Photographs by Erin Trieb for The New York
Times)(pg. 22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

New Scrutiny As Immigrants Die in Custody

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words


Sandra M. Kenley was returning home from her native Barbados in 2005 when she
was swept into the United States' fastest-growing form of incarceration,
immigration detention.

Seven weeks later, Ms. Kenley died in a rural Virginia jail, where she had
complained of not receiving medicine for high blood pressure. She was one of 62
immigrants to die in administrative custody since 2004, according to a new tally
by Immigration and Customs Enforcement that counted many more deaths than the 20
previously known.

No government body is charged with accounting for deaths in immigration
detention, a patchwork of county jails, privately run prisons and federal
facilities where more than 27,500 people who are not American citizens are held
on any given day while the government decides whether to deport them.

Getting details about those who die in custody is a difficult undertaking left
to family members, advocacy groups and lawyers.

But as the immigration detention system balloons to meet demands for stricter
enforcement of immigration laws, deaths in custody -- and the secrecy and
confusion around them -- are drawing increased scrutiny from lawmakers and from
government investigators.

Spurred by bipartisan reports of abuses in detention, the Senate unanimously
passed an amendment to the proposed immigration bill that would establish an
office of detention oversight within the Department of Homeland Security.
Detention capacity would grow by 20,000 beds, or 73 percent, under the bill,
which is expected to be debated again today in the Senate.

Complaints focus on a lack of independent oversight and failures to enforce
standards for medical care, suicide prevention and access to legal help.

The inspector general in the Department of Homeland Security recently announced
a ''special review'' of two deaths, including that of a Korean woman at a
privately run detention center in Albuquerque. Fellow detainees told a lawyer
that the woman, Young Sook Kim, had pleaded for medical care for weeks, but
received scant attention until her eyes yellowed and she stopped eating.

Ms. Kim died of pancreatic cancer in federal custody on Sept. 11, 2005, a day
after she was taken to a hospital.

Some of the sharpest criticism of the troubled system has come from officials at
one of the largest detention centers in the country, York County Prison in
Pennsylvania.

''The Department of Homeland Security has made it difficult, if not impossible,
to meet the constitutional requirements of providing adequate health care to
inmates that have a serious need for that care,'' the York County Prison's
warden, Thomas Hogan, wrote in a court affidavit last year.

Officials with the immigration agency say that some deaths are inevitable, and
that sufficient outside scrutiny comes from local medical examiners. Detention
expanded by more than 32 percent last year, and the average length of stay was
cut to 35 days from 89, said Jamie Zuieback, a spokeswoman.

''We spend $98 million annually to provide medical care for people in our
custody,'' Ms. Zuieback said. ''Anybody who violates our national immigration
law is going to get the same treatment by I.C.E. regardless of their medical
condition.''

She declined to release information about the 62 detention deaths since 2004,
including names, dates, locations or causes.

Twenty deaths were reported over the same period in a recent briefing paper for
the United Nations' special rapporteur on the human rights of migrants from a
list compiled by civil liberties lawyers from reports by relatives, advocates
and the news media.

Detention standards were adopted by the immigration agency in 2000, but are not
legally enforceable, unlike rules for the treatment of criminal inmates. The
Department of Homeland Security has resisted efforts by the American Bar
Association to turns the standards into regulations, saying that rulemaking
would reduce the agency's flexibility.

''The deaths bring forward in the worst way the systemwide problems,'' said
Sunita Patel, a lawyer for Legal Aid who prepared the United Nations briefing
paper.

Some advocates of curbs on immigration say the solution is quicker deportations.

''The taxpayer cannot be expected to underwrite the elaborate detention
facilities that some of these organizations want,'' said Dan Stein, president of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

In the case of Ms. Kenley, a legal permanent resident of the United States for
more than 30 years, detention interrupted her medical care for high blood
pressure, a fibroid tumor and uterine bleeding. An autopsy attributed her death
to an enlarged heart from chronic hypertensive disease. But a report by
emergency medical services said that she had fallen from a top bunk, and that a
cellmate had pounded on the door for 20 minutes before guards responded.

Ms. Kenley's sister, June Everett, said her questions had gone unanswered.

''How did my sister die?'' she asked, as Ms. Kenley's daughter, Nicole, wept.
''It's a whole set of confusion, so who knows, really? And I would like to
know.''

Ms. Kenley had been traveling with her 1-year-old granddaughter when she arrived
at Washington Dulles International Airport, records show, and she was ordered to
return without the baby to discuss two old misdemeanor drug convictions that had
surfaced in an airport database.

She obeyed. A transcript shows she admitted a conviction for drug possession in
1984 and one in 2002 for trying to buy a small amount of cocaine. She described
a life derailed by drug addiction after 11 years of working in a newspaper
mailroom.

''I turned my life around,'' Ms. Kenley told the immigration inspector, pointing
to three drug-free years after probation and treatment, completion of a nursing
course, and legal custody of the granddaughter, Nakita. She also showed that she
was taking blood pressure medication and was scheduled for surgery.

The inspector arrested her, invoking the law: two drug-related convictions made
her subject to exclusion from the United States.

''I am barely living,'' Ms. Kenley later wrote her sister from Pamunkey Regional
Jail, in Hanover, Va., ''trying to hold on until you get a lawyer to help me.''

She died at Hampton Roads Regional Jail in Portsmouth, Va.

Her only court appearances were by video monitor, waiting for a volunteer lawyer
who never came.

Even detainees with legal counsel sometimes do not survive.

Abdoulai Sall, 50, a Guinea-born taxi cab mechanic in Washington with no
criminal record, died in detention last December.

Mr. Sall, whose boss of 17 years had sponsored him for a green card, was at an
immigration interview with a lawyer, Paul S. Allen, when he was unexpectedly
arrested on an old deportation order -- part of a legal tangle left when another
lawyer abandoned his case in the 1990s, Mr. Allen said.

The case file shows that Mr. Allen's office urged medical intervention for Mr.
Sall, who had been taking medication for a serious kidney ailment at the time of
his arrest. While in detention at the Piedmont Regional Jail in Farmville, Va.
he complained that he was not getting his medication and that his symptoms were
worsening in a barracks-style unit.

Fellow detainees described Mr. Sall huddling next to the unit dryer for warmth,
barely able to walk. ''The medical staff told him they don't have what he needs
because immigration don't pay enough money,'' one detainee wrote.

The accusation was denied by Lou Barlow, the jail's superintendent, who said Mr.
Sall had received good care, including a visit to the local emergency room.

''We've never done anything unethical, illegal or immoral,'' Mr. Barlow said.

Autopsy results are still pending.

Some deaths, like Ms. Kim's, come to light well after the fact. Ms. Kim, a cook
of about 60, was swept up in a raid on a massage parlor and detained for a month
at the Regional Correctional Center in Albuquerque, a county prison operated by
the Cornell Companies, a publicly traded corporation.

Months after her death, a lawyer in Santa Fe, N.M., Brandt Milstein, learned
about the case from other Korean detainees, since deported. Mr. Milstein said
that under New Mexico law, the death should have been reviewed by the state's
medical inspector, but officials had not reported it as a death in custody.

About two weeks ago -- nearly two years after Ms. Kim died -- the inspector
general's office called him, Mr. Milstein said. The investigation is now under
way.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2007



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Tuesday about deaths in immigration
detention misstated the year that one immigrant detainee died, and the amount of
time that elapsed between then and an announcement this month of a federal
investigation into her death. Young Sook Kim, who was detained at a privately
run center in Albuquerque, died in 2006, not in 2005; the announcement of the
investigation came nearly a year after her death, not nearly two years.

A front-page article on Tuesday about deaths in immigration detention misstated
the year that one immigrant detainee died, and the amount of time that elapsed
between then and an announcement this month of a federal investigation into her
death. Young Sook Kim, who was detained at a privately run center in
Albuquerque, died in 2006, not in 2005; the announcement of the investigation
came nearly a year after her death, not nearly two years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nicole Kenley, whose mother, Sandra M. Kenley, a permanent
resident of the United States, was detained at Dulles Airport and died seven
weeks later in custody.  (Photographs by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections: For the Record

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


A front-page article on Tuesday about deaths in immigration detention misstated
the year that one immigrant detainee died, and the amount of time that elapsed
between then and an announcement this month of a federal investigation into her
death. Young Sook Kim, who was detained at a privately run center in
Albuquerque, died in 2006, not in 2005; the announcement of the investigation
came nearly a year after her death, not nearly two years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Failure of Senate Immigration Bill Can Be Lesson for Congress, Experts Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: LESSONS
LEARNED; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29


Congress can learn important lessons from the demise of the Senate immigration
bill, and those lessons should inform future efforts to tackle the issue,
experts on immigration said on Friday.

The Senate tried to do too much in one bill, said immigration lawyers,
researchers, former government officials and other experts.

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonprofit research organization, said the bill was ''a classic overreach.''

''Pro-immigrant and ethnic groups could not deliver a unified message of support
for the bill,'' Mr. Papademetriou added. ''They were deeply divided.''

Defenders of the bill were ultimately reduced to this argument: Something is
better than nothing, and the House will improve the admittedly imperfect Senate
bill.

Mr. Papademetriou, who has studied the issue for 35 years, said, ''The Senate
bill would have introduced vast changes in the way we conduct our immigration
business -- without explanation, without talking to the American people about
it.''

Conservative Republican senators, along with the talk radio host Rush Limbaugh,
welcomed the result as evidence of a vibrant democracy in which lawmakers had
heeded public opinion.

''When the rubber hit the road, they listened to you,'' Mr. Limbaugh told
listeners.

Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican who led opposition to the bill,
said, ''Senators heard the voices of their constituents and voted accordingly.''

When the Senate scuttled the bill on Thursday, after three weeks of debate,
supporters said lawmakers had caved in to hateful, nativist, xenophobic
sentiments whipped up by conservative talk radio.

It was not just anger over a provision, which some have called amnesty for
illegal immigrants, that sank the bill. Skepticism about the competence of the
government was also a factor. Lawmakers repeatedly noted the slow federal
response to Hurricane Katrina and the government's inability to issue passports
on time.

''We are supposed to believe that the same government that cannot even get
passports into the hands of its people is going to complete background checks on
12 million illegal immigrants, give them a secure ID card, check every employee
in the United States to verify their work status and secure the borders,'' said
Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky. Some senators turned against the
bill because of what they called an unfair legislative process and procedure. In
retrospect, it was clear that supporters of the bill made some tactical mistakes
as well.

The bill was written behind closed doors by a dozen senators working closely
with the Bush administration. It was initially presented as a bipartisan
compromise, a ''grand bargain,'' but critics saw it as the work of a cabal.
Senate leaders took the bill directly to the floor, without hearings or review
by the Judiciary Committee, and tried to limit the amendments.

White House officials and some senators tried to win Republican votes by making
the bill more conservative. The changes failed to win over Republicans and
alienated some Democrats.

''The results show the failure of the White House strategy of moving the bill to
the right to attract more Republican votes,'' said Cecilia Munoz,  a vice
president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic rights group.

But Kevin F. Sullivan, the White House communications director, said that
without those changes, the bill might never have returned to the Senate floor
after it was pulled down June 7 by the majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of
Nevada.

President Bush pushed hard for the measure, but his administration irritated
some senators because it was so deeply involved with the bill. Sometimes -- as
President Bill Clinton learned the hard way -- it is better to lay out an
objective and let Congress fill in the details, lawmakers said.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, denounced a provision of the bill
under which illegal immigrants could have received ''probationary benefits,''
including work permits, one day after filing applications for legal status.
Criminals might slip through, Mr. Cornyn said, because law enforcement agencies
could not do complete background checks in one day.

Joel D. Kaplan, deputy chief of staff at the White House, responded to the
senator by saying, ''There's been a fair amount of misunderstanding and
mythology'' about that provision. Mr. Cornyn answered Mr. Kaplan in turn on the
Senate floor, saying he ought to read that section of the bill more carefully.

Congress could learn from this year's experience on other provisions of the bill
as well.

The bill called for a point system to evaluate would-be immigrants, giving more
weight to job skills and education and less to family ties. Employers said that
if this idea comes back, it should be used to supplement -- not replace -- the
current system, under which employers petition the government to get visas for
particular employees.

Moreover, employers said, if Congress wants them to check the legal status of
all workers, the government must clean up Social Security records that are full
of errors, and the new system should be introduced gradually over five years or
more.

Otherwise, given the size of the labor force, ''many U.S. citizens will have to
go through a Kafkaesque process to show they are Americans entitled to work
here,'' Mr. Papademetriou said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The leaders of Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid,
the Senate majority leader, and others at a news conference Friday to discuss
Democratic accomplishments.  (Photograph by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration Law Could Create Apartheid Conditions

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1836 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paul Krugman responds to readers&#8217; comments on his May 25
column, &#8220;Immigrants and Politics.&#8221; Kevin Blankinship, Oklahoma City,
Okla.: I would disagree with you on this one, because for one, economic
conditions are not as they were 100 years ago. One could argue that this country
is now fully developed. As an economist, I&#8217;m surprised [&#8230;]


Paul Krugman responds to readers' comments on his May 25 column, "Immigrants and
Politics."

Kevin Blankinship, Oklahoma City, Okla.: I would disagree with you on this one,
because for one, economic conditions are not as they were 100 years ago.  One
could argue that this country is now fully developed.  As an economist, I'm
surprised that you are not more objective on this one.

I think the end result of such heavy immigration will be to lower living
standards of most Americans and cause this to degenerate into a third world
country, with an economy heavily reliant on cheap labor.  By the end of this
century, America may well have a population larger than Europe, but I think by
then we will have become a ramshackle country with a populace suffering a lower
standard of living than they do now.  We should instead work to control our
population and encourage our neighbors and the rest of the world to do the same.
We cannot solve the world's problems by becoming a sort of lebensraum for
dysfunctional countries that do not work to provide better livings standards
within their own borders.

Paul Krugman: I'd just point out that people made exactly the same arguments a
century ago. On the education point, the truth is that we're not going to
provide more education to adult immigrants - we're going to have to educate
their children. And that's the same as we do with everyone's children.

Jay Weiser, New York: The political effects of immigration in the peak years of
the late 19th and early 20th centuries weren't as one-sided as you suggest.
Even with the disenfranchisement of immigrant and African-American men, the
Progressives became a dominant force by 1910.  They enacted a progressive
federal income tax, began recognizing labor rights, and began providing social
services, though as you note, these reforms don't come to fruition until the New
Deal.  There are parallel movements a bit earlier in European countries, which
also disenfranchised much of the non-immigrant working class in this period.
Perhaps these reforms would have occurred earlier without large numbers of
disenfranchised immigrants and blacks, but the political system was beginning to
react to the excesses of the Gilded Age by the 1890s.

Paul Krugman: Oh, I agree - but the Progressive movement, good as it was,
stalled out well before making much real dent in inequality. For most practical
purposes, the Gilded Age lasted into the 1930s.

Mary, St. Louis: Thanks for your comments today on immigration reform.  I am
especially upset about the guest worker program. The idea of letting people into
this country with no possibility of becoming citizens is exactly the wrong
approach.  It didn't work very well in Germany, for example.  It gives them
little incentive to learn the language or to become part of the body politic.
Yet, they would have plenty of incentives to remain here, again illegally.

I had not known about the economic consequences of that last mass migration
here.  That's good to know.  Thank you!

Paul Krugman: Back during the "bread and chocolate" days when Switzerland was
very dependent on guest workers, the Swiss author Max Frisch wrote "We wanted
workers, but human beings came." I think it's crucial that we treat everyone who
comes here as a human being, not as a unit of labor power.

Edith Cresmer, New York: The solution would be to encourage and perhaps even
require that immigrants become citizens and then be encouraged to vote.  I
believe that one goal of the settlement houses in the early 20th century was to
inculcate citizenship.  The proposed structure of the guest worker program, in
that it discourages whole families from immigrating, is deplorable.

Paul Krugman: More than that, the guest worker program would actually require
that workers be only temporary visitors. There's some economic logic in that -
as Dani Rodrik at Harvard points out, a temporary guest-worker program spreads
the gains more widely - but it's politically awful.

Len Cassamas, Atlanta: I've just finished reading your column about the current
immigration bill and would like to hear your opinion as an economist concerning
one point that keeps digging at me.

In terms of pure economics, illegal immigrants come here because there is a
market for their labor that pays them better than the labor market in their
native land.  I realize that I'm generalizing here and acting as if the only
current illegal immigrants come from Mexico and Central America.  I'll admit up
front that Hispanics make up only a portion - albeit the largest portion - of
illegal immigrants.  My point also holds true for many of the people who come
here on scholastic visas and never leave, though.  How would you suggest that we
deal with this market if not through an official guest worker program?

The current method of dealing with it - through draconian anti-immigrant laws
and now the building of an idiotic fence - have clearly done little to stanch
the flow of people from other countries to this one.  Since turning away
immigrants can't be as easily accomplished as it was in the 1920s, Ellis Island
remains closed. Yet the immigrants continue to pour in. How can we discourage
these visitors in a humane and, from the point of view of economic theory,
practical manner?

Paul Krugman: I don't think the people who come on scholastic visas are a
problem - they bring skills, and we should welcome them. Less-educated Mexicans
are the real problem, through no fault of their own. But there's a lot we could
do to limit illegal immigration, through workplace enforcement that falls well
short of police state tactics. And letting in a few hundred thousand on
temporary work permits will do little or nothing to reduce the illegal inflow.

Jeremy Matthews, Richardson, Tex.: Can you tell me what is the difference
between a progressive and a liberal? Personally, I think many people use the
term "progressive" because "liberal" has been so vilified by conservatives that
people are afraid to call themselves liberals. The defensiveness may be due to
liberal programs back in the sixties and seventies that had their faults. On the
whole though, I think most were good policy and certainly better policy than
Reagan's or current administration's policies. The liberal programs might have
needed some adjustments, but not wholesale debunking. Perhaps a liberal is
further left than a progressive, but I think liberals are essentially for the
same kind of progress that progressives support, and a progressive is just a
liberal in sheep's clothing.

Paul Krugman: Personally I consider myself both progressive and liberal. But I
know that some people associate "liberal" with a focus on social issues rather
than political economy, which is why I used the progressive label today.

Joe Beckmann, Somerville, Mass.: First, the apartheid was precisely that in the
Gilded Age. Nearly half of the adult males did not or could not vote, and no
women voted. And the effect of the immigration wave was the political machine,
where the individual vote meant less than a beer in the bar. In spite of this
attenuated participation, both urban and rural progressivism flourished albeit
in two different worlds.

Second, even legal immigrants don't vote today, and the overall turnout is
abysmal, making your case for suffrage more than moot. The illness of democracy
is deeper than immigration, which is only one of the milder symptoms in this
context. In any case, beware of attaching so much significance to the vote in
today's political environment, since there is so little urgency and so many
contested ballots and newborn exceptions like felonies, that immigration is only
a shadow in an already grim democratic system.

Paul Krugman: Women's suffrage is another matter; it was a great thing when it
came, but it didn't much affect the economic balance of power.

As for immigration and voter participation, we're talking about matters of
degree. My Princeton colleague Nolan McCarty, with Keith Poole and Howard
Rosenthal, has a book - "Polarized America" - which gives immigration a
significant weight in explaining the tolerance of the electorate for
unequalizing policies.

Par Kettis, Castine, Maine: Takes two to tango. For each illegal immigrant,
there is at least one employer who illegally hired the immigrant. When the
immigration authorities make a check, the operation picks up the foreign workers
and puts them in custody while nothing happens with the employers - they just
call in their lawyers to start a long legal process that seems to end up in
confusion. The cases against the workers, on the other hand, end up in
deportations.

The apartheid aspect is important, thank you for bringing it up. The
international community worked with the apartheid issue for a long time, and
finally it was eliminated. Israel, of course, also has a similar problem with
the growing number of dissatisfied Palestinians. The  U.S. so far resists the
E.U. solution: regulating immigration, but giving those who are accepted a
fairly decent treatment, Scandinavia is leading with giving legal immigrants the
same rights as its own citizens.

Mimi Barron, Fredericksburg, Va.:  This was a valuable and often missed concept
to write about in your column.  The more people who are not citizens working in
a country but not voting certainly does dilute democracy's aims.  I had never
thought of it so clearly.  This is exactly why Jimmy Carter has called Israel's
management of the West Bank and Gaza apartheid for forty years now - for the
labor of Palestinians who had no say about their lives, no vote for sure, simply
because Israel chose to keep the West Bank and Gaza as occupied territories and
not Israel proper.  This decision was made to avoid coming up against the
question of whether or not Palestinians were citizens of Israel, since Israel
could not claim it was a democracy and have disenfranchised Palestinians.  Jimmy
Carter was right.  And we could be wishing the same for the millions of
immigrants, legal and illegal, who are doing our work for us, whether skilled or
not.

Curtis Crowson, Douglasville, Ga.: The proposed guest worker program is a
horrible thing. Not only does it create a permanent indentured servant class, it
will bring in less-desirable workers into the country. Because the deal isn't
that good, the best and brightest won't take it. Most people make rational
economic choices.

Currently, we benefit greatly by siphoning off the best, brightest and most
ambitious of the rest of the world. The people who risk coming here illegally
have great ambitions for themselves and their families. They have seen the great
beacon of the American dream and they want that dream. In most cases they will
work hard for it. I would rather live with illegal immigration than create a
slave class with no hope for citizenship. At least you know that illegal
immigrants are willing to risk much for the American dream.

The problem, as you mentioned in the article, is how to control it enough so
that we aren't exploited by the aristocracy.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

Suffolk Leader, in Immigration Maelstrom, Strikes Back

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 196 words



HIGHLIGHT: Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, plans to respond to a
legislative maneuver in Albany last week in which Assembly members, angered by
Mr. Levy&#8217;s opposition to the construction of a hiring hall for day
laborers, blocked a sales-tax bill that would have provided Suffolk County with
about $320 million in revenue.


Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, is hitting back. Mr. Levy, a Democrat
who has gained national attention for his stands in opposition to illegal
immigration, has scheduled a noon news conference at the H. Lee Dennison
Building in Hauppauge.

Mr. Levy is expected to respond to a legislative maneuver in Albany last week in
which Assembly  members, angered by his opposition to the construction of a
hiring hall for day laborers, blocked a sales-tax bill that would have provided
Suffolk County with about $320 million in revenue. (The county's entire property
tax levy is about $51 million.)

Mr. Levy is expected to outline layoffs and cutbacks in services that may result
from the blocking of the sales-tax measure. Assemblyman Phil Ramos, a Suffolk
Democrat who helped organized the blocking of the measure, has been a target of
Mr. Levy's ire.

The criticism over Mr. Levy's tough-on-immigration stands appears to have
reached a new boiling point, with Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, a Manhattan
Democrat, last week comparing Suffolk County to Selma, Ala., in the 1960s.

Bruce Lambert of the Long Island bureau will be at the news conference; we
expect to have more later.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday

With Fee Increase Looming, Citizenship Drive Begins

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 365 words



HIGHLIGHT: On July 30, the fee for becoming a naturalized citizen will rise to
$675 from $400. Immigrant groups are launching a big drive to encourage legal
residents to apply for citizenship.


On July 30, the fee for becoming a naturalized citizen will rise to $675 from
$400 - a 69 percent increase. As Julia Preston recently reported in The Times,
that fee increase - along with citizenship drives and new anxieties among
immigrants, fueled by the recent debate over the immigration bill that died in
the United States Senate - is prompting a surge in naturalization applications
across the country.

Today, a broad coalition of immigrant advocacy organizations started a campaign
- Ya Es Hora, ¡Ciudadania! (It's Time, Citizenship!) - to encourage eligible
permanent residents in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to apply for
naturalization. The National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials, which is helping to organize the drive, has set up a Web site with
resources in Spanish.

The local drive was formally begun with a news conference on the steps of City
Hall, attended by the Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrión Jr., who is the
current president of Naleo, Assemblyman Jose R. Peralta of Queens and Councilmen
Hiram Monserrate of Queens and Miguel Martinez of Manhattan.

The coalition includes the New York Immigration Coalition, the Hispanic
Federation, 1199/SEIU, the CUNY Citizenship and Immigration Project and Catholic
Charities, the Labor Council for Latin American Advancement and the Association
of Community Organizations for Reform Now.

"It shouldn't surprise conservatives that if you raise the price of something,
it will potentially be discouraging," said Philip Kasinitz, a Hunter College
sociologist and an expert on immigration. "If the price is going way up, this
would be the moment to do it right?"

Compared with the immigrant populations in California and Texas, New York has a
relatively high proportion of legal immigrants.

Professor Kasinitz noted:  "In New York, a much larger percentage of immigrants
enter legally and are potentially available for naturalization. People who enter
illegally, under the current regime, are permanently outside of the system."

Referring to the naturalization drive, he added, "This affects legal permanent
residents and New York has as much higher proportion of those than in other
parts of the country."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday

A Solution to the High-Tech Immigrant Challenge

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 13 words



HIGHLIGHT: Get rid of the H-1B visa, says a prominent scholar.


No one really doubts the "immigrant dividend" to America's high-tech economy.
But

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

LETTERS The Immigration Influx

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1040 words


The Immigration Influx

As Alex Kotlowitz reports, the contradictions and complexities of the
immigration influx encourage cultural clashes and the accompanying fear and
resentment (Aug. 5). Carpentersville, Ill., is a perfect microcosm of the
national situation. People are inherently leery of the unknown. Just as the
primary force spurring the illegal immigration explosion is economics, the
impetus behind the backlash is fear. The result is that threatened Americans
strike out at threatened immigrants, driving them farther underground and away
from assimilation. Kotlowitz, with his probing look into circumstances and
opinions of all sides involved, attempts to answer many questions, but one
remains unresolved. When does fear and animus turn into bigotry? There is no
conclusive evidence that Judy Sigwalt or Paul Humpfer are bigots, but many of
their policies foster bigotry and are self-defeating. Compassion and compromise,
not truculence and intimidation, will resolve the current immigration stalemate.

Wayne Trujillo

Denver

Kotlowitz uses an Orwellian doublespeak term, ''without papers,'' to describe
the state of persons who are in the country illegally. This is like calling a
car thief a driver ''without papers'' because he does not have a title in the
glove compartment with his name on it.

Scott Pomerantz

Venice, Calif.

The saddest part of the article was that after 28 years working for the largest
employer in town, Darlene Hutchins makes a little over $10 an hour. If that is
''comparable with what other area factories pay if not actually more,'' it's not
hard to imagine that America's middle class is disappearing completely. I can't
believe that people are seriously considering a guest-worker system that will
only accelerate the erosion of wages and buying power.

Michael Kauffman

Roslyn, N.Y.

Our founding fathers considered, and rejected, designating English the new
nation's official language. In the spirit of valuing linguistic diversity, let's
put an end to the old joke: What do you call someone with two languages?
Bilingual. What do you call someone with one language? American.

Susan J. Behrens

Brooklyn

Getting Iraq Wrong

Michael Ignatieff (Aug. 5) dismisses many of the early (and prescient) critics
of the invasion of Iraq for ''indulging in ideology'' rather than ''exercising
judgment.''

It takes extraordinary chutzpah for those like Ignatieff, who were so
passionately wrong about Iraq, to accuse the opponents of the war of being
ideological, when in reality we were challenging the extremely ideological,
indeed messianic, views of the war's proponents.

The critics were not only right in predicting the disastrous consequences of the
invasion but also in judging that those consequences flowed from the motives
behind it, which we correctly said were rooted in the geopolitics of energy in
the resource-rich Middle East. Ignatieff offers nothing, other than more
ideology, to challenge this view.

Anthony Arnove

New York

We were glad to see Michael Ignatieff addressing the problem of his support for
the invasion of Iraq. But he fobs off his earlier warmongering as an example of
a more general problem: academic naivete and intellectual fantasizing.
Apparently, ''a sense of reality doesn't always flourish in elite institutions''
-- too much time at Harvard warped his judgment.

But trying to suggest that the minute he walked into Harvard Yard, his critical
faculties stopped working just won't do. We, too, were at Harvard in the run-up
to the war, and the campus was convulsed with protests.

If Ignatieff has spent the last five years praising the mistakes of credulous
politicians, it isn't because too few people had a sense of reality about the
war, either inside or outside academia; he just wasn't listening.

Daniela Cammack

David Grewal

Cambridge, Mass.

Ignatieff quotes his former mentor Isaiah Berlin as stating that academics care
more about the interest of ideas than their truth. This may be true in the
humanities and some of the social sciences, but it is definitely not true for
the fields that really dominate the modern academy, the natural sciences. In the
natural sciences, academics regularly kill their own interesting ideas in the
pursuit of mundane truth, and admitting mistakes is a regular part of a
scientist's life.

Roger L. Albin

Ann Arbor, Mich.

As a good and friendly neighbor, this Canadian would like to apologize to all
those on your side of the border for the lame, windy excuses now emanating from
my fellow countrymen who, in light of current tragic realities, are rethinking
their support for your president, his incompetent manipulators and their
doomed-from-the-start, militaristic foray into Iraq.

Please remember in the future that the main reason those like Ignatieff or the
''axis of evil'' coiner David Frum are down there messing in your affairs is
that we long ago stopped listening to their cloistered ramblings up here.

Wayne Scott

Toronto

Babys First Diet Pill

''Remaking the age-old survival mechanisms of the human body'' is, in the case
of infant feeding, completely unnecessary (Annie Murphy Paul, Aug. 5). The
age-old survival mechanism is still in place and still works. Human milk
contains the appetite-regulating hormone leptin, and the act of breast-feeding
allows a baby to be in control of how much he eats. These factors help explain
why babies who are breast-fed are less likely to become obese as children and
adults. Furthermore, breast-feeding is free, unlike specialty formulas. Mother
Nature has it right.

Margaret Bickmore

Longmont, Colo.

Questions for Mary Gordon

Thinking (out loud, in a highly public forum) that ''no woman is electable in
America'' is a sure way to help make it true (Deborah Solomon, Aug. 5). Mary
Gordon is a role model for this country's female intelligentsia. Her publicly
defeatist attitude is deplorable.

Martha Woodworth

Las Vegas

Vacation, All I Never Wanted

What's with Walter Kirn (Aug. 5)? ''Strip-mall day spas'' instead of vacs? He
forgets to offer Disneyland in place of France, Spain, Italy and Thailand.
American parochialism in operation. Just keep working, you slobs, and go down
the corner for an ice cream!

Gus Franza

Moriches, N.Y.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL D'AMATO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Inquiry Over Asylum Applications

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 92 words


The state's attorney general is reviewing a group in Naples that helped illegal
immigrants apply for asylum in Canada for up to $400 each. A spokeswoman for the
attorney general's office said another organization, Freedom House, an immigrant
advocacy group in Detroit, complained last week about the Naples group, the
Jerusalem Haitian Community Center. A Freedom House official asked that the
center be investigated for possibly practicing law without a license,
misinforming refugees and misrepresenting itself as having a relationship with
Freedom House.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

LETTERS Immigrant Cabdrivers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 127 words


To the Editor:

Rewarding cabdrivers who can prove their identity and aptitude behind the wheel
with driver's licenses is not only politically correct, but also morally sound.
''New York's Immigrant Drivers'' (editorial, Sept. 22) supports a claim that
should be accepted nationwide, not only in nine states.

Safe drivers who continue to help pedestrians in New York should be rewarded for
their achievements, not questioned because of their immigration status.

Gov. Eliot Spitzer was correct in supporting this disputed decision, and I
believe that only positive things will occur because of his choice.

Anyhow, who wouldn't want to know that his or her life is in good hands when
stepping into a cab?

Meredith Meyer Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., Sept. 22, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Immigrants Pull Children From School

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 118 words


The superintendent of the Irving school district said that some immigrant
parents had pulled their children from school over fears that they or their
families would be deported. The superintendent, Jack Singley, said that about 90
children had been withdrawn from 33,000-student public school district in the
last week. The Mexican Consulate has advised people to avoid driving through
Irving, a Dallas suburb, in response to the Irving Police Department's
participation with federal immigration authorities in a program to identify
illegal immigrants who have been arrested and to deport them. The Irving police
have turned over more than 1,600 people to immigration officials since the
program began last year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newark: Immigrant Families Abound

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METRO BRIEFING NEW JERSEY; Pg.
7

LENGTH: 119 words


A third of New Jersey's children are part of immigrant families, and 87 percent
of those children have no trouble speaking English, according to a report
released today by the Association for Children of New Jersey. Twenty-one percent
of children nationwide are part of immigrant families, 80 percent of whom have
no difficulty speaking English, according to the report, which used 2005 census
data. The report defined immigrant families as having one foreign-born member,
and said the largest percentage of the state's foreign-born population comes
from India, Mexico and the Dominican Republic. Seventeen percent of children in
the state's immigrant families do not have health insurance, according to the
report.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 19, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Albany: Fugitive Sought In Pornography Case

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METRO BRIEFING NEW YORK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 132 words


A retired New York City police detective from the Albany area is a fugitive from
prosecution on charges of possessing and distributing child pornography, federal
agents said yesterday. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents requested the
public's help in finding the suspect, Michael W. Niebling. He was indicted on
Sept. 27 on charges of distributing the material across the country and
internationally, using the Internet. He failed to appear at a hearing in United
States District Court here on Tuesday, the agency said. He was seen in Myrtle
Beach, S.C., on Oct. 11 and may have been in Las Vegas early on Monday and in
Boston later that day or the next, at or near Logan International Airport, the
federal agents said. As a former police officer, Mr. Niebling may be armed, they
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Immigration Bill's Senate Crash, Republicans May Pay Dearly in Latino
Votes

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER.

Robert Pear contributed reporting from Washington, and Ana Facio Contreras from
Costa Mesa, Calif.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1219 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 30


Many Republican lawmakers returned to their home districts in triumph this week,
having beat back a comprehensive immigration bill that many of their
constituents had denounced as untenable.

But the bill's demise may have greatly damaged the party's ability to meet its
enduring goal of attracting a large percentage of the growing number of Hispanic
voters -- thousands of whom are ostensibly in line with the party on a host of
other issues, said many Republican lawmakers, consultants and Hispanic voters.

''There may be some short-term gain from this,'' said Linda Chavez, who served
in the Reagan administration and is now chairwoman of the Center for Equal
Opportunity, a conservative public policy group. ''But in the long term, it is
disastrous for the Republican Party.''

The complex political dynamic that formed the failure of the immigration bill --
one that sought to give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants while
providing enhanced security to the nation's borders -- went far beyond partisan
alliances.

Several Republicans, notably Senator Mel Martinez of Florida and Senator John
McCain of Arizona, helped write the bill and defended it. But other Republicans
led the opposition to kill it. They were joined by some Democrats -- some who
held views similar to the Republican opponents of the bill, but also by liberals
who felt that the bill's provisions were too onerous.

In some cases, views of the bill were formed more along regional than party
lines, with unlikely allies like businesses interests and immigrants' rights
groups. Its champion was a conservative president.

Yet in terms of the politics of perception, Hispanics may have been deeply
alienated by the heated rhetoric that wound around the axle of the debate, most
of it stemming from a few Republican opponents and the loud echo chamber of talk
radio.

''The tone of the debate, and the way it was framed in sort of an 'us against
them' way, has done great harm in wooing Hispanics to the party,'' said Ms.
Chavez, who was the director of the United States Commission on Civil Rights
under Reagan.

For example, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a leading opponent of the
measure, at one point in the debate, said, ''The bill would provide amnesty and
a path to citizenship for people who broke into our country by running past the
National Guard.''

In essence, many Hispanics and Republicans said, the outcome of the legislation
may be less damaging to the party than the notion that Hispanics are not welcome
among them.

''I think it's bloody for the Republicans,'' said Antonio Gonzalez, president of
the William C. Velasquez Institute, a Latino-oriented research and policy
organization with offices in San Antonio and Los Angeles. ''The Democrats said
pro-immigrant stuff, and even if they didn't support it, it was because they
said it wasn't good enough. The Republicans said anti-immigrant stuff and so now
they are going to get killed with this.''

It is a view that many Republicans share. Mr. McCain, who in May told
Republicans that ''the Hispanic vote is turning against us in very large
numbers,'' expressed similar thoughts privately this week, aides said.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. Martinez, who is chairman of the national
Republican Party, called the bill's defeat ''a bipartisan failure.'' To win
favor with Hispanics in the future, ''We've got our work cut out for us,'' he
said. ''I consider it serious.''

Abel Maldonado, a prominent Hispanic Republican in the California State Senate,
said he felt that both parties were damaged, but that ''It hurts the Republican
party a little bit more in terms of bringing more minorities into the party.''

Hispanics made up 8.6 percent of the nation's eligible voters in 2006, according
to the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, up from 7.4 percent in 2000.

In some states, like New Mexico, Texas and California, Hispanics make up well
over 20 percent of eligible voters, though that number is a significantly
smaller share of the overall Hispanic population than other ethnic groups, the
center found. In 2004, according to the research group, Hispanics made up 6
percent of all votes cast.

Republicans have showed signs of making clear inroads in recent years among
Hispanic voters. President Bush took roughly 40 percent of the Hispanic vote in
2004, and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California won roughly the same
percentage of Hispanic voters in his state in his re-election in 2006 -- a
strong showing for any Republican candidate here.

But the party saw only about 25 percent of Hispanic voters come its way in the
midterm elections last year, an alarming trend for the Republicans looking at
2008. Many Republicans fear that loss of essentially half their market share,
though they were not willing to say so on the record.

With about two-thirds of the nation's Hispanic residents living in nine of the
states holding early Democratic primaries -- including California, where
Hispanics hold more sway in the party than in most other states -- there is now
an opportunity for Democrats to seize on immigration as a wedge issue.

''You have to look at this in terms of outreach,'' said Adam Mendelsohn,
communications director for Governor Schwarzenegger. ''I think that some of the
rhetoric on the immigration debate has a very negative impact in terms of
potentially alienating different constituencies. The governor said in his speech
to Washington that we need to cool the rhetoric. He feels that the debate was
hurtful to his party and the country as a whole.''

Many Republicans said that Democrats were to blame for tarring their party, and
that the Democrats deserved as much blame or praise, depending on one's point of
view, for the bill's downfall. They added that they believed that the
president's support for the bill and the advocacy it enjoyed from other
prominent Republicans would ultimately help the party make its case with
Hispanics.

''The rhetoric from radical left was to portray Republicans as anti-immigration
across the board,'' said Ron Nehring, chairman of the California Republican
Party. But, he added, ''We just had a lengthy national dialogue on the topic of
immigration and what was established by that is that Republicans support legal
immigration and oppose illegal immigration.''

But Republican Hispanics are less sure that perception is widespread, even when
they share it. ''It's definitely going to hurt the Republican Party,'' said
Bettina Inclan, executive director of the Republican National Hispanic Assembly.
''Clearly the leadership of the Republican Party, meaning Bush and Martinez, are
completely supportive. It is unfortunate that there has been a lot of bad
communication in the Spanish press that all Republicans are against this bill.''

Alfredo Maciel, 72, who owns a clothing alteration business in Costa Mesa, said
in an interview in Orange County on Friday that he blamed residents in districts
with strong anti-immigrant feelings rather than either political party,
including the Republican one he belongs to. But nor did Mr. Maciel believe that
the debate had enhanced the party's image with potential new voters.

''I don't think Latinos are interested in joining the Republicans,'' he said,
''and I don't think Republicans are interested in attracting them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, left, speaking on
immigration  with Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, who hepled write the bill.
(Photograph by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Founding Immigrants

BYLINE: By KENNETH C. DAVIS.

Kenneth C. Davis is the author of ''Don't Know Much About History: Everything
You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: Dorset, Vt.


A  PROMINENT American once said, about immigrants, ''Few of their children in
the country learn English... The signs in our streets have inscriptions in both
languages ... Unless the stream of their importation could be turned they will
soon so outnumber us that all the advantages we have will not be able to
preserve our language, and even our government will become precarious.''

This sentiment did not emerge from the rancorous debate over the immigration
bill defeated last week in the Senate. It was not the lament of some guest of
Lou Dobbs  or a Republican candidate intent on wooing bedrock conservative
votes. Guess again.

Voicing this grievance was Benjamin Franklin. And the language so vexing to him
was the German spoken by new arrivals to Pennsylvania in the 1750s, a wave of
immigrants whom Franklin viewed as the ''most stupid of their nation.''

About the same time, a Lutheran minister named Henry Muhlenberg, himself a
recent arrival from Germany, worried that ''the whole country is being flooded
with ordinary, extraordinary and unprecedented wickedness and crimes. ... Oh,
what a fearful thing it is to have so many thousands of unruly and brazen
sinners come into this free air and unfenced country.''

These German masses yearning to breathe free were not the only targets of
colonial fear and loathing. Echoing the opinions of colonial editors and
legislators, Ben Franklin was also troubled by the British practice of dumping
its felons on America. With typical Franklin wit, he proposed sending
rattlesnakes to Britain in return. (This did not, however, preclude numerous
colonists from purchasing these convicts as indentured servants.)

And still earlier in Pennsylvania, the Scotch-Irish had bred discontent, as
their penchant for squatting on choice real estate ran headlong against the
colony's founders, the Penn family, and their genteel notions about who should
own what.

Often, the disdain for the foreign was inflamed by religion. Boston's Puritans
hanged several Friends after a Bay Colony ban on Quakerism. In Virginia, the
Anglicans arrested Baptists.

But the greatest scorn was generally reserved for Catholics -- usually meaning
Irish, French, Spanish and Italians. Generations of white American Protestants
resented newly arriving ''Papists,'' and even in colonial Maryland, a supposed
haven for them, Roman Catholics were nonetheless forbidden to vote and hold
public office.

Once independent, the new nation began to carve its views on immigrants into
law. In considering New York's Constitution, for instance, John Jay -- later to
become the first chief justice of the Supreme Court -- suggested erecting ''a
wall of brass around the country for the exclusion of Catholics.''

By 1790, with the United States Constitution firmly in place, the first federal
citizenship law restricted naturalization to ''free white persons'' who had been
in the country for two years. That requirement was later pushed back to five
years and, in 1798, to 14 years.

Then, as now, politics was key. Federalists feared that too many immigrants were
joining the opposition. Under the 1798 Alien Act -- with the threat of war in
the air over French attacks on American shipping -- President John Adams had
license to deport anyone he considered ''dangerous.'' Although his secretary of
state favored mass deportations, Adams never actually put anybody on a boat.

Back then, the French warranted the most suspicion, but there were other
worrisome ''aliens.'' A wave of ''wild Irish'' refugees was thought to harbor
dangerous radicals. Harsh ''anti-coolie'' laws later singled out the Chinese.
And, of course, the millions of ''involuntary'' immigrants from Africa and their
offspring were regarded merely as persons ''held to  service.''

Scratch the surface of the current immigration debate and beneath the posturing
lies a dirty secret. Anti-immigrant sentiment is older than America itself. Born
before the nation, this abiding fear of the ''huddled masses'' emerged in the
early republic and gathered steam into the 19th and 20th centuries, when
nativist political parties, exclusionary laws and the Ku Klux Klan swept the
land.

As we celebrate another Fourth of July, this picture of American intolerance
clashes sharply with tidy schoolbook images of the great melting pot. Why has
the land of ''all men are created equal'' forged countless ghettoes and
intricate networks of social exclusion? Why the signs reading ''No Irish Need
Apply''? And why has each new generation of immigrants had to face down a rich
glossary of now unmentionable epithets? Disdain for what is foreign is, sad to
say, as American as apple pie, slavery and lynching.

That fence along the Mexican border now being contemplated by Congress is just
the latest vestige of a venerable tradition, at least as old as John Jay's
''wall of brass.'' ''Don't fence me in'' might be America's unofficial anthem of
unfettered freedom, but too often the subtext is, ''Fence everyone else out.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lady Liberty, Still

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 113 words


To the Editor:

''The Founding Immigrants,'' by Kenneth C. Davis (Op-Ed, July 3), is a
nonsequitur in relation to the primary issue facing Americans.

The principle of accepting immigrants seeking freedom, security and opportunity
is not challenged. The primary issue, which Mr. Davis does not mention, is
illegal immigration. Regardless of the number or ethnic background, the entry of
illegal immigrants is, according to our laws, unacceptable.

Everyone who wishes to become an American citizen is welcome to apply for the
status of a legal immigrant. Lady Liberty still lights the way for those who
follow the appropriate procedures. Jack D. Spiro

Richmond, Va., July 3, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Malpractice

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 501 words


The prickliness and glacial ineptitude of the immigration system is old news to
millions of would-be Americans. Immigrants who play by the rules know that the
rules are stringent, arbitrary, expensive and very time-consuming. But even the
most seasoned citizens-in-waiting were stunned by the nasty bait-and-switch the
federal bureaucracy pulled on them this month. After encouraging thousands of
highly skilled workers to apply for green cards, the government snatched the
opportunity away.

The tease came in a bulletin issued by the State Department in June announcing
that green cards for a wide range of skilled workers would be available to those
who filed by July 2. That prompted untold numbers of doctors, medical
technicians and other professionals, many of whom have lived here with their
families for years, to assemble little mountains of paper. They got certified
records and sponsorship documents, paid for medical exams and lawyers and sent
their applications in. Many canceled vacations to be in the United States when
their applications arrived, as the law requires.

Then they learned that the hope was effectively a hoax. The State Department had
issued the bulletin to prod Citizenship and Immigration Services, the
bureaucracy that handles immigration applications, to get cracking on processing
them. The agency is notorious for fainting over paperwork -- 182,694 green cards
have been squandered since 2000 because it did not process them in time. That
bureaucratic travesty is a tragedy, since the annual supply of green cards is
capped by law, and the demand chronically outstrips supply. The State Department
said it put out the bulletin to ensure that every available green card would be
used this time.

After working through the weekend, the citizenship agency processed tens of
thousands of applications. On Monday, the State Department announced that all
140,000 employment-based green cards had been used and no applications would be
accepted.

Citizenship and Immigration Services, the definition of a hangdog bureaucracy,
says the law forbids it to accept the applications. The American Immigration
Lawyers Association says this interpretation is rubbish. It is preparing a
class-action lawsuit to compel the bureaucracy to accept the application wave
that it provoked.

The good news is that immigrants' hope is pretty much unquenchable. Think of the
hundreds of people standing in the rain in ponchos at Walt Disney World on
Independence Day, joining the flood of new citizens now cresting across the
country. They celebrated on July Fourth, but for many of them the magic date is
July 30, when a new fee schedule for immigrants takes effect, drastically
jacking up the cost of the American dream.

The collapse of immigration reform in the Senate showed the world what America
thinks of illegal immigrants -- it wants them all to go away. But the federal
government, through bureaucratic malpractice, is sending the same message to
millions of legal immigrants, too.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2007



CORRECTION: An editorial last Saturday about a State Department bulletin that
prompted a rush of applications for unavailable green cards gave the wrong date
for the application deadline. It was July 31, not July 2.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lady Liberty, Still

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 113 words


To the Editor:

''The Founding Immigrants,'' by Kenneth C. Davis (Op-Ed, July 3), is a
nonsequitur in relation to the primary issue facing Americans.

The principle of accepting immigrants seeking freedom, security and opportunity
is not challenged. The primary issue, which Mr. Davis does not mention, is
illegal immigration. Regardless of the number or ethnic background, the entry of
illegal immigrants is, according to our laws, unacceptable.

Everyone who wishes to become an American citizen is welcome to apply for the
status of a legal immigrant. Lady Liberty still lights the way for those who
follow the appropriate procedures. Jack D. Spiro

Richmond, Va., July 3, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Million Faxes Later, a Little-Known Group Claims a Victory on Immigration

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14


When a comprehensive immigration bill collapsed last month on the Senate floor,
it was a victory for a small group that had been lobbying Congress for a decade
to reduce the number of immigrants -- legal and illegal -- in the United States.

The group, Numbers USA, tracked every twist and turn of the bill. Its members
flooded the Senate with more than a million faxes, sent through the
organization's Web site. It supplied arguments and information to senators
opposing the bill.

''It was a David-and-Goliath struggle,'' said Roy H. Beck, the president of
Numbers USA, who had been preparing for this moment since 1996, when he wrote a
book titled ''The Case Against Immigration.''

Supporters of the bill included President Bush, the United States Chamber of
Commerce, the high-tech industry, the Roman Catholic Church, many Hispanic
organizations, farmers, restaurants, hotels and the construction industry.

''The bill had support from the opinion elite in this country,'' Mr. Beck said.
''But we built a grass-roots army, consumed with passion for a cause, and used
the power of the Internet to go around the elites and defeat a disastrous
amnesty bill.''

The measure, which died on June 28, would have offered legal status and a path
to citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants and created a new temporary
worker program while increasing border security.

''Numbers USA initiated and turbocharged the populist revolt against the
immigration reform package,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of the
National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant advocacy group. ''Roy Beck takes
people who are upset about illegal immigration for different reasons, including
hostility to Latino immigrants, and disciplines them so their message is based
on policy rather than race-based arguments or xenophobia.''

Representative Brian P. Bilbray, Republican of California and chairman of the
Immigration Reform Caucus, said, ''We're involved in weekly discussions with
Numbers USA and other immigration-control groups as part of a team effort.''

Numbers USA had fewer than 50,000 members at the end of 2004, but now counts
more than 447,000, with an increase of 83 percent since January alone.

Turning to the next phase of the debate, those members will push for enforcement
of existing laws and new measures to curb the employment of illegal immigrants.

''Our No. 1 legislative goal is to begin a system of mandatory workplace
verification, to confirm that every employee is a United States citizen or an
alien authorized to work in this country,'' said Rosemary E. Jenks, director of
government relations at Numbers USA.

The organization wants to reduce immigration -- as Mr. Beck says in the subtitle
of his book -- for ''moral, economic, social and environmental reasons.''

He contends that immigrants and their children are driving population growth,
which he says is gobbling up open space, causing urban sprawl and creating more
traffic congestion.

Moreover, Mr. Beck asserts that immigrants and temporary workers, by increasing
the supply of labor, have depressed wages in industries from meatpacking to
information technology. Numbers USA has worked most closely with conservative
Republicans, but in recent weeks has built alliances with Democrats who share
the concern.

Numbers USA keeps a scorecard showing every vote by every member of Congress on
immigration-related issues since 1989. The group assigns a letter grade to each
member.

Lawmakers who received an A-plus were all Republicans and included
Representatives J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Tom Tancredo of Colorado, a
presidential candidate. The lowest grades -- F-minuses -- went to Democrats,
including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Joe Baca of California,
chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

Numbers USA objects to proposals that increase the number of legal or illegal
immigrants. It steers clear of debates over the allocation of visas.

''It does not matter to us whether a visa goes to a high-tech worker, a farm
worker or the sibling of a U.S. citizen,'' Mr. Beck said.

Numbers USA is one of many organizations fostered by John H. Tanton, an
ophthalmologist from Michigan who has also championed efforts to protect the
environment, limit population growth and promote  English as an official
language.

Critics like the Southern Poverty Law Center and Representative Chris Cannon,
Republican of Utah, have described Dr. Tanton as a father of the
anti-immigration movement. Mark A. Potok, a senior researcher at the law center,
called Numbers USA the ''kinder, gentler side of that movement.''

Mr. Beck said Numbers USA had been independent of Dr. Tanton since 2002. On the
group's Web site, Mr. Beck cautions against ''immigrant bashing'' and says,
''Even illegal aliens deserve humane treatment as they are detected, detained
and deported.''

In the fight over the Senate bill, Numbers USA had daily conference calls with
conservative groups like the Heritage Foundation and the Eagle Forum.

For tax purposes, Numbers USA has two arms, an educational foundation and an
advocacy group that lobbies Congress. Together, Mr. Beck said, they have a
budget of $3 million this year, but will probably raise and spend $4.5 million.

Mr. Beck said that in the past the group received about two-thirds of its money
from foundations like the Colcom Foundation of Pittsburgh and the Weeden
Foundation in New York. Many of these foundations have an interest in
conservation.

Numbers USA has raised the rest of its money from individual contributors over
the Internet. The group collects detailed information on its members -- their
ethnic background, politics, religious affiliations, occupations and concerns --
so it can choose the most effective advocates on any particular issue.

In a survey question on religion, the group said the information would be useful
because many lawmakers were likely to respond better to people with ''a very
similar religious worldview.''

''This is our citizen army,'' Mr. Beck said, pointing to a map that showed
members of his group in every Congressional district.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Migrants Carry H.I.V. Home to Unready Rural Areas

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

DATELINE: PUEBLA, Mexico


Cres has spent almost half his 32 years working in the United States, in the
fields of California and Texas and the factories of Chicago and New York. His
wife and three children were with him some of the time. But he was alone for
long spells, and it was during one of those periods that he figures he
contracted H.I.V.

''I don't know how or where or when I got it,'' said Cres, who spoke on
condition that he would be identified only by his nickname. He paused whenever
his pregnant wife entered the darkened home, built with his paychecks from
America. ''I don't have any idea who it was with. I don't want to know. I just
want to go ahead with my life.''

Migrant workers like him go to the United States with dreams of new prosperity,
hoping to bring back dollars. But some are bringing back something else as well,
H.I.V. and AIDS, which they are spreading in the rural parts of Mexico least
prepared to handle the epidemic.

As sweeping proposals for immigration-law changes founder in the United States,
the expanding AIDS crisis among the migrants is largely overlooked on both sides
of the border. Particularly in Mexico, AIDS is still shrouded by stigma and
denial. In the United States, it is often assumed that immigrants bring diseases
into the country, not take them away.

But AIDS is spreading quickly in rural Mexican states with the highest migration
rates to the United States, researchers say. The greatest risk of contracting
AIDS that rural Mexican women face is in having sex with their migrant husbands,
a new study found, a problem that is compounded by their husbands' refusal to
use condoms.

Research has shown that migrants have more sexual partners than those who stay
at home. For women, life on the road brings risks of rape and sexual abuse. For
many migrants, being displaced from their homes and families is a lonely
experience, one that prompts them to form new relationships in the United
States.

Adding to the problem, both Mexico's northern and southern borders have become
magnets for prostitutes and drug dealers, drawn by the flow of migrants north.

''Migration leads to conditions and experiences that increase risks,'' said
George Lemp, an epidemiologist who directs the University of California's AIDS
research program and is studying the spread of the disease among migrants.
''Migrants are vulnerable. They are isolated. They are exposed to different
sexual practices. They have language barriers to services and there is a lot of
depression and loneliness and abuse.''

AIDS has not yet exploded in Mexico and is focused mostly among prostitutes and
their clients, and drug users and gay men, experts say. The AIDS rate here is
still considerably lower than that in the United States, nearly half as low,
according to United Nations statistics published in 2006. The H.I.V. infection
rate for people ages 15 to 49 in the United States is about 0.6 percent,
compared with 0.3 percent in Mexico, the United Nations says.

Yet the high-risk behavior that various surveys have documented among many
Mexican migrants worries researchers. ''Our concern is it could take off in this
population in the future,'' said Dr. Lemp, who is leading a joint United
States-Mexican study of migrants and AIDS.

The first AIDS cases diagnosed in Mexico in 1983 were found among migrants,
researchers say. Since then, studies have continued to show that migrants to the
United States make up a significant percentage of those contracting the disease.

The percentage of Mexicans with H.I.V. who have lived in the United States
fluctuated between 41 percent and 79 percent in the 1980s and early 1990s,
studies have shown. But since 1992, Mexico has not reported comprehensive
figures.

Still, recent studies show the risks that migrants face. A study financed by the
California-Mexico AIDS Initiative found that more than a third of the migrants
at job-pickup sites in Los Angeles had been offered money by men for sex. About
a tenth of the migrants, desperate to earn a living, have agreed, the study
found.

Many migrant husbands have sex with people more likely to have H.I.V., have
limited access to health care and frequently cope with ''the social isolation of
the migrant experience by seeking comfort in sexual intimacy,'' Jennifer S.
Hirsch, a professor of public health at Columbia University, wrote in The
American Journal of Public Health in June.

She found that unfaithful migrant husbands who were otherwise devoted to their
wives were often the highest risk. They were more likely, she said, to seek sex
with prostitutes while in the United States and less likely to have long-term
relationships with other women.

The risks were compounded because the subject of unfaithfulness is frequently
taboo within relationships. ''Men's long absences lower the reputational risk of
infidelity by ensuring that it occurs far away,'' she wrote.

At Puebla General Hospital, Dr. Indiana Torres said  22 percent of the 1,000 or
so cases of H.I.V. and AIDS that her clinic handles can be traced to migration,
mostly to the New York area. A new more spacious clinic is under construction to
handle the load.

''They think that because it's the United States, it's safer,'' Dr. Torres said.
''It's their fantasy and it's not true.''

One of the women in the emergency room at the hospital, a 25-year-old mother who
spoke on condition of anonymity, said her husband had infected her after
returning from a long stay  in Washington State.

She found out that she carried the virus only after giving birth to a girl who
was born with H.I.V. and died. An older daughter also contracted the virus from
birth. The woman and her husband have since separated.

Doctors say routine screening for H.I.V. is not common, and many people find
they are carrying the virus only after births or going to hospitals for other
reasons.

''I don't know what's going to happen now,'' the woman said through tears and an
oxygen mask to aid her breathing after she was admitted with a possible
tuberculosis infection, which her weakened immune system may have permitted.

Mexico provides antiretroviral drugs even to poor migrants without health
insurance, but the challenge for them is reaching the cities where the drugs are
dispensed. The transportation costs strain their budgets. Taking time off from
work for doctor's visits is another challenge.

The government has also slowly begun to acknowledge the problem, sending health
workers into the countryside to visit returning migrants and teach them about
the risks they face on the road. One program is called ''Go Healthy, Return
Healthy.''

Government health workers are focusing their prevention efforts not just on
returning migrants but on those who intend to go. A variety of approaches have
been used, from comic books to soap operas. The messages focus on the causes of
AIDS, the benefits of condoms and the dangers of sharing needles.

But the stigma surrounding AIDS in Mexico is such that even migrants who have
contracted the virus dismiss the notion that extramarital affairs were a factor.

Another H.I.V.-positive migrant, a mother of three named Ana Maria who is now
taking government-dispensed antiretroviral drugs, had gone to the United States
with her husband and worked long hours in a fast-food restaurant and hotel in
Chicago. She, too, found out she carried the virus after giving birth at a
Chicago hospital.

''Many people get infected there and then bring it back here,'' said Ana Maria,
who is in her early 40s. ''I don't know how we get infected but it could have
been in the hospital there.'' Her husband, who migrated with her and is also
infected, nodded in agreement.

''I thought the crossing was the worst thing in my life,'' she said, sitting on
the front step of her home in a village outside of Puebla. ''We saw human bones
and clothes in the desert. There were robbers there, who would rape the girls
and take all the money they could. I thought that had to be worst. Now, I have
this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Indiana Torres says a fifth of her H.I.V. cases can be
traced to migration. ''They think that because it's the United States, it's
safer,'' she said.
 A 3-year-old girl, waiting for medicine at a Puebla hospital, was born with
H.I.V., which her father contracted while working in Washington State.
(Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. A12)  Chart:
''H.I.V. on the Move'' Some rural areas in Mexico are experiencing fast growth
in H.I.V. cases. Some health researchers attribute this rise to returning
Mexican migrant workers who engaged in high-risk behavior while in the United
States. (Sources: National Council for the Prevention & Control of H.I.V./AIDS
(CONASIDA), National Institute for Statistical Geography & Data (INEGI)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plight of Muslim Immigrants In Post-Sept. 11 America

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'OUT OF
STATUS'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 326 words


In their no-frills documentary, ''Out of Status,'' Pia Sawhney and Sanjna N.
Singh examine the actions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service after
9/11 and the devastating repercussions for America's Muslims.

Focusing on the experiences of four Muslim families between January 2003 and
July 2005, the film portrays the immigration services (the I.N.S. was dissolved
in 2003 and absorbed into the Department of Homeland Security) as a ''uniquely
dysfunctional'' bureaucracy whose actions were motivated less by effectiveness
than by the desire to appear proactive.

Many Muslims of unresolved status were forcibly removed from their homes and
deported, like the Egyptian citizen Akram Said, whose application for political
asylum had been denied but who had received no notification to leave the
country, according to his  wife, Carma, and an immigration lawyer, Robert
Kuhnreich.   Others fled to an overcrowded refugee shelter in Buffalo, hoping to
enter Canada.

Filled with moving accounts of detentions and interrogations, ''Out of Status''
is long on empathy but frustratingly short on specifics. The emphasis on emotion
over fact is bolstered by a 2004 interview with the pompous Jan Ting, a former
I.N.S. deputy commissioner who served under President George H. W. Bush and who
appears smugly unaware of any encroachment on civil liberties by his former
office. He's a camera-ready villain.

Rough in technique but worthy in intention, ''Out of Status'' listens to those
whose voices are seldom heard. We need to hear more.

OUT OF STATUS

Opens today in Manhattan.

Written, produced and directed by Pia Sawhney and Sanjna N. Singh; director of
photography, Emily Rosdeitcher; edited by Rachel Biles Sullivan; music by
Marcello Fracassa, Vijay Iyer and Will Peckenham; released by Wide Management,
France. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A,
East Village. Running time: 66 minutes. This film is not rated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carma Said with two of her children, Laila, left, and Fatima, in
''Out of Status.'' Her husband, an Egyptian Muslim, was deported in 2002.
(Photograph by Sanjna N. Singh)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 3, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Increments, Senate Revisits Immigrant Bill

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2


When a broad immigration bill failed in the Senate in June after a vitriolic
national debate, many legislators said the issue was dead, perhaps until
President Bush left office. But already some of the less contentious pieces of
the bill are returning to life.

Last week, the Senate approved $3 billion for border security as part of a
Homeland Security Department spending bill. Democrats and Republicans have also
begun laying ground for a bill to create a new temporary immigrant worker
program for agriculture.

Another bill, also with bipartisan support,  would give a path to  citizenship
to high school graduates who are illegal immigrants if they complete two years
of college or military service. Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of  Illinois
and  a sponsor of the bill, attached it as an amendment to the military
authorization legislation that the Senate last month put off until September.
Mr. Durbin said he would seek to move it again then.

The agriculture and student measures ''have a decent chance of passing this
Congress because they have strong champions, broad bipartisan support and they
have been around for a long time,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of the
National Immigration Forum, which supported the broad bill. But he  cautioned
that they  would have to overcome a ''toxic'' atmosphere on immigration in the
wake of the defeated bill.

The college bill attracted renewed interest this week because of Juan Sebastian
Gomez, a student who just graduated with honors from Killian Senior High School
in Miami. On July 25, immigration agents in Florida detained Mr. Gomez, 18, his
brother and his parents, all illegal immigrants from Colombia, and prepared to
deport them. Immigration officials delayed the deportation on Wednesday after a
group of Mr. Gomez's high school friends roused support in South Florida and
then flew to Washington to pound on doors.

The friends  pointed to Mr. Gomez's academic record -- a near-perfect 3.96
grade-point average -- and top scores on 11 Advanced Placement exams. They said
he should not be punished for his illegal status because his parents brought him
to the United States when he was 2.

The sweeping Senate immigration bill, which included a path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants, was defeated by opponents who said it would reward knowing
lawbreakers and the employers who hired them. But many legislators, including
some who opposed the broader bill, see the student measure differently because
it would benefit immigrant teenagers who are illegal only because of decisions
their parents made when the children were young.

''It's unfair to make these young people pay for the sins of their parents,''
Mr. Durbin said.

The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization in
Washington, says nearly a million immigrant students across the country could
gain legal status under the bill, whose backers call it the Dream Act.

While the bill's prospects seem favorable in the Senate, the outlook is not as
bright in the House.

''We call it the Nightmare Act,'' said Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a
Republican from California who leads the Immigration Reform Caucus in the House.
''We're giving status to immigrants based on the fact they are here illegally.
It really sends a mixed signal to both legal and illegal immigrants.''

Support has also re-emerged for the agricultural bill as labor shortages have
hampered harvests this summer in states like California, Michigan and North
Carolina. The bill's supporters include growers, the United Farm Workers,
conservative Republicans like Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho, and Senator
Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California.

The bill would expand and streamline the existing agricultural guest-worker
program and offer legal status to illegal immigrants who are experienced
farmworkers. At least 70 percent of the workers in agriculture are illegal
immigrants, says the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform, a national
trade group.

The bill's supporters  say they are looking for ways to bring it to a vote
before the year's end. In one effort last week, during the debate on financing
the Department of Homeland Security, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, sought a vote on an amendment that would combine the agricultural
bill and  the illegal immigrant student measure, but he did not succeed.

Mr. Gomez's case has given Washington  a vivid illustration  of the issues
behind the illegal immigrant student measure.

An affable teenager who attracted friends at Killian High by tutoring classmates
in subjects as diverse as European history and biochemistry, Mr. Gomez seemed
likely to be an exceptional college candidate. A volunteer at a neighborhood
homeless shelter, he often did his schoolwork on the computers of friends
because his parents could not afford one.

Mr. Gomez's parents, Liliana and Jose Gomez, brought him and his brother,
Alejandro, who is a year older than Juan, to the United States from Colombia on
tourist visas in 1990. The parents stayed and started a small catering business
in Miami, and the boys went to public school.

Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
Mr. Gomez's parents applied for legal status but were denied in 2002. They have
been facing deportation orders since then.

Mr. Gomez, barred from applying for financial aid because of his illegal status,
enrolled in a Miami community college for the fall.

''All I'm hearing now is that I'm Colombian, but I've never really been there,''
Mr. Gomez said in a telephone interview from Miami. He said he had no memories
of the country where he was born and does not speak articulate Spanish. ''They
are taking me from my home in America,'' he  said.

The family was arrested as part of a nationwide immigration agency operation to
track down immigrants scheduled for deportation, agency  officials said.

From the vehicle that took Mr. Gomez to an immigration detention center, he made
furtive cellphone calls to his high school friends. They opened a site on
Facebook to signal his plight and contacted the news media.

A week later, Mr. Gomez's site had more than 2,000 members and seven of his
friends were working the hallways on Capitol Hill.

In interviews here, friends recalled Mr. Gomez's spurring them through a
three-day sleepless marathon of studying for an Advanced Placement exam in world
history.

''I truly see Juan pursuing a career that does America good,'' said Andrew
Dubbin, 17, a junior at Killian. ''He could do anything. He's just genuinely
smart and sociable.''

On Monday, Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, offered a
private bill to the House Judiciary Committee asking for legal resident status
for Mr. Gomez and his brother. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of
Florida, delivered an appeal for the brothers to the White House, and Senator
Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, called immigration authorities.

On Wednesday, officials stayed the family's deportation and released them for 45
days to give Congress time to consider their bill, Ms. Gonzalez, the immigration
agency  spokeswoman, said.

On Friday, Representative Zoe Lofgren,  Democrat of California and chairwoman of
the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, will hold a meeting to consider
private bills for three other illegal immigrant students facing deportation.

Ms. Lofgren  said she hoped to take up Mr. Gomez's bill after the August recess.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Sebastian Gomez, 18, and his family received a reprieve
this week from being deported to Colombia. (Photograph by Alex Quesada for The
New York Times)(pg. A17)
 Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, right, listened this week in Washington to
friends of Juan Gomez, who asked that he not be deported. (Photograph by Brendan
Smialowski for The New York Times)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Memo Pad

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


NEW AMERICAN TERMINAL  American Airlines opened the final phase of its $1.3
billion terminal at Kennedy International Airport, which has 1.5 million square
feet and a Customs and Immigration center capable of processing 1,600 arriving
international passengers an hour, 400 more than the old terminal that was phased
out. As part of American's announced focus on attracting more business
travelers, the terminal has two Admirals Club lounges and a new Flagship
arrivals lounge, which is open to certain first-class passengers.

LABOR DAY COUNTDOWN  There's one more day left in the Labor Day holiday travel
season, which ends tomorrow. AAA estimated that 34.6 million Americans would
travel over the holiday, a 0.2 percent increase from  Labor Day last year. AAA
attributed the nearly flat growth to fuel costs and higher hotel rates. ''Many
Americans are facing budget constraints this summer,'' said Robert L. Darbelnet,
chief executive of the automobile club. Of those who traveled, 28.9 million, or
83.5 percent, went by automobile, a drop from 29 million last year. But despite
worries about chronic flight delays, the number of travelers who flew was
expected to be 4.1 million, or 12 percent of all travelers. That is up 2.5
percent from last year, partly because airfares ''have remained constant.''

ANOTHER CLEAR LANE  Clear, the major operator of Registered Traveler lanes, said
it began enrollment in the Central Terminal at La Guardia Airport and plans to
open an expedited security lane there this month. Clear, owned by Verified
Identity Pass Inc., will then have lanes at all three major New York-area
airports.JOE SHARKEY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Short on Labor, Farmers in U.S. Shift to Mexico

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

DATELINE: CELAYA, Mexico


Steve Scaroni, a farmer from California, looked across a luxuriant field of
lettuce here in central Mexico and liked what he saw: full-strength crews of
Mexican farm workers with no immigration problems.

Farming since he was a teenager, Mr. Scaroni, 50, built a $50 million business
growing lettuce and broccoli in the fields of California, relying on the hands
of immigrant workers, most of them Mexican and many probably in the United
States illegally.

But early last year he began shifting part of his operation to rented fields
here. Now some 500 Mexicans tend his crops in Mexico, where they run no risk of
deportation.

''I'm as American red-blood as it gets,'' Mr. Scaroni said, ''but I'm tired of
fighting the fight on the immigration issue.''

A sense of crisis prevails among American farmers who rely on immigrant
laborers, more so since immigration legislation in the United States Senate
failed in June and the authorities announced a crackdown on employers of illegal
immigrants. An increasing number of farmers have been testing the alternative of
raising crops across the border where there is a stable  labor supply, growers
and lawmakers in the United States and Mexico said.

Western Growers, an association representing farmers in California and Arizona,
conducted an informal telephone survey of its members in the spring. Twelve
large agribusinesses that acknowledged having operations in Mexico reported a
total of 11,000 workers here.

''It seems there is a bigger rush to Mexico and elsewhere,'' said Tom Nassif,
the Western Growers president, who said Americans were also farming in countries
in Central America.

Precise statistics are not readily available on American farming in Mexico,
because growers seek to maintain a low profile for their operations abroad. But
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, displayed a map on the Senate
floor in July locating more than 46,000 acres that American growers were
cultivating in just two Mexican states, Guanajuato and Baja California.

''Farmers are renting land in Mexico,'' Ms. Feinstein said. ''They don't want us
to know that.''

She predicted that more American farmers would move to Mexico for the ready work
force and lower wages. Ms. Feinstein favored a measure in the failed immigration
bill that would have created a new guest worker program for agriculture and a
special legal status for illegal immigrant farm workers.

In the past, some Americans have planted south of the border to escape spiraling
land prices and to ensure year-round deliveries of crops they can produce only
seasonally in the United States. But in the last three years, Mr. Nassif and
other growers said, labor force uncertainties have become a major reason
farmers have shifted to Mexico.

While there are benefits for Mexico, as American farmers bring the latest
technology and techniques to its crop-producing regions, American farm state
economists say thousands of middle-class jobs supporting agriculture are being
lost in the United States. Some lawmakers in the United States also point to
security risks when food for Americans is increasingly produced in foreign
countries.

Tramping through one of his first lettuce crops near Celaya, an agribusiness
hub in  Guanajuato, Mr. Scaroni is more candid than many farmers about his move
here. He had made six trips to Washington, he said, to plead with Congress to
provide more legal immigrants for agriculture.

''I have a customer base that demands we produce and deliver product every
day,'' he said. ''They don't want to hear the excuses.'' He acknowledges that
wages are much lower in Mexico; he pays $11 a day here as opposed to about $9 an
hour in California. But without legal workers in California, he said, ''I have
no choice but to offshore my operation.''

The Department of Labor has reported that 53 percent of the 2.5 million farm
workers in the United States are illegal immigrants; growers and labor unions
say as much as 70 percent of younger field hands are illegal.

As the American authorities tightened the border in recent years, seasonal
migration from Mexico has been interrupted, demographers say. Many illegal farm
laborers, reluctant to leave the United States, have abandoned the arduous
migrant work of agriculture for year-round construction and service jobs. Labor
shortages during harvests have become common.

Some academics say warnings of a farm labor debacle are exaggerated. ''By and
large the most dire predictions don't come true,'' said Philip Martin, an
agricultural economist at the University of California, Davis. ''There is no
doubt that some people can't count on workers showing up as much as they used
to,'' Professor Martin said. ''But most of the places that are crying the
loudest are exceptional cases.''

But some recent studies suggest that strains on the farm-labor supply are real.
Stephen Levy, an economist at the Center for Continuing Study of the California
Economy, in Palo Alto, compared unemployed Americans with illegal immigrant
workers in the labor market. ''The bottom line,'' Mr. Levy said, ''is that most
unemployed workers are not available to replace fired, unauthorized immigrant
workers,'' in part because very few of the unemployed are in farm work.

Mr. Scaroni said he started growing in Mexico reluctantly, after seeing risks to
his American operations. At peak season his California company, Valley
Harvesting and Packing, employs more than 1,000 immigrants, and all have filled
out the required federal form, known as an I-9, with Social Security numbers and
other identity information.

''From my perspective everyone that works for me is legal,'' he said. But based
on farm labor statistics, he surmises that many of his workers presented false
documents.

An impatient man in perpetual motion, Mr. Scaroni marches through his fields
shouting orders to Mexican crew leaders in rough Spanish while he negotiates to
buy new trucks in Mexico on a walkie-talkie in one hand and to sell produce in
the United States on a cellphone in the other.

Frustrated with experts who say that farmers with labor problems should
mechanize, he plunges his hands into side-by-side lettuce plants, pulling out
one crisp green head and one that is soggy and brown. After his company invested
$1 million in research, he said, ''We haven't come up with a way to tell a
machine what's a good head and what's a bad head.''

He also dismisses arguments that he could attract workers by raising wages,
saying Americans do not take the sweaty, seasonal field jobs. ''I know beyond a
shadow of a doubt that if I did that I would raise my costs and I would not have
a legal work force,'' Mr. Scaroni said.

Still, transferring to Mexico has been costly, he said. Since the greens he cuts
here go to bagged salads in supermarkets in the United States, he  follows the
same food-safety practices as he does in California. Renting fallow Mexican
land, he enclosed his fields in fences and installed drip-irrigation systems for
the filtered water he uses.

He trained his Mexican field crews to wear hair nets, arm sheaths and sanitized
gloves, and held drills on the correct use of portable toilets. In the
clean-scrubbed cooling house, women in white caps scrutinize produce for every
stray hair and dirt spot.

By now about one-fifth of Mr. Scaroni's operation is on five farms approaching
2,000 acres in Guanajuato. A few of his Mexican employees came from California,
like Antonio Martinez Aguilar, a  field manager who worked there for 15 years
but could never get immigration documents.

''I tried everything, but there wasn't anything anyone could do to make me
legal,'' Mr. Martinez said.

Negotiated among growers and unions over seven years, the agricultural measure
in the failed immigration bill, known as AgJobs, had wider bipartisan support
than the bill as a whole, lawmakers said. Its supporters have said they hope to
bring it before Congress this fall, perhaps attached to the farm bill. [It was
hurt by last week's resignation of Senator Larry E. Craig, the Idaho Republican
who was one of its chief sponsors.]

Mr. Scaroni expects to recover his start-up costs because of the lower wages he
pays here, although he says Mexican workers are less productive in their own
country.

''It's not a cake walk down here,'' he said. ''At least I know the one thing I
don't have to worry about is losing my labor force because of an immigration
raid.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers harvest broccoli in central Mexico for Valley
Harvesting and Packing, which moved some operations from California. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JANET JARMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 About 500 people work for Steve Scaroni's farming operation in Mexico, where he
moved after he became discouraged over prospects for change in immigration laws
in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET JARMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.
A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2007 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Iraqi Refugees Need Us (1 Letter)

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 94 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Abandoned at the Border,'' by Joseph P. Hoar (Op-Ed, Aug. 31):

I am an immigration restrictionist because of environmental issues and jobs.
(According to the Center for Immigration Studies, at the current rates,
immigration will add the population equivalent of 13 New York Cities over the
next 50 years.)

Nonetheless, I agree with Mr. Hoar that we must welcome to our country those
Iraqis whose lives are at risk because they helped our forces, and those Iraqi
refugees residing in Jordan.

David C. Holzman Lexington, Mass., Aug. 31, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant's Death And an Unlikely Suspect

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: SOUTH SALEM, N.Y., Sept. 7


At the end of a cul-de-sac in this hamlet in northern Westchester is a modest
Cape whose deck is neatly planted with pink and yellow flowers. The owner,
George Bubaris, a 30-year-old Queens native, had recently left behind the bustle
of the city to start the next chapter of his life, with a new house, a new job
and a fiancee.

But Mr. Bubaris, a Mount Kisco police officer, is now facing a charge of
second-degree manslaughter in connection with the death in April of an illegal
immigrant from Guatemala, Rene Javier Perez. That has put Officer Bubaris at the
center of a criminal prosecution, and stirred debate about the abuse of
authority, quality-of-life issues and the treatment of immigrants in an
increasingly diverse county.

On Thursday, an indictment was unsealed in Westchester County Court, charging
that Officer Bubaris had ''exposed Mr. Perez to a risk of serious physical
injury and recklessly caused his death.'' Without going into detail, the
district attorney, Janet DiFiore, said in a news conference that Officer Bubaris
had ''restrained'' Mr. Perez, a 42-year-old homeless man who came to the United
States in 1992.

Police records had earlier revealed that Officer Bubaris was the first of three
Mount Kisco officers to respond to a 911 call placed by Mr. Perez from a coin
laundry just before 11 p.m. on the night of April 28. He had apparently been
drinking; the 911 operator noted slurred speech. An hour later, Mr. Perez was
found about six miles away in the town of Bedford, unconscious on the side of a
dirt road. He died three hours later; the death was ruled a homicide, with
internal abdominal injuries cited as the cause.

In recent years, Mr. Perez had struggled with alcohol abuse and had had numerous
run-ins with the police in Mount Kisco and neighboring Bedford. In the past
seven years, officers in both towns arrested him 59 times on charges including
indecent exposure and petty larceny. Mr. Perez was part of a large immigrant
community in Mount Kisco, where about one-quarter of the 10,000 residents are
Hispanic.

Having grown up in Queens, Officer Bubaris was himself the product of a diverse
community, the son of a carpenter who moved to the United States from the island
of Chios in Greece, according to Eddie Hayes, his lawyer. His mother stayed home
as Officer Bubaris attended school, graduating from W. C. Bryant High School in
Long Island City.

In 2001, Officer Bubaris received a bachelor's degree in business administration
from Baruch College. Not long after that, he became a New York City police
officer and stayed with the department for four years, Mr. Hayes said. In an
interview with WCBS-TV Channel 2 on Friday, Officer Bubaris said he became an
officer after the Sept. 11 attacks because he ''wanted to help people and become
an asset to the community.''

In August 2006, he joined the 32-member Mount Kisco Police Department, which
patrols a three-square-mile area.

He immediately fit in. ''He was very friendly and very outgoing and he was -- he
is -- well liked in the department,'' the Mount Kisco chief of police, Steven
Anderson, said in a phone interview. ''He's just a really nice, likable guy.''

Neither the Mount Kisco police nor the New York City police would provide
information about whether Officer Bubaris had been the subject of any
complaints.

In Mount Kisco,  one challenge of the job is the relationship between the
growing Hispanic community and other residents in this affluent swath of
Westchester, where lush lawns (many of them tended by Hispanic men) are on full
display. Some advocates for Hispanic residents have questioned why Mr. Perez was
moved back and forth between two police jurisdictions before he died.

Records show that about 8:30, before he dialed 911 from the coin laundry in
Mount Kisco, the Bedford police had picked Mr. Perez up at a shopping center
where someone had complained that he was drunk and harassing people. They drove
him to Mount Kisco and dropped him off. Just before midnight, Mr. Perez was
spotted unconscious on the side of Byram Lake Road, back in Bedford.

''We don't know how common it was,'' said Carola Otero Bracco, executive
director of Neighbors Link, a local nonprofit social service agency for Hispanic
immigrants. ''That's one of the issues we're hoping will come to light.''

On Friday, Officer Bubaris, who pleaded not guilty at his arraignment, posted
$100,000 bail. He is due back in court in late October. Mr. Hayes insisted that
prosecutors ''could not prove that anything my client did caused'' Mr. Perez's
death.

In the television interview, Officer Bubaris said, ''It's been a nightmare.'' He
would not address the accusations, but said, ''I think it's appalling what
happened to Rene Perez.''

Those who know Officer Bubaris, who lives with his fiancee, are trying to make
sense of the disturbing allegations. A neighbor, who asked not to be identified,
said, ''She's sweet. He's sweet. What can I say?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Bubaris, a Mount Kisco police officer, is charged.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Miami, Democrats Reach Out to Hispanic Voters

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1174 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 9


Democratic presidential candidates courted the fast-growing Hispanic electorate
on Sunday night by debating on a Spanish-language television network, where they
promised to swiftly overhaul the immigration system and accused Republicans and
President Bush of stoking anti-Hispanic sentiment.

The three leading candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and
Barack Obama of Illinois and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, had
especially sharp criticism for leaders of the Republican Party. They expressed
concerns that Republicans were enabling anti-immigrant feelings and even racist
attitudes, or at least not taking a tougher stand against them.

Mrs. Clinton said legislative proposals to overhaul the immigration system,
which all the Democrats at the debate endorsed, had been used by Republicans and
some in the news media to ''bash immigrants'' and engage in demagoguery.

''The Republican candidates need to understand that they are doing a great
disservice to our country,'' she said.

Later, Mrs. Clinton added: ''There are many in the political and frankly in the
broadcast world today who take a particular aim at our Latino population. I
think it's very destructive.'' A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton said after the
debate that she was referring to the CNN anchor Lou Dobbs and the radio host
Rush Limbaugh, among others.

Mr. Obama, who is seeking strong support from both black and Hispanic voters,
recalled a telegram the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. sent to Cesar Chavez
when the two men were each involved in protest strikes. The telegram read, ''Our
separate struggles are one.''

''That's what's been missing from presidential leadership -- explaining to the
American people from all walks of life that our separate struggles are one,''
Mr. Obama said. ''A president has to not only speak up forcefully against
anti-immigrant sentiment and racist sentiment, but also make sure that all
workers are being tended to.''

Mr. Edwards put the blame on President Bush for divisive attitudes that can lead
to anti-Hispanic sentiment, saying he ''uses absolutely every tool available to
him politically to divide the country.'' Mr. Edwards added, ''This needs to be
brought to an end.''

The debate was an opportunity for the candidates to reach some of the 17 million
eligible Hispanic voters in the United States in a primary season when they are
expected to have a greater voice because of early contests in California and New
York. It also allowed some of the candidates to highlight their ties to
Hispanics. Gov. Bill Richardson, the only Hispanic running for the party's
nomination, spoke a few lines of Spanish during the debate; Senator Christopher
J. Dodd, the only other Democratic contender fluent in Spanish, used a bit as
well.

''I am very proud of being a Latino,'' Mr. Richardson said in Spanish at the
start before a moderator reminded him to speak English.

''I'm disappointed today that 43 million Latinos in this country, for them not
to hear one of their own speak Spanish is unfortunate,'' Mr. Richardson said to
applause in the debate hall at the University of Miami.

Yet neither Mr. Richardson nor Mr. Dodd, when asked, said they would support
promoting Spanish as the second official language of the United States.
Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, who was also asked, did embrace the
idea.

The candidates generally focused on policies to support legal immigration and
immigrants, and to a lesser extent on border security, unlike the Republican
candidates, who tend to stress enforcement. (One of the eight Democratic
candidates, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, did not attend the debate
to prepare for Senate headings this week, a spokeswoman said.)

None of the Democrats made any especially bold moves, although Mr. Dodd and
former Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska said they would take steps to end the trade
embargo with Cuba, and Mr. Richardson said he would consider it if President
Fidel Castro released political prisoners.

Mr. Dodd said that he would have a robust foreign policy in Central and South
America and that the Bush administration had faltered in building relations and
projecting a positive image of America to nations there.

''We shouldn't be losing a public relations battle to Hugo Chavez,'' Mr. Dodd
said, referring to the leader of Venezuela.

Mr. Obama, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Dodd were pressed about their support for a
barrier along the Mexican border and asked why they would not support a similar
wall along Canada.

Mr. Obama did not address the distinction between Mexico and Canada, talking
instead about his support for an immigration overhaul and border security. Mrs.
Clinton said she supported ''much more border patrolling and much more
technology'' on both borders, and a barrier ''in certain areas.'' Mr. Dodd
echoed Mrs. Clinton, then focused on making trade and economic agreements that
benefited Central American countries.

Mr. Richardson, meanwhile, criticized the notion of a barrier on the Mexican
border as ''a horrendous example of Washington misguided policy.''

''If you're going to build a 12-foot wall,'' Mr. Richardson said, ''you know
what's going to happen? A lot of 13-foot ladders.''

The candidates did not offer major new ideas about fixing immigration, but
sought instead to emphasize the intensity they would bring to the issue. Most of
them said they would try to overhaul immigration in their first year in office
and would include a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, penalties for
employers who hire illegal immigrants and tougher border security.

Mr. Kucinich said the problem of illegal immigration stemmed partly from trade
agreements like Nafta, which he said he would cancel as president. He said
wrongheaded policies were to blame for illegal immigration, not the people
themselves.

''There are no illegal human beings,'' he said to applause.

Several of the Democratic candidates, who as a field generally support
withdrawing American troops from Iraq, said they did not expect a coming
military report on conditions in Iraq to persuade them to change their views on
ending the war.

America's top commander in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, is scheduled to speak
to Congress on Monday, and some of the Democrats suggested that his testimony
would be skewed rather than objective.

''What I'm concerned about, about the Petraeus report,'' Mr. Edwards said, ''is
that it will basically be a sales job by the White House, that it'll be a P.R.
document.''

Mrs. Clinton said that nothing General Petraeus told Congress would persuade her
to endorse the Bush administration's current strategy in Iraq.

''There is no military solution;  that has been said for years now,'' Mrs.
Clinton said. ''That is why I believe we should start bringing out troops
home.''

Mr. Obama agreed that the current course in Iraq would only lead to ''the same
problems that we've had,'' and called explicitly on Republican members of
Congress to turn on Mr. Bush and support a timetable for withdrawal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democrats debating last night in Coral Gables, Fla., included,
from left, John Edwards, Dennis J. Kucinich and Christopher J. Dodd. Immigration
policy was among the most-discussed issues.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Working on Its Welcome

BYLINE: By SARA J. WELCH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1061 words


In February, Eric Rozenberg, a Belgian travel executive, was en route to a
convention in Cancun, Mexico, from Brussels when, he says, he experienced
firsthand what other foreign travelers had told him about the problems of
getting into the United States.

He said an official took him aside with no explanation as he went through
immigration in the Dallas-Fort Worth airport and sent him to a separate room.

After waiting there nearly 90 minutes, Mr. Rozenberg, who travels to the United
States on business at least six times a year, said, he ''very politely'' asked
another officer  what was taking so long. The officer glanced at Mr. Rozenberg's
passport again, told him to wait another 10 minutes, then handed it back to him
without explaining what had happened.

The officer asked if he had missed his connecting flight, Mr. Rozenberg
recalled. When he replied that he had, ''he said casually: 'Oh, sorry about
that; just tell them you were detained at immigration,' '' Mr. Rozenberg said.

Similar complaints from foreign business and leisure travelers have led the
United States government to take steps to improve the treatment of travelers
upon arrival. In February 2006, the Department of State and the Department of
Homeland Security announced a program, called Secure Borders and Open Doors,
aimed at balancing the increased need for security after the 2001 terrorist
attacks with the desire to ease travel to the United States.

Last February, the Homeland Security Department started the Traveler Redress
Inquiry Program, or TRIP (trip.dhs.gov), which provides an online form travelers
can use to file complaints electronically about any travel-related government
entity. ''It offers more transparency and a one-stop location for travelers who
feel, say, they weren't treated properly or missed a flight because of a D.H.S.
employee's actions,'' said Kelly Klundt, a spokeswoman for Customs and Border
Protection, which is part of the Homeland Security Department.

But while government officials say they are trying for change, there is no way
to tell if progress has been made. Ms. Klundt said she did not know if the
government kept statistics on complaints about poor treatment by customs and
border officials.

Geoff Freeman is the  executive director of the Discover America Partnership, a
Washington lobbying group of leaders from the Travel Business Roundtable,
Marriott International, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, the Travel Industry
Association and other  companies and organizations. Since the organization was
formed last September to promote the United States abroad, it has received
hundreds of phone calls and e-mail messages, he said, from foreign travelers
complaining of poor treatment by customs and border officials.

But,  Mr. Freeman said, while ''most people who've come here from overseas since
9/11 say the entry experience is poor,''  beyond the airport, ''their U.S.
experience is good enough that they'll probably come back.''

The partnership also found, however, that if foreigners had not visited the
United States since Sept.  11 or had never visited, ''the stories they're
reading or hearing about the poor entry experience are discouraging them from
visiting,'' Mr. Freeman said.

He said statistics from the World Trade Organization showed a 17 percent
increase in worldwide travel since Sept.  11, while data from the United States
Office of Travel and Tourism Industries showed travel to the United States
declining the same percentage over the same period.

Former  Gov.  Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, who served as the first secretary of
the Department of Homeland Security, is  working with the Discover America
Partnership to find ways to improve the entry experience. ''By and large, my
former colleagues do a good job,'' Mr. Ridge said. ''But anecdotally, I've heard
we have to be  a lot more sensitive. If even one traveler in 10,000 has a bad
experience, that ripple effect is harmful.''

Prakton Mal, who was born in India, lives in Oslo and is a Norwegian citizen,
said many of his colleagues would rather participate in a videoconference ''than
travel to the United States and risk embarrassment and ill treatment.''

In March, he said, while on a business trip, he was treated rudely by a ''very
sour and impolite'' immigration official at the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta
International Airport because he had forgotten to sign and date his immigration
form. ''It was a small incident, but it could have been avoided,''  Mr. Mal
said. He said he takes 18 international business trips a year, ''and I sometimes
feel that the United States stands out with their arrogant behavior toward
innocent incoming businesspeople.''

One executive,  an American citizen who was born in France,   said he presented
his American passport to a customs official at Miami International Airport after
returning from an overseas business trip. The official noticed he was also
carrying a French passport.

''He told me it was illegal to carry two passports,'' the executive recalled.
''He held both passports in front of me and asked, 'Which one do you want me to
destroy?' like it was a game.''

The executive, who did not want his name disclosed because he was concerned that
might affect his business dealings, said he insisted he had the right to carry
two passports because he was a dual citizen. (A State Department spokesman
confirmed this; the law specifies only that American citizens must present their
American passport when entering the United States.)

The official kept him waiting about half an hour, then returned both passports,
the executive said. ''But he said he'd put a note in my file that I was breaking
the law and I'd get stopped the next time I traveled.''  He said he filed a
complaint electronically, ''but they didn't even acknowledge receiving it.''

Ms. Klundt said all customs  officials were required to take  an annual
professionalism training course, which is updated every year. ''We're concerned
about these negative situations and want to address them,'' she said. ''But we
also need to focus on our mission, which is keeping bad people and bad things
out of the country.''

Mr. Ridge said  it was ''that occasional rude person who creates all these
horror stories.''

''The welcome mat has a little dust on it right now,'' he added. ''We have to
spruce it up a bit.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Rozenberg, a travel executive, said an official took him
aside with no explanation as he went through immigration and he was detained
long enough to miss his connection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raids Single Out Hispanics, Lawsuit Says

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 752 words


A federal lawsuit filed yesterday charges that agents of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement unlawfully force their way into the homes of Hispanic families in
the New York area without court warrants or other legal justification, sometimes
pushing down doors in the middle of the night, in search of people who do not
live there.

The lawsuit, filed in the United States District Court in Manhattan as a class
action, accuses the immigration agency of conducting the raids in violation of
the Fourth Amendment's protection from unreasonable searches, harming citizens
and legal residents of the United States as well as foreigners here illegally.

The 15 plaintiffs -- all but one are residents of Suffolk County and seven of
them are United States citizens -- describe abusive predawn raids on their homes
this year by armed immigration agents. They seek an order prohibiting I.C.E.
from conducting home raids until the agency develops clear guidelines to end
unlawful entries, and unspecified damages.

According to the complaint, the raids are part of a program called Operation
Return to Sender that was started in 2006 to arrest and deport ''fugitive
aliens'' or immigrants previously ordered to leave the country. But, the lawsuit
contends, ''the agents regularly raid homes where the fugitive is not present
and could not reasonably have been believed to be present.''

The complaint contends that ''the unstated goal of these raids is to gain access
to constitutionally protected areas in hope of seizing as many undocumented
persons as possible'' to meet annual arrest quotas recently increased by the
agents' superiors to 1,000 per fugitive team, up from 125 arrests in 2003. Mark
Thorn, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the New York
region, said that he was not familiar with the lawsuit, and that the agency does
not comment on litigation.

But earlier this year, agency officials vigorously defended the program, while
acknowledging its imperfections, in response to questions about the
early-morning raid on Feb. 20 on the East Hampton, N.Y., home of the Aguilar and
Leon family. All members of that family are either United States citizens or, in
the case of one of the children, a legal resident awaiting naturalization.

Five members of the family, including Adriana Aguilar and her mother, Elena
Leon, are now lead plaintiffs in the lawsuit.

''We would like to find fugitive aliens at 100 percent of the locations we go
to, but it's not an exact science,'' Christopher Shanahan, director of the New
York field office of the agency's Detention and Removal Operations, said at the
time. Mr. Shanahan, who could not be reached yesterday,  is a defendant in the
lawsuit along with his superiors in Washington.

The lawsuit, filed by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund and the
international law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, contends that Mr.
Shanahan was either personally involved in the raids, or ''grossly negligent in
managing the training and activities'' of the agents under his supervision.

It cites recent reports by the Office of the Inspector General of Homeland
Security that criticized Immigration and Customs Enforcement for the inaccuracy
of its database of fugitives and lack of agent training. In 2004, agency
officials required that 75 percent of the fugitives each team arrested be
''criminal aliens.'' But that requirement was dropped in January 2006, when the
goal was  changed to 1,000 arrests per team.

In the case of Ms. Aguilar's family, immigration agents burst into their home in
East Hampton to hunt for an illegal immigrant without a criminal record -- Ms.
Aguilar's ex-husband, who had not lived in the house since 2003, when they
divorced and he was ordered deported.

After detaining and questioning the frightened family members, including Ms.
Aguilar's 12-year-old daughter and 4-year-old son, the complaint said, the
agents threatened to return.

In an account disputed by agents at the time, the complaint contends that
another plaintiff, Nelly Amayo, was arrested in her East Hampton home when she
demanded to see a search warrant. It says agents twisted her arm and eventually
left her in her nightclothes in Manhattan.

Another raid was in a rooming house in Mount Kisco, N.Y., where David Lazaro
Perez and other residents were awakened about 4 a.m. March 18 by agents who did
not show a search warrant. The complaint said agents took his wallet containing
$700 and that it was returned without the money.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adriana Aguilar, second from left, and her mother, Elena Leon,
rear, whose home was raided, are suing. With them are Ms. Aguilar's children
Erika, left, and Carson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York's Immigrant Drivers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 429 words


Gov. Eliot Spitzer made a very important if politically hazardous decision
yesterday. He decreed that New York State's Department of Motor Vehicles will
award driver's licenses to those who can prove who they are and pass the tests,
not only those in good standing with the federal immigration authorities. That
decision is correct for all who use New York's roads.

Like other governors and mayors, Mr. Spitzer is trying to deal with Washington's
failure to produce a coherent immigration policy that would deal humanely with
the 12 million illegal immigrants who have come to America to work, often in the
lowliest of jobs. That lack of resolve forced states and sometimes local
communities to figure out how to cope with reality -- housing, working
conditions, all sorts of local problems. Mr. Spitzer's licensing rules are an
attempt to deal with higher accident rates among unlicensed drivers -- many of
whom flee the scene because they fear immigration authorities.

The new rules would expand the kinds of documents that would be accepted by the
state to get a license. A Social Security card would no longer be required if
there are enough other documents, like an up-to-date passport, a birth
certificate or other items. The governor promised new security measures -- such
as making sure state officials are trained in verifying foreign documents and
using photo comparison technology to make certain one person does not get more
than one license.

Mr. Spitzer and his administration argue that licensing more people would not
only make the roads safer, it might result in a lowering of New York's high
automobile insurance rates. If that really does happen -- and it is worth
reminding the governor of this promise -- less costly insurance would be another
bonus.

The move drew angry responses from Republicans in the state who charged that the
governor was in danger of giving valid state identification cards to potential
terrorists. That argument is absurd on its face; organized terrorists hardly
lack access to forged documents. It also fails to deal with the need to bring
more of the state's immigrant workers out of the shadows so that if they drive
-- and they will drive -- they can do it safely. Also, New York State would have
a better idea who many of these residents really are.

With these enlightened changes, New York will join eight other states that do
not require applicants for drivers' licenses to prove their immigration status.
Like New York, these states want a drivers license to achieve what it is
supposed to do -- certify a safe driver.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York's Immigrant Drivers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 429 words


Gov. Eliot Spitzer made a very important if politically hazardous decision
yesterday. He decreed that New York State's Department of Motor Vehicles will
award driver's licenses to those who can prove who they are and pass the tests,
not only those in good standing with the federal immigration authorities. That
decision is correct for all who use New York's roads.

Like other governors and mayors, Mr. Spitzer is trying to deal with Washington's
failure to produce a coherent immigration policy that would deal humanely with
the 12 million illegal immigrants who have come to America to work, often in the
lowliest of jobs. That lack of resolve forced states and sometimes local
communities to figure out how to cope with reality -- housing, working
conditions, all sorts of local problems. Mr. Spitzer's licensing rules are an
attempt to deal with higher accident rates among unlicensed drivers -- many of
whom flee the scene because they fear immigration authorities.

The new rules would expand the kinds of documents that would be accepted by the
state to get a license. A Social Security card would no longer be required if
there are enough other documents, like an up-to-date passport, a birth
certificate or other items. The governor promised new security measures -- such
as making sure state officials are trained in verifying foreign documents and
using photo comparison technology to make certain one person does not get more
than one license.

Mr. Spitzer and his administration argue that licensing more people would not
only make the roads safer, it might result in a lowering of New York's high
automobile insurance rates. If that really does happen -- and it is worth
reminding the governor of this promise -- less costly insurance would be another
bonus.

The move drew angry responses from Republicans in the state who charged that the
governor was in danger of giving valid state identification cards to potential
terrorists. That argument is absurd on its face; organized terrorists hardly
lack access to forged documents. It also fails to deal with the need to bring
more of the state's immigrant workers out of the shadows so that if they drive
-- and they will drive -- they can do it safely. Also, New York State would have
a better idea who many of these residents really are.

With these enlightened changes, New York will join eight other states that do
not require applicants for drivers' licenses to prove their immigration status.
Like New York, these states want a drivers license to achieve what it is
supposed to do -- certify a safe driver.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

As the World Comes to Georgia, an Old Church Adapts

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2343 words

DATELINE: CLARKSTON, Ga., Sept. 21


When the Rev. Phil Kitchin steps into the pulpit of the Clarkston International
Bible Church on Sunday mornings, he stands eye to eye with the changing face of
America. In the pews before him, alongside white-haired Southern women in their
Sunday best, sit immigrants from the Philippines and Togo, refugees from
war-scarred Liberia, Ethiopia and Sudan, even a convert from Afghanistan.

''Jesus said heaven is a place for people of all nations,'' Mr. Kitchin likes to
say. ''So if you don't like Clarkston, you won't like heaven.''

The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once noted that 11 a.m. on Sunday was the
beginning of the most segregated hour of the week in America, and for the better
part of 120 years, that certainly applied to this church. From 1883 until a few
years ago, anyone on the pulpit would have gazed out at a congregation that was
exclusively white. The church is a member of the Southern Baptist Convention, a
group that in 1995  renounced its racist past.

But an influx of immigrants and refugees transformed this town in a little over
a decade, and in the process sparked a battle within this church over its
identity and its faithfulness to the Bible, one that led it to change not just
its name but its mission.

The Clarkston International Bible Church, which sits along an active freight
rail line down the road from the former Ku Klux Klan bastion of Stone Mountain,
is now home to parishioners from more than 15 countries. The church also houses
congregations of Ethiopians, Sudanese, Liberians and French West Africans who
worship separately, according to their own traditions. The church's Sunday
potluck lunch features African stews and Asian vegetable dishes alongside hot
dogs, sweet tea and homemade cherry pie.

The transformation of what was long known as the Clarkston Baptist Church speaks
to a broader change among other American churches. Many evangelical Christians
who have long believed in spreading their religion in faraway lands have found
that immigrants offer an opportunity for church work within one's own community.
And many immigrants and refugees are drawn by the warm welcome they get from the
parishioners, which can stand in stark contrast to the more competitive and
alienating nature of workaday America.

Indeed, evangelical churches have begun to stand out as rare centers of ethnic
mixing in a country that researchers say has become more culturally fragmented,
in part because of immigration.

A recent study by the Harvard political scientist Robert D. Putnam underscored
the practical complications of diversity. In interviews with 30,000 Americans,
the study found that residents of more diverse communities ''tend to withdraw
from collective life,'' voting less and volunteering less than those in more
homogeneous communities.

The study noted a conspicuous exception.

''In many large evangelical congregations,'' the researchers wrote, ''the
participants constituted the largest thoroughly integrated gatherings we have
ever witnessed.''

Change Comes to Town

Diversity came to Clarkston like a bolt from the blue. The community, just east
of the Atlanta Perimeter and 11 miles from downtown, was settled by white
farmers and railroad workers in the late 1800s.

Clarkston remained rural and mostly white until the 1970s, when developers began
to build apartment complexes for middle-class workers drawn to Atlanta after the
international airport here opened. In the next decade, many of those workers
began to move to new suburbs farther from town. Vacancies increased, rents fell
and crime rose.

In the 1990s, aid agencies that contract with the federal government to resettle
refugees pegged Clarkston as the perfect place for these vulnerable newcomers.
The town had cheap housing: those empty apartments. It had public transportation
--  few refugees could afford cars. And Clarkston was within commuting distance
of downtown Atlanta's booming economy.

From 1996 to 2001, more than 19,000 refugees were resettled in Georgia, many in
Clarkston or surrounding DeKalb County.

The change to Clarkston was profound. The schools became crowded with children
who spoke little English. Locals learned not to drive down Indian Creek Drive on
Friday afternoons because of traffic from Friday prayers at the mosque. A third
to a half of Clarkston's 7,100 residents are now foreign-born, most of them
refugees.

Some older residents left town, alienated and concerned over the quality of
education at the overburdened schools.

Many of those families had attended the Clarkston Baptist Church, leaving empty
pews. By the end of the decade the church had canceled one of its two Sunday
services. The congregation had dwindled to fewer than 100 from 600.

Concerned about its survival, the church commissioned a study that found blacks
and immigrants would soon outnumber whites in the area. William S. Perrin, 75
and a member of the church since 1948, said that at one meeting on the issue, a
deacon stood up to express his anger.

''If you think black folks are going to come in here and take our church away
from us,'' Mr. Perrin remembers the man saying, ''you got another thing
coming.''

Reaching Out

William Perrin was no stranger to such attitudes. A retired Army lieutenant
colonel who survived a midair collision over Vietnam, he grew up in Clarkston
before the civil rights era. Some old ideas about race were embedded in his own
psyche.

He recalled that while in the Army he once used a racial epithet in front of a
black pilot he admired. When he realized what he had done, Mr. Perrin said, he
broke down, hugged the pilot and begged for forgiveness.

''I'm ashamed of myself,'' he said he told the man. ''That's just my white
upbringing in Georgia.''

The pilot forgave Mr. Perrin, who  then vowed  never to disrespect another
person because of race or ethnicity.

With his church failing, Mr. Perrin and other longtime members looked to the
Scriptures for guidance and found what they believed was a mandate from Jesus to
diversify their church.

''We realized that what the Lord had in store for that old Clarkston Baptist
Church was to transition into a truly international church and to help minister
to all these ethnic groups moving into the county,'' Mr. Perrin said.

To offset costs during the lean years, the Clarkston Baptist Church had leased
space to congregations of Filipinos, Vietnamese and Africans for their own
services. Mr. Perrin and other members of the church proposed that they invite
these congregations to join them as a single multiethnic church.

While an outspoken advocate for diversity within his church, Mr. Perrin is quick
to point out that he is no liberal. He voted twice for President Bush. Mr.
Perrin said he advocated for an international church because the Bible told him
to.

That view is growing more common among conservative Christians, said Mark
DeYmaz, a leading proponent of multicultural churches and the pastor of the
Mosaic Church of Central Arkansas, in Little Rock, a congregation of 700 from
some 30 countries.

In the Book of John, Mr. DeYmaz points out, Jesus is portrayed after the Last
Supper as praying for unity among his followers, a message he said runs counter
to the notion of an ethnically homogeneous church.

The idea of combining their old Baptist church with congregations of Filipinos
and Africans appalled some older white members of the Clarkston Baptist Church,
who feared giving up their  ways of worship. Some threatened to leave.

''They struggled,'' said Allen Hill, the pastor at the time and now an official
with the Georgia Baptist Convention. ''It's something Southern Baptists have to
struggle with more than others because of our history.''

That history stretches back to 1845, when the Southern Baptist Convention was
formed by a group that seceded from a larger national Baptist organization after
that group decreed it would not appoint slaveholders as missionaries.

In 1995, the Southern Baptist Convention apologized for its failure to support
civil rights and for its congregations that ''intentionally and/or
unintentionally'' excluded blacks. To this day, the overwhelming majority of its
members are white, said Michael O. Emerson, a professor of sociology at Rice
University who has studied the group.

In 2004, the Clarkston Baptist Church adopted the changes proposed by elders
like Mr. Perrin, and merged with the Filipino and Nigerian congregations.

They renamed their church the  Clarkston International Bible Church.

That change was too much for many of the older members, like Brenda and Robert
White. They left after more than 20 years as members.

''I really resented that,'' Mrs. White said of the name change. ''I know it's
the 21st century and we have to change and do things differently. But I don't
think it's fair that we had to cater to the foreign people rather than them
trying to change to our way of doing things.''

''It just wasn't Baptist church anymore,'' she said.

A New Church Thrives

Rosa Paige, a 79-year-old Alabama native and member of the church for 46 years,
winced  and put her fingers in her ears. The staid Baptist hymns of her old
church have been replaced by ''praise music,'' contemporary Christian songs,
played by teenagers on electric guitars, that church leaders thought would
appeal to new congregants.

''It's a little loud for me sometimes,'' Mrs. Paige said.

Merging congregations has meant compromise for everyone. The immigrants who join
the main congregation have to give up worshiping in their native languages.
Older Southern Baptist parishioners have given up traditional hymns and organ
music.

Other areas, like the potluck lunch in the gym every Sunday, have required
little adjustment. ''Everybody likes everybody else's food,'' Mr. Perrin said.

The  pastor, Mr. Kitchin, a North Carolina native, joined the church in 2006 and
learned quickly to keep his sermons simple because so many in his new
congregation were just learning English.

''I'd say, 'You can take it to the bank,' and nobody had a clue what I was
talking about,'' he said in a thick drawl.

Mr. Kitchin described his job as part minister, part cultural translator. Church
members seek his advice and help.

Recently, Mr. Kitchin said, a Liberian refugee asked him to sponsor a child's
visa so the man's family could be reunited. Mr. Kitchin declined.

''If I do it for him, I have to do it for everyone in the church who wants their
children to come in,'' he said. ''To tell this man no rips your heart out.''

There are other problems beyond the church's front doors. Not everyone in the
community has appreciated the church's efforts to proselytize among Clarkston's
newcomers. Salahadin Wazir, the imam at al-Momineen mosque here, said he
frequently heard from Muslim refugees and immigrants who say they attended a
community outreach program administered by the church where conversation quickly
turned to the teachings of Jesus.

''It's inappropriate,'' Mr. Wazir said. ''Playing on the minds of small children
or desperate, needy people -- that's not the way to preach.''

Mr. Kitchin said he heard such complaints frequently, but he does not apologize.

''I'm a believer in Jesus Christ, and I am commanded by him to go and tell
everybody who he is,'' he said. ''And because we're in a free country you have
the freedom to choose.''

''How can you choose if you don't know what's available?''

Despite those tensions, Mr. Kitchin's church is now thriving. The congregation
has grown to more than 300 from 100 a few years ago, and the 10:45 a.m. service
on Sundays, which Mr. Kitchin leads, is well attended.

Ultimately, Mr. Kitchin hopes, the groups who worship separately will join the
larger congregation as the Filipino and Nigerian congregations did; many of the
youngest members, who prefer church in English, already have.

But those congregations face the same tough choices as did the old white Baptist
church. Some have been torn between a desire to assimilate and a fear of giving
up their own identities.

That is the case with the Liberian congregation led by the Rev. Peter Nehsahn.
His flock had considered joining the larger group but decided against it for
now, for fear of losing elements of their  worship style, which includes
drumming and singing African hymns.

''Our people might get lost in the mix,'' Mr. Nehsahn said.

But even worshiping separately within the church gives some of the newcomers a
sense of connection to the Clarkston community they would not get if they
worshiped alone.

For many of those who have joined the main  congregation, the experience has
been life changing. Marcelle Bess, a white American and a lifelong member of the
church, said two of her daughters were dating young Filipino men they had met
through the church. She hopes they will marry, she said.

Mr. Perrin said the impact of the church on his life hit him  when he and his
wife were traveling through the Midwest.  They stopped to worship at whatever
Baptist church they could find.

''Every church that we walked into was pure white Caucasian,'' he said. ''My
wife and I really felt uncomfortable, because, we realized, here in Clarkston is
what the world is all about.''

Mr. Kitchin thinks that in the not-so-distant future many more American churches
will face the sort of questions his church has. He said he was frequently asked
for advice.

''I tell people, 'America is changing,' '' he said. '' 'Get over it.' ''

Correction: September 26, 2007

Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about a church in Georgia
that is adapting to an influx of immigrants referred incorrectly to Interstate
285, the highway that circles Atlanta. It is commonly known as the Perimeter,
not as the Beltway.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2007



CORRECTION:   Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about a church
in Georgia that is adapting to an influx of immigrants referred incorrectly to
Interstate 285, the highway that circles Atlanta. It is commonly known as the
Perimeter, not as the Beltway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Phil Kitchin leads his multicultural congregation at
the Clarkston International Bible Church in Georgia.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE
BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
THE NEW SOUTHERN CHURCH: A Sunday school gathering at the Clarkston
International Bible Church near Atlanta, once all white but now home to
parishioners from 15 countries.
CULTURAL CENTER: A congregation of Liberian immigrants holds separate services
at the church, as do other groups.
 NEW TRADITIONS: Adhieu Malang and her daughter, Diyo Chuti, go to Sudanese
services.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

As the World Comes to Georgia, an Old Church Adapts

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2243 words

DATELINE: CLARKSTON, Ga., Sept. 21


When the Rev. Phil Kitchin steps into the pulpit of the Clarkston International
Bible Church on Sunday mornings, he stands eye to eye with the changing face of
America. In the pews before him, alongside white-haired Southern women in their
Sunday best, sit immigrants from the Philippines and Togo, refugees from
war-scarred Liberia, Ethiopia and Sudan, even a convert from Afghanistan.

''Jesus said heaven is a place for people of all nations,'' Mr. Kitchin likes to
say. ''So if you don't like Clarkston, you won't like heaven.''

The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once noted that 11 a.m. on Sunday was the
beginning of the most segregated hour of the week in America, and for the better
part of 120 years, that certainly applied to this church. From 1883 until a few
years ago, anyone on the pulpit would have gazed out at a congregation that was
exclusively white. The church is a member of the Southern Baptist Convention, a
group that in 1995  renounced its racist past.

But an influx of immigrants and refugees transformed this town in a little over
a decade, and in the process sparked a battle within this church over its
identity and its faithfulness to the Bible, one that led it to change not just
its name but its mission.

The Clarkston International Bible Church, which sits along an active freight
rail line down the road from the former Ku Klux Klan bastion of Stone Mountain,
is now home to parishioners from more than 15 countries. The church also houses
congregations of Ethiopians, Sudanese, Liberians and French West Africans who
worship separately, according to their own traditions. The church's Sunday
potluck lunch features African stews and Asian vegetable dishes alongside hot
dogs, sweet tea and homemade cherry pie.

The transformation of what was long known as the Clarkston Baptist Church speaks
to a broader change among other American churches. Many evangelical Christians
who have long believed in spreading their religion in faraway lands have found
that immigrants offer an opportunity for church work within one's own community.
And many immigrants and refugees are drawn by the warm welcome they get from the
parishioners, which can stand in stark contrast to the more competitive and
alienating nature of workaday America.

Indeed, evangelical churches have begun to stand out as rare centers of ethnic
mixing in a country that researchers say has become more culturally fragmented,
in part because of immigration.

A recent study by the Harvard political scientist Robert D. Putnam underscored
the practical complications of diversity. In interviews with 30,000 Americans,
the study found that residents of more diverse communities ''tend to withdraw
from collective life,'' voting less and volunteering less than those in more
homogeneous communities.

The study noted a conspicuous exception.

''In many large evangelical congregations,'' the researchers wrote, ''the
participants constituted the largest thoroughly integrated gatherings we have
ever witnessed.''

Change Comes to Town

Diversity came to Clarkston like a bolt from the blue. The community, just east
of the Atlanta Beltway and 11 miles from downtown, was settled by white farmers
and railroad workers in the late 1800s.

Clarkston remained rural and mostly white until the 1970s, when developers began
to build apartment complexes for middle-class workers drawn to Atlanta after the
international airport here opened. In the next decade, many of those workers
began to move to new suburbs farther from town. Vacancies increased, rents fell
and crime rose.

In the 1990s, aid agencies that contract with the federal government to resettle
refugees pegged Clarkston as the perfect place for these vulnerable newcomers.
The town had cheap housing: those empty apartments. It had public transportation
--  few refugees could afford cars. And Clarkston was within commuting distance
of downtown Atlanta's booming economy.

From 1996 to 2001, more than 19,000 refugees were resettled in Georgia, many in
Clarkston or surrounding DeKalb County.

The change to Clarkston was profound. The schools became crowded with children
who spoke little English. Locals learned not to drive down Indian Creek Drive on
Friday afternoons because of traffic from Friday prayers at the mosque. A third
to a half of Clarkston's 7,100 residents are now foreign-born, most of them
refugees.

Some older residents left town, alienated and concerned over the quality of
education at the overburdened schools.

Many of those families had attended the Clarkston Baptist Church, leaving empty
pews. By the end of the decade the church had canceled one of its two Sunday
services. The congregation had dwindled to fewer than 100 from 600.

Concerned about its survival, the church commissioned a study that found blacks
and immigrants would soon outnumber whites in the area. William S. Perrin, 75
and a member of the church since 1948, said that at one meeting on the issue, a
deacon stood up to express his anger.

''If you think black folks are going to come in here and take our church away
from us,'' Mr. Perrin remembers the man saying, ''you got another thing
coming.''

Reaching Out

William Perrin was no stranger to such attitudes. A retired Army lieutenant
colonel who survived a midair collision over Vietnam, he grew up in Clarkston
before the civil rights era. Some old ideas about race were embedded in his own
psyche.

He recalled that while in the Army he once used a racial epithet in front of a
black pilot he admired. When he realized what he had done, Mr. Perrin said, he
broke down, hugged the pilot and begged for forgiveness.

''I'm ashamed of myself,'' he said he told the man. ''That's just my white
upbringing in Georgia.''

The pilot forgave Mr. Perrin, who  then vowed  never to disrespect another
person because of race or ethnicity.

With his church failing, Mr. Perrin and other longtime members looked to the
Scriptures for guidance and found what they believed was a mandate from Jesus to
diversify their church.

''We realized that what the Lord had in store for that old Clarkston Baptist
Church was to transition into a truly international church and to help minister
to all these ethnic groups moving into the county,'' Mr. Perrin said.

To offset costs during the lean years, the Clarkston Baptist Church had leased
space to congregations of Filipinos, Vietnamese and Africans for their own
services. Mr. Perrin and other members of the church proposed that they invite
these congregations to join them as a single multiethnic church.

While an outspoken advocate for diversity within his church, Mr. Perrin is quick
to point out that he is no liberal. He voted twice for President Bush. Mr.
Perrin said he advocated for an international church because the Bible told him
to.

That view is growing more common among conservative Christians, said Mark
DeYmaz, a leading proponent of multicultural churches and the pastor of the
Mosaic Church of Central Arkansas, in Little Rock, a congregation of 700 from
some 30 countries.

In the Book of John, Mr. DeYmaz points out, Jesus is portrayed after the Last
Supper as praying for unity among his followers, a message he said runs counter
to the notion of an ethnically homogeneous church.

The idea of combining their old Baptist church with congregations of Filipinos
and Africans appalled some older white members of the Clarkston Baptist Church,
who feared giving up their  ways of worship. Some threatened to leave.

''They struggled,'' said Allen Hill, the pastor at the time and now an official
with the Georgia Baptist Convention. ''It's something Southern Baptists have to
struggle with more than others because of our history.''

That history stretches back to 1845, when the Southern Baptist Convention was
formed by a group that seceded from a larger national Baptist organization after
that group decreed it would not appoint slaveholders as missionaries.

In 1995, the Southern Baptist Convention apologized for its failure to support
civil rights and for its congregations that ''intentionally and/or
unintentionally'' excluded blacks. To this day, the overwhelming majority of its
members are white, said Michael O. Emerson, a professor of sociology at Rice
University who has studied the group.

In 2004, the Clarkston Baptist Church adopted the changes proposed by elders
like Mr. Perrin, and merged with the Filipino and Nigerian congregations.

They renamed their church the  Clarkston International Bible Church.

That change was too much for many of the older members, like Brenda and Robert
White. They left after more than 20 years as members.

''I really resented that,'' Mrs. White said of the name change. ''I know it's
the 21st century and we have to change and do things differently. But I don't
think it's fair that we had to cater to the foreign people rather than them
trying to change to our way of doing things.''

''It just wasn't Baptist church anymore,'' she said.

A New Church Thrives

Rosa Paige, a 79-year-old Alabama native and member of the church for 46 years,
winced  and put her fingers in her ears. The staid Baptist hymns of her old
church have been replaced by ''praise music,'' contemporary Christian songs,
played by teenagers on electric guitars, that church leaders thought would
appeal to new congregants.

''It's a little loud for me sometimes,'' Mrs. Paige said.

Merging congregations has meant compromise for everyone. The immigrants who join
the main congregation have to give up worshiping in their native languages.
Older Southern Baptist parishioners have given up traditional hymns and organ
music.

Other areas, like the potluck lunch in the gym every Sunday, have required
little adjustment. ''Everybody likes everybody else's food,'' Mr. Perrin said.

The  pastor, Mr. Kitchin, a North Carolina native, joined the church in 2006 and
learned quickly to keep his sermons simple because so many in his new
congregation were just learning English.

''I'd say, 'You can take it to the bank,' and nobody had a clue what I was
talking about,'' he said in a thick drawl.

Mr. Kitchin described his job as part minister, part cultural translator. Church
members seek his advice and help.

Recently, Mr. Kitchin said, a Liberian refugee asked him to sponsor a child's
visa so the man's family could be reunited. Mr. Kitchin declined.

''If I do it for him, I have to do it for everyone in the church who wants their
children to come in,'' he said. ''To tell this man no rips your heart out.''

There are other problems beyond the church's front doors. Not everyone in the
community has appreciated the church's efforts to proselytize among Clarkston's
newcomers. Salahadin Wazir, the imam at al-Momineen mosque here, said he
frequently heard from Muslim refugees and immigrants who say they attended a
community outreach program administered by the church where conversation quickly
turned to the teachings of Jesus.

''It's inappropriate,'' Mr. Wazir said. ''Playing on the minds of small children
or desperate, needy people -- that's not the way to preach.''

Mr. Kitchin said he heard such complaints frequently, but he does not apologize.

''I'm a believer in Jesus Christ, and I am commanded by him to go and tell
everybody who he is,'' he said. ''And because we're in a free country you have
the freedom to choose.''

''How can you choose if you don't know what's available?''

Despite those tensions, Mr. Kitchin's church is now thriving. The congregation
has grown to more than 300 from 100 a few years ago, and the 10:45 a.m. service
on Sundays, which Mr. Kitchin leads, is well attended.

Ultimately, Mr. Kitchin hopes, the groups who worship separately will join the
larger congregation as the Filipino and Nigerian congregations did; many of the
youngest members, who prefer church in English, already have.

But those congregations face the same tough choices as did the old white Baptist
church. Some have been torn between a desire to assimilate and a fear of giving
up their own identities.

That is the case with the Liberian congregation led by the Rev. Peter Nehsahn.
His flock had considered joining the larger group but decided against it for
now, for fear of losing elements of their  worship style, which includes
drumming and singing African hymns.

''Our people might get lost in the mix,'' Mr. Nehsahn said.

But even worshiping separately within the church gives some of the newcomers a
sense of connection to the Clarkston community they would not get if they
worshiped alone.

For many of those who have joined the main  congregation, the experience has
been life changing. Marcelle Bess, a white American and a lifelong member of the
church, said two of her daughters were dating young Filipino men they had met
through the church. She hopes they will marry, she said.

Mr. Perrin said the impact of the church on his life hit him  when he and his
wife were traveling through the Midwest.  They stopped to worship at whatever
Baptist church they could find.

''Every church that we walked into was pure white Caucasian,'' he said. ''My
wife and I really felt uncomfortable, because, we realized, here in Clarkston is
what the world is all about.''

Mr. Kitchin thinks that in the not-so-distant future many more American churches
will face the sort of questions his church has. He said he was frequently asked
for advice.

''I tell people, 'America is changing,' '' he said. '' 'Get over it.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about a church
in Georgia that is adapting to an influx of immigrants referred incorrectly to
Interstate 285, the highway that circles Atlanta. It is commonly known as the
Perimeter, not as the Beltway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Phil Kitchin leads his multicultural congregation at
the Clarkston International Bible Church in Georgia.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE
BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
THE NEW SOUTHERN CHURCH: A Sunday school gathering at the Clarkston
International Bible Church near Atlanta, once all white but now home to
parishioners from 15 countries.
CULTURAL CENTER: A congregation of Liberian immigrants holds separate services
at the church, as do other groups.
 NEW TRADITIONS: Adhieu Malang and her daughter, Diyo Chuti, go to Sudanese
services.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Sues Illinois to Let Employers Use Immigrant Databases

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 601 words


The Bush administration sued the State of Illinois yesterday, hoping to block a
new state law that bars employers from using a federal database to verify that
immigrant job applicants are in the United States legally and are authorized to
work.

With the suit, officials said, the administration is going on the offensive in
the courts in response to cases intended to stall a crackdown on illegal
immigration that the federal authorities announced last month.

''We will vigorously contest any effort to impede our enforcement measures,''
the Homeland Security secretary, Michael Chertoff, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.

The suit, brought by Mr. Chertoff's department, seeks to stop Illinois from
putting into effect a law that forbids employers from enrolling in the federal
worker verification database program.

The program, formerly known as Basic Pilot, was renamed E-Verify  last month.

Under the Illinois statute, the ban would remain until Washington certifies that
the databases used to verify workers' eligibility are 99 percent accurate.

Supporters of the law say the Social Security Administration and Homeland
Security Department databases used to confirm eligibility are riddled with
errors and could result in the denial of jobs to legal workers, including
citizens.

The law, which passed with bipartisan support, was signed by Gov. Rod R.
Blagojevich on Aug. 13 and is to take effect on Jan. 1.

Mr. Blagojevich, a Democrat, did not comment yesterday, because he reportedly
had not had a chance to read the suit. A spokeswoman for him, Abby Ottenhoff,
said he had signed the bill because he ''concurred with the General Assembly
that the system now leaves too much room for mistakes and abuse.''

Ms. Ottenhoff said lawmakers had determined the verification program had a 50
percent accuracy rate and was slow, taking up to 10 days to respond to
employers.

The suit, filed in Federal District Court for the Central District of Illinois,
argues that the state statute is unconstitutional because it pre-empts federal
laws that established the worker verification program, beginning in 1996.

The program compares job applicants' identity information against the Social
Security and immigration databases. Illegal immigrants often present false names
or Social Security numbers when seeking work.

The program, which functions in all states, remains voluntary for most
employers. The suit says 22,200 employers are enrolled in the system, which
handled 2.9 million inquiries from employers in the current fiscal year.

''We want to be sure that employers can participate without being punished by
the state,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''We don't want them to be guinea pigs'' in a
legal test between conflicting federal and state laws.

With the defeat of a broad immigration bill in the Senate in June, Mr. Chertoff
said, ''Congress said, 'We want you to enforce the law first,' '' before
measures could be considered to give legal status to illegal immigrants.

The Illinois law was supported by business and labor organizations. ''We have no
problem with the program, but the program needs to be accurate,'' said Tim Bell
of the Chicago Workers' Collaborative, which helped pass the statute.

Immigration officials said they would begin a system today within the
verification program to allow employers for the first time to compare
applicants' photographs against pictures in immigration agencies' records.

Last month a federal judge in San Francisco temporarily held up a new federal
rule that would have forced employers to dismiss illegal immigrants after 90
days.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Challenge in Connecticut Over Immigrants' Arrest

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words


Nine day laborers are expected to file a federal lawsuit today challenging the
legality of a sting operation in Danbury, Conn., last year that led to their
arrest on immigration charges.

Those plaintiffs, and a tenth man whose traffic stop for a noisy muffler
resulted in his deportation to Ecuador, contend that their arrests were illegal
and part of a campaign based on racial profiling. They also say that the city of
Danbury, its mayor, Mark D. Boughton, and its police chief acted to enforce
federal immigration law without authority.

At a time when towns across the country are wrestling with how to deal with
illegal immigrant residents, and when day laborers are often a flash point of
conflict, the lawsuit is the latest in a series of legal challenges to local
crackdowns.

According to the complaint, on Sept. 19, 2006, a Danbury police officer posing
as a contractor drove an unmarked van belonging to the federal Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency to a park in downtown Danbury where day laborers,
many from Ecuador, gather. Pretending to offer $11 an hour to demolish a fence,
the officer transported 11 would-be workers to a fenced-in lot where they were
arrested, handed over to federal immigration agents and eventually placed in
deportation proceedings.

Mr. Boughton said yesterday  that the local police had only provided
''logistical support'' to federal immigration agents during the operation.
Calling the lawsuit, filed on behalf of the plaintiffs by the Yale law clinic,
''a fishing expedition,'' he said the police would provide similar support at
the request of any federal law enforcement agency.

In 2005, Mr. Boughton had pushed Connecticut to have State Police officers
deputized as federal immigration agents. But Gov. M. Jodi Rell refused to pursue
that proposal.

The complaint, expected to be filed today in United States District Court in New
Haven, contends that Mr. Boughton encouraged the Danbury police to try to
enforce civil immigration law anyway, either unilaterally or by conspiring with
federal agents.

''In their frustration with the arrival of new immigrants to Danbury, Mayor
Boughton and the Police Department have taken the law into their own hands,''
the complaint charges.

Along with Mr. Boughton and the Danbury police chief, Alan D. Baker, nine agents
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement are named as defendants in the court
papers.

The plaintiffs charge that they were arrested without probable cause, in
violation of the Fourth Amendment. The suit also contends that the arrests
violated the First Amendment because they were calculated to silence the
laborers' expression of their availability for work in a traditional public
forum, and to chill the speech of other day laborers who now avoid the park for
fear of arrest.

''Looking at a group of day laborers and assuming that they are undocumented is
a form of racial profiling,'' said Geri Greenspan, one of the law students
working on the case with Michael Wishnie, a Yale law professor.

Robert Myles, a Danbury police captain and spokesman for the chief, said
disagreement over local immigration enforcement was not unique to Danbury.
''It's happening across the country,'' he said. ''It's just going to play out
till the courts make a decision one way or another.''

Nine jurisdictions around the country, including Massachusetts and Arizona, have
deputized local or state law enforcement officers as federal immigration agents
under a federal program known as 287G. At least 30 other jurisdictions have
applications pending. In a speech in May, President Bush encouraged such federal
and local partnerships as a way to increase enforcement, and vowed to seek a
10-fold increase in the program's $5 million budget.

At the same time, many police departments have opposed joining the program,
saying it will hurt criminal law enforcement efforts by making immigrants more
fearful of dealing with the police to report crime.

Students at the Yale law clinic have been litigating for months under freedom of
information laws to obtain government documents relating to the Danbury arrests,
Ms. Greenspan said. Federal immigration agents have maintained that the arrests
were initiated by the Danbury police, she said, while Danbury officials insist
that it was a federal operation.

None of the day laborers arrested had an outstanding order of deportation, the
lawsuit says, and immigration officers involved in the operation were not
looking for a fugitive at the Danbury park, which might have provided a
rationale for a federal immigration operation.

According to the police incident reports filed at the time, the day laborers
were arrested by the police at 7 a.m. on a charge of entering the country
illegally, a federal misdemeanor. Connecticut law does not authorize local
Danbury police to make warrantless arrests for federal misdemeanors, Ms.
Greenspan said, and the officers had no evidence of illegal entry into the
country.

In the case of the 10th plaintiff, Danilo Brito Vargas, the lawsuit charges that
his arrest in February was part of a pattern of police stopping Hispanic drivers
on the pretext of minor traffic infractions, then investigating the immigration
status of the drivers through the National Crime Information Center database,
and arresting them for civil immigration violations.

''Nothing we do is pretextual,'' countered Captain Myles. ''We see a violation,
we'll stop it and take it from there. If the computer comes up with a hit that
someone's illegal, we'll respond to that hit, and we'll check with the agency it
came from, whether it be federal or state.''

Michael Gilhooly, a spokesman for the federal immigration agency, said the
agency had not seen the complaint. But he added: ''Immigration Customs
Enforcement conducts all of our operations lawfully and in full accordance with
ICE policies and procedures.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Changing Italy, a Band With a Multicultural Face

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words


ROME

The other night, when it seemed as if  everybody was on the street sweating off
the late summer heat, a young, smart-looking crowd filed through a fog of
cigarette smoke into the Teatro dell'Opera to hear a small orchestra of fellow
Romans play the overture from Mozart's ''Magic Flute.''

That doesn't sound remarkable, but then Sanjay Kansa Banik got the ball rolling
on the tabla with a long, mesmerizing solo of quickening tempo, which segued
into a virtuoso turn by Dialy Mady Sissoko on the oud, to the accompaniment of a
viola and violin.

The Orchestra di Piazza Vittorio, as it's called, is made up mostly of
immigrants living in Rome. An immigrant band wouldn't raise an eyebrow in the
United States, but it does in Europe, especially in Italy, where periodically
some local arts star bemoans the country's insularity and its resulting moribund
culture.

Not that the United States isn't suffering through its own bout of immigration
anxiety, with Republican presidential hopefuls jockeying for conservative votes
by promising to outdo one another  in cracking down on illegals. Even so, the
most strident candidates, conjuring up thousand-mile fences on the Mexican
border, are careful to rail  against only the current crop of mostly Hispanic
arrivals, still embracing the feel-good Ellis Island saga. It's inseparable from
the national  self-image.

Europe is different. Immigrants by and large don't arrive here expecting to be
made citizens, and, overwhelmingly, they are not invited to do so.

Italy used to be an emigrant society. Now legal immigration here has nearly
quadrupled since the mid-'90s, reaching 2.67 million in 2005, when last counted.
Who knows the number of illegals, but an invitation in 2006 to sign up for jobs
prompted a half-million unregistered foreigners to apply.

Meanwhile, with a population of 56 million, Italy granted citizenship to just
30,000 immigrants last year, 90 percent thanks to marriage or Italian ancestry.
Antonio Ricci, a researcher for Caritas, the nonprofit organization that tracks
this information, says four of every five euros spent by the Italian government
on immigration issues go to getting  foreigners  out  --  to deportation and
holding facilities, called Centers for Temporary Residents  --  never mind that
Italy has been remarkably inefficient in enforcing the laws.

The Orchestra di Piazza Vittorio consists of  some 16 musicians, most of whom
have come here from, among other places, India and Tunisia, Cuba and Argentina,
Hungary and Ecuador; they're joined by a few Italians. The orchestra's name
derives from a bustling, tumbledown neighborhood near the main train station in
Rome, where the orchestra's founder lives. He's a curly haired 45-year-old with
a hangdog face, named Mario Tronco.

''The world around us changed,'' Mr. Tronco told me backstage, before the
concert. ''Immigrants started arriving. For Italians it's still strange for the
baker to be Chinese and the butcher Bengalese.'' Through his window, Mr. Tronco
recalled, he listened to  mothers singing native lullabies. Then 9/11 happened,
and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's government came up with an anti-immigrant
law that sparked protests in the piazza.

''The orchestra was conceived as a challenge to the government,'' Mr. Tronco
said. ''For 20 years I played in an Italian pop band and I listened to
everything. But I got interested in the orchestra because I was interested in
these people, and then in their music.''

Oddly, it helped that he wasn't expert in African or Indian or Andean music
because he wasn't wedded to authenticity; free to mix styles, languages and
instruments, he came up with his own sound. Players said, ''That's not Indian,
that's not Senegalese,'' but came to see it was Indian and Senegalese, Mr.
Tronco's way.

Last year a documentary about the orchestra made the rounds of the international
film festivals; it has become a box-office hit here.  A concurrent brassy,
big-band-like recording, not too likable, doesn't do the live orchestra's cool,
jazzy, itinerant populism justice. Now the movie's commercial release in the
United States is linked to a concert tour, which kicks off at the IFC Center in
New York on Oct. 4. Smelling votes, Roman politicians have belatedly jumped on
the bandwagon, and Italian newspapers, balancing headlines about terrorists and
crackdowns on foreigners, have taken to periodically trotting out the orchestra
as the new face of Italy, which in fact it is not.

Italy still exports some singers, furniture and cars,  and every city boasts its
local orchestra. But Italian visual art feels shopworn, Italian fashion made at
least one American critic yawn. (It continues to ''putter along'' wrote Guy
Trebay in The New York Times, causing the predictable national gnashing of
teeth.) Its once prestigious film industry has, among young directors big on the
international stage, not much beyond Gabriele Muccino, working in a Hollywood
mode, to boast about.

''Italy's cultural system is on the brink of collapse,''  Cecilia Bartoli, the
soprano, told the German newspaper Der Tagesspiegel just this month, repeating
what the filmmaker Pier Paolo Pasolini  and other self-flagellating Italian
stars have bemoaned over the years. ''We live in a condition of paralysis and
are not able to do anything about it, to liberate ourselves from the lethargy.
You might call it a coma. Maybe it has something to do with the state of Italian
television.''

She has a point. Italians are said to watch more television, and more bad
television, than any other Europeans. An Italian television drama last year
about social integration starring Fiona May, a black British-born track star
turned local actress, who last year won the Italian ''Dancing With the Stars,''
is the rare exception to an all-white, all-native diet of Italian game shows and
Italian pop music and Italian advertisements for improbable weight-loss machines
that entail vibrating belts, or for  potato chips hawked by a former Italian
porn star with a tag line that's slang for the female anatomy.

So the orchestra, playing to sold-out crowds, like the one the other night,
provides Italians with a helpful dose of quality homegrown culture. It also
provides evidence, which clearly the Italians need, that immigrants aren't all
boat people or petty criminals or farm laborers or street merchants hawking
Gucci knockoffs  -- that they're musicians, too, good ones at that, willing to
advertise themselves as Roman, no less. That many of the players, who until
lately struggled to supplement concert fees by working as cooks and waiters,
still have a hard time getting temporary work permits, is another matter.

Before the concert, I stopped into the church of  Sant'Agostino, near the Piazza
Navona, where Raphael painted a fresco of Isaiah and Caravaggio painted  ''The
Madonna of the Pilgrims.'' The Raphael is High Renaissance rhetoric and bright
color. The Caravaggio, dark as molasses, picks out a pair of scruffy,
supplicating peasants before the Virgin and Child with a hard, slanting light.

A universe separates the two pictures, painted some  90 years apart. Caravaggio
arrived in Rome from Lombardy, got work doing menial tasks like painting fruit
because as an outsider, a straniero, he wasn't thought properly trained. He
resisted conforming, and a revolution in Italian art unfolded largely thanks to
him and to the arrival of another non-Roman, Annibale Carracci. Mobs of tourists
jamming museums and churches, swelling local pride, tacitly celebrate this
history of stranieri.

Intentionally or otherwise, Mr. Tronco is trying to extend this past. Pino
Pecorelli, the orchestra's Italian double bassist, told me: ''The secret is that
everyone's allowed to be himself  -- 16 soloists, one sound. I remember at the
first concert I didn't even know the names of the other musicians or the names
of some of their instruments. It felt like being in an amusement park, like we
were kids with new toys. Now we all contribute ideas.''

During encores, Houcine Ataa, a Tunisian, wearing tinted glasses, and with a dry
martini voice, set the stage for Omar Lopez Valle, a restless Cuban trumpeter,
whose snaking melody welled up into a stomping coda, which got the audience to
its feet. The man who united Italy was Vittorio Emanuele, after whom the
orchestra's piazza, and hence the orchestra is named. Surely that's not a
coincidence.

Of course, it will take more than 16 musicians to solve the immigration problems
in Italy and make a melting pot. But for an evening, anyway, old Italy, in the
form of the crowd, which sauntered out of the opera house to light up again, and
to gossip in the night air, met the supposed new face of Italy, and everybody
looked rightly pleased.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Orchestra di Piazza Vittorio performing in Rome in
2002.(pg. E1)
Above, members of the Orchestra di Piazza Vittorio at a festival in southern
Italy last month
 left, Omar Lopez Valle, a trumpeter from Cuba and a member of the band,
performing in a concert at a university in Rome. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFANO
MICCHIA)(pg. E8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 657 words


INTERNATIONALA3-17

U.S. Witnesses Say Guard Continued Firing

Participants in a contentious Baghdad security operation this month have told
American investigators that during the operation at least one security
contractor from Blackwater USA continued firing on civilians while colleagues
urged that shooting stop. At least one contractor apparently also drew a weapon
on a fellow guard who did not stop shooting, an American official said.  A1

A senior State Department official in Baghdad said that the first American oil
contract in Iraq was at cross purposes with the stated United States foreign
policy of strengthening the country's central government.  A12

More Violence in Myanmar

Brutality and defiance marked the second day of an armed crackdown in Myanmar as
the military junta tried to crush a wave of protests in the face of
international condemnation.  A1

China Nears Water Crisis

China's galloping, often wasteful style of economic growth is pushing the
country toward a water crisis. Water pollution is rampant nationwide, while
water scarcity has worsened severely in north China -- even as demand keeps
rising everywhere.  A1

Musharraf Files for Election

Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, filed his nomination papers for
re-election amid continuing uncertainty over his eligibility.  A13

NATIONALA18-27

Federal Officials Unveil  New Citizenship Test

Federal immigration authorities unveiled 100 questions that immigrants will have
to study to pass a civics test to become naturalized American citizens.  A1

Verizon Wireless Reversal

Reversing course, Verizon Wireless announced that it would allow an abortion
rights group to send text messages to its supporters on Verizon's mobile
network.  A20

Health Bill Is Approved

The Senate gave final approval to a health insurance bill for 10 million
children, clearing the measure for President Bush, who has said he will veto it.
A20 Edwards Changes Plans

Former Senator John Edwards said that he would accept public financing for the
Democratic primaries, reversing his campaign's plans to raise and spend money
without being subject to the limits that the public system imposes.  A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

F.D.A. Criticized on Oversight

An inspector general's report concluded that the Food and Drug Administration --
one of two federal agencies charged with ensuring the safety of human research
subjects -- does little to safeguard people who participate in clinical trials.
A1

NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6

Federal Suit Alleges Bias At Bloomberg L.P.

The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is suing Bloomberg L.P., the
financial services and media giant founded by the New York City mayor, Michael
R. Bloomberg, saying the company engaged in a pattern of discrimination against
women after they became pregnant and took maternity leave. B1

Clash Over License Plan

Gov. Eliot Spitzer is facing a groundswell of resistance from New York
Republicans to his plan to allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses,
with some upstate county clerks balking at the policy, in a prelude to a
potential legal showdown. B1

BUSINESS DAYC1-9

Bush Moves on Air Delays

President Bush directed his transportation secretary to take steps to reduce
delays in the nation's airspace. The Federal Aviation Administration will map
out a plan by the end of the year to cut traffic at Kennedy International
Airport. A1

Drug Ring at High Levels

The chief executive of a Chinese pharmaceutical company illegally distributed
Jintropin, a human-growth hormone, in the United States, according to a federal
complaint that offers a rare look inside a major drug ring.  C1

Business DigestC2

EDITORIALA28-29

Editorials: Runaway (spending) train; a step away from the imperial presidency;
the royalty mess; Philip M. Boffey on the ''s-word'' and the smear campaign
against government aid for health care.

Columnists: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tough Question for a New Test: What Does 'American' Mean?

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words


Patrick Henry and Francis Scott Key are out, but Susan B. Anthony and Nancy
Pelosi are in. The White House was cut, but New York and Sept. 11 made the list.

Federal immigration authorities yesterday unveiled 100 new questions immigrants
will have to study to pass a civics test to become naturalized American
citizens.

The redesign of the test, the first since it was created in 1986 as a
standardized examination, follows years of criticism in which conservatives said
the test was too easy and immigrant advocates said it was too hard.

The new questions did little to quell that debate among many immigrant groups,
who complained that the citizenship test would become even more daunting.
Conservatives seemed to be more satisfied.

Bush administration officials said the new test was part of their effort to move
forward on the hotly disputed issue of immigration by focusing on the
assimilation of legal immigrants who have played by the rules, leaving aside the
situation of some 12 million illegal immigrants here.

Several historians said the new questions successfully incorporated more ideas
about the workings of American democracy and better touched upon the diversity
of the groups -- including women, American Indians and African-Americans -- who
have influenced the country's history.

Would-be citizens no longer have to know who said, ''Give me liberty or give me
death,'' or who wrote ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' But they do have to know
what Susan B. Anthony did  and who the speaker of the House of Representatives
is.

Alfonso Aguilar, a senior official at Citizenship and Immigration Services, the
agency that designs and administers the test, said it was not intended to be
punitive.

''We don't seek to fail anyone,'' said Mr. Aguilar, an architect of the test.

Immigration officials said they sought to move away from civics trivia to
emphasize basic concepts about the structure of government and American history
and geography. In contrast to the old test, which some immigrants could pass
without any study, the officials said the new one is intended to force even
highly educated applicants to do reviewing.

''This test genuinely talks about what makes an American citizen,'' said Emilio
Gonzalez, the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, speaking at a
news conference in Washington.

The $6.5 million redesign was shaped over six years of discussions with
historians, immigrant organizations and liberal and conservative research
groups. The questions were submitted to four months of pilot testing this year
with more than 6,000 immigrants who were applying for naturalization.

The agency will begin to use the revised test on Oct. 1, 2008, leaving a year
for aspiring citizens to prepare and for community groups to adjust their study
classes.

The overall format has not changed. Legal immigrants who are eligible to become
citizens must pass the civics exam as well as a test of English proficiency in
reading and writing. In a one-on-one oral examination, an immigration officer
asks the applicant 10 questions of varying degrees of difficulty selected from
the list of 100. To pass, the applicant must answer 6 of those 10 questions
correctly. The questions released yesterday will remain public along with their
answers.

Immigrants are eligible to become citizens if they have been legal permanent
residents for at least five years (or three years if they are married to a
citizen) and have ''good moral character'' and no criminal record.

In the pilot runs of the revised test, Mr. Aguilar said, the pass rates improved
over the current tests, with 92 percent of participants passing on the first
try, as opposed to 84 percent now. At least 15 questions were eliminated as a
result of the pilot because they proved too difficult. For example, a question
about the minimum wage was dropped because test takers were confused between
federal and state rates, Mr. Aguilar said.

In the new test, the pilgrims have been replaced by ''colonists,'' and they are
the subject of fewer questions, while slavery and the civil rights movement are
the subject of more. A question was added asking what ''major event'' happened
on Sept. 11, 2001.

The new test drops questions about the 49th and 50th states, but adds one about
the political affiliation of the president. There are no questions about the
White House. Instead, one question asks where the Statue of Liberty is.

In a statement today, the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights,
one of the groups consulted in shaping the new test, denounced it as ''the final
brick in the second wall.'' The group said the test included ''more abstract and
irrelevant questions'' that tended to stump hard-working immigrants who had
little time to study.

But several historians said the test appeared to be fair.

''People who take this seriously will have a good chance of passing,'' said Gary
Gerstle, a professor of American history at Vanderbilt University. ''Indeed,
their knowledge of American history may even exceed the knowledge of millions of
American-born citizens.''

John Fonte, a senior fellow at the conservative Hudson Institute, called the new
test ''a definite improvement.'' But he said it should have included questions
about the meaning of the oath of allegiance that new citizens swear. ''I would
like to see an even more vigorous emphasis on Americanization,'' he said.

About 55 percent of the applicants who participated in the pilot test were from
Latin American countries. Some Latino groups noted yesterday that no question on
the new test refers to Latinos.

Mr. Aguilar said that the test was not intended to be a comprehensive review,
but rather to include ''landmark moments of American history that apply to every
single citizen.''

Naturalizations have surged in recent years, to 702,589 last year from 537,151
in 2004, according to official figures. In July the fees to become a citizen
increased sharply, to $675 from $405.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New citizens taking the oath of allegiance this month on the
steamship Ticonderoga at the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
TOBY TALBOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Gathering of Neighbors

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; WESTCHESTER; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 545 words


The forces of global mobility, poverty and economic change that have spread
Latino immigration throughout the United States have bestowed this mixed
blessing across the New York region, too; in Westchester as much as anywhere
else.

The communities are different, but the contours of the phenomenon are strikingly
consistent. Mount Kisco, where Latino immigrants now make up more than a quarter
of the population, has grappled with exactly the same problems that have stirred
wrenching debates in Brewster and Mamaroneck; in Danbury, Conn.; Farmingville on
Long Island, in Hazleton, Pa., and all over New Jersey.

While Latino newcomers make local economies hum, they can also stoke resentment
and fear; the daily morning free-for-all among Latino day laborers and
contractors' trucks provokes the angry sense among many that the dysfunction in
the federal immigration system has stubbornly taken root on decidedly
non-federal sidewalks and streets.

Mount Kisco has faced all these challenges and more -- a police officer there,
George Bubaris, was indicted recently on manslaughter charges in the death of a
homeless Guatemalan, Rene Perez. But it also stands out in the assertively
practical ways it has confronted the issue, developed solutions, defused
tensions and brought neighbors together.

That sense of resolute welcome was reinforced last Wednesday night. It happened
in Pleasantville, where a packed house at the Jacob Burns Film Center watched an
independent film, ''Amexicano,'' about a friendship between an Italian-American
from Queens and a day laborer from Mexico, and stayed for a panel discussion
organized by Neighbors Link, a nonprofit organization in Mount Kisco that runs a
hiring site for day laborers and offers a wide array of educational and family
programs for Latino immigrants.

The discussion enabled the executive director of Neighbors Link, Carola Otero
Bracco, to contrast the film's depiction of day labor on the streets of Queens
with the success of her organization, which has greatly reduced the ad-hoc
entropy of the street bazaar and, amazingly, stopped instances of wage theft by
shady employers, a chronic source of grief for day laborers. The remarks by
Mount Kisco's Mayor, J. Michael Cindrich, showed him to be a believer in the
municipal benefits of the hiring-site approach.

The evening reached a transcendent moment when a Guatemalan immigrant, Santos
Teo, told his story and answered questions. In halting English at first, and
then with confident eloquence in Spanish, with translation by Ms. Bracco, Mr.
Teo said that the life of a day laborer was hard, full of drudgery and fear, but
not lacking in hope.

Was it really worse in Guatemala? one audience member asked. Given that you make
so little, and live without job security or health insurance, is America truly
that much better?

Mr. Teo spoke of the violence and hopelessness in his country, and of the
ambition that propelled him across the border. The desire that drives you north,
he explained, is not only to make money, to support your family, but also to
make something of yourself.

And with that, it seemed, Mr. Teo broke through. Another barrier fell. An
anonymous face became a story. The applause he received was warm and long.

LAWRENCE DOWNES

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Raids Were a Shambles, Nassau Complains to U.S.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Ann Farmer contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words


Scores of federal immigration agents from around the country, some wearing
cowboy hats and brandishing shotguns and automatic weapons, endangered residents
and local police officers last week as they raided homes in Nassau County in a
poorly planned antigang operation, county officials charged yesterday.

Lawrence W. Mulvey, the Nassau County police commissioner, said that in two
instances the immigration agents mistakenly drew their guns on Nassau County
police detectives during operations that resulted in the arrests of 186
immigrants on Long Island.

Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said yesterday that he was
demanding an investigation into the agents' conduct by the Department of
Homeland Security, which oversees Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Mr. Mulvey said that many United States citizens and legal residents were
rousted from bed and were required to produce papers during an operation so
ill-conceived that all but 6 out of 96 administrative warrants issued by the
immigration enforcement agency in the search for gang members had wrong or
outdated addresses.

In one case, agents were seeking a 28-year-old man with a photo taken when he
was 7. Of more than 90 people arrested in Nassau County, most were illegal
immigrant workers with no criminal record, Mr. Mulvey said, some with young
children who were frightened by the immigration agents' ''inappropriate''
behavior. ''There were clear dangers of friendly fire,'' he said of the
operation, in which Nassau police provided standby support.

In a sharply worded letter to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland
security, Mr. Suozzi asked for an investigation into what he called ''serious
allegations of misconduct and malfeasance committed by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement personnel in executing arrest warrants in various Nassau County
communities on Sept. 24 and 26, 2007.''

Peter J. Smith, the special agent in charge of the raids for the agency, denied
the charges.

''All those allegations that he's making, they're without merit,'' he said. Only
one of 180 special agents assigned to the operation from the agency's Office of
Investigations was wearing a cowboy hat out of personal preference, he said.
''We didn't have warrants,'' he added. ''We don't need warrants to make the
arrests. These are illegal immigrants.''

But in fact, Mr. Smith said, one of the 186 arrested last week turned out to be
a United States citizen. ''I believe it was a woman in Westbury,'' he said. The
woman, he said, was released after an hour or two either with taxi fare or a
ride home. ''That is not uncommon,'' he said of the citizen's mistaken arrest as
a deportable immigrant.

He noted that the unit's 7,000 special agents have conducted similar operations
around the country in recent years. ''You're arresting individuals who are in
association, they're in the area, they're in houses that are known for illegal
aliens. Gang members were going to be there.''

But Mr. Mulvey said that in most cases the federal agents did not seem to have
good reason to believe gang members would be present. They repeatedly passed up
the invitation to check a list of 96 deportable gang associates active in Nassau
County against a local police database that is updated daily, he said. They also
broke promises to share a list of targets, and failed to attend a preoperation
briefing, he added.

''You have to have some reason to believe the target will be there when you
enter a home,'' Mr. Mulvey, said. ''When you have 96 warrants and you only find
six of them, it's hard to make the argument that you had a good faith basis to
enter those houses.''

Mr. Mulvey said that his department had agreed to have uniformed officers
present at the raids in case they resulted in local drug or weapons charges.
They did not. He said he withdrew all support on Thursday, before a third night
of raids, vowing not to join future operations. In contrast, Mr. Mulvey said,
the department conducted a smooth and successful antigang operation with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation in April. Nassau has the lowest crime rate in
the nation for a county of its size, Mr. Mulvey said, in part because the police
have good cooperation from the community. The conduct of the raids could
undermine that relationship, he added.

''I was misled,'' Mr. Mulvey said. ''In good conscience, I can't continue to
cooperate unless these problems are ironed out.'' Among the problems, he wrote
in a Sept. 27 letter to Joseph A. Palmese, resident agent in charge of the
immigration agency's Office of Investigations in Bohemia, N.Y., was that the
Nassau police could not even get a list of the 40 people arrested Monday night,
leaving local officials unable to deal with a deluge of missing persons reports
and inquiries from churches whose members had disappeared. Only three of the 40
were gang members, he said.

By then, he added, complaints were coming not only from immigrant advocates, but
from his own officers who had seen what they said was the undisciplined conduct
of the federal agents.

''These are my people that came to me,'' he said in an interview after the news
conference held at the Nassau County Police Department in Mineola. ''These are
aggressive gang enforcement investigators. Day in, day out, they work the
streets, arresting gang members, and it's unusual for them to come to me like
that.''

In Suffolk County, the police commissioner, Richard Dormer, expressed complete
support for the operation.

''We will continue to support their efforts,'' he said in a written statement.
''The gang members and violent felons have now been removed from the streets of
Suffolk County, which will come as a great relief to the parents who tell us on
a regular basis about their concerns that their own children will be lured into
gang activity or targeted by gang members in their communities.''

Just how many gang members and associates were taken into custody, and how they
were categorized, remains uncertain.

Mr. Smith said that in Suffolk County, the raids resulted in the arrests of 15
identified as gang members, and 50 as ''associates of gang members.'' Mr. Dormer
provided different figures. He said 85 were arrested and 55 were gang members or
associates. And while Mr. Smith said 59 out of 186 arrested in both counties had
criminal records, Mr. Dormer said 61 of those arrested in Suffolk County alone
had criminal records and 14 were violent felons.

Mr. Smith said the agency did not count up the number of homes that agents
searched where they found neither gang members nor illegal immigrants, only
citizens and legal residents.

''These people are very transient,'' he said of those being hunted. ''They don't
stay at that location. We keep going to these different places until we find
them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Enlightened Policing

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 117 words


To the Editor:

Re ''A Trend Grows in Policing'' (column, Sept. 29):

Bob Herbert notes that the Los Angeles Police Department attributes the decline
in crime in Los Angeles to community outreach that increases the likelihood that
people will call the police to report crimes.

How unfortunate that this advice isn't heeded by law enforcement officers in
many communities that are signing up for training by the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency to search for undocumented immigrants. Such efforts erode
years of efforts by police departments to build up community trust.

Katherine Fennelly Minneapolis, Sept. 29, 2007

The writer is a professor of public affairs, University of Minnesota.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stop the Raids

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 528 words


Armed squads bursting into homes in the dead of night with shotguns and
automatic weapons, terrorizing families and taking away anyone who lacks
identity papers, even if they have raided the wrong house. It may sound like
Baghdad, but it is the suburbs of New York City, the latest among hundreds of
communities around the country where federal agents have been invading homes and
workplaces in search of immigrants to deport.

Federal officials say the raids are a focused campaign to catch gang members and
other fugitives. That would be good if Immigration and Customs Enforcement were
carefully extracting the dangerous criminal sliver from a population of 12
million illegal immigrants. But as immigration raids have vastly increased, they
have become something murky and ugly.

ICE is catching modest numbers of undesirables, but also a much larger by-catch
of peaceable immigrants. Its agents have set off waves of fear and outrage, not
only among illegal immigrants, but among citizens whose privacy and security
they have violated, through unchecked aggression, carelessness and incompetence.

Last week, dozens of federal agents fanned out across Nassau County, Long
Island, to execute warrants on accused gang members. County Executive Thomas
Suozzi and Police Commissioner Lawrence Mulvey were so dismayed that they have
refused to cooperate on further raids until ICE gets its act together.

They described a seriously botched ''cowboy'' operation by dozens of ICE agents
-- some in cowboy hats -- who had not trained together, used inappropriate
weapons and mistakenly drew them on Nassau officers. They said that ICE misled
them -- that what was supposed to be a targeted gang crackdown was actually
something much more sloppy and indiscriminate. They said the agency ignored
repeated invitations to check its list of targets against Nassau's up-to-date
gang records and ended up raiding many wrong homes.

The raids were stunningly ineffective. Nassau says they caught only 6 of 96
fugitives. ICE, using a looser definition of ''gang member,'' said it got 13 in
Nassau and 15 in neighboring Suffolk. There, Peggy De La Rosa-Delgado, an
American citizen, said her Huntington Station home was raided by mistake last
Thursday at 5:30 a.m. It was the second predawn raid looking for the same man at
the same wrong address. Her husband and three teenage sons, legal residents,
were terrified, she said.

ICE officials callously shrug off such mistakes as collateral damage, but
advocates for immigrants have filed a class-action lawsuit asserting that recent
raids in the New York City area were unreasonable searches conducted by agents
who did not show warrants and misidentified themselves as police officers. Mr.
Suozzi has written to the Homeland Security secretary, Michael Chertoff, asking
him to investigate the Nassau debacle.

Mr. Suozzi deserves praise for having the courage to oppose mindless immigration
enforcement while affirming a commitment to sane policing and public safety.
President Bush has repeatedly insisted that the undocumented immigrants cannot,
and will not, be rounded up. He and Mr. Chertoff must stop these reckless raids.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citizens Caught Up in Immigration Raid

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 797 words


Peggy Delarosa-Delgado, a United States citizen, Long Island homeowner and
mother of three, was fast asleep when someone banged at the door before 6 a.m.
last Thursday.

Her son Christopher, 17, a high school senior, opened the door, and more than a
dozen federal immigration agents and one Suffolk County police officer pushed
past him, he said later.

Only after the agents had herded her other children into the living room,
frightened her aunt and uncle, and drawn a gun on a family friend staying in the
basement, Ms. Delarosa-Delgado said, did she awake to discover that her house in
Huntington Station had been the mistaken target of a raid by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

It was not the first time. In the summer of 2006, she said, agents waving the
same photo of a deportable immigrant named Miguel had stormed into her house
before dawn. No Miguel has ever lived there, she said -- at least not since she
bought the place in 2003.

This time, the raid on her house was part of a series of antigang sweeps on Long
Island. The raids, which resulted in 186 immigrant arrests, were denounced by
officials in Nassau County as riddled with mistakes and marked by misconduct.
But on Ms. Delarosa-Delgado's side of the county line, the Suffolk County police
commissioner, Richard Dormer, hailed the sweeps as a successful operation that
made the community safer.

Ms. Delarosa-Delgado, 42, a school aide who was born in the Dominican Republic,
moved to the United States 24 years ago and became a citizen in 1990, does not
feel safer.

''It's not right,'' she said. ''My kids were scared. They had to sit in the
living room like little criminals.''

''Sure, look for criminals. But they've got to make 100 percent sure that the
house they're going into, the person's there. They can't come in just because my
address pops up in the computer.''

Suffolk County police officials said they stood by their statements praising the
raids. But Ms. Delarosa-Delgado's complaint is one of many that have been
emerging in Suffolk County as employers, church workers and lawyers learn who
was arrested.

''They took guys who I see in church every single week, whose homes I've gone
into and everything,'' said Sister Margaret Smyth, a nun who attends church in
Greenport, where she said 12 immigrant men were arrested last Thursday. ''Some
of them work on farms, some of them work construction,'' she said. ''They're
family men.''

One man who was arrested, Walter Tzun, has been in the country for a decade, she
said. She described him as married, a father, a taxpayer and a construction
worker whose employer has been trying to sponsor him for a green card. He has
been moved from a New Jersey jail to two detention centers in Pennsylvania, she
said, and has been told that he is headed to Texas. She said the man's boss
drove to Pennsylvania ''to try to bond him out'' and help him stay.

Eberhard Muller, formerly the executive chef of the restaurant Lutece and now
the owner of a 180-acre farm on the East End of Long Island, said he had spent a
week trying to locate the brother, cousin and roommate of one of his workers, a
legal immigrant from El Salvador. The three were arrested in a raid at their
home in Greenport early last Thursday, he said, leaving babies and two
distraught wives behind.

Mr. Muller said he finally learned with the help of a lawyer that two of the
three, Omar Mena Lopez and Marvin Lopez, were at the federal Metropolitan
Detention Center in Brooklyn, and that one, Valentin Rudy Escobar Montenegro,
was in a detention center in York, Pa.

''They accuse them of being gang associates, which makes no sense,'' Mr. Muller
said, describing all three as holding down two or three jobs as roofers,
restaurant workers and farmhands. ''Marvin Lopez is a librarian in his country,
the sweetest person in the world. He works 14 hours a day, seven days a week.
How is he able to be a gang member?''

Accounts of the Suffolk County raids are similar to those criticized in Nassau
County.

''These were like dragnets being cast over entire houses,'' said Nadia
Marin-Molina, director of the Workplace Project, an immigrant advocacy
organization in Hempstead that has gathered many of the complaints.

The complaints echo a federal lawsuit filed last month in Manhattan contending
that immigration agents unlawfully force their way into the homes of Latino
families in violation of the Fourth Amendment's protection from unreasonable
searches.

''We have been inundated with calls,'' said Cesar Perales, director of the
Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, which filed the lawsuit. ''People
are terrified by these indiscriminate raids.''

Mr. Perales said yesterday that by week's end he would seek an emergency
restraining order to stop such raids.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peggy Delarosa-Delgado and Christopher, one of her three
children, at home in Suffolk County. The family are citizens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Citizenship Test Question

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 116 words


To the Editor:

''Tough Questions for a New Test: What Does 'American' Mean?'' (front page,
Sept. 28) reports that Citizenship and Immigration Services has replaced ''How
many branches are there in the United States government?'' with ''What stops one
branch of government from becoming too powerful?'' on the revised civics test
for immigrants.

Presumably, the correct answer is some form of ''a system of checks and
balances.''

But since immigrants who keep up with the news may be thinking about the fact
that President Bush subscribes to the theory of the unitary executive, will they
be able to offer ''Nothing!'' as the correct answer?

Edward L. Rocklin Claremont, Calif., Sept. 28, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Strikes Balance on Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 13


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger weighed in this week on two volatile issues in the
immigration debate, splitting the difference in a way that exemplifies his
delicate handling of the controversial subject.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, pleasing immigration advocates and Latino groups, signed a
measure that prohibits cities from requiring landlords to check whether tenants
are in the country legally.

California becomes the first state with such a law, and the bill's sponsor and
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund predicted that the
measure would be studied in  municipalities across the country that have weighed
similar status checks by landlords. Six cities, including Escondido in Southern
California, adopted ordinances requiring verification, but all have been
rescinded or have stalled in the face of lawsuits.

Then Mr. Schwarzenegger, pleasing his party's conservatives, vetoed a bill to
allow new citizens to register to vote on Election Day if their naturalization
ceremonies were held less than seven days before an election. Opponents saw the
bill as fraught with logistical and security problems and as a prelude to
allowing same-day registration for everyone, which many Democrats have
advocated.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, a naturalized American citizen from Austria, presented his
action on the bills as a pragmatic, case-by-case assessment of their merits.

Francisco Castillo, a spokesman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, said his support of the
landlord-related bill came from his disapproval of local governments' performing
a role he believes belongs to the federal government. The veto of the voting
measure, Mr. Castillo said, was based on logistical and security concerns.

But elected officials and political analysts said they believed that Mr.
Schwarzenegger's decisions reflected his gingerly steps along the immigration
divide, giving a little to both sides as a Republican in a state with a
Democratic legislative majority (and maybe, according to speculation in
Sacramento, as a future candidate for the United States Senate).

''I think the governor signed this bill for the right reason,'' said Assemblyman
Charles Calderon, the Los Angeles-area Democrat who sponsored the landlord bill,
''but clearly it was a tactical move on his part. This allows him to say, 'I am
not anti-immigration because I signed the Calderon bill.' It's great cover for
him.''

Louis DeSipio, a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine,
said the governor generally came down on the side of his party that focused on
financial and business affairs over social issues. ''It's a little more than
rhetoric when he says, 'I am an immigrant,''' Mr. DeSipio said, adding that Mr.
Schwarzenegger was not ''very comfortable with the social conservatives.''

Still, Mr. Schwarzenegger has opposed allowing illegal immigrants to get
driver's licenses, and he has advocated improving security on the border.

Republicans and Democrats agreed that the landlord-related bill would be more
influential than the Election Day registration measure.

Last year, Escondido, following cities like Hazleton, Pa., adopted an ordinance
requiring landlords to check tenants' status as a way, supporters said, to stem
overcrowding in apartments and cut down on what they considered a swelling
population of illegal immigrants taxing public services.

But landlord groups around the state lobbied hard against such requirements and
pushed the Legislature to take action.

Malcolm Bennett, a Los Angeles landlord and president of the Apartment
Association, California Southern Cities, which lobbied for the bill, said
landlords believed that if tenants could document that they had a job and
sufficient income, that should be enough to rent an apartment. ''It is not the
duty of the landlord to verify the immigration status of a tenant,'' Mr. Bennett
said.

But opponents of the bill, including Escondido-area legislators and City Council
members who had supported it, reacted bitterly to Mr. Schwarzenegger's approval.
They said it frustrated efforts to curb illegal immigration at a time when
Congress had failed to act on immigration.

The City of Escondido settled a lawsuit with civil rights organizations over the
ordinance by agreeing not to enforce it and paying the group's legal bill of
about $100,000.

''The federal government is not doing anything,'' Councilman Ed Gallo said,
''and for some reason they don't want to stop illegal immigration. We have a
border. We are sovereign nation, as is Mexico and Canada. The border is porous,
and people are coming in and making a mockery of our system.''

Assemblyman George Plescia, a Republican whose district includes parts of
Escondido, said the law ''takes away local control.''

''I support the local governments in their efforts,'' Mr. Plescia said. ''This
is not a place for the state to step in, and if they feel they have to, they
went the wrong way with it on this issue with this bill.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger presented his decisions on two bills
as a pragmatic assessment, not a political one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLERMO
ARIAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mayor With a Tough Stance on Immigration Is on Both Sides Now

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words


Mayor Steven M. Lonegan of Bogota once demanded that McDonald's remove a
Spanish-language billboard, and tried  to make English the official language of
his small New Jersey town. Then he sought to deputize his police force to crack
down on illegal immigrants.

But recently, the conservative Mr. Lonegan  -- who has gained national attention
for his views -- suffered an attack of the ironies when the police discovered
two illegal immigrants  working at a home he owns,  prompting critics to heap
scorn on him, a onetime candidate for governor and House of Representatives.

He now says the two workers were unfairly singled out, and he is calling for an
investigation of his own Police Department for racial profiling  -- claims that
the police chief, Frank Gurnari,   called ''absurd'' yesterday.

But Mr. Lonegan stood his ground. ''I'm not going to racially profile
employees,'' he said. ''The real hypocrites are the liberals who are saying that
I should have assumed that because they're Spanish that they're illegal. That
we're now going to socially stereotype people and assume they're illegal.''

In fact, Mr. Lonegan said he had come to sympathize with the workers. ''These
guys need the money,'' he said, noting that he agreed to pay them $10 an hour.

Mr. Lonegan -- mayor of this town of 7,900 that is 21 percent Hispanic -- said
he had nothing to apologize for, and he blamed what he called a ''racist
neighbor'' and the federal government for his current plight.

But his critics were not giving any ground.

Tara M. Sharp, a Democratic councilwoman, shrugged off the mayor's annoyance.
''If anyone should not be picking up a day laborer anywhere, it is Mayor Steven
Lonegan,''  she said in an interview yesterday. ''Things have come full
circle.''

The matter  began Oct. 8, when Mr. Lonegan said  he picked up two young men,
identified by the police as Elder Chuta and Armando Gomez Santiz, to go to his
home to assemble lawn signs for  Americans For Prosperity, a national
conservative organization that advocates, according to its Web site, ''limited
government and free markets.''  Mr. Lonegan is the state director for the
group's foundation.

He  said that  the men  assured  him that they had proper documentation, and
that he left them at his home while he went to get working papers to fill out.
While he was gone, according to the police, a neighbor noticed ''two Hispanic
males''  in the open garage and called the authorities.

The police questioned the men, who acknowledged that they were illegal
immigrants. Mr. Chuta was not charged, but Mr. Santiz was charged with giving a
false name that differed from the one on his Mexican identification card. He is
scheduled to appear in municipal court on Tuesday.

Mr. Lonegan is no stranger to controversy over his views on immigration. Last
year, he called the McDonald's billboard  ''offensive'' and ''divisive,''
adding, ''The true things that bind us together as neighbors and community is
our belief in the American flag and our common language.''

In addition to calling for a boycott of the company, he tried to put a ballot
proposal before voters to make English the official language of the town, but
was defeated in court.

Ms. Sharp, the councilwoman, said the scrutiny had been ''embarrassing for the
town,'' but Mr. Lonegan fired right back.

''It's embarrassing that hypocrites are attacking me,'' he said. ''I'm going to
continue hiring any Hispanic who gives me a legal ID, and I'm going to assume
they're legal until anyone can prove otherwise.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Ready or Not, France Opens Museum on Immigration

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Immigration is the big, unavoidable issue not just in the United States but
across Europe now, and nowhere more obviously than here in France. The latest
proof arrived last week in the form of a new museum, the National Center of the
History of Immigration. On the edge of the city's Bois de Vincennes, in a
comfortable neighborhood, it has opened far from the poor suburbs where Muslim
youths rioted a couple of summers ago, burning thousands of cars partly in
protest against Nicolas Sarkozy, then interior minister, now president.

Mr. Sarkozy guaranteed that the museum, a pet project of his predecessor,
Jacques Chirac, would make headlines when he conspicuously did not show up for
its inauguration.

Nor did many other people when I stopped by the other day. I am told that
thousands showed up the first few  days, but only a small crowd milled around on
the museum's first Saturday afternoon. There's no charge for admission. There's
no fancy gift shop or cafe, either, and the place has the slightly ramshackle,
melancholy air of a temporary installation. It shares an old building with an
aquarium that occupies the basement. Most visitors, when I looked, headed
downstairs.

Sparsely devised with charts, graphs, interactive gadgets and odds and ends of
memorabilia meant to humanize what is a fairly dry, lifeless display, the museum
is a well-meaning dud. Its obvious reluctance to dwell on touchy subjects like
the occupation of Algeria is predictable, this being a government enterprise.

That said, multiculturalism, which by its very existence the museum takes for
granted, is an alien and incendiary concept here. Unlike much of Europe, France
is an immigrant nation, the number of immigrants having risen from one million
in 1881 to 2 million by 1962 to 3.7 million by 1982. (It has dropped a bit since
then.) It is estimated that 20 percent to 25 percent of the present population
has an immigrant background.

But being a French citizen means you're not categorized as African French or
Southeast Asian French or West Indian French; you're just plain French. That's
the republican ideal, citizenship bestowing theoretical equality, belying the
reality of racism. French schoolchildren are steeped in the concept of a single
France. The law actually forbids taking a census according to ethnic or racial
categories.

So when a wall text in the immigration museum refers to French histories,
implying there is more than one French history, more than one version of a
Frenchman, that simple statement, which can sound harmless to an American,
raises eyebrows here.

Curiously, the building in which the French have chosen to house the museum used
to be part of the International Colonial Exposition of 1931. A sculptured frieze
on the facade, an Art Deco-era marvel by Alfred Janniot, shows French colonial
laborers toiling for the glory of the empire. Across the street, a memorial from
1934 honors Jean-Baptiste Marchand, who helped spread French rule in Africa.
Standing tall in crisp tropical-weight military wools, Marchand leads a troupe
of half-naked African servants.

Via the building and the memorial, the locale implicitly acknowledges French
colonialism's ugly side and gives the new institution some historical context.
There are a few photographs in the display documenting protesters against
anti-immigration policies, and some anti-Semitic publications from the turn of
the last century.

Otherwise, the museum makes do with magazine covers, yellowing newspapers and
trivia extolling immigrant athletes like Raymond Kopa and Zinedine Zidane, the
soccer players; or  Rachid Taha, the singer of dual French and Algerian
citizenship; or Chopin. At a touch-screen display, I came across a boy with his
father -- they seemed to be of Arabic descent and talked in French -- who were
trying to match foreign words with their origins.

Plasticized vitrines, chic but deeply impractical (very French), bore printed
quotations from immigrants. The message: People emigrate from many places, for
many reasons, with difficulty, often reluctantly, and they bring their cultures
with them.

In case you didn't know.

''The history of immigration is one thing, and the history of slavery and the
history of colonization are other things,'' Jacques Toubon, the museum's
president, told me, somewhat defensively I thought. France ''is very late in
confronting the truth about its colonial history,'' he said, but the purpose of
his museum ''is to tell the story of immigration.'' That sounded to an American
like devising a museum for African-American or American Indian cultures but
skipping gingerly over slavery, segregation and Manifest Destiny.

Mr. Toubon added, ''We're inside a building that is a memory place for
colonization, but our message is the contrary: to show what all these people
coming to France for two centuries have brought, which ends up being not just
the history of immigration but the history of France.''

An old ally of Mr. Chirac, a lifelong government functionary and former culture
minister, Mr. Toubon knows the ancient art of protecting himself while
oh-so-delicately criticizing an opponent. To Mr. Sarkozy --  the son of a
Hungarian immigrant, as is often pointed out --  the idea of atonement is
political anathema. Lately his government has proposed the use of genetic
testing to verify the bloodlines of would-be immigrants who want to join family
members here. One of his own ministers called the idea ''disgusting.''

Meanwhile, the police have been ordered to expel 25,000 immigrants ''sans
papiers,'' without papers, before the year ends. Newspapers here have been
publishing articles about immigrants like Chulan Liu, a 51-year-old divorced
woman from North China, who died last month after leaping from her window when
policemen knocked on her door; and Ivan Demsky, a 12-year-old son of Chechen
asylum-seekers who slipped off a fourth-floor balcony in Amiens when he and his
father tried to evade authorities. Opponents of the government have started
forming what they're calling the new Resistance.

But Mr. Sarkozy is the most popular president since de Gaulle. Two years ago, in
a poll taken by the National Human Rights Commission, two-thirds of those
surveyed acknowledged that they held racist views. That same year right-wingers
in Parliament passed a resolution praising former French rule in the colonial
and overseas territories. The resolution spoiled a plan by Mr. Chirac, who as a
junior officer in Algeria knew firsthand something about what had gone on there,
to forge a friendship treaty with Algeria, a step toward apologizing.

Mr. Sarkozy, campaigning in February in Toulon before a conservative crowd with
''pieds-noirs,'' French expatriates from Algeria and elsewhere, said France
''should be proud of its past and stop this nonsense about repentance.''

Then came the awkward moment on May 10 when, as the incoming president, Mr.
Sarkozy had to appear with Mr. Chirac at an event that Mr. Chirac devised to
honor the memory of French slaves. After that, Mr. Chirac's immigration museum
was a kind of ticking time bomb for his successor.

It had long been part of the larger multicultural legacy Mr. Chirac devised for
himself  -- his iteration of Francois Mitterrand's Grands Projets or the
Pompidou Center  -- which included the enormous Musee du Quai Branly. In a
cavernous new building by the celebrity architect Jean Nouvel, it opened last
year as a showcase for African, Oceanic and other non-Western art. With piped-in
drums and a heart-of-darkness, junglelike interior, it seemed comically
patronizing but, predictably, became an instant crowd-pleaser.

The newimmigration museum is different. It's more symbol than tourist
attraction. Two other museums, in Marseilles and Perpignan, are slated to open
in the next few years in response. They cater to the right wing, endorsing
French colonial rule and honoring the so-called Harkis, Muslims who fought
alongside the French during the war in Algeria.

It's hard to say who will go to the National Center at the moment, save for
bored schoolchildren on compulsory field trips, although the place has the
potential to be a constructive troublemaker. Mr. Toubon promises, in time, a
program of events to add meat to the bare-bones display, which he says will also
change.

Clearly the place needs to do more than cheerlead, feign scholarly impartiality
and make vague noises about past injustices to have any impact. It needs to try
to steer a debate that is reshaping France and the rest of Europe.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2007



CORRECTION: The Abroad column in The Arts yesterday, about the new National
Center of the History of Immigration in Paris, misstated the proportion of
people who acknowledged in a poll two years ago by France's National Human
Rights Commission that they held racist views. It was one-third, not two-thirds.


The Abroad column in The Arts on Oct. 17, about the new National Center of the
History of Immigration museum in Paris, misstated the timing of riots by Muslim
youths two years ago in poor Paris suburbs that are far from the museum's
comfortable neighborhood. They were in the fall, not the summer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The National Center of the History of Immigration in Paris.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BENOiT TESSIER/REUTERS) (pg. E7)
 New to Paris, on those once new to France: The National Center of the History
of Immigration, which opened last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg. E1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 345 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Shift, 40% of Immigrants Move Directly to Suburbs

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 425 words


About 4 in 10 immigrants are moving directly from abroad to the nation's
suburbs, which are growing increasingly diverse, according to census figures
released yesterday.

The Census Bureau's annual survey of residential mobility also found that after
steadily declining for more than a half-century, the proportion of Americans who
move in any given year appears to have leveled off at about one in seven.

''For blacks, especially, it mimics the 50s-style suburban movement, most
pronounced for married couples with children, owners and the upwardly mobile,''
said William H. Frey, a Brookings Institution demographer.

Dr. Frey's analysis of mobility patterns found that while Hispanic and Asian
immigrants were more likely to settle first in the nation's cities, ''after they
get settled, they follow the train to the suburbs.''

The migration of blacks to the South continued, with net gains of blacks also
seen in the West. The South was the dominant region in recording gains among
Hispanics living in the United States who moved.

''The fast growth of construction and low-skilled jobs, plus the general
affordability of parts of the South for upwardly mobile Hispanics, has made the
South a key destination,'' Dr. Frey said.

The 2006 Current Population Survey found that nearly 40 million people had moved
in the preceding year, or about 14 percent. Residential mobility has remained at
that rate for several years now after declining steadily from a high of 20
percent since the census began measuring it in 1948. While the census count of
movers from abroad includes returning citizens, the bulk of movers are foreign
born.

Audrey Singer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said traditional
gateway cities like New York, Chicago and Los Angeles were still magnets for
immigrants who move to join friends and relatives. But particularly in the South
and West, where central cities were less likely to develop dense cores,
immigrants are following jobs to the suburbs and settling there first.

''It's a really important shift,'' Ms. Singer said.

The highest rates of moving were among residents of the West and the South,
Hispanic people, the unemployed and renters. Some 30 percent of renters lived
elsewhere a year earlier, compared with 7 percent of owners.

Almost half of the movers said they changed residences because they wanted more
space or less. Sixty-two percent moved within the same county, 20 percent moved
from another county in the same state, 14 percent moved from another state and 3
percent moved from abroad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
