
                               1 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 19, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Nullifies Most of California Immigrant Law

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 18


A Federal judge has struck down virtually all remaining provisions of
Proposition 187, driving one more nail into the coffin of the California ballot
initiative, which was passed in 1994 to deny social services to illegal
immigrants but has been blocked by court challenges ever since.

The ruling, issued late Tuesday by Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer of Federal District
Court in Los Angeles, confirmed and elaborated on her preliminary ruling of last
November, when she found that the measure unconstitutionally usurped Federal
authority over immigration policy. Judge Pfaelzer's final ruling paves the way
for an appeal by Gov. Pete Wilson, who made Proposition 187 a centerpiece of his
re-election campaign in 1994.

In her latest ruling, Judge Pfaelzer re-emphasized that the Federal welfare
overhaul signed into law by President Clinton in 1996 -- which denied welfare
benefits to illegal immigrants -- made it even clearer that California was
"powerless to enact its own legislative scheme to regulate immigration." When
Mr. Clinton signed the law, the judge wrote, "he effectively ended any further
debate about what states could do in this field."

Judge Pfaelzer said the state could not deny immigrants benefits in the state's
college and university systems, or deny access to health care or social
services. Only provisions for criminal penalties for the manufacture, sale and
use of false documents to conceal a person's immigrant status remain in force.

The American Civil Liberties Union was among several groups that filed
challenges to block Proposition 187, and it hailed Judge Pfaelzer's final ruling
as an important victory.

In a statement issued in Sacramento, Mr. Wilson, a Republican, complained that
Judge Pfaelzer had taken too long to issue a final judgment and called her
analysis of the measure "fundamentally flawed." But he added, "This action will
allow us to finally appeal her decision to the Ninth Circuit so that the will of
the people can be upheld."

At the request of the plaintiffs, Judge Pfaelzer ordered the state to send
written notice to all state and local agencies and health care and education
workers that the core of Proposition 187 was invalid and should not be enforced.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Strong Blow Is Delivered To State Law On Aliens

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Nov. 14


When Proposition 187 was on the California ballot three years ago there were
protests, student boycotts, accusations of racism and cries of immigrant
bashing, over the ballot initiative, which sought to deny undocumented
immigrants an array of social services.

But since voters approved the measure, most of its features have been tied up in
court.

Today, Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer of Federal District Court in Los Angeles said
core elements of the measure were unconstitutional.

While Judge Pfaelzer's action was a preliminary ruling, advocates on both sides
said her final judgment would essentially be the same.

The decision is along the lines of earlier rulings the judge has made indicating
that she thought much of the law should not be enforced.

Today she cited "obvious flaws in the initiative, constitutional and otherwise."

Gov. Pete Wilson had claimed that the Federal welfare overhaul passed last year
empowered states to regulate public benefit issues. Based on that contention, he
had asked Judge Pfaelzer to reconsider her 1995 ruling invalidating much of the
initiative.

But in her ruling today, Judge Pfaelzer wrote that the Federal Government's
authority in immigration policy was made even clearer in 1996 when President
Clinton signed the welfare reform bill, which, among other things, placed
restrictions on what kinds of social services were available for undocumented
immigrants and who was qualified to receive them.

"The states have no power to effectuate a scheme parallel to that specified in"
the Federal law "even if that parallel scheme does not conflict with" the law,
Judge Pfaelzer wrote in her ruling.

She issued the decision in a memorandum of law, which allows for motions to be
filed until Nov. 28. She will make a final ruling after that date.

Judge Pfaelzer has presided over the court battle on the proposition since
shortly after its passage in November 1994, and issued a preliminary injunction
that has made it a toothless tiger for nearly its whole existence.

In her ruling today, Judge Pfaelzer wrote that the initiative conflicted with
Federal law in several ways. For example, Proposition 187 would deny to
undocumented immigrants, including tens of thousands of children, public
elementary and secondary education. Judge Pfaelzer ruled that provision invalid
based on a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that held "a state can not deny public
education to children based on their immigration status."

Mark Rosenbaum of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California
called Judge Pfaelzer's ruling "a huge victory" and "the tombstone of
Proposition 187."

Mr. Rosenbaum said the ruling put immigration policy back where it belongs -- in
the hands of the Federal Government.

"But what it really does," he said, "is it removes opportunistic politicians
like Governor Wilson from immigration policy."

Governor Wilson made the passage of the proposition part of his re-election
campaign.

At a news conference outside his Capitol office here, Governor Wilson said today
that Judge Pfaelzer's "analysis of Proposition 187 is as flawed and error prone
as the 1962 New York Mets."

"We look forward to this measure going to a higher court that has a better
understanding of the law," he said.

People across the country have been closely watching the battle over Proposition
187 as other states grapple with immigration and the changing face of the United
States. Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation of American Immigration
Reform in Washington, which supports similar restrictive measures, said he was
dismayed by Judge Pfaelzer's ruling.

"You get to the point where some judges see themselves as abrogating the will of
the voters and the states," Mr. Stein said. "The judge is using a thin reed of
legal reasoning in overruling what the electorate has demanded."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 12, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Opposes Bill to Deny Benefits to New Immigrants

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 530 words


With the historic portal of Ellis Island as a backdrop, Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani said yesterday that legal immigrants should be eligible for
state-financed welfare benefits in their first year of residence.

The Mayor therefore disagrees with Gov. George E. Pataki, who supports a state
welfare bill that denies benefits to new immigrants during their first year in
New York. The Governor is expected to sign the measure, which the State
Legislature approved last week, sometime in the next few days.

"Legal immigrants should be treated the same as citizens," Mr. Giuliani said
after testifying at a hearing held on Ellis Island by the immigration
subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "They come in and pay taxes at
exactly the same rate, so when it's time for benefits they should be treated the
same way."

Under Federal law, immigrants must now obtain a guarantee of financial support
from a sponsor to be allowed into the country, but in New York, if that
sponsorship falls through, they are eligible for public assistance. Under the
bill, New York's distinctive practice would be terminated; legal immigrants
would be able to collect state-financed benefits only after they had been in the
country at least 12 months.

Mr. Pataki asserts that no other state provides such benefits and that New York
cannot afford to become a magnet for immigrants who have lost sponsorship.

Both the Mayor and the Governor have been vocal opponents of Congressional
attempts to deny benefits to legal immigrants.

Mr. Giuliani seemed to be reminding the Governor of their common opposition to
Federal policies that could hurt legal immigrants. "My view of the state budget
is that it should do what the Federal budget didn't do," Mr. Giuliani said.

Mr. Pataki did not appear at the hearing, but did provide written testimony in
which he lauded immigrants' contributions to this country.

Between 100,000 and 125,000 legal immigrants arrive in New York State each year,
according to the New York Immigration Coalition, an advocacy group, and welfare
experts estimate that only 5 percent of them require public assistance in the
first year. The policy change would be felt most significantly in New York City,
where about 80 percent of the state's legal immigrants settle, according to the
coalition.

Groups that support granting full benefits to immigrants have expressed concern
that the policy change would leave mothers and their children vulnerable should
sponsors, who are often husbands or other male heads of household, fail to
provide the support they promised.

Tony Coles, an adviser to the Mayor, said that the city would be forced to step
into the breach. "New York City is not going to deny appropriate benefits to
legal immigrants just because they've been here less than a year," he said. "We
will end up picking up a cost that should be shared with the state."

Mr. Coles said the Legal Aid Society and other advocacy groups are considering
bringing suit to challenge the state's distinction between citizens and legal
immigrants. He added that the Mayor had asked the Corporation Counsel to
determine whether the city could join that suit.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 27, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

4 Indicted in Immigrant Smuggling Scheme

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Feb. 26


A Federal grand jury today indicted a former Olympic bicyclist from Iraq and
three others in a scheme to smuggle hundreds of people from the Mideast through
Latin America and the Caribbean and then on to Mexico, where they crossed the
Rio Grande to their ultimate destinations in cities including Los Angeles, Las
Vegas, Detroit and New York.

Among those charged was a Mexican immigration official.

The authorities said the operators of the scheme charged their clients --from
Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq, $10,000 to $25,000 a person to smuggle them
from country to country until they reached their United States destinations.

The former Olympian, George Tajirian, had pleaded guilty to visa fraud in 1978
and served nine months on that charge.

Immigration officials said that three-quarters of the estimated 250 people that
Mr. Tajirian's ring had brought into the United States in the last two years
alone were from Iraq.

Breaking up immigrant smuggling schemes has become a priority of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, especially since 1993, when the grounding of the
Golden Venture, a tramp steamer, off Rockaway Beach in Queens, with 300 illegal
Chinese immigrants aboard, made the scale of these operations starkly evident.

Doris M. Meissner, Commissioner of the immigration service, said today's case
was an example of how tougher laws and law enforcement have helped the
authorities catch up with increasingly professional smugglers.

"We're tightening our law enforcement along the border and other places, and as
a result, the smuggling networks are getting more sophisticated and dangerous,"
Mrs. Meissner said. "This is a very high priority, and this case is really a
textbook example of how we're meeting the threat."

Mr. Tajirian, 56, now a Mexican citizen with homes in Mexico City and Quito,
Ecuador, was apprehended by Panamanian officials on Feb. 13 and flown to Miami,
where immigration agents arrested him, then took him to El Paso, officials said.
He was charged with one count of conspiracy and six counts of alien smuggling in
a scheme said in the indictment to have begun before January 1996 and lasted
until his arrest. The charges carry a maximum sentence of 70 years.

Maria Soledad Martinez-Rangel, a Mexico City resident and Mr. Tajirian's wife;
Salvador Moreno, the Mexican immigration agent, and Katia Anbousi, a Lebanese
employee of Mr. Tajirian's Ecuadorean travel agency, were charged with single
counts of conspiracy, carrying maximum sentences of five years.

None of the suspects have been arrested, but prosecutors are asking Mexican
authorities to extradite their two residents.

Mrs. Meissner described today's indictments as a breakthrough in combating
immigrant smuggling from the Middle East. It involved nine of her agency's
offices, including three abroad that were added just in the last year, and an
undercover agent who posed as a middle-man.

A leader of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee said, however, that
today's indictment should not become an excuse for baseless accusations against
those of Arab descent, who come primarily for economic opportunity.

"I would hope the I.N.S. would not look at them as terrorists because they are
Arabs," said Houedia Saad, the group's legal director, regarding those who had
been smuggled here.

Regional immigration officials said at a news conference here that the smugglers
chose El Paso because it is the second-busiest point of entry, with 58 million
crossings a year. Some were also smuggled across remote river crossings,
officials said.

The latest case has roots dating to the Mexico City Olympics of 1968. During
opening ceremonies, Mr. Tajirian carried the flag of Iraq's three-member Olympic
team, but defected to Mexico instead of returning home.  He bought a home in
Detroit, which has a large community of fellow Iraqi Christians, but spent much
of his time in Mexico.

Arrested in 1978 and charged with 15 counts of visa fraud, he pleaded to a
single charge and cooperated with investigators. He said that several State
Department officials in Mexico City introduced him to document forgery and
immigrant smuggling, an accusation the State Department and the officials denied
but immigration authorities confirmed.

Mr. Tajirian served a nine-month sentence, and Federal officials said today that
they believed he resumed smuggling immigrants after his release, though the
indictment concerns the last two years.

The investigation began in October 1996, when immigration authorities here say
they found an immigrant, from Syria with false documents, and another, a
Palestinian, falsely claiming American citizenship.

Investigators then traced travel patterns, payments and documents for them and
four other illegal immigrants back to Mr. Tajirian, who they said had traveled
the world to arrange immigrants' passage.

Only a few of the smuggled immigrants have been apprehended, and some have asked
for political asylum. Immigration officials said their search for the other
immigrants and their investigation would continue.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Inquiry Delays Bond Hearings for 23 Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., June 24


Honoring a Government request for more time to investigate how 23 Chinese men
illegally landed on a New Jersey beach last month, two immigration judges
postponed hearings today on whether the men should be released on bond.

Irene Feldman, an assistant district counsel for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said that agency investigators would need two more weeks
to gauge whether any of the 23 would be needed as witnesses in a criminal
investigation into human smuggling. Bond hearings had been scheduled for about
half the immigrants today.

"There is still a concern for the safety of the individuals," Ms. Feldman said,
suggesting that they might be harmed by the smugglers if they were released.

Defense lawyers did not oppose the motion, saying it would be pointless:
Government officials had already obtained court orders to detain the 23 men as
witnesses regardless of the outcome of the bond hearings. As a result, Judges
Esmeralda Cabrera and Mirlande Tadal granted the motion, and bond hearings were
set for the week of July 5.

Robert E. Porges, a Manhattan lawyer representing all but two of the 23 men,
said he doubted that the immigrants could offer much information about the
smugglers behind their voyage.

"They can describe what happened to them," Mr. Porges said. "But I doubt they
can give a lot of information as to how these people operate."

The postponement of the bond hearings came on a busy if anticlimactic day in the
Government's case to deport the men back to China. Among other actions, lawyers
for the men submitted several applications for political asylum, and the judges
scheduled several asylum hearings in August and September. The same routine --
delaying bond hearings and scheduling asylum hearings -- is expected on Thursday
for the rest of the men.

Going into today's proceedings, there had been an air of anticipation because of
the prospect that some of the 23 would be reunited, if only briefly, with some
of their relatives in the United States. The relatives were scheduled to offer
testimony to support the men's release on bond.

Two of the men's relatives, New York residents, remained in a reception area all
morning, outside the courtrooms. They were later told to return in two weeks.

The relatives -- one a young man with a crew cut who spoke little English, the
other an elderly woman with the demeanor of a concerned aunt who could only
speak the Fuzhou dialect spoken by the detainees -- politely declined to talk to
reporters.

In the only public comments to date made by any of the 23 men, one 25-year-old
man from the small farming community of Minjiangko, not far from the city of
Fuzhou in Fujian province, described parts of his journey to The New York Times
last week. He said the men had spent considerable time in a South American
country, waiting with perhaps 200 other men to make a voyage to the United
States. Newspaper reports have indicated that the country was Suriname.

The men left South America two or three months ago, squeezing onto a large
vessel for the trip north in the Atlantic. But on May 30, after the 23 men were
transferred to a smaller boat, the Oops II, the smaller boat ran aground in
dense fog near the affluent shore town of Bay Head, N.J.

They have since been held in a detention center here, not far from the New
Jersey Turnpike.



LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Arrest in Dallas Widens Inquiry Into Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 656 words


A Dallas couple have been arrested for harboring and transporting deaf Mexican
immigrants, and Government agents said they were trying to determine whether
their case was connected to the scores of deaf Mexicans who were found living in
virtual slavery in New York last month.

In court papers filed here yesterday, one Federal agent added a new and
disturbing twist to the tales of abuse and forced labor that have been heard in
recent weeks. The agent said that one deaf Mexican reported that other Mexican
immigrants were actually auctioned off to bosses who then forced them to peddle
trinkets.

That person, a woman, told the agent that she was assaulted and sexually abused
while being held by bosses in Sanford, N.C. Federal agents raided two houses
there last month and found more than a dozen illegal immigrants.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity out of fear of jeopardizing the investigation, said the Government is
trying to determine whether Sanford has been a hub for the Mexican smuggling
operations, linking Chicago, Dallas and New York. "It seems like all roads lead
to Sanford," the official said, explaining that the city was far from most
charitable groups and immigration authorities who might notice large numbers of
deaf Mexicans.

The week before the Sanford raid, the Government charged others in New York with
holding dozens of deaf Mexican peddlers in two apartments in Queens and forcing
them to sell trinkets in the subways.

The Dallas case appears to be linked but in many ways distinct. Here, Victor and
Maria Estela Cervantes, legal resident aliens and themselves deaf, are accused
only of transporting and harboring five illegal aliens, with no allegations of
bondage or abuse. They were arrested and charged on Thursday.

At yesterday's hearing, Brooke Cervantes, one of the couple's two daughters,
said she had offered to give evidence of abuses in North Carolina in return for
more lenient treatment of her parents. On a visit to friends there three or four
years ago, she said, she witnessed and heard of the mistreatment of deaf
Mexicans. "She would abuse them, take money from them and torture them," Brooke,
who is now 13, said regarding one of the captors. "She wouldn't let them go."

As her parents tearfully communicated in Spanish sign language, friends who had
long known them in a suburban Seventh-Day Adventist church vouched for their
character. Their lawyers noted that a local television crew had been in their
apartment on Tuesday for a report on deaf Mexican immigrants. Brooke Cervantes,
however, admitted that they had lived with five illegal immigrants, plus their
own four-member family, in a one-bedroom apartment.

An I.N.S. agent said the apartment was stuffed with leather, beads, key-ring
parts and tools with which they made the trinkets they then sold.

Those in the neighborhood said the deaf Mexicans could come and go as they
pleased, and that they often sat outside making key chains with long spools of
leather.

The authorities were led to the apartment by an entry in a notebook found in the
North Carolina raids and by other information they received through
investigators in New York.

The couple's lawyers say they plan to contest the charges. The Government has
alleged only that Mrs. Cervantes took an illegal immigrant from Mexico, through
an official entry, but not that the couple brought anyone from Sanford.

In the Government's filing, Guadalupe Lozano, a deaf Mexican, said she had been
tricked into going with another deaf family to Sanford, where she was kept
against her will for more than a year. "Deaf citizens of Mexico are smuggled
into the United States and sold into slavery, quite literally to the highest
bidder," she reported. "These persons are then forced to perform numerous tasks
such as peddling trinkets in public areas and the profits are kept by their
owners."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 27, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

House to Act on Illegal Immigrant Reprieve

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26


Illegal immigrants would get a three-week reprieve to file paperwork in their
fight to stay in the United States, under legislation the House plans to
consider next week.

Immigrants have been in a panic over the expiration next Tuesday of a measure
that has permitted illegal immigrants to file here for legal status instead of
at consulates abroad.

With Congress still far from completing its appropriations process for the
fiscal year that begins next Wednesday, the House on Monday will consider a
stopgap spending bill that would pay for Government operations through Oct. 23.
Included in that bill is a three-week extension of the immigration provision.

A one-year extension was initially contemplated but was withdrawn after
Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, threatened to delay
passage of the stopgap spending bill.

Mr. Rohrabacher lifted his objection, allowing a three-week extension, after
Republican leaders agreed that a separate vote on the immigration provision
would be scheduled later this year.

He and others say the United States should not reward immigrants who came here
unlawfully or overstayed their temporary visas.

But immigrant-rights groups argue that the provision benefits only those who are
already on track for legal residence.

In 1994, Congress wrote a regulation allowing illegal aliens to remain here
while applying for permanent residence provided they pay a fine, now $1,000, and
either be already on track for legal residence or related to a citizen or legal
resident.

With that provision expiring next Tuesday, the Clinton Administration has asked
for an extension, but Congress has yet to decide the issue.

The Senate, in the bill financing immigration operations, has approved an
open-ended extension. The House, completing its bill, does not have similar
language, and so House and Senate negotiators will have to resolve the issue
later this fall.

Facing a possible defeat of the provision, tens of thousands of immigrants have
been confronted with a difficult choice. They could remain here illegally, or
leave the country to obtain their green cards at United States consulates
abroad. With the application process sometimes taking years, the immigrants
would face a long period away from families and jobs if they left the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Flaws in Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words


The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 is a
morass of technical complexity that has yet to be fully explicated by either the
law's drafters or the immigration officers who are supposed to carry it out. But
it is already apparent that at least two elements need immediate correction.

One provision unfairly punishes refugees from Nicaragua, El Salvador and
Guatemala who fled civil wars in the 1980's and were given temporary protection
from deportation. Under prior law, these refugees, totaling about 300,000, could
have become permanent residents by showing that they had lived here for seven
years and had good moral character, and that deportation would cause them and
their family members extreme hardship. The 1996 act increased the residency
requirement to 10 years, eliminated hardship to the refugee himself as a basis
to fight deportation and limited the number of immigrants who could seek
permanent residency through this avenue to 4,000.

These Central Americans played by an earlier set of rules endorsed by both
Republican and Democratic administrations, but are now being unjustly penalized.
The White House supports, and Congress should pass, a bill introduced by Senator
Connie Mack, a Florida Republican, that would exempt this group from provisions
of the new law, allowing the prior legal standards to apply.

A second provision would actually encourage illegals to stay underground rather
than risk going abroad, as they might soon have to, to obtain immigrant visas.
The new law imposes a three-year bar to re-entry on illegals who leave the
country today and a 10-year bar on those who leave after April 1. If a key
provision in current immigration law is allowed to expire tomorrow, as
scheduled, illegals will have to return to their home countries to obtain
permanent visas.

Under the current rule, people who qualify for permanent residency can have
their applications for immigrant visas, or "green cards," processed here rather
than through American consulates in their home countries. This does not give
them any preference. But it reduces paperwork at consulate offices abroad, and
generates $200 million a year in revenues from applicants who pay $1,000 each to
have their papers processed here.

The Senate has voted to make the provision permanent, but the House is expected
to vote only on a three-week extension. If Congress does not renew the
provision, hundreds of thousands of people will have to go abroad for green
cards. Thousands who have met the criteria for permanent residency but are
technically illegal in status would be barred from coming back for years.

Fighting illegal immigration is a difficult and important job. But Congress
should do it in a way that will deter illegal entry at the border. Deporting
Central American war refugees and those who are on the verge of getting green
cards will not achieve that goal.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 30, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
House Supports Measure Favoring Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29


The House today showed its support for an immigration provision that would
permit illegal aliens to remain in the United States while they apply for
residency so long as they pay a $1,000 fee.

The House rejected, 269 to 151, a motion by Representative Dana Rohrabacher,
Republican of California, that would have expressed dissatisfaction with
permanently extending the immigration provision.

The Senate included a permanent extension of the provision in its appropriations
bill for the Commerce, State and Justice Departments, but the House omitted the
measure from its version, leaving the matter to be resolved in a conference
meeting between the two chambers.

Although not binding, today's vote makes it likelier that the provision will be
included in a final bill, either as a permanent or a shorter-term extension. The
provision received strong backing from the business community and immigration
advocates.

Many immigrants awaiting legal residency status have been traveling back to
their native countries in the past few months, worried that they would be
deported or penalized without the proper classification.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 14, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New Rules at U.S. Borders Provoke Criticism

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1769 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 13


Early one morning in August, Neil G. Shearar, a Canadian yachtsman bound for a
Pacific sailing excursion, got in his car at his home in Vancouver, British
Columbia, and headed for Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, as he had done
many times before.

He did not make it across the border. American immigration agents in Washington
State turned him back and barred Mr. Shearar from entering the United States for
five years.

Similarly, Velia Hernandez de Sherwood left her home in Guadalajara, Mexico, one
day in June to visit her husband in Houston. While there, she was to have
surgery to repair a hernia that had developed two months earlier when she gave
birth, in Houston, to her son Christian.

But at the El Paso border checkpoint, she and Christian were turned away by
American agents and prohibited from trying to enter the United States again for
five years.

Such on-the-spot expulsions are one result of a new law that gives immigration
agents sweeping powers to exclude non-citizens summarily, powers that previously
belonged only to judges. The aliens had no access to legal help and, in most
cases, the law permitted no appeal. In the seven months since the law took
effect, these broad powers have become another test of America's tolerance for
immigrants.

The new procedures were part of last year's comprehensive immigration reform,
which was pushed through Congress with the intent to control illegal immigration
and reclaim control of the United States' borders.

But in the hands of thousands of individual agents with minimal training and
supervision, critics say, families are being separated, individuals' ability to
work is being restricted and lives are being disrupted without warning and, in
some cases, seemingly without cause.

"It's absolutely horrifying," said Anna Marie Gallagher, a lawyer with the
American Immigration Law Foundation in Washington, D.C., where her organization
has filed a class action suit in Federal District Court challenging the law and
the way agents apply it.

"The most frightening aspect of it," Ms. Gallagher said, "is the power it gives
to low-level Government officials. They are judge, jury and executioner."

A sponsor of the law, Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, said
border agents needed the ability to deal swiftly and harshly with immigrants
trying to enter the United States fraudulently.

"By being able to turn people around at the border before coming across," Mr.
Smith said in a telephone interview, "we are better able to maintain our
sovereignty and better able to maintain our border security. Congress was
responding to the desire of the American people to really know who is coming
into the country, why, for how long and whether they are coming in legally or
illegally."

Since April 1, about 36,000 people -- more than 1,200 a week, on average -- have
been stopped during so-called secondary inspections while trying to enter the
United States under what were considered fraudulent circumstances. About
one-third were given the chance to turn back on their own. Approximately, 1,800
were given asylum interviews. And more than 23,000 were sent back and barred
from trying to re-enter for at least five years.

The new procedure, called "expedited removal," allows an immigration agent,
after a brief examination, to bar an alien from the United States for five
years. The only review in most cases is done by the agent's supervisor.

The idea was to clamp down on rampant immigration fraud. Tens of thousands of
aliens frequently use bogus credentials, either bought illegally or doctored, to
conceal their true identities. In the past, agents who uncovered suspicious
documents often just told the aliens to go home.

In other cases, immigrants tore up or threw out their legitimate travel
documents after crossing the border or landing at an airport, and claimed
asylum. Doing so usually got them entry into the country and a scheduled hearing
before an immigration judge. But few ever showed up for the hearings; they
simply disappeared.

Now, after three days of formal training, any agent can challenge the
authenticity of an alien's credentials right at the border checkpoint. If agents
determine that the alien simply made a mistake or did not bring sufficient
documentation, the alien can be sent home as before. If agents determine that
the documents are false, or that a misrepresentation was made, they now have the
power to prohibit that person from entering the United States for five years.

"Expedited removal gives us the ability to establish the credibility of a claim
to enter the country expeditiously," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

If aliens ask for asylum and an interview shows they have a "credible fear" of
persecution if returned home, they will get a hearing before an immigration
judge.

In the legal challenge against the new procedure, Ms. Gallagher contends that
agents sometimes act arbitrarily, challenging incoming aliens with proper
credentials for purely subjective reasons, like their accent, their skin color
or something about their appearance that arouses suspicion.

The immigration service refuses to discuss individual cases, like Mr. Shearar's,
that are involved in a legal challenge. But Mr. Shearar, a long-haired
31-year-old Canadian citizen born in South Africa, said he was simply singled
out when he arrived with a friend in a beat-up Volkswagen at the Peace Arch
border crossing near Blaine, Wash., at 5:15 A.M.

"We were the single car in there at the time," Mr. Shearar said.

He said he used to cross the border about eight times a year for his work, which
is to help transport sailboats from one port to another for their owners. On
that morning, he was to catch a flight to Hawaii, where he was to captain a
sloop back to San Diego.

Although Mr. Shearar and his friend presented valid Canadian passports and
driver's licenses, they were refused entry into the United States when they were
unable to produce adequate rent receipts or utility bills demanded by
immigration officers to further prove Canadian residence. In most cases, a
Canadian passport is sufficient.

Worried about missing his flight, and feeling he had been unfairly treated, Mr.
Shearar tried another crossing, at nearby Lynden, Wash. As soon as he presented
his documents, he was directed inside. He was detained for two hours, he said,
searched, allowed to use the bathroom only after making repeated pleas, and then
told to fill out a questionnaire that asked whether he had ever been refused
entry, willfully removed or deported from the United States.

He mentioned a 1985 incident in which he had overstayed his visa, but not what
happened earlier that day.

"It seemed as though they were asking if you had been refused before today," he
said in a statement given to border agents.

Half an hour later, he was locked in a cell. He was told he would be barred from
the United States for five years because he had misrepresented himself by not
mentioning what had happened at the Peace Arch. His explanation that it was a
misunderstanding was rejected.

Other cases cited in the suit are similar. Mrs. Hernandez de Sherwood, a Mexican
citizen, said she had all the proper documents when she was turned back at El
Paso. She said her baby is an American citizen, having been born in Houston. Her
husband, a teacher, is there because he can earn far more in Texas than in
Guadalajara.

But immigration agents suspected she was going to Houston not to visit, but to
live. They refused to let her in and, based on what they took to be her
misrepresentation, prohibited her from entering for five years.

"If I had tried coming in by swimming the river, then I could understand it,"
Mrs. Hernandez de Sherwood said in an interview from Mexico. "But I was there
with papers and my baby, with all the intention to return home after the
operation."

Another of the dozen cases cited in the suit involves Charlotte Rose Leaming, a
37-year-old Canadian citizen who works in Canada for C. F. Fresh, an American
produce company. She checks the quality of fruit that Canadian growers sell to
her company.

In June, Ms. Leaming tried to enter the United States near Oroville, Wash., as
she had done many times before, to meet a Washington apple grower. She was
turned away by an agent who thought she needed a work visa to enter. She had
never needed one before.

She asked colleagues to fax her a letter stating that she was coming in for a
meeting, and the next day tried to cross again, at nearby Night Hawk, Wash.,
only to find herself facing the same agent. She was then barred for five years.

"It does limit my future with my present employer, and my possibility for
advancement," Ms. Leaming said, noting that her ability to travel was severely
restricted by being unable to enter or even land in the United States aboard a
plane bound overseas.

"And," she added, "I guess I won't be taking my 5-year-old stepdaughter to
Disneyland for the next five years."

It is not just Canadians and Mexicans who say they have been treated unfairly. A
couple from England were shackled with ankle chains to a bench while they were
questioned. A Scottish man got into trouble after crossing from Texas, where he
was vacationing, into Mexico to have dinner. The class-action suit also includes
complaints from Chinese, Russians, Israelis and Nicaraguans.

When told about the cases, Mr. Smith, the Representative who co-sponsored the
law, said that given the hundreds of millions of border crossings that take
place each year, "maybe the surprise is that there are not more."

"Judgment calls are inevitable," he said. "The fact that there may be a few
dozen miscues, if they in fact really did occur, is an expected and natural part
of the process."

Charles J. Murphy, executive vice president of the union representing
immigration agents, said the agents received special training to handle the new
expedited removal procedure and would be vindicated in court.

"I wouldn't concede for even a minute that our people are exceeding their
authority," Mr. Murphy said. "We're not here to protect the rights of these
people to enter the United States. We're here to protect the rights of the
people of the United States."

But Ms. Gallagher said the immigration agents were using the law to bully and
abuse those who cannot defend themselves.

"If the American people knew what was really happening along the borders, they
would be shocked," she said. "I don't think this is what the American people
want."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Velia Hernandez de Sherwood, on her way to visit her husband in
Houston, was turned away by American agents at El Paso and prohibited from
trying to enter the United States again for five years. She relaxed with her
son, Edward, at her mother's house in Guadalajara, Mexico. (Keith Dannemiller
for The New York Times); Charlotte Rose Leaming, who was barred from the United
States. (Alex Waterhouse-Hayward for The New York Times)(pg. A30)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Is Criticized As Abusive

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 20


Despite some improvements in the way complaints of abuse are handled, people
detained by Federal immigration agents along the United States-Mexican border
are still often subject to "cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment," according to
a lengthy report released today by the human-rights group Amnesty International.

The abuse includes beatings, sexual assault, racially derogatory comments and
denial of medical care and food, said the group, which conducted several weeks
of research along the border, including interviews with immigrant advocacy
groups, immigration officials and people who said they were victims of
brutality.

Accusations of abusive behavior by its agents have long dogged the Border
Patrol, whose responsibilities include detaining illegal immigrants and, in many
cases, deporting them back to Mexico or other countries from which they came.
The report today suggested that many immigrants were unable or afraid to report
abuse by agents, and that the relatively few cases in which agents have been
arrested or disciplined for such behavior represent only the tip of a much
larger problem.

The report was issued exactly one year after the shooting death of an American
teen-ager in Redford, Tex., by a member of a Marine patrol backing up Federal
agents in an anti-drug operation. Two grand juries have declined to indict the
marine who fired the fatal shot, but many groups that promote immigrants' rights
say the killing was an unjustified homicide that should result in criminal
charges. And the report today said that a "thorough, independent investigation"
of the incident was still needed.

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner, Doris Meissner, said
she would consider the group's recommendations for preventing and punishing
abusive behavior by agents, but she insisted the problem was a limited one.

"Although instances of civil and human rights violations by I.N.S. employees are
not common," she said in a statement, "any instance of abuse is one too many and
will not be tolerated." She also said the agency was already carrying out
several steps recommended by an official advisory panel that includes private
citizens and a representative of the Mexican Government.

Eric C. Andrus, an agency spokesman, said the report had failed to catalogue
dozens of cases in which Border Patrol agents had rescued or even saved the
lives of illegal immigrants who run into trouble while trying to sneak across
the border, whether in the waters of the Rio Grande, the deserts of Arizona and
New Mexico or the mountains along the California-Mexico border.

The report, "Human Rights Concerns in the Border Region with Mexico," was the
first major look at the issue by the group, which has chronicled human-rights
abuses around the world. It said that all detainees should be informed of their
rights, in their native languages, and that they should not be "discouraged,
threatened or prevented from exercising their right to file a complaint."

At a news conference today in the Texas border city of McAllen, representatives
of Amnesty International and several other human-rights groups issued lists of
dozens of cases in which immigrants had complained of abuse. These included
statements by people who said they were struck with batons, fists or feet, often
as punishment for trying to run away from Border Patrol agents; denied water,
food and blankets for those detained at Border Patrol stations, and sexually
abused or threatened with sexual abuse. The reports of ill treatment came from
men, women and children, virtually all of them of Latin-American descent.

"We are here to send a strong message," said Kerry McGrath, an Amnesty
International official. "We want these officials to know that the world is
watching."

The report credited the immigration service with acknowledging an abuse problem
by creating its advisory panel four years ago. But it said accusations of abuse
persisted nonetheless, and called for much more vigorous oversight and
punishment for abusive agents.

The group said that complaint forms were not readily available and that "there
is a perception that I.N.S. officers act with impunity." And it said that while
the Border Patrol had sharply increased the number of agents along the border in
recent years, it had not had a corresponding increase in the number of personnel
investigating reports of abuse.




LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Moves to Deport Persistent Illegal Immigrant a 2d Time

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., June 11


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun deportation proceedings --
again -- against a Chinese man who has tried twice in the last five years to
sneak into the United States aboard smuggling ships that ran aground, the man's
lawyers said today.

In 1993, Wang Wu Dong was a passenger on the Golden Venture, a freighter loaded
with 286 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran aground in Queens. He failed to win
asylum, then was deported only months before Congress passed a law in 1996 that
would have strengthened his case for asylum.

Two weeks ago, Mr. Wang was a passenger on the Oops II, a powerboat loaded with
23 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran aground off the New Jersey shore. The
immigration service has notified Mr. Wang that he is not entitled to another
hearing for asylum, based on a 1996 law that calls for the deportation of any
illegal immigrant who had previously been deported.

"He is not going to appear in front of any judge because the I.N.S. wants to
redeport him," said David W. Lee, a lawyer with The Porges Law Firm in
Manhattan, which is representing 22 of the 23 immigrants on the Oops II. "We
will challenge this."

Mr. Lee spoke after nine of the 23 men -- not including Mr. Wang -- made brief
individual appearances before two immigration judges at a detention center here.

The rest of the detainees are expected to make their appearances in court
Friday.

Mr. Lee said today that the men admitted that they entered the United States
illegally on May 30 when their boat ran aground in dense fog near the affluent
town of Bay Head. But because the men plan to seek asylum, Mr. Lee argued that
the immigrants should be released on $5,000 bond.

Immigration service lawyers opposed the men's release, saying that their cases
might be relevant to a continuing criminal investigation into Chinese smuggling
operations and that the men's lives were in danger because they each owed up to
$40,000 to the smugglers.

"There is a clear historical record of Chinese being smuggled into the U.S.,
being released by I.N.S., and being held hostage by smuggling groups in order to
secure their smuggling fee," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the
immigration service in Washington.

Judge Esmeralda Cabrera said that she was inclined to eventually release the men
on bond, but was unsure whether $5,000 was the appropriate amount.

She and Judge Mirlande Tadal ordered both sides to return to court in two weeks
with more information about the immigrants, including testimony from any
relatives they may have in this country.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

5 Arrests in 'Supermarket' for Immigration Papers

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 477 words


Five employees of a Brooklyn business were arrested this week for providing
false green cards, birth certificates and arranged marriages to legal and
illegal immigrants for the last two years in what the District Attorney is
calling the largest and most sophisticated fraud operation for green cards he
has ever seen.

In announcing the arrests yesterday, District Attorney Charles J. Hynes said
hundreds of false documents may have been issued by the company, the
International Business Corporation of Bedford-Stuyvesant.  "This was really a
full-service supermarket for this kind of operation," Mr. Hynes said. "We
believe there may be several hundred cases of fraud."

Mr. Hynes said the company, which advertised in the yellow pages and was located
in the Restoration Plaza office complex at 1360 Fulton Street, worked primarily
with immigrants from the West Indies. He said the arrests came after it provided
undercover investigators with four false green cards, a false work authorization
card and a bride for a fraudulent marriage.

The arrests come as strict new welfare and immigration reforms enacted by the
United States Congress in 1996 are causing confusion and unease among the city's
approximately 400,000 illegal immigrants.  Mr. Hynes said that some of the
immigrants who received the false documents may have thought they were real.

Investigators found hundreds of completed green card applications at the
company's office that had never been sent to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Prosecutors said the company charged $400 for a false green card, $4,000 for an
arranged marriage to a United States citizen and between $5,000 and $10,000 for
a complete package, which included a false birth certificate, a work permit and
a green card, for example. Laser printers, photocopiers and laminators were used
to insert new names on the faces of existing green cards, work permits and birth
certificates, prosecutors said.

Robert Belluscio, an immigration lawyer who practices in Flushing, Queens, said
an increasing number of self-described immigration "specialists," or
consultants, are offering to somehow expedite green card applications in
exchange for hefty fees.  "People believe they are receiving real legal
representation and real green cards when they are not," he said. "I've had
people come into my office to see if they have received a real green card."

Arrested and charged with forgery, conspiring to possess and provide forged
Government documents and possession of forged documents were Ervin Campbell, 46,
the company's director and a Jamaican national; Joan Graham, 46, of Trinidad,
who was described as the company's other principal; Daniel Carlos Jean-Francois,
43, of Haiti, and Francoise Daniel, 33. John Raynold, 42, of Haiti, was charged
with attempted criminal possession of forged documents.



LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Needs to Broaden Law Against Slavery;
Too Many Immigrants

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 180 words



To the Editor:

What is even more shocking than the exploitation of deaf Mexican illegal aliens
is the fact that it might have gone on indefinitely if the aliens hadn't
complained (front page, July 22). It suggests that we have become so inured to
third-world practices that no one would think twice about who these people were
and where they came from. The fact that aliens were living in degrading
conditions apparently is not enough any more to get action by municipal
employees.

The situation points to the giant cracks in the system through which exploited
aliens fall -- especially the limits on coordination between the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and local police and housing authorities. It also shows
the dangers of a local policy of looking the other way at illegal immigration.
We urgently need new law that both reduces immigration and assures that it
accords with the needs of the nation.

JOHN L. MARTIN
Washington, July 23, 1997

The writer is special projects director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Suter)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 5, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. STUDY PANEL RECOMMENDS PLAN TO BREAK UP I.N.S.

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1378 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4


In an effort to improve the nation's immigration system, a Federal advisory
panel has decided to recommend abolishing the troubled Immigration and
Naturalization Service and assigning its duties to other Government agencies.

Declaring that the immigration service suffers from "mission overload," the
panel, the United States Commission on Immigration Reform, is proposing that the
Justice Department, the immigration service's parent agency, retain
responsibility for controlling the border and removing illegal immigrants.

The State Department, which now deals with visas at American embassies overseas,
would handle immigration services and benefits, like citizenship requests. The
Labor Department, which now monitors wage and hour laws, would also enforce
rules covering the hiring of foreign workers, according to a draft copy of the
report, "Structuring, Organizing and Managing an Effective Immigration System,"
obtained by The New York Times.

"It's very hard for one agency with so many conflicting missions and so much
fragmentation to have priorities set and missions realized," said Bruce A.
Morrison, a commission member and a former Democratic Congressman from
Connecticut, explaining the panel's reasoning for dismantling the immigration
service.

Democrats and Republicans in Congress who have been briefed by the commission in
the last few weeks generally embrace the proposal to separate along functional
lines the disparate immigration duties.

But the immigration service and the Justice Department are gearing up to fight
the proposal.

"We're against splitting up I.N.S.," said Carole Florman, a Justice Department
spokeswoman. "We believe the enforcement functions and benefits functions really
do work hand in hand."

The proposal comes at a time when Congress and many of the nation's governors
are growing increasingly exasperated with the immigration service's inability to
cope with soaring requests for citizenship, weed out criminal aliens living in
the United States and crack down on the steady stream of illegal immigrants
entering the country.

"The message to the Administration is that this is not about rearranging deck
chairs on a sinking ship, it's about getting results," said Allen Kay, a
spokesman for Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the
House immigration subcommittee and has been briefed on the proposal.

The House Appropriations Committee last month directed Attorney General Janet
Reno to review the commission's report and, along with other Federal agencies,
"develop a restructuring plan" to perform the nation's immigration duties more
efficiently.

House members, led by Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who
heads the appropriations subcommittee that oversees the Justice Department, are
urging the Administration to act on the proposal by October 1998. The
commission's report is to be released by late September.

The scope of the panel's recommendations has surprised many senior
Administration officials. Policymakers who have been briefed on the commission's
findings, including Patrick F. Kennedy, the acting Under Secretary of State for
Management, declined today to comment on the conclusions.

Privately, though, Administration officials said the report would be a starting
point for a spirited debate on how to manage the country's burgeoning
immigration system.

Many of the nation's governors also find the commission's proposals intriguing.

"The I.N.S. has done an abominable job in so many areas, including patrolling
the border, that we are certainly open to looking at other options," said Sean
Walsh, deputy chief of staff to Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a Republican.

Officials at the immigration service, one of the fastest-growing agencies in the
Government whose budget has doubled to $3.1 billion this fiscal year from four
years ago, said the commission's proposal would reverse this financial
investment and ignore improvements the agency had made in recent years in
response to Congressional criticism.

"We'd be redoing all the work we've done in the past," said Chris Sale, the
immigration service's deputy commissioner.

Independent immigration experts who criticize the immigration's dual role as
border cop and benefit provider, today gave mixed reviews to the commission's
proposals.

Many said they needed to see more details.

"There's ample reason to doubt that the I.N.S. can be a service provider and an
enforcer for the same group of people," Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of
the National Council of La Raza, a civil rights group in Washington. "However,
it's not clear that separating the functions is going to fix the fact that the
service side of the I.N.S. has traditionally gotten short shrift."

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, was more critical: "The commission's intent is to generate
a conversation rather than to actually put out a blueprint. This proposal would
send an orphan agency from one department to another. In Washington terms, this
should be dead on arrival."

Mr. Papademetriou said he favored combining all the nation's immigration duties
into one new agency, similar to how the Government consolidated the tasks of 11
agencies to form the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970.

"That would give an agency the authority to be held directly accountable, and to
have the opportunity to propose and fight for its own proposals," Mr.
Papademetriou.

The commission considered creating an independent immigration agency, Mr.
Morrison said, but ultimately rejected that idea as less effective than
assigning I.N.S.'s duties to other agencies.

Congress created the bipartisan commission in 1990 to help advise lawmakers on
immigration issues.  Eight commissioners -- evenly divided among Republicans and
Democrats -- are appointed by Congress, and the President appoints the chairman.

The panel had its greatest influence when the late Barbara Jordan, the former
Congresswoman from Texas, was the chairwoman. During her tenure, the panel
issued reports on legal and illegal immigration.  Earlier this year, after her
death, the panel released a third report, which criticized provisions of an
immigration law passed last year that authorizes the immediate expulsion of some
would-be refugees who arrive in the United States.

But the commission's fourth and final report is likely to be its most
politically explosive.

After interviewing current and former immigration officials from several
Government agencies, the panel concluded: "Some of the agencies that implement
the immigration laws, the I.N.S. in particular, have so many priorities that
they have proved unable to manage all of them effectively."

The report continues, "Such a system is set up for failure and, with such
failure, further loss of public confidence in the immigration system."

To solve this problem, the panel recommended thinking of the immigration system
as having four main components: border and interior enforcement, benefits and
visas, workplace labor standards and an appeals process for enforcement actions.

The enforcement functions, including removing illegal immigrations and breaking
up smuggling rings, would be handled by a new division or bureau in the Justice
Department.  "These functions already receive priority at I.N.S., but
identifying them as the sole mission of a single agency would avoid some of the
conflicting priorities," the draft report said.

The State Department would assume all responsibilities for immigrants' benefits.
"If all the responsibilities were consolidated," the draft report said, "there
would be a seamless process beginning with non-immigrant and immigrant
processing through naturalization to passport issuance and overseas citizenship
services."

The Labor Department would have new duties "for enforcing sanctions against
employers who fail to verify work-authorization" requirements, the draft report
said.

The head of the panel is Shirley M. Hufstedler. In addition to Mr. Morrison, the
other seven commissioners are Lawrence H. Fuchs, Michael S. Teitelbaum, Richard
Estrada, Harold Ezell, Robert Charles Hill, Warren R. Leiden and Nelson Merced.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Salvaging the I.N.S.

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words


Few students of America's immigration policy would contest the notion that the
Federal agency in charge of it has been a calamity. No organization could
successfully seal the border, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
proved exceptionally inept at its most essential tasks. It has done a poor job
of keeping out illegal aliens, deporting criminals, processing requests for
asylum, visas or citizenship in a reasonable amount of time and even maintaining
basic courtesy in the district offices that serve legal immigrants.

While nearly everyone who watches over the agency in Washington, including White
House officials and members of Congress, wants to eliminate the problems, there
is little agreement on how best to do so. The latest reform proposal comes from
the United States Commission on Immigration Reform, a bipartisan advisory group
appointed by Congress and the President in 1990. Word came last week that the
commission intends to recommend abolition of the I.N.S. The panel, which has
advocated sensible reforms in the past, does a service by drawing public
attention to the agency's failures. But the group's recommendations, if carried
out, would likely just make the problems worse.

The commission recommends parceling out I.N.S. functions. The Labor Department
would catch illegal aliens on the job. The Justice Department -- currently the
I.N.S.'s parent agency -- would continue to patrol borders, catch and deport
illegal aliens and prosecute alien smugglers. The State Department would take
over all visa and naturalization services.

The commission is correct that the I.N.S.'s dual job as policeman and social
worker has ended up emphasizing police work to the detriment of serving legal
immigrants. But that is only partly attributable to the influence of the
agency's enforcement-minded culture. A better explanation for failure,
particularly on the service side, is chronic underfunding. The service staff,
whose clients are mostly powerless and scorned, lacks sufficient training to
deal with them.

The State Department is not equipped for this sort of work, which would be
largely inside the United States. In addition, service and enforcement officers
must consult whenever a suspicious visa application appears and an investigation
may be warranted. Poor coordination in such cases usually accounts for the entry
of unqualified immigrants into the country. Coordination would only worsen if
enforcement and service responsibilities were placed in different departments.

Nor does moving workplace immigration checks to the Labor Department make sense.
That would discourage sweatshop workers from reporting abuses, getting in the
way of Labor's primary objective of enforcing wage and safety standards.

The I.N.S. may not be as hopeless as many politicians and the public think. It
is extremely troubled, but has improved under the leadership of Doris Meissner.
Since her appointment in 1993, the budget has doubled to $3.1 billion, with most
of the increase going to enforcement. The border is tighter, and the I.N.S. is
deporting record numbers of criminal aliens. On the service side,
naturalizations are moving faster and so is the asylum process. Unfortunately,
the district offices remain disastrously run. Still, given the overall
improvements in recent years, it is too soon to give up on the I.N.S. Changing
the agency is not easy, but that path offers more hope than breaking up the
agency.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Deportations Rise by Half

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29


In part because of the 1996 immigration law, the United States has deported
nearly 50 percent more illegal immigrants this year, according to preliminary
figures.

The figures show that the Immigration and Naturalization Service deported 75,743
illegal immigrants during the nine months that ended on June 30, against 50,714
during those months in 1996.

Of the 32,279 deported from April through June, about 40 percent, or 13,121, had
criminal records.

The numbers do not include more than 57,000 illegal immigrants who left the
country voluntarily after being caught.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Is Fair on Asylum Claims

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 126 words



To the Editor:

Your Sept. 29 editorial on new immigration laws rightly characterizes their
impact on Central Americans and other immigrants as unfair. However, your
suggestion to instead focus on border enforcement promotes equally inhumane
measures.

Efforts to seal off the border do not stop migration. They merely push
immigrants into more dangerous crossing areas. A recent University of Houston
study documents thousands of deaths due to drowning, hypothermia and
dehydration. The May shooting of a Mexican-American teen-ager by a United States
marine shows that military tactics at the border lead to human rights violations
against immigrants and United States citizens alike.

SASHA KHOKHA
Oakland, Calif., Sept. 29, 1997

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 23, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

T-Shirt Company Is Charged In Plot to Smuggle Mexicans

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22


Federal officials announced today that they had broken up a conspiracy in which
Americans recruited scores of illegal Mexican workers and smuggled them into the
United States to work in a T-shirt factory in Georgia.

Officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Justice
Department said they had indicted nine members of a smuggling ring, including
Fred Lee Parrish, the president of Atlantic Finishing Inc., the American
manufacturing company that agents said was importing the illegal workers.

Federal officials said that Mexican workers, most of them unmarried young men,
were smuggled across the border over at least the last three years to work for
Atlantic Finishing but that they did not know precisely how many.

The indictment said each Mexican paid the smugglers $1,000 each to be brought
across the border and sent to Georgia.

Federal agents said the case was the first in which they had charged a company
with conspiracy for bringing illegal workers from Mexico to a specific company
in the United States. They said they believed that recruitment of workers in
Mexico for sweatshops in the United States was not uncommon but that they had
never before had evidence that linked all the pieces of such an operation.

Federal officials said they did not know how much the workers in this case had
been paid or the conditions under which they worked. Those officials emphasized
that the importance of the case was not to expose sweatshop conditions, but to
expose business that trafficked in humans.

Mr. Parrish, reached at his home tonight in Chattanooga, Tenn., said of the
charges, "They're totally false. Other than that, I can't say anything else."

Atlantic Finishing is based in Trenton, Ga., just across the state line from
Chattanooga, and has a second plant in nearby Henagar, Ala. The company makes
T-shirts for wholesalers, but the Government would not disclose the names of the
company's customers beyond saying they had sold their wares to nationally known
retailers.

Bill Marshall, president of the Chamber of Commerce in Dade County, Ga., where
the plant is situated, said the company contracted with Kmart, among other
retailers. He said that the plant had employed as many as 200 people, making it
the county's second-largest employer but that in recent years it had had trouble
finding people to sew. Mr. Marshall said employment was now down to about 50
people.

The case provided a rare window for law enforcement agents to observe the
traffic in low-skill, low-wage workers, their recruitment, their being smuggled
across the border and hidden in homes and motels and their transport across the
South and their employment at substandard wages.

"We rarely have an opportunity to see the spectrum from start to finish of
economic activity and the social pressures that exist in this country that serve
to create the phenomenon that we are all so familiar with," said John J. Kelly,
United States Attorney for the district of New Mexico, who announced the
indictments in a conference-call news conference originating in Albuquerque.

Mr. Kelly said the case illustrated the basic law of demand and supply --
demand, in this case, for U.S. companies to manufacture goods cheaply to compete
with those from overseas. He said the situation "has the effect of luring and
recruiting Mexican and Latin American nationals across the international border
into the United States."

Officials in the Union of Needletrade, Industrial and Textile Employees, the
nation's largest union of garment workers, said they were unfamiliar with
Atlantic Finishing, but they said many apparel factories employed illegal
aliens.

Harris Raynor, the union's Atlanta-based assistant director for the southern
region, said: "It's our belief that this kind of case is only the tip of the
iceberg. In the current economic situation, the pressure on manufacturers to
provide low-cost goods encourages sweatshop situations."

Mr. Raynor blamed the competitive economic market and American trade agreements
for encouraging such activity.

"Ultimately," Mr. Raynor said, "if retailers don't take responsibility along
with consumers for policing these issues, and as long as our Government --
through programs like Nafta, with no worker or environmental protections --
keeps pushing the edge of the economic envelope, we will see more and more of
these situations."

Federal agents were tipped off to the ring a year ago, when they stopped a Ford
van crammed with 11 illegal aliens at a checkpoint near Hatch, N.M., about 40
miles north of El Paso.

The investigation that ensued was labeled "I-25 Confederation/Dixie Junction,"
referring to the interstate that many immigrants travel north through New
Mexico, and involved agents from several offices, including the Border Patrol,
the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Marshal's Office.

Once the workers for Atlantic Finishing reached Albuquerque, they were housed
and smuggled east along Interstate 40 through Texas, Oklahoma and Arkansas,
agents said.

William Veal, chief of the border patrol for the El Paso section of the border,
said that his agents had caught 61,000 illegal immigrants last year crossing the
border into New Mexico and that many of them were headed for the "interior" of
the United States, suggesting that work was available for them.

"Make no mistake about the people involved," Mr. Veal said of the current case.
"They are involved in the business of exploitation." He called this an example
of the increasing sophistication of smugglers, who are ever more eager to supply
American companies with low-wage workers.

"I've never seen a case that took people from recruitment to a pre-determined
destination with jobs lined up," Mr. Veal said.

Officials said their investigation included wiretaps and undercover agents.

The indictment said Mr. Parrish, 49, recruited the workers and paid others who
actually smuggled them across the border. It said the company hired them under
false names and instructed them into how to fill out employment documents using
assumed names.

The Chattanooga Region Manufacturers' Directory for 1997 said the company was
established in 1987 and employed 160 workers in 40,000 square feet of space.

Mr. Parrish was arrested on Thursday at his factory in Trenton and released on
bond. He was charged with conspiracy to transport and harbor illegal aliens,
which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine of $250,000.

The maximum fine for the company, also named as a defendant, is $500,000. His
relatives said he was to appear in court in New Mexico on Dec. 29.

In addition to Mr. Parrish, those indicted were: Barbara Lee Blevins of Henagar,
Ala.; Linda Sue Barrett of Trenton, Ga.; Saul Resendiz-Cortes of Dalton, Ga.;
Esau Ocampo-Cortes of Dalton, Ga.; Abisneigo Resendiz-Cortes of Trenton, Ga.;
Rachel Resendiz of Dalton, Ga.; Josie Reyes of Las Cruces, N.M., and Francisco
Lopez-Garcia of Rodey, N.M.

They were all charged with conspiracy to transport and harbor illegal aliens,
and some face additional charges. Some are Americans, some are illegal aliens
and some are legal permanent residents.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 12, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

1993 Immigrant Smuggling Case Ends in Organizer's Guilty Plea

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 458 words


The mastermind of the 1993 Golden Venture voyage, an ill-fated effort to smuggle
hundreds of Chinese immigrants into the United States on a decrepit freighter,
pleaded guilty in a Brooklyn courtroom yesterday to Federal charges of
manslaughter and alien smuggling.

The plea marks the close of criminal proceedings in the case of the Golden
Venture, officials said. The squalid four-month voyage ended on June 6, 1993,
when the freighter was deliberately run aground off the Rockaway peninsula in
Queens and the nearly 300 passengers were told to swim ashore in the early
morning darkness. Ten of the passengers drowned or died of hypothermia.

The organizer, Lee Peng Fei of Taiwan, admitted in Federal District Court in
Brooklyn that he had directed that the ship be grounded and that "whoever could
swim should swim to shore." He said that he was not aboard the freighter when he
gave the order, but was communicating with it by telephone.

It was, law enforcement officials have said, a desperate attempt to land the
passengers after plans had gone awry for the freighter to be met at sea by
smaller craft that were to have ferried them to shore. The case threw a
spotlight on the widespread and lucrative smuggling of Chinese aliens to
America.

Mr. Lee is the 22d person to be convicted in the case, and he faces up to 20
years in prison and a $750,000 fine when he is sentenced on June 19. The 21
others, all of whom have pleaded guilty to various charges, include other
smugglers, so-called enforcers on board the ship and members of the crew. They
have received terms ranging from less than a year to 10 years in prison.

In court yesterday, speaking through an interpreter, Mr. Lee -- who has been
described by American officials as a leading organizer of Chinese
alien-smuggling ventures -- at first told Judge Reena Raggi that when he ordered
the ship to run aground, "I did not know the boat would be that far from the
shore." He also said that he "did not think it would endanger people's lives."

Judge Raggi indicated that Mr. Lee's words were insufficient for her to accept
his guilty plea on the manslaughter charge. "I don't think he even views this as
misconduct," she said. But after the judge pressed Mr. Lee, he said, "I felt it
was dangerous." Judge Raggi then accepted the guilty plea.

She also suggested that she would impose a stiff sentence, though she gave no
specifics. If Mr. Lee, who is 46, had gone to trial and been convicted on all
the charges, he would have faced up to 80 years in prison.

Mr. Lee was captured in Thailand in 1995. Outside court, his lawyer, Alan
Seidler, said, "He agreed this happened and he's very remorseful. But he's not
the villain people paint him to be."






LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Police Find Survivor Of Smuggling Boat

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: BAY HEAD


The police yesterday found one more bedraggled Chinese immigrant from the
immigrant-smuggling boat that ran aground Saturday night, and were searching for
two other missing passengers believed to be in hiding.

The young Chinese man found yesterday, described as in his 20's, was hungry and
wet but cooperated with the police officer who spotted him wandering the town
around 11:30 P.M. Monday, said Police Chief William J. Dikun. The man later told
the authorities through an interpreter that two companions were still wandering
in a thick, wooded area near the town, which is hemmed in by railroad tracks.

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is holding 22 other
Chinese men from the same boat on charges of illegally entering the country,
said the man would face the same charge. All are being held at the I.N.S.
detention center in Elizabeth without bond.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Trawler Is Held in Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 306 words


A fishing vessel registered in Venezuela has been impounded by the United States
Coast Guard in connection with the smuggling of 23 Chinese men who landed on the
shore of an affluent seaside town in New Jersey two weeks ago, Federal
authorities said last night.

The 120-foot fishing trawler, named Oriental I, was captured off the shores of
the Bahamas on June 2 by the Bahamian coast guard after the ship was spotted
dropping off at least 24 illegal immigrants, most of them Chinese, Bahamian
authorities said last night.

An official with the United States Coast Guard in Miami confirmed that the
vessel had been turned over to the guard and was being towed toward the Florida
shores last night. The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said
that the captain, a South Korean with Venezuelan nationality, and a seven-man
crew, probably of Chinese heritage, were on the boat and under arrest.

"It is all very preliminary," the official said. "We have the boat and men in
custody, and it is being investigated whether or not there is any connection
between this incident and the New Jersey landing."

A crowded smugglers' power boat that apparently lost its way in darkness and
dense fog ran aground on the coast of Bay Head, N.J., on May 30, and its ragtag
cargo of 23 Chinese men plunged into the surf, crawled ashore and hid themselves
among shrubbery and sand dunes before being gathered up by the local police.

The authorities suspected that the small boat, named Oops II, was only a small
part of a larger smuggling ring that was bringing illegal immigrants into the
United States by way of the Atlantic shipping lanes. After Oops II ran aground,
the Coast Guard spread a dragnet from the Canadian coast to the Caribbean in
search of a larger ship that may have transferred the 23 men to the smaller
boat.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Korean Man Charged In Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A Korean man living in New York was charged yesterday with helping to coordinate
the smuggling of Chinese immigrants into New Jersey and the Bahamas in May and
June.

In addition, the captain of a ship and three other Koreans suspected of helping
to smuggle in the immigrants agreed yesterday to return to face Federal
conspiracy charges.

The man, Nam Jick Cho, was named in a one-count conspiracy indictment charging
alien smuggling. The document was released last night by Federal prosecutors
here.

Initially believed to be the pilot of the Oops II, Mr. Cho was arrested last
week on other charges brought by Federal authorities in Manhattan, but the
authorities did not announce his capture. He is also known as Jason Choi and
lives in the Bayside, Queens, according to court documents. The other four men,
the captain and crew of a ship known as the Oriental I, appeared yesterday at a
Federal court hearing in Miami on a conspiracy complaint alleging alien
smuggling filed in Newark by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The I.N.S. complaint said some of the Chinese from the Oops II were shown a
picture of the Oriental I and said they boarded it after being taken from
Suriname in a smaller, unnamed, vessel.

A person identified in a criminal complaint only as "Conspirator 2" told
investigators that Mr. Cho visited a marina in Point Pleasant, near Bay Head, on
May 29 and took the Oops II for a test run, the complaint said. Mr. Cho also
offered "Conspirator 2" $3,000 to drive the immigrants when they arrived, and
said the captain of the ship carrying the Chinese, Kim Jon Che, was a Korean
with a Venezuelan passport, the complaint said.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

3 Charged With Smuggling Deaf Mexicans

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 31


Federal authorities charged three men today with running an operation based in
Southern California through which possibly hundreds of deaf Mexicans were
smuggled across the border, kept briefly in a house here, then taken to New York
City where they were held in virtual slavery and forced to peddle trinkets.

The United States Attorney in Brooklyn, Zachary W. Carter, announced the arrests
of Andreas Pfeiffer and Hilario Pauletti, whom he identified as leaders of the
Los Angeles smuggling ring, and Mr. Pauletti's son, Carlos Rivera, a midlevel
manager.

The authorities described them as associates of the extended Paoletti family, a
Mexico City-based clan whose members have been charged with holding 62 deaf
illegal aliens in two safe houses in Queens.

At the same time, officials announced the arrest in Chicago of Pedro Santamaria
on related charges of smuggling aliens. He is said to have supervised the
trinket-selling activities of a group of illegal Mexican immigrants there before
transporting them to New York to work in the Queens operation, which
investigators now believe was closely linked to the Chicago group.

The arrests bring to 16 the number of people charged in the case, and Mr. Carter
said that additional charges were expected.

"There are other cities that are being aggressively pursued," said one
law-enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The official said
evidence suggested it was possible that hundreds of illegal immigrants had been
smuggled through the Los Angeles connection.

The suspects, who were arrested late Wednesday, were arraigned in Federal court
here this afternoon on charges of transporting, harboring and concealing illegal
immigrants. They were ordered held without bail at the request of an assistant
United States attorney, Thomas D. Warren. They entered no pleas. A hearing was
set for Aug. 8 about transferring them to Brooklyn to face charges.

At the arraignment today, Mr. Pfeiffer and Mr. Rivera refused to acknowledge
their identity and were listed as John Does, Mr. Warren said. Court documents
listed the name of one suspect as Hilario Paoletti, although the name was
spelled Pauletti on his identification card, Mr. Warren said.

Details on the arrests were sketchy, and prosecutors and immigration officials
here and in New York declined to answer many questions about the latest
suspects. But some details of the goings-on in a modest frame house on the edge
of this city's bustling Koreatown emerged in court papers released by
prosecutors in Brooklyn.

The court documents identified Hilario Paoletti, known as Lalo, as a cousin of
the man authorities describe as the "boss" of the multicity organization, Renato
Paoletti-Lemus, who is still at large. Renato is the son of the family
patriarch, Jose Paoletti Moreda, a onetime commercial artist for the Mexican
Communications Ministry who is himself deaf and who, the authorities say, built
an empire that brought workers into the United States illegally.

The family came to Los Angeles in the mid- to late 1980's, relatives and
associates said, and began using other deaf Mexican immigrants to help them sell
trinkets around the city. But the Paolettis apparently grew fearful that
advocates for the deaf would look askance at their work, and after Mr.
Paoletti's daughter, Adriana Paoletti Lemus, moved to New York and found the
market there more lucrative, the family moved its operations and expanded them
in relative anonymity.

But Los Angeles remained the processing center for immigrants smuggled across
the border outside San Diego. The authorities said that since at least 1995, Mr.
Pfeiffer, a deaf, German-born man who married a Mexican woman and was known as
Andy P. and the Butterfly, ran the house and assisted Lalo Paoletti by
transporting immigrants to the home from Mexico, concealed in a van. Once here,
they were put to work selling trinkets at Los Angeles International Airport and
other locations. They returned to the house to sleep each night.

In the court papers, Lalo Paoletti was said to be the one who "orders the
workers around," according to an informer familiar with the group's operations
in New York and California. Carlos Paoletti, who is also deaf, once went to the
Mexican border near San Diego to meet other members of the family from Mexico
bringing illegal immigrants into this country, and then drove them to Los
Angeles, the court papers say.

According to the court papers, Mr. Santamaria, an illegal immigrant, worked with
the Chicago operation's leader, Norma Alcantara, who was arrested last week and
charged with harboring illegal immigrants.

Investigators say that Mr. Santamaria accompanied Ms. Alcantara on trips from
Chicago to New York to transport vendors to work in the New York ring, and also
went to Mexico to bring back workers. One informer told the authorities that he
was seen striking workers "when they did not bring in enough money."


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 2, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

17th Arrest Made in Case Of Deaf Mexican Peddlers

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 566 words


Federal authorities charged yet another person yesterday with being part of the
cross-country ring that they say exploited and abused deaf immigrants smuggled
from Mexico.

Like almost everyone arrested so far, the man charged yesterday is a deaf
illegal immigrant, whose job, the authorities said, was to administer beatings
to other deaf people at the behest of a group ringleader.

The arrest, the 17th so far in the case, came at the end of a busy week for
Federal investigators in New York, Chicago and especially Los Angeles, where on
Thursday they broke up an operation that they say smuggled perhaps hundreds of
deaf people into the country.

The authorities have yet to say publicly exactly how widespread -- or lucrative
-- they think the organization was. But the picture they have painted of its
leadership was altered slightly in court papers filed yesterday.

Renato Paoletti Lemus, a man in his early 20's who has so far evaded arrest, has
until now been described as "the boss." But the papers filed in Federal District
Court in Brooklyn assigned a broader role to Mr. Paoletti Lemus's 29-year-old
sister, Adriana, portraying her as a driving force who "helped" workers into the
United States and who ran the family's first house of deaf peddlers in New York.

The papers said Ms. Paoletti Lemus ordered the man charged yesterday, Augustino
Rodriguez Torres, 26, to beat workers "when they have attempted to escape and
when they don't return with sufficient money after a day of selling trinkets."
The authorities say that the Paolettis forced the deaf peddlers to sell $100
worth of cheap trinkets each day.

A law enforcement official said yesterday that the authorities believed Mr.
Rodriguez Torres was the more vicious of two "enforcers" who lived at one of two
houses in Jackson Heights, Queens, that were jammed with dozens of deaf peddlers
and their bosses.

Like the other person called an enforcer, who was arrested earlier this week,
Mr. Rodriguez Torres was among the 57 people taken into protective custody on
July 19 and housed in the Westway Motor Inn in Queens. Only later did officials
to hear from other peddlers that he was not a victim but one of their abusers.

Mr. Rodriguez Torres was charged with smuggling illegal immigrants into the
United States, transporting them and concealing them from the authorities.

The two main agencies investigating the case, the United States Attorney's
office for the Eastern District of New York and the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service, have been tight-lipped about their progress. But
officials say they are still looking at possible connections in cities beyond
Los Angeles, Chicago and New York.

The officials also say they now believe the operation in Chicago, where four
people have been arrested since last weekend, was simply one cell of the same
organization and that the leader there, Norma Alcantara, was probably working
under the Paolettis. Originally, officials speculated that Ms. Alcantara, who
was arrested last weekend, had set up shop in Chicago first and taught the
Paolettis how to run a similar organization of deaf peddlers.

An official close to the case, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, also
said money-laundering charges might be filed. The authorities have not said how
much money the organization brought in, but the official said it was
"substantial."



LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 21, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Couple Plead Guilty To Smuggling Immigrants

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 185 words


Two deaf undocumented immigrants pleaded guilty Friday to a single charge of
conspiring to smuggle other deaf Mexicans into the United States to peddle
trinkets in the streets of Sanford, N.C.

Walter C. Holton Jr., the United States Attorney for the Middle District of
North Carolina, said 15 other charges were dismissed against the two immigrants,
Marcos Campos-Sanchez, 39, and his wife, Guadalupe Palencia-Moises, 42. The
couple were indicted last month on charges of running an operation in North
Carolina similar to one uncovered in July in New York City.

In both operations, the authorities said, different "bosses" forced deaf Mexican
immigrants to sell cheap trinkets for virtually no wages. Mr. Campos-Sanchez and
his wife were accused of running two houses in Sanford in which they and 14
other people, including several children, were discovered on July 25.

Conditions in the houses in Sanford, a small town roughly 35 miles southwest of
Raleigh, were described as better than those in Jackson Heights, Queens, where
the police found 62 people crammed into two apartments on July 19.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Guilty Plea in Smuggling of Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 840 words


She did not look the part of the depraved mastermind of a slavery ring. But in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn yesterday, Adriana Paoletti Lemus, a petite,
angelic-looking 29-year-old who investigators say used her beauty to further her
operation, conceded that the formal charges were all true.

Ms. Paoletti, who is deaf and communicates through sign language, entered one
guilty plea after another with a quick flashing of her hands and a repeated,
emphatic nod of affirmation.

Yes, she indicated, she had conspired to bring dozens of deaf Mexicans to the
United States to be part of what amounted to a lucrative, often brutal slavery
ring selling trinkets in the streets and subways -- in New York City,
Philadelphia, Chicago, Boston, Baltimore and Washington. Yes, Ms. Paoletti
acknowledged, she laundered money, changing hundreds of thousands of single
dollar bills in Atlantic City for larger bills to be taken back to Mexico. Yes,
once the ring had been uncovered, she tried to intimidate victims into not
telling the truth to investigators.

"The Government's position is, and always has been, that she is a mastermind and
leader of this conspiracy," Assistant United States Attorney Leslie Cornfeld
said of Ms. Paoletti. "And her plea is all but the final chapter in this case."

And yesterday Attorney General Janet Reno said, "This case shows that slavery is
unfortunately not a thing of the past."

In all, 17 people have pleaded guilty to either directing or taking part in the
slavery ring, which involved scores of deaf Mexicans smuggled across the border
and then put to work selling $1 trinkets seven days a week, an operation that
prosecutors say yielded $1.45 million in 1996 alone. The scheme came apart in
July when four of the deaf victims walked into a police precinct station house
in Queens and asked for help.

Yesterday, prosecutors said they were continuing their efforts to have the final
two members of the ring, Jose Paoletti Moreda and Renato Paoletti Lemus,
extradited from Mexico. For the moment, the prosecutors said, the ring's
victims, 56 men, women and children rescued from two overcrowded "workhouses" in
Queens, would remain in custody at the Queens motel where they have been for
months.

"That so many defendants pleaded guilty in such a short period of time
demonstrates the overwhelming strength of the evidence and the egregious nature
of the crimes committed," Ms. Cornfeld said.

Ms. Paoletti, barely more than 5 feet tall and appearing nearly childlike before
Judge Nina Gershon, faces a maximum of 17 years in prison as a result of a plea
agreement reached with prosecutors.

The 73-minute proceeding yesterday was full of all the distinctive qualities
that have marked the highly unusual case: extraordinary tales of a bizarre,
inhuman operation; an even greater estimate of how financially lucrative the
ring was, and the uniquely challenging experience of conducting a complex legal
proceeding with a woman who was deaf, unable to speak and not literate in
English.

And so in an often strained exchange, one facilitated by an interpreter and sign
language specialist, Ms. Paoletti filled out a picture of an operation that
stretched from Califonia to New York and that included victims being tortured
with stun guns and chained to a bed in the course of their lives under Ms.
Paoletti's hand.

Ms. Paoletti admitted that each victim had to meet a quota of $600 a week in
trinkets sold. She acknowledged that she had once secretly carried $15,000 back
to Mexico as one installment of her growing fortune. She conceded that victims
who had tried to escape had been hunted down and returned.

She did not dispute that victims were frequently driven to cities up and down
the East Coast to be put to work or simply traded back and forth for other
victims in Chicago. When asked whether she and the other leaders of the ring had
made more than $1 million in a single year, Ms. Paoletti said through the
interpreter, "It's in the books."

Federal immigration investigators said yesterday that Ms. Paoletti used her
striking good looks as a tool in charming potential victims or carrying off her
operation. Preying on the undereducated, often completely illiterate and
isolated deaf population in Mexico City and the surrounding countryside,
investigators said, Ms. Paoletti convinced her victims that a life of work and
prosperity awaited them in the United States.

"Victim after victim, and even a number of the other defendants in this case,
spoke of how she had used her beauty in an almost magical way," said an
investigator who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "She had a mystifying
ability to get people to do what she wanted."

Yesterday, Ms. Paoletti tried one more act of persuasion. She wanted, she
informed Judge Gershon, to be moved to the same prison floor as her relatives at
the Metropolitan Detention Center.

"I am following my family who have pleaded guilty before me," Ms. Paoletti said
in explaining her plea. "I want to be with them."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 5, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Making Mexicans His Mission

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2911 words


THE security guard stared dully at the Mexican passport and shook his head no.
He wasn't letting anyone into the detention center without a local address on
his ID. Brother Joel Magallan, a Jesuit and self-appointed defender of New
York's Mexicans, smiled at the guard. It was a passive smile, but his eyes
conveyed an inner resolve as cool as the mountain wind that blows in Zacatecas,
his hometown in Mexico.

"The rules change each week, no?" said Brother Joel, who had used his passport
to get into the detention center three times before. "What is your name?" he
asked the guard. "I wish to see a supervisor."

The mood was ugly in the white concrete waiting room of the Elizabeth Detention
Facility in Elizabeth, N.J., where the Immigration and Naturalization Service
takes illegal aliens who have been arrested. A line of people was waiting to see
detainees on a raw Saturday in March; they did not appreciate having to wait for
Brother Joel's passport to be cleared by a supervisor.

Brother Joel did not know the three young men he was coming to see. Their uncle,
an illegal alien who didn't want to risk a visit, had called him. The young men
had been handcuffed in Newark Airport, straight off a flight from California on
an unlucky Friday the 13th. The eldest was barely 21. They were from a Mexican
village where the only work is digging salt out of the earth and selling it. Now
they were imprisoned.

"Most of the Mexican people in New York are in the beginning of establishing
this life here," Brother Joel said, finally walking through the sliding steel
doors. "Right now we say that they are not a Mexican community, they are just
Mexicans. My goal is to make them be a community."

The Roman Catholic Church sent Brother Joel to New York last July to help the
city's Mexican immigrants do just that. The brother, who wears blue jeans and
keeps a beeper and cell phone handy, spends his days meeting Mexicans. He is
organizing flower vendors in East Harlem into a cooperative and talking to
teen-agers about avoiding gangs. Above all, he is trying to get Mexicans to join
the Asociacion Tepeyac, with 30 branches already in churches around the city.
The club's 300 members help Mexicans with everything from immigration problems
to forming soccer teams.

Brother Joel, 40, is a quiet man, yet he has run afoul of some important people.
He has offended some priests, who resent his presence in their churches. He has
accused the I.N.S. of picking on Mexicans and the Mexican Consulate of not doing
enough to help them; both deny his charges.

"He is mostly very shy," said one of Brother Joel's sisters, Emma Yabira
Magallan, speaking in Spanish from her home in Monterrey, Mexico. "But he can
also be very strong when there is a problem. He likes to fight."

To spend time with Brother Joel is to enter the complex world of Mexican New
York. Estimates of the number of Mexican immigrants vary widely. Although one
census survey put the number at close to 100,000 in 1996, Robert C. Smith, a
Barnard professor and the director of the Mexican Migration Project at Columbia
University, figures there are some 200,000. About half have arrived since 1990,
he said. And about half are illegal aliens.

Yet New York doesn't have a single Mexican neighborhood. One reason, Professor
Smith said, is that Mexicans have moved into predominantly Hispanic areas.
Because many are illegal immigrants, they tend to lie low. Many are also young
and plan to go home eventually.

As Brother Joel sees it, the Mexicans need the protection of a united community.
"Right now they are alone," he said. "If they come together they can use their
talents to help each other."

The Rev. Bill Harder, a priest who ministers to Mexicans on Staten Island, said:
"It is essential for the Mexicans to have a friend like Brother Joel. They have
to recognize that they have power as a community and don't just have to suffer."


Falling Wages For the Sweat of Their Brows

Inside the Elizabeth detention center, Brother Joel sat across from a young man
in a tan prison smock. Separated by Plexiglas, they spoke through crackling
telephones. The young man was frail, with a wispy mustache. He tried to pull a
brave face, but tears were storming his brown eyes. "I just want to go back to
Mexico," he said. "It's too hard here."

Many other Mexicans in New York are also having a tough time, although a middle
class is emerging. The men typically do construction work or cut vegetables in
grocery stores. Many of the women tend babies or work in factories. The threat
of deportation is constant. Advocacy groups say Mexicans often receive what
amounts to slave wages, as well as beatings and other forms of mistreatment at
work.

"We help the Latino community in general," said Monica Santana, the director of
the Latino Workers Center in the East Village. "But 80 percent of the abuse
cases that come in are from Mexicans."

Professor Smith said: "They are having a hard time. And the Mexicans who are
coming today are having a harder time than the immigrants who came in before."

Weekday mornings at dawn, about 50 Mexican men in dusty sweatshirts and baseball
caps appear along Port Richmond Avenue on Staten Island, where they wait for
contractors to pick them up for day labor. A few years ago they got $10 an hour,
they said, but with so many new Mexicans arriving, the going rate is now around
$5.

"The Mexicans are viewed as a commodity," said Father Harder, the pastor of St.
Mary of the Assumption Church in Port Richmond. "People bargain for their work.
It kind of makes you angry."

On a recent rainy morning, some of the men were complaining about falling wages.
Most were under 20 and living alone without family, sleeping where they could
and sending home around $200 a month. Many of the newest among them do not even
speak Spanish. They speak Mixteco, one of Mexico's 100 or so Indian languages.

"It is so hard if you don't have Spanish or English," said a 17-year-old who
gave his name as Margarito and said Spanish was his second language. "The boss
can pay you even less. Sometimes they pay as little as $30 for a day."

Like Margarito, most of the local Mexicans come from a region of Mexico called
the Mixteca. It is a dry, empty place a few hundred miles south of Mexico City
that encompasses parts of three Mexican states, Puebla, Oaxaca and Guererro.

Father Harder said he had not been aware of the Mixtecos until Brother Joel
pointed them out. Now the priest is trying to work with them. "They keep their
problems inside and take whatever the boss gives them," the priest said. "They
feel helpless."

Most Mixtecos who live in New York are from Puebla. Professor Smith attributes
this to the arrival in the city of Fermin and Pedro Simon, two brothers from
Mixteca who were driven from Mexico City by a vacationing New Yorker in 1942.
These two, Professor Smith said, paved the way for the Mexican migration to New
York.

In the 1980's, when Mexico experienced a depression, La Mixteca poured into New
York. A 1986 law allowed some to gain citizenship and bring their families. Many
Mexicans now live in the South Bronx; Jackson Heights, Queens; East Harlem, and
Sunset Park, Brooklyn, as well as on Staten Island and in northern New Jersey
and the Hudson Valley. But as relative newcomers, many say they often feel
unwelcome.

Tension filled the rectory of Blessed Sacrament Church in Jackson Heights,
Queens, last month. Four Mexican women sat stiffly around a mahogany table as
the Rev. Jesus Cuadros lectured them in Spanish. Brother Joel was there, as was
Msgr. Raymond W. Kutner.

Father Cuadros, who is of Colombian descent, was angry at the women because a
Dec. 12 Mass in celebration of the Virgin of Guadalupe had been marred when a
mariachi band failed to show up. The priest was also irritated that the Mexicans
weren't coming to church regularly.

Brother Joel made the women's case to the priests. Despite the problems last
year, the Mexicans wanted to continue to celebrate the Virgin with mariachis.
They wanted more freedom to practice Mexican dance at the church and they wanted
to make official prayer visits to other Mexicans. The priests grumbled but
agreed.

A few weeks later, Maria Cortez, who had called the meeting, said that things
were better. "The Mexican people here saw that they weren't working hard
enough," she said. "And the priests saw that they would work harder."

About the same time, Monsignor Kutner said he was surprised to hear that the
Mexicans felt unwelcome. His parish is about 80 percent Hispanic, he said, and
although most members are Dominican, he loves the Mexicans. "The Mexican people
are so sweet," he said. "We love working with them." It had been his idea to
have the Guadalupe Mass, he said, and in his opinion, the problem lay not within
the parish, but with Brother Joel.

"I saw him coming in as a rabble-rouser," Monsignor Kutner said.

Brother Joel's sister Emma remembers him not as a rabble-rouser, but as a
studious fellow. He is the eldest of nine children raised in an old colonial
silver-mining town, some 400 miles northwest of Mexico City, by parents with
strong religious and political convictions. Brother Joel's father was a postman.
His mother was an organizer for the National Action Party, an opposition party
in a country that has had single-party rule for decades. In 1992, his mother was
running for mayor of a small town when she was killed in a car wreck. Brother
Joel suspects her political opponents of foul play.

After attending college on scholarship, Brother Joel became the engineer of a
tire factory. He was making good money, but he was troubled. "I began to see a
lot of injustice," he said. "The minimum wages were so low that people who
worked hard couldn't pay their expenses." One day, he said, he submitted a
report that led his boss to dismiss a group of people to save money.

He decided it was time to change his life, and at 23, committed himself to the
Jesuits. He could have become a priest, but he decided instead to become a
brother, which meant taking the vows of poverty, chastity and obedience but not
being able to give the sacraments.

"People look to priests to baptize them and give them communion," he explained.
"That is not what I wanted to do. I like to be in the process to educate
people."

In 1994 the Jesuits sent Brother Joel to Chicago to study English and education.
At the same time, priests in New York had formed a group to address the problems
they were seeing among the increasing numbers of Mexican immigrants. They asked
John Cardinal O'Connor, the Archbishop of New York, to bring in a Mexican cleric
to help. Brother Joel was chosen by church authorities for the task.

Now he lives in a Jesuit boarding house on 98th Street between Broadway and
Amsterdam Avenue and works with an assistant out of a small office on West 14th
Street. A warm but slightly distant man who rarely prays in public, he likes to
walk, especially where he can see trees. Sometimes he accepts dinner invitations
from Mexicans he has met in New York, but his best friends are religious people
back in Mexico. He misses them.

"I also am missing the mountains," he said. "There are no mountains around
here."

A Cold War With the Mexican Consulate

Over a recent lunch of pepperoni pizza in an apartment in Newburgh, N.Y., with a
holographic image of the Last Supper above their heads, six women were
discussing their arrests with Brother Joel. Most were out on bail and will have
to leave the country soon. Many vowed to return.

"I feel discouraged," said Lilia Herrera, 40. "It is the same for all of us.
This is so frustrating it kills the will."

As the women recalled, on Feb. 26, about 20 I.N.S. agents burst into a
guitar-string factory in Newburgh, 60 miles north of Manhattan. The agents
handcuffed workers, the women said, and took them to the Elizabeth detention
center. One woman was pregnant; a few were supposed to pick up children at day
care.

"We weren't given food all night and all day for 22 hours," said Maricela
Perfecto, 28. "Someone called for water, and she was told to drink it out of the
toilet."

Lynn Durko, a spokeswoman for the detention center, said that no inmate would be
left that long without food and that no one would have spoken to the women that
way.

Although Brother Joel counsels many people on immigration issues, he isn't in
favor of Mexicans moving to the United States, legally or illegally. "They are
losing their roots," he said. But he also maintains that Mexicans who come
illegally are not criminals. Rather, he says, they are driven by poverty so
extreme that the law does not matter to them, and they should not be mistreated.

Brother Joel maintains that I.N.S. raids often include verbal and physical
attacks and unnecessary use of restraints, and that the conditions in detention
centers are poor. Some experts on immigration say the problems are a result of
negative public attitudes toward illegal aliens and the strict 1996 Immigration
Reform Act.

"This is inevitably what will happen when you criminalize these people," said
James Haggerty, a lawyer for the Catholic Immigration Network's office in New
York. "There isn't a policy of abuse, but the goal is to spread fear."

Brother Joel also claims that the I.N.S. targets Mexicans, although they make up
a relatively small percentage of illegal aliens in New York. He and the I.N.S.
disagree on the numbers, but many immigrant advocates say the agency's methods
do, in fact, lead to the arrest of more Hispanic than European aliens.

"Their efforts are directed toward organizations where they perceive there to be
large numbers of undocumented workers," said Margie McHugh, executive director
of the New York Immigration Coalition. "That has resulted in the targeting of
Latinos."

But Mark Thorn, an I.N.S. spokesman, strongly denied that Mexicans are being
singled out, and described agency raids -- which he calls "operations" -- as
"civil" and "professional."

"We have no knowledge of the ethnic makeup of the work force in the businesses
where we conduct our operations," he said. "We are not targeting any ethnic
group. Our focus, by law, is on the management of those businesses."

Immigration issues have also led to a cold war between Brother Joel and the
Mexican Consulate. In the fall he sent the consulate a letter accusing it of
failing to do all it could to help illegal immigrants. "We would like to have
arrested people free as soon as possible after the raids," he said. "The Mexican
Consulate, sometimes they aren't ready to help people."

Jorge Pinto, the Consul General, replied that he has five people working full
time on immigration issues. "We are not aware at this point of any lack of
attention from the consulate," he said. "I think it is sad to have blanket
accusations."

At the detention center in Elizabeth, Brother Joel and the young man in the tan
prison smock sat, silently looking at each other. Brother Joel needed to get
back to the city, to see other people. He was trying to build a community. The
young man had nothing to do except cool his heels until he could see a judge.
Then, in all likelihood, he would be sent back to the tough life of his village.

Finally, Brother Joel got up and pantomimed a handshake, pretending that there
was no Plexiglas between him and the young man. It was a throwaway gesture, but
for the first time that morning, the young man smiled.

"Think back to when the Polish people or the Irish people came here," Brother
Joel said a few weeks later. "They came with priests, leaders, and they made the
next step in the United States. They were working together. We don't have that.
The leaders are still in Mexico. The people here are disorganized. We need to
help them help each other, one person at a time."

Virgin of Guadalupe: A Link to Home

 The Virgin of Guadalupe is Mexico's patron saint, and when her feast day is
celebrated on Dec. 12, there is mariachi music in the country's churches, and
people take the day off.

Legend has it that in 1531, the Virgin Mary appeared three times to an Aztec
peasant, Juan Diego. It was 10 years after the Spanish had conquered the Aztec
empire, and the Virgin, who appeared with dark skin, told Diego that she loved
native people, not just the Spanish.

"The importance of the Virgin of Guadalupe is that it managed to combine the
European with the non-European and become a symbol of nationality," said Roberto
Gonzalez Echevarria, a professor of comparative literature at Yale University,
who is of Cuban descent.

The hilltop where the Virgin and Diego met was called Tepeyac, and Brother Joel
has used that name for the Mexican association he is organizing, which he hopes
will be a rallying point for Mexicans in the city. Each of its branches is
called a "Guadalupano Association."

"We asked the people to vote on what name they wanted for the clubs," Brother
Joel said. "They chose this one."

To celebrate the feast day of the Virgin in New York, Brother Joel and the
Archdiocese of New York are planning a parade of Mexicans on Dec. 12 that will
end at St. Patrick's Cathedral.

"We would like all Mexicans here to take that day off," Brother Joel said.

Professor Gonzalez said that as important as the Virgin is in Mexico, she may be
even more powerful a symbol to Mexicans living abroad.

"The Virgin is an important link to their country," he said.   EDWARD LEWINE

NAME: Joel Magallan

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brother Joel, left, bears witness. On 104th Street and Third
Avenue, he counsels a Mexican flower vendor. (Rita Rivera for The New York
Times)(pg. 1); The Virgin has become a symbol of nationality. Brother Joel wants
to unite Mexican day laborers on Staten Island, top; flower vendors like Maria
Vasquez in East Harlem, and restaurant owners like Jose and Elizabeth Salas of
Staten Island, below with daughters Beatriz, Iliana and Karina. A sister of
Brother Joel calls him "strong when there is a problem." He meets with
teen-agers at St. Paul's Church in East Harlem. (Photographs by Rita Rivera for
The New York Times and Underwood & Underwood/Corbis-Bettmann (inset))(pg. 11)

Chart: "HEAD COUNT: The Migration"
It is hard to know the number of Mexicans in New York because many are illegal
aliens. The latest figures, showing about 97,000 Mexicans, are from a 1996
Census Bureau housing survey done for New York City. Andrew A. Beveridge, a
Queens College demographer, says that the Mexican population may be about a
third greater. Robert C. Smith, director of the Mexican Migration Project at
Columbia University, estimates that there may be 200,000 Mexicans in New York
now.

Population Distribution:

Brooklyn: 24,439

Queens: 31,118

Manhattan: 17,038

Bronx: 22,336

Staten Island: 2,785
(Sources: Census Bureau)(pg. 1)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 23, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Higher Quota Urged for Immigrant Technology Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1368 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22


Under pressure from Congress and the computer industry, the White House is
seriously considering proposals to increase the immigration quota for computer
scientists and other information technology workers, so that foreigners can fill
thousands of job openings in this country.

The issue is extremely divisive. President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore
want to placate friends in Silicon Valley, who say there is a critical shortage
of technology workers, but they risk offending organized labor.

Under current law, employers can bring in up to 65,000 skilled foreign workers
each year. The workers receive visas, known as H-1B visas, that last up to six
years.

In 1997, for the first time, the Government issued the maximum number of such
visas, and it expects to reach the limit again in May or June, several months
before the end of the current fiscal year.

High-tech companies, which depend on foreign workers for essential services,
have been lobbying the Administration to support an increase in the annual
limits. They say there is an urgent need for Congress to act this year, and some
lawmakers are eager to do so.

The initial, public response from the Administration was negative. In January,
Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said, "This Administration does not support
an increase in the caps on visas."

But confidential White House documents show that the Administration is seriously
considering proposals that would increase the quota by 50 percent or more. The
Administration contends that any increase should be linked to education and
training and new protections for American workers.

One industry group, the Information Technology Association of America, sees "a
severe shortage of competent and skilled information technology workers." It
says there are 346,000 vacancies, representing 10 percent of all the jobs for
computer programmers and engineers and systems analysts.

Harris N. Miller, president of the association, said, "The shortage threatens
not only the information technology industry, but the growth of the entire U.S.
economy, our global competitiveness and the wage stability that is the bedrock
of this country's low inflation."

Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who heads the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration, shares this concern.

"If American companies cannot find home-grown talent and if they cannot bring
talent to this country," Mr. Abraham said, "some of them will move their
operations overseas, taking American jobs with them. That is why I am going to
use my position to propose that we increase the number of more highly skilled
temporary workers we allow into the United States."

Speaker Newt Gingrich said he too supported an increase in the quota for "people
of high talent."

The Commerce Department predicts that the United States will need more than 1.3
million new information technology workers -- an average of 138,000 a year -- in
the coming decade.

The openings come in the context of a tight labor market. Over all, the national
unemployment rate last year, averaging 4.9 percent, was the lowest since 1973.

The options for increasing the immigration quota are described in a memorandum
requested by Elena Kagan, deputy director of the Domestic Policy Council at the
White House. The memorandum, prepared and approved by senior officials at the
Departments of Commerce, Labor and State and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, begins by saying, "This is a very controversial issue."

Seth Harris, the Acting Assistant Secretary of Labor for Policy, said Ms. Kagan
had "asked the Labor and Commerce Departments to draft a memorandum setting
forth options with respect to the proposal to increase the cap on H-1B visas."

White House documents show that the Commerce Department, the State Department
and the immigration service favor an option that would set the quota for skilled
foreign workers at 80,000 to 100,000 a year. Information technology and other
industries with shortages of skilled workers would have priority in getting the
extra visas, above the current 65,000.

At present, employers seeking H-1B visas do not have to show a shortage of
American workers, nor do they have to show that they tried to recruit Americans
for the jobs.

The Labor Department would prefer to keep the cap at its current level, but
might give priority within the quota to industries that have shortages of
skilled workers, the documents say. Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts,
the ranking Democrat on the immigration subcommittee, favors this approach.

Technology companies say that, while they support more education and training
for Americans, they need skilled labor immediately and therefore want to bring
in additional foreign workers.

Administration officials said they would prod Congress to adopt new protections
for American workers as lawmakers consider raising the quota for foreign
workers. The President's proposals would require employers to recruit Americans
before importing foreign labor, would ban the use of foreign workers to replace
laid-off Americans and would reduce the maximum stay for H-1B workers to three
years, from six.

The memorandum to Ms. Kagan notes that "critics of raising the H-1B cap, such as
the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers and the
American Engineering Association, say industry drastically overstates any
problem."

Hal Ponder, a lawyer with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s department for professional
employees, said organized labor opposed increasing the quota until there was
more careful study of the problem.

"We question whether there is a shortage of information technology workers," Mr.
Ponder said in an interview. "If there is a shortage, there are skilled workers
in the United States who could meet that need."

Norman S. Matloff, a professor of computer science at the University of
California at Davis, said that many technology companies were seeking cheap
labor. As a result, he said, they prefer to hire recent graduates and foreign
workers and often discriminate against American computer programmers over the
age of 40, who are perceived as requiring higher salaries.

"Foreign nationals are willing to take lower salaries in exchange for the
prospect of becoming permanent residents of the United States," Mr. Matloff
said. "Even though they often earn less than U.S. citizens with comparable jobs,
they still receive more than they would be paid back home in India or Russia."

The memorandum to the White House from the Departments of Labor, Commerce and
State says: "The H-1B program seldom operates as a temporary worker program with
workers coming to this country for a short duration and then returning to their
homes. Instead, it operates often as a probationary employment program.
Employers bring workers to the United States and, if they perform well, sponsor
them for permanent admission to this country. This linkage permits employers to
hire foreign workers without first recruiting U.S. workers."

Under this arrangement, the memorandum says, "U.S. workers are never provided a
genuine opportunity to compete for these jobs."

Stephen H. Leven, director of human resources at Texas Instruments, said that
most of the people hired by his company on H-1B visas were foreign citizens who
graduated from American universities with degrees in electrical engineering.

"Employers expect to hit the H-1B ceiling as early as May this year," Mr. Leven
said. "Once the cap is reached, companies will be unable to hire additional
foreign workers until the new fiscal year begins in October. That will be
devastating to U.S. companies seeking to bring new products to market."

In their memorandum to the White House, Administration officials said the
industry's conclusion about a dire shortage of skilled technology workers was
"not entirely accurate." While there seem to be shortages of technology workers
in selected occupations and some local areas, the memorandum says, "wage data do
not suggest acute skill shortages nationwide."

By contrast, the Information Technology Association of America says, "Our
industry is facing a national labor shortage of historic proportions."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

On High-Tech Jobs: More Training, Not Quotas

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 215 words



To the Editor:

Thomas L. Friedman (column, April 14) endorses the call by high-tech companies
for a large increase in immigration quotas to meet the shortage of United States
computer programmers. Contrary to a suggestion in the column, I support
legislation to increase the quotas, as long as we also do more to train
Americans for those high-tech, high-wage openings.

Highly skilled foreign computer specialists who come here will indeed create
additional jobs for American workers.

But these employees make up only 20 percent of the 65,000 workers who come to
the United States under the H-1B immigration quota for skilled workers. The rest
are lower level computer programmers, physical therapists and workers in similar
occupations; Americans can easily be trained for openings in these positions.

The alternative that I have proposed would raise the quota temporarily, not
permanently, make $100 million available each year for training American workers
(paid for by a fee on each application for a foreign worker), encourage United
States companies to recruit at home before looking overseas, and prohibit them
from laying off American workers to bring in foreign replacements.

EDWARD M. KENNEDY
U.S. Senator from Massachusetts
Washington, April 16, 1998

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 27, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Migrant Workers Are Investigated

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, July 26


Federal immigration officials are investigating a group of about 65 migrant
workers, many thought to be illegal immigrants, who were evacuated from three
filth-strewn houses on Friday.

The people, from various Latin American countries, were brought to Connecticut
to work in the tobacco fields for about $6 an hour, city officials said on
Friday.

City housing inspectors found 30 people, including several children, crammed
into one house where the electricity and water had been hooked up illegally and
raw sewage was in the basement.

Thirty-five people, including migrant workers from Guatemala, Mexico and other
Latin American countries, were found in two other houses in the neighborhood.

Larry Etoule, the owner of two of the houses, was arrested on Friday and charged
with violating the state building code and failing to comply with a building
inspector's order. The police were seeking the owner of the other house.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is investigating, although it did not
detain any of the people found in the houses. Most of the people left Friday
night to stay with friends or relatives in the area.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 9, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Parole Granted to Immigrant Smuggled to New Jersey Beach

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., July 8


Rejecting a Government request, an immigration judge today granted parole to one
of the 23 Chinese men who had hoped to be smuggled into the United States two
months ago but instead were captured by the authorities near a New Jersey beach.

The judge, Esmeralda Cabrera, set bond at $5,000 for the man, Jiang Dian Lu,
after ruling that Mr. Jiang, who did not have a criminal record, was not a
threat to national security. Jules Coven, Mr. Jiang's lawyer, said that his
client had relatives in the United States who would probably be ready to post
bond in a day or two.

But it was uncertain when -- or whether -- Mr. Jiang, 22, would be freed. Irene
Feldman, an assistant district counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said that the Government would probably appeal. And even if an appeal
is rejected, Ms. Feldman said, the United States Attorney's Office in New Jersey
has a warrant to arrest Mr. Jiang again, if necessary, as a witness in a
continuing criminal investigation into Chinese smuggling.

"We believe that this gentleman is an absolute flight risk," Ms. Feldman said.

In the only other bond hearing decided today, a lawyer for Zheng Tian Rong, 29,
withdrew Mr. Zheng's bond application, saying that it was pointless to fight the
Government's stated intentions to rearrest the immigrants. The other 21 Chinese
men, meanwhile, are expected to seek bond on Friday.

Though the hearings were brief, the legal parrying culminated an animated
session in the latest installment of the Government's case to deport the men to
China. At one point, Mr. Coven accused the Government of "using the aliens as
pawns"; at another, Judge Cabrera warned the Government, "Don't play any more
games."

Asylum hearings for the men, who are all from Fujian Province, are not expected
to begin until early August. And though bond hearings are normally mundane,
these hearings have taken on an extra air of anticipation because of the
possibility that some of the 23 men would be reunited, if only fleetingly, with
relatives in the United States. Some of those relatives are expected to appear
Friday.

Today's hearings came less than 24 hours after the United States Attorney in New
Jersey charged four men with conspiring to smuggle the 23 Chinese men, who ran
aground near Bay Head, N.J., as well as 27 other Chinese immigrants who landed
in the Bahamas.

After transferring the immigrants to Suriname by air or by ship over the last
few months, the smugglers ushered the Chinese onto a small boat that met a
larger boat from Venezuela off Suriname's coast, according to the criminal
complaint. That larger boat, the Oriental I, then headed north.

On May 29, Nam Jick Cho, 56, of Bayside, Queens, visited a marina in Point
Pleasant, N.J., and tested a small powerboat named the Oops II, in anticipation
of picking up the Chinese men, the complaint said. Mr. Cho and another man then
waited in Belmar, N.J., for the Oriental I to transfer the men to the Oops II.

But on May 30, according to the Government, Mr. Cho and the others heard that
the operation had gone awry: Instead of landing near Belmar, a teeming town
popular with college students where the Chinese presumably would not have
attracted much attention, the boat washed up eight miles south near Bay Head, a
quiet, affluent area with Victorian mansions. Tired and bedraggled, the men did
not escape notice.

On June 8, the United States Coast Guard found the Oriental I about 195 miles
east of San Salvador Island in the Bahamas. Among other items aboard the boat,
the Coast Guard found a bank document apparently showing a wire transfer of
$2,000 made out to Mr. Cho and directed to the Korean Exchange Bank in Flushing,
Queens, the complaint said.

So far, there has been little information about the men. All that Mr. Coven
would mention about his client, for instance, was that Mr. Jiang was single and
had an uncle, a lawful permanent resident, in Chickopee, Mass., and an aunt, now
seeking asylum, in Manhattan.

But Ren Rong Pan, the lawyer for Mr. Zheng, offered some details about his
client in an interview after the hearings. Mr. Zheng, a 29-year-old farmer, grew
up poor and illiterate in the town of Wenlin in Fujian's Changle County. Several
years ago, Chinese officials forced Mr. Zheng's wife to have an abortion after
she became pregnant with a second child, in violation of China's one-child
policy, Mr. Pan said. More recently, when she became pregnant again, officials
said they would not only perform another forced abortion, but also a
sterilization procedure -- on both Mrs. Zheng and her husband.

Mr. Zheng, frightened, took his wife to an uncle's house, then fled to Hong Kong
in February, aided by smugglers. In March, he flew to Thailand and in May to
Suriname.

"He has suffered a lot," Mr. Pan said of his client. "He knew that he had to go
to the United States, but he didn't know how. He just joined the pack."


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 15, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Pack Agency, Trying to Beat A Deadline

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 693 words


Scores of illegal immigrants around the metropolitan region crowded offices of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday as a midnight expiration
loomed on a Federal law that allowed them to stay in the country while applying
for residency.

For three years under the law, many illegal immigrants were allowed to remain in
the United States while their applications were being processed, as long as they
paid a $1,000 fine -- an option many used to keep families intact and jobs
secure.

But Congress, in a crackdown on illegal immigration, set a deadline of midnight
last night for the expiration of the law, known as Section 245(i), meaning
illegal residents who did not file in time must return to their homelands and
wait for their green cards there. What is more, some could be barred from
re-entering the country for 3 to 10 years.

So hours before the deadline, scores of immigrants crowded the Federal offices
in an attempt to beat the clock and avoid deportation.

Among them were Juan Vasquez, a 22-year-old machine operator from Mexico, and
his 17-year-old wife of two years, Ana, also of Mexico. The couple, bundled up
against the evening chill outside the Federal building in Manhattan, beamed with
relief at a receipt from the immigration service acknowledging that the wife's
petition was filed on time.

"We heard this week on the radio that we had to file by today," said Mr.
Vasquez, of Milltown, N.Y., a legal resident who has been in the United States
for four years and is sponsoring his wife's application. "I'm glad we got it in
on time so my wife can stay and go to work."

The story was much the same at I.N.S. offices across the region, where yet
another change in immigration law brought the usual confusion accompanying any
change in the rules.

At the immigration office in Newark, for instance, a 50-year-old cashier from
the Philippines who works in an East Brunswick, N.J., bakery and was already
approved for a green card mistakenly took a place in line anyway because "my
brothers in California kept calling and calling and said I had to go get my
green card because the deadline was today."

Immigration lawyers said they fielded numerous calls from people who
misunderstood the complicated law, enacted three years ago but swept away under
provisions of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996.

"People are going to panic," said Shyconia A. Burden, a spokeswoman for the
immigration service's New York office, which had about 20 of its 45 officers
work until midnight accepting the applications.

She did not have an estimate of how many people were expected to show up in New
York, but by yesterday evening more than 300 had lined up under a large white
tent set up outside the Federal building.

By early evening, the Newark office had received about 300 applications in a
steady stream. The Hartford office also reported a busy day, but no figures were
immediately available.

Advocates for immigrants estimate that at least a quarter of a million people in
the United States will be affected by the change in the law. The provision was
adopted in part to diminish the work load at American consulates worldwide.
Before 245(i), green card applicants were required to go back to their countries
to process their paperwork. But the law also provides the agency revenue: with
each applicant paying $1,000, the immigration service received $147.5 million in
1996 and expected to receive $214.5 million in 1997.

Lawmakers who backed the changes have said the old rules rewarded people who
broke the law, allowing them to stay illegally for years while they waited to be
approved for green cards. But opponents of the change said it left immigrants in
a quandary: they could stay illegally in the United States and hope they were
not caught and deported, or they could return to their homeland, apply for legal
residency and then perhaps wait the 3 to 10 years before they would be allowed
to return to the United States.

Immigration lawyers predicted that most illegal immigrants who would have been
eligible for residency under 245(i) would go "underground."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants waited in long lines yesterday at the immigration
service offices in Newark to have their stay extended while seeking residency. A
Federal law allowing them to remain was to expire at midnight yesterday. (Frank
C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Mayoral Order On Immigrants Is Struck Down

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 729 words


In a significant blow to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Federal judge yesterday
struck down a New York City executive order that for eight years has barred city
employees from turning in illegal immigrants who seek city services like police
protection, schooling and medical care.

The decision, by Judge John G. Koeltl of Federal District Court in Manhattan,
upheld a provision of the new Federal welfare law, passed last year, that was
intended to overturn the city's executive order and a few others like it around
the country.

Last September, in announcing that he would sue the Federal Government over the
provision, the Mayor said that ending the executive order would "create chaos in
New York City." Without an iron-clad guarantee that they would not be turned in,
illegal immigrants might refuse to send their children to school, report crimes
to the police or seek treatment for contagious diseases, he said. The Mayor has
since made his support for the executive order a staple of his regular speeches
in praise of immigration, one of his major campaign themes.

After learning of the decision last night, however, Mr. Giuliani tried to play
down its impact, possibly in an effort to prevent the very chaos he had earlier
predicted. He said that his dire warnings were a "worst-case scenario," and that
it might be possible to interpret the ruling narrowly to lessen its impact. In
the meantime, he said, the city would almost certainly appeal the decision,
possibly all the way to the United States Supreme Court.

He pointed out that the Federal law does not require city workers to report
illegal immigrants, but only allows them to do so if they choose to.

"What we will try to do is interpret this as narrowly as we can," he said. "We
can remind people that no one is required to turn in the names of illegal
aliens, and we can encourage people not to do that."

Executive Order 124, signed by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1989, said that no city
employee or agency could turn over information regarding illegal aliens to
Federal immigration authorities without the immigrant's permission or unless the
immigrant was suspected of committing a crime. City agencies were encouraged to
provide city services to illegal immigrants in the order, which was later
renewed by Mayor David N. Dinkins and Mr. Giuliani.

Over the years, several members of Congress have tried to have the order
overturned, but not until the welfare law was passed did any such attempts
succeed. A one-sentence provision of the law, not even noticed by the city for
weeks after the law was signed by President Clinton, said that no state or city
could prohibit its employees from sending information about the status of an
illegal alien to the Federal Government's Immigration and Naturalization
Service. A report attached to the bill explained that immigration law
enforcement was as high a priority as any other form of law enforcement.

In its suit, the Giuliani administration argued that by forcing the city to
abandon its own executive order, the law violated the principles of federalism
and the 10th Amendment reserving certain powers to the states. Explaining his
thinking in a speech last September, the Mayor said the welfare law provision
would have the same effect as requiring teachers to report illegal immigrants,
because the immigrants, not knowing which of the city's 200,000 employees might
decide to report them, would assume that any employee might turn them in.

"The illegal and undocumented parent, seeking to put their child in public
school," Mr. Giuliani said, "would not know whether the superintendent or the
principal or the administrator of that school was going to ask a question: 'Are
you a citizen? Are you a legal resident alien, or are you illegal?' So it would
have precisely the impact the order was intended to avoid."

But Judge Koeltl ruled that because the welfare law does not require city
employees to turn in illegal immigrants, it did not impinge on the city's
rights.

"Although the statutes can be characterized as interfering with a city policy
that prevents its officials from cooperating with Federal immigration
authorities except in accordance with certain procedures," the judge wrote,
"that effect on local policy is not the type of intrusion that is sufficient to
violate the Tenth Amendment or principles of federalism."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 25, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Painful Choices For Immigrants In U.S. Illegally

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words


Sometime this evening, before she boards a plane for Germany, Angelica Struba
will pull her son, Anthony, close to her, give him a tight hug and extract a
promise that he will be good while she is gone. She will not tell him that,
although she holds a return ticket to the United States, she fears that they
will be apart for a long, long time.

Ms. Struba was born in Germany 27 years ago but has lived in the United States
for 13 years, much of it as an illegal immigrant. She is returning to Germany,
without her 11-year-old son, because she thinks that leaving now is her best
hope for eventually returning legally.

Under two sweeping changes in immigration laws scheduled to take effect this
month, an estimated quarter of a million illegal immigrants, many of whom have
been in the United States for years and have jobs and families, are faced with a
wrenching choice. They are trying to decide whether to return to their homelands
until they can get alien registration cards, known as green cards, making them
legal residents, or remain and face the risk that they will never become legal.

Lawmakers who pushed for the changes say the old rules rewarded people who broke
the law, allowing them to stay illegally for years while they waited to be
approved for green cards. The new rules, these lawmakers argue, will encourage
legal, orderly immigration.

But many illegal immigrants, as well as their lawyers and advocates, described
the new rules as a Catch-22 and say that the changes will specifically hurt
those immigrants who are on their way to legalizing their status.

The impending changes have sent immigrants scrambling for advice and immigration
lawyers, themselves often puzzled by the laws' complexity, seeking guidance from
national advocacy organizations.

"I'm basically not recommending anything to my clients," said Maria Dominguez,
an immigration lawyer in Miami. "I just give them the facts and let them make
their own choices. But these are tough choices."

The first change, which directly affects thousands of immigrants like Ms. Struba
who are the closest to getting green cards, eliminates a three-year-old
provision of the immigration laws that had allowed applicants to stay in the
United States and get their cards, even though they were here illegally. To do
so, the applicants, many of whom hold jobs at American companies or have close
relatives who are citizens, simply had to pay a $1,000 penalty.

Under the new rule, which goes into effect on Oct. 1, most applicants must
return to their homelands and wait there until they get the cards.

The second change could affect far more people, including those who have not
applied for a green card but may hope to some day. Under this change, immigrants
who have been in the United States illegally for at least six months, and then
leave for any reason -- including going back to their homeland to get a green
card -- can be barred for up to 10 years from trying to come back.

The new laws do not affect the large number of illegal immigrants who have no
hopes of applying for residency and who remain underground, working without
permits.

But they will affect people like Julio Sandor Sandoval, a 30-year-old
Argentinian who lived in the United States for eight years. Until recently, Mr.
Sandoval was a cameraman for WFOR, Channel 4, the CBS affiliate in Miami. He
lived in an apartment two blocks from his only sister, and he picked up his
nephews from school each day.

Worried about the implications of the law, Mr. Sandoval, who is waiting for a
green card that his American-born sister petitioned for in 1989, returned to
Buenos Aires. He now shares a tiny apartment with a great-aunt and roams the
streets looking for a job.

"But my world is in the United States," Mr. Sandoval said from Buenos Aires this
week. "It's where I made my career. It's where my family is."

Ms. Struba fears a similar fate. She is a dance teacher who lives in Spring
Valley, N.Y., with her mother, Mollie Amies, a legal resident, and her son,
Anthony, an American citizen. In Germany, she will share an apartment with
childhood friends. She said she has no idea how she will support herself.

"I'm trying to keep a positive attitude," Ms. Struba said. "But I'm having a
hard time. Actually, I'm desperate."

Ms. Struba came to the United States with her parents when she was 14 and has
not returned to Germany since. Her father was working for an American company
and had a worker's visa. Ms. Struba had a student's visa, which she lost when
she left school at 16 to take care of her newborn son.

When her parents got their green cards in 1991, Ms. Struba was 21, too old to be
covered by their application. A year later, her mother filed a petition for
residency on the daughter's behalf. Ms. Struba's application has received
initial approval but she still does not have her visa. Up to now, she had been
eagerly, but patiently, waiting her turn.

"What do I tell her now?" said Ms. Struba's lawyer, Andrew R. Lerner. "That
because she is playing by the rules, she will be punished? This law will take
away the incentive to do things the legal way." Mr. Lerner advised Ms. Struba to
leave.

From 1994 until next Tuesday, when the change takes effect, people like Ms.
Struba did not have to leave the country to adjust their status. By filling out
an application and paying a one-time $1,000 penalty fee, they were allowed to
remain, waiting for the green card, without returning to their countries of
origin.

But the law that allows them to do that, Section 245(i) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, is to expire next Tuesday. After then, unless Congress has a
change of heart, people who are well along in the process of becoming legal
residents will have to leave the country to do so.

That change alone would only affect those illegal immigrants who are closest to
receiving their green cards. But coupled with the second change in the law, the
expiration of Section 245(i) will have broader repercussions, affecting hundreds
of thousands of people, even those who are years away from getting their green
cards. Many of them, too, are considering leaving.

As of Saturday, under the second change -- which was included in the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 -- anybody who has
been in the country illegally for 180 consecutive days and then leaves will be
barred from re-entering the United States for three years. Those who have been
in the country illegally for a year or more after April 1, 1997, will be barred
from re-entry for 10 years.

Advocates for immigrants estimate that at least a quarter of a million people in
the United States will be affected by the laws. In 1995 and 1996 together, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service received 345,000 applications from
individuals who used Section 245(i), an I.N.S. spokeswoman said.

That provision was adopted in part to diminish the work load at American
consulates around the world. It also is a big revenue source: with each
applicant paying $1,000, the I.N.S. received $147.5 million in 1996 and expects
to receive $214.5 million in 1997, said Elaine Komis of the I.N.S. Most of the
money is earmarked to build detention facilities for illegal immigrants. Ms.
Komis stressed that the agency did not plan to conduct mass deportations.

Ms. Komis said that the immigration agency supports an extension of the
provision. Besides raising revenue and reducing the burden of processing
thousands of visa applications throughout the world, she said, it also prevents
the unnecessary separation of families.

The Senate, but not the House, has passed an amendment to extend the provision
as part of an appropriations bill. The subject is likely to come up in a
House-Senate conference committee that has yet to be scheduled.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the House immigration
subcommittee and opposes 245(i), said he was simply trying to correct a mistake.

"It should have never been implemented to begin with," Mr. Smith said. "It's an
insult to all the people who have been waiting in their countries for a visa to
come to the United States at the appropriate time. It rewards illegal immigrants
for their illegal behavior."

The I.N.S. estimates there are five million illegal immigrants in the country
and that 275,000 more illegal immigrants come each year.

Judy Golup, director of advocacy at the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said Mr. Smith's reward and punishment system is misguided because
the people who are now forced to leave are already eligible to become residents
of the United States.

"It's not a question of if they'll become legal," Ms. Golup said. "It's a
question of where. We think it makes sense that they do it here, where, in fact,
they already belong."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angelica Struba, right, an American resident for 13 years, with
her son, Anthony, 11, and her mother, Mollie Amies. Ms. Struba is returning to
Germany while her application for a green card is pending. (Chris Maynard for
The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 18, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

5 Enter Guilty Pleas In Smuggling Cases

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17


In two actions attacking the flow of illegal aliens into West Texas from Mexico,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service today said five members of a ring had
pleaded guilty to smuggling charges and 13 members of another ring had been
indicted by a grand jury in El Paso.

The authorities described the groups as major players among criminal
organizations that have expanded since the United States increased its effort to
control smuggling along the Mexican border.

The authorities said the two groups had brought thousands of illegal aliens into
the country since last year. Some immigrants paid the smugglers as much as
$30,000.

The authorities said the 13 indicted -- mostly Mexicans, Guatemalans and
Americans -- worked with recruiters in other countries.

David Ham, the assistant chief agent of the Border Patrol in the El Paso region,
said that, on average, the group brought 25 to 30 people a month from China and
Nepal into the United States. Eleven of the 13 have been arrested..

The five people who pleaded guilty -- three Mexicans and two Americans -- were
part of a smuggling ring that the authorities said brought as many as 100
illegal immigrants a week into the United States over seven months last year.

Each of the five faces a maximum of 10 years in prison. Five other members of
the ring remain at large, Mr. Ham said.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 5, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

In Mexico and the U.S., New Visas Produce Stress

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 980 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico, April 3


Starting a sweeping new effort to control travel across the Mexican border, the
American authorities have begun calling in border-crossing documents held for
decades by millions of Mexicans to replace them with high-tech visas carrying a
digital fingerprint.

The documents being replaced, many of which bear outdated photographs, allow
more than 100 million legal border crossings each year by business people,
tourists and shoppers from Mexico, the United States' second-biggest trading
partner, after Canada.

The hope is that the new cards, which the State Department calls laser visas,
will help screen out criminals and illegal immigrants and make the daily torrent
of northbound traffic across the 2,000-mile border flow more smoothly for other
Mexicans.

The replacement of the old border-crossing cards, which began this week and is
mandated by a 1996 law written to tighten border controls, has many Mexicans
upset by a $45 processing fee and, despite American assurances that most holders
of the old documents will qualify for the new, by nervousness that their
applications may be denied. Some American officials are concerned about the
daunting scope and complexity of the replacement effort.

The sheer numbers pose an extraordinary logistical challenge. To meet an Oct. 1,
1999, deadline set by Congress, American officials in Mexico have to issue about
six million of the new visas in 18 months, about the number of conventional
visas the State Department processes each year in all of its 250 consulates
worldwide.

Officials have already declared that to be virtually impossible, and the State
Department has asked Congress to extend the deadline.

But even to comply with a stretched-out timetable, officials are having to
overhaul the United States' diplomatic presence in Mexico by increasing the
number of consulates from 8 to 10, opening eight temporary visa application
centers and hiring hundreds of new employees.

"This is an unprecedented challenge for us," said Donna Hamilton, a deputy
assistant secretary of state, who traveled to Cuidad Juarez for a ceremony on
Wednesday, the day the American Consulate here began accepting applications for
the laser visas.

Underlining the potential for troublesome delays in such a vast effort,
officials acknowledged that the machine that is to produce the new cards is not
working yet, forcing the Government to issue conventional visas temporarily
until proper software can be installed.

"We're frankly headed for the biggest administrative screw-up I've ever seen in
my career," said one American official based in Mexico.

The laser visas will replace three documents in current use: business and
tourism visas, which like those the State Department issues elsewhere in the
world allow travel to any part of the United States, and the border-crossing
cards. For 50 years these cards, authorizing travel within 25 miles of the
border for 72 hours, have been issued by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service only to Mexicans.

When the replacement effort ends, all Mexican citizens who visit the United
States for tourism, business or shopping are to carry laser visas.

The border-crossing cards, which many Mexicans call micas, a Spanish word for
plasticized cards, play a central role in the daily life of millions of
Mexicans, whose regular shopping trips bring hundreds of millions of dollars in
revenue to American cities. Government statistics show that the drop in Mexican
spending in downtown El Paso alone after the 1994 peso crisis cost city
retailers $300 million.

Many Mexicans are daunted by having to apply for a new card, partly because they
fear they may be denied. A poll commissioned by the State Department found that
two out of three Mexicans considered the old cards difficult to obtain.

"Many cite numerous requirements for documents and bureaucratic challenges as
reasons," a report on the poll said. "Others cite racism, or say, 'They don't
like Mexicans.' "

David L. Hobbs, the State Department official coordinating the project, said few
of those holding old cards would be denied new laser visas.

"Nobody's going to refuse to issue a new card to somebody that's been using
their old one responsibly," he said. But worries remain.

"Since I was a kid I've known I can't leave home without my mica because my
everyday life takes me to both El Paso and Juarez," said Oscar Cantu, the
publisher of the Ciudad Juarez newspaper Norte, which circulates and has offices
in El Paso. "So like everybody else I find it nerve-racking for them to take my
card away and issue a new one."

The laser visas employ CD-ROM technology to store a digital photo, fingerprint
and other data. Although the cards can store vastly more data, an Immigration
Service spokesman, Donald R. Mueller, said the agency had not yet decided how to
use the extra space.

The laser visas will be valid for 10 years, in contrast to the old cards, which
were good for a lifetime. Over five decades, the Immigration Service issued the
old cards without expiration dates in at least 15 formats, all of which are
still in circulation. Many bear childhood photographs of middle-aged Mexicans.

Jose Mateos Torres, a 60-year-old aide to the Governor of Chihuahua, pulled his
own battered card from his wallet at Wednesday's consulate ceremony, drawing
laughs when he noted that the card was issued 40 years ago, 12 years before his
marriage.

"I've spent more time in my life with this card than I have with my wife," he
said.

Obsolete photos on the old cards make attempts to compare cards with bearers'
faces difficult for officials at the border, a situation that criminal gangs
have used to advantage. In January, Mexican authorities operating on an American
tip raided an establishment in Ciudad Juarez and seized more than 400 old cards
that were being rented out for illegal crossings.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Mateos Torres, an aide to Chihuahua's Governor, with the
border-crossing card he has had for 40 years. At the consulate in Ciudad Juarez,
Roberto Vazquez took the photograph of a Mexican seeking a new laser visa.
(Photographs by Leonel Monroy for The New York Times)

Map of Mexico showing the location of Ciudad Juarez: The consulate in Ciudad
Juarez is accepting new visa applications.

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 10, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Tighter Rules On Deporting State Inmates

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 9


Responding to criticism on an issue that could loom over Gov. George E. Pataki's
re-election campaign, state officials announced new restrictions today on a
program that speeds up deportation of illegal immigrants convicted of nonviolent
crimes. Many of the inmates have been released long before completing their
minimum prison sentences.

The officials also released figures showing that 85 percent of inmates eligible
for the program since it began in 1995 had been approved for early deportation,
including 157 inmates convicted of the most serious drug felonies. They also
revealed that four illegal immigrants deported under the program were recently
rearrested in New York City, three of them on drug charges.

The Pataki administration first proposed changes to the system last month, after
The Daily News reported that several major drug traffickers had been paroled and
deported long before completing their minimum sentences.

Mr. Pataki, a Republican who started the deportation program shortly after he
took office in 1995, introduced legislation last month that would disqualify the
most serious drug offenders from the program.

His proposal, which awaits legislative approval, would also disqualify inmates
convicted of slightly less serious drug offenses if prosecutors objected to
their early release. Under the additional restrictions announced today, inmates
would have to serve at least half of their minimum sentences before being
considered for the program.

"Obviously, the program has needed some retooling," Katherine N. Lapp, Mr.
Pataki's chief criminal justice adviser, said at a news conference this
afternoon. "There have been some cases which, in my professional opinion, should
not probably have been released when they were."

When Mr. Pataki adopted the program in 1995 as part of a broad package of
changes to sentencing laws, he held it up as a bold and innovative experiment
that would save money and free prison space for violent, homegrown felons. When
the first planeload of inmates approved for deportation left New York City that
summer, Mr. Pataki held a news conference to trumpet the fact that 86 inmates
were "out of our state and off the backs of taxpayers."

But Ms. Lapp said today that she had reservations about the program even before
the Daily News article suggested that its rules were too lax. Ms. Lapp, who
until recently was the criminal justice coordinator for Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani, said that even before she began working for Mr. Pataki, she wondered
why so many inmates were being deported under the program. She said she had been
evaluating the program since she started her new job last fall.

Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said the Governor still believed the
program was worthwhile. "We're confident these changes will tighten and
strengthen the law and this program," Mr. McKeon said.

Ms. Lapp said she had been able to find only four cases in which inmates
deported under the program had been arrested again. Coincidentally, she said,
all four were rearrested in March.

Of about 1,400 inmates found eligible for the program from 1995 through 1997,
parole officials approved 1,218 for release. Of those, more than 900 have
already been freed from prison.

Illegal immigrants make up at least 27 percent of the approximately 69,500
inmates in the state's costly and overcrowded prison system, said James B.
Flateau, a spokesman for the Department of Correctional Services.

Federal prosecutors in New York City are examining the program as part of an
inquiry into the possibility that officials of the Pataki campaign promised
donors that their relatives would get lenient treatment from the State Parole
Board. But aides to Mr. Pataki have denied that such a link exists, and Ms. Lapp
would not comment on the investigation today. Thomas Grant, a spokesman for the
State Division of Parole, refused to say today whether the Federal investigators
had subpoenaed the prison records of inmates released under the program.

Ms. Lapp said she was only now releasing information about inmates approved for
the program because it took several weeks to collect the data. But Peter F.
Vallone, the New York City Council Speaker and a Democratic gubernatorial
candidate, said the Pataki administration should have released the names and
statistics immediately after the Daily News article raised questions about the
program.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Group Forced Illegal Aliens Into Prostitution, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 23


The young women were lured from Mexico with offers of jobs in landscaping,
health care, housecleaning and restaurants. But in a case of modern-day slavery
one Federal official called "a chilling reminder of prior centuries," they were
forced to work as prostitutes in agricultural migrant camps in Florida and South
Carolina, and sometimes were raped, beaten and forced to have abortions,
according to a Federal indictment.

In a 52-count indictment released today by the United States Attorney's office
here, Federal prosecutors have charged 16 people, 6 of them from the same family
and all but one illegal aliens, with running a prostitution ring that enslaved
at least 20 women over 18 months, with some of the women as young as 14. The
defendants, eight of whom remain at large, were charged with civil rights and
immigration violations as well as extortion and involuntary servitude.

Federal charges of involuntary servitude are relatively rare -- Justice
Department officials say they have brought 10 such cases involving 150 victims
over the last three years. But groups that help abused workers say the crime is
widespread but difficult to uncover because it takes place behind closed doors
and the victims are often cut off by language and cultural barriers.

Several high-profile cases in recent years have heightened awareness of the
problem, including one involving dozens of deaf Mexican immigrants who were
forced to peddle trinkets in the subways and streets of New York, and another
involving more than 70 Thai women who were held in a squalid garment factory
ringed with barbed wire in Los Angeles, some for as long as seven years.

Today, Attorney General Janet Reno announced the creation of a Federal task
force headed by the Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights and the
Solicitor of the Labor Department to investigate and prosecute modern-day
slavery and worker exploitation.

"The allegations are shocking and unconscionable," Bill Lann Lee, the Acting
Assistant Attorney General who is co-chairman of the new task force, said of the
latest case. "I wish I could report that the allegations in today's indictment
are an aberration. I can't."

Between 1996 and last February, the indictment said, members of the Cadena
family from Veracruz, Mexico, smuggled the women into Texas and put them in safe
houses until they could take them to Florida and South Carolina. There,
prosecutors say, the women were forced to work as prostitutes in brothels in a
dozen rural areas to pay their smuggling debts of up to $2,000 each. Sometimes
the brothels were nothing more than trailers set down in the migrant camps in
cities like Tampa, Orlando and Fort Myers in Florida and Lake City and John's
Island in South Carolina, according to the Government.

The indictment outlines a brutal operation that used recruiters to find the
women and brothel operators known as "ticketeros" forced them to work six days a
week under the threat of violence and for little pay. Federal officials said the
women were paid $3 for each sexual act but the "ticketeros" charged $20.

Those who tried to escape were tracked down and brought back and beaten and
raped, the indictment said. One woman was locked in a closet for 15 days,
officials said. Some women who became pregnant were forced to have abortions and
to return to work within weeks. One pregnant women was kicked in the abdomen and
had a miscarriage, the indictment said.

The victims, who are expected to testify at trial, have been granted temporary
legal status for one year. Justice Department officials said they are working
with social service agencies in South Florida to shelter the women and find them
employment. Lawyers for the victims, who now range in age from 15 to 41, said
today that the women were all from Veracruz and most did not speak English. The
lawyers refused to identify the housing provided for them but said some had
already found other work.

"They are really fragile," said Rosario Lozada Schirer, a lawyer with the
nonprofit Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, which is representing 14 of the
women. "The younger ones have not even realized what has happened to them."

Those indicted from the Cadena family were Rogerio Cadena, Juan Luis
Cadena-Sosa, Carmen Cadena, Abel Cadena-Sosa, Hugo Cadena-Sosa and Rafael
Alberto Cadena-Sosa. They and 10 accused associates face up to life in prison if
convicted of all charges.



LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Prison Terms for Officers In Beatings of Immigrants

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Two correction officers were sentenced to seven years in prison and a third
received a five-year sentence yesterday after being convicted of beating illegal
immigrants at the Union County Jail.

Sgt. James Rice, who was found to have initiated the assaults, and Officer
Michael Sica, who was found to have orchestrated an effort to cover them up,
received the longer sentences, said Thomas Isenhour, an assistant prosecutor in
Union County. The third officer, Sgt. Charles Popovic, was deemed to have
followed the lead of other officers and was given a lighter sentence, Mr.
Isenhour said.

Anthony Pope, Mr. Sica's lawyer, said, "The sentence -- if you accept the jury's
verdict, which I don't -- was fair." Bail pending appeal was denied to all
three.

Twelve guards were charged in the incident, which occurred in 1995 when
immigrants were moved to the jail after riots erupted at the Esmor Detention
Center in Elizabeth. Six of the guards pleaded guilty, four have been convicted,
one was acquitted and another has died.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Moving Up

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words



To the Editor:

While the Urban Institute's disaggregation of legal immigrants, illegal
immigrants and refugees sheds some new light on the immigration issue (news
article, April 30), the disaggregation stops short of a more sensitive fact:
immigrants from some regions do better than immigrants from others.

The report concludes that after 15 years of residence, legal immigrants in New
York as a whole make more money and pay more taxes than natives, although they
have higher rates of welfare use as they move into the economic mainstream.

The Rand Corporation's 1997 report, "Immigration in a Changing Economy,"
concludes that the income of Chinese, Korean and Japanese immigrants
substantially exceeds that of natives after 10 years in the United States, while
the income of Latin American immigrants is significantly below average after
much longer periods. Few people take comfort from this disparity, but it is a
reality that needs to be addressed.

LAWRENCE E. HARRISON
Vineyard Haven, Mass., April 30, 1998

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 16, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Officers in Beating Case Must Feed the Homeless

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Judge Walter R. Barisonek let the punishment fit the crime yesterday when
sentencing six correction officers who admitted participating in or covering up
the 1995 beating of illegal immigrants at the Union County Jail.

The judge ordered five guards to make sandwiches twice a month for a year to
feed homeless people at St. Joseph's Shelter in Elizabeth, where many of the
clients are immigrants, said Alan J. Silver, an assistant Union County
prosecutor. "They have to lay out their own money to buy the bread and the
meat," Mr. Silver added. The sixth guard must perform a similar service in
Middlesex County, Mr. Silver said.

By pleading guilty in State Superior Court in March, all but one of the six
avoided incarceration. Charles Demarest, who admitted participating in the
beatings, was sentenced to 180 days in the Somerset County Jail, Mr. Silver
said. All six received probationary terms, forfeited their jobs, agreed never to
enter public service and were fined, Mr. Silver said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 1, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

22 Illegal Immigrants Seized After a Jersey Shore Landing

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words


A crowded smugglers' powerboat that apparently lost its way in darkness and
dense fog ran aground at an affluent New Jersey shore community on Saturday
night, and its cargo of 22 Chinese men plunged into the surf, waded onto a beach
lined with Victorian mansions and fanned out in search of freedom in America.

The police and witnesses in Bay Head, where the landing was made, and in the
adjacent towns of Mantoloking and Point Pleasant near Manasquan Inlet, told of
bedraggled young men flitting about in the murky gloom like ghosts over the
dunes and down dark streets, peering in windows and leaping behind bushes.

"They started popping up all over," said Lieut. Geoff Barger of the Bay Head
police. "It was pretty apparent that they had no idea where they were."

Within hours, the illegal immigrants -- wandering lost, wet and bewildered in a
strange land after a tortuous odyssey that had cost each thousands of dollars
and taken them halfway around the world -- had all been arrested in a necklace
of shore towns 50 miles south of New York City, their intended destination.

No one was killed or injured, and the episode was a faint echo of the Golden
Venture tragedy of 1993, when a tramp steamer smuggling hundreds of Chinese
immigrants keeled up on Rockaway Peninsula and scores of refugees leaped into
the pounding surf. Ten died and a vicious trade in human cargoes was exposed.

As the roundup ended early yesterday, the state police realized that they had
let a smuggler slip through their fingers. The boat's pilot, a 38-year-old
Korean whose name was withheld, had been picked up shortly after the 28-foot
craft ran up on the beach, but was mistaken for a boating accident victim and
released before the authorities knew a smuggling operation was involved.

As immigration authorities began questioning the Chinese, officials said the
drama on the Jersey Shore had been part of a well-financed world operation that
has smuggled thousands of Chinese and other Asians into the United States in
recent years, many of them to be exploited as hostages and virtual slaves.

"We have linked this incident to an ongoing criminal investigation, being run
out of our New York district, of alien smuggling," said Russ Bergeron, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "This is
a highly organized, extremely sophisticated group, global in scope, with
significant resources in ships, planes, money and contacts."

At the time of the Golden Venture, he said, many of the smugglers were using
ships to bring Asian refugees to the United States. Since then, as immigration
authorities have cracked down on the old Atlantic and Pacific shipping routes,
the smugglers have responded by exploiting new routes, through Central America,
Mexico and the Caribbean, and have used air and land as well as sea routes.

No criminal charges were filed immediately against the 22 men in custody, but
all were held on an Immigration Service administrative charge of attempting to
enter the United States illegally. One was 17 and the others were in their 20's.
Mr. Bergeron said it was not clear if any had aided the smugglers, but
investigators said that might become clear over the next few days.

Clad mostly in jeans, shirts, jackets and sneakers, the men were manacled at the
wrists as they waited to be interviewed at an Immigration Service office near
Newark International Airport. They were given brown bags of food and ate
voraciously. None spoke English, officials said, but they spoke quietly among
themselves and sat with their feet up on sofas in a lounge area.

"We're looking for information," an investigator said. "These people aren't
criminals, but they are important to a criminal investigation." It was unclear
what might happen to them: whether they might be held as material witnesses in a
criminal case and rewarded with political asylum, or eventually deported. The
answers seemed months or even years away.

Last night, the adults were taken to a detention center operated by the
Corrections Corporation of America for the Immigration Service in Elizabeth,
N.J., while the teen-ager was taken to another lockup at an undisclosed
location.

News of the immigrants' landing and roundup was the talk of the town in Bay
Head, a community of 1.3 square miles and 1,300 residents that swell to 20,000
in the summer. It is one of the most affluent on the Jersey Shore. Its beaches
are broad and protected by jetties, and its oceanfront is lined with large
Victorian homes sheathed in gray-weathered shingles, many of them with
wrap-around porches, flagpoles fluttering the Stars and Stripes and widow's
walks overlooking the Atlantic.

At Bill Curtis's Central Market, Sunday morning patrons were chattering like
seabirds over the weekend excitement. "It's the most unusual thing I've ever
seen," a police officer confided. Normally, the only big news is an occasional
traffic fatality, he noted.

Everyone seemed to know something about what had happened, even those who saw
nothing but the smugglers' boat, Oops II, before the Coast Guard towed it away
to its station in Manasquan Inlet. The craft, a 1983 Century with twin screws,
had a beat-up look about it, a low profile with a small cabin, rusted stern
plates, a hull coated with chipped white paint and a broken and dangling step at
its stern.

The boat was registered at the Wright Island Marina in New Rochelle, N.Y.,
officials said, but investigators declined to say more. Joey Aquino, the marina
owner, said he had sold the craft last December to an Asian man named Jason. He
said he could not remember the last name or much about the boat. "It was an old
boat," he said. "We sell boats every day."

Mr. Bergeron said that while he had no details, the journey of the refugees had
probably begun in China several months ago. Preliminary interviews, he said,
suggested that they and their families had paid up to $40,000 each to be brought
to this country, lured by promises of new lives of freedom and high paying jobs.

The reality for most, he said, was far different: months locked in the hold of a
ship, with minimal food and water, in dismal sanitary conditions, under the
power of "enforcers" who keep them in line with beatings, sexual abuse and
physical deprivations. If the refugees reach New York City, the officials said,
they are often held hostage while ransoms are extorted from relatives, or forced
to work at menial jobs for their captors.

It was unclear, Mr. Bergeron said, where the refugees had been picked up by the
smugglers' boat, or where that craft had been headed. The boat could have picked
them up at a mother ship off shore to be ferried into the New York metropolitan
area, or might even have brought them from some Caribbean island.

Investigators said the boat might have been headed for the Manasquan Inlet, a
few miles north of Bay Head, possibly to be met there by a confederate who would
take the refugees on to New York City. But it had apparently become lost in fog
that reduced visibility on shore and over the water to as little as 10 feet, and
its pilot may have mistaken two rock jetties at Bay Head for the inlet's mouth.

At any rate, officials who pieced together an account from interviews with the
refugees and from evidence at the landing site, said the craft -- intended for 8
or 10 people but with at least 23 crowded on deck -- rode in on the tide and ran
aground with a jolt between 9:30 and 10 P.M. on Saturday on a sloping sandy
beach midway between jetties that were about 200 yards apart.

The tide was coming in -- it would be high about 12:30 A.M. -- and the
temperature was about 50 degrees, officials said. The moon was up but hidden by
clouds and fog. Carrying few possessions and almost no money, the refugees
climbed the rails, leaped into waist- or shoulder-deep water and waded or swam
ashore. So did the pilot. Nearby, a sign proclaimed, "Beach Unguarded."

The police said a fisherman surf-casting for bass saw them first, moving in and
out of the water like an apparition. He called Officer John Laspina, who with an
unidentified summer special officer were the only officers on duty in the
community, still quiet before the onslaught of its seasonal visitors. They went
down to the beach and found the boat abandoned.

By then, the refugees had already begun moving between the big houses up on the
beach, down the side streets and along the beaches, south toward Mantoloking and
north toward Point Pleasant.

By 1:30 A.M., as reports of suspicious characters darting about began to come in
along the shore towns, the police found them, some alone, some in groups of two
or three: jumping behind bushes or trees when the police approached,
surrendering meekly. They were taken to the Bay Head police station, were given
doughnuts and seemed "extremely hungry," one officer said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the Chinese immigrants who were seized after their boat
was beached on the New Jersey Shore were taken by van yesterday from an
immigration office near Newark International Airport to a detention center.
(Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); An abandoned powerboat, called Oops II,
that was found on a beach in Bay Head, N.J., after it ran aground. (Robert
Sweeney)(pg. B6)

Map of New Jersey showing the location of Bay Head: A boat carrying illegal
immigrants ran aground at Bay Head, N.J.(pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 13, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Seizure of Ship Helps Officials Trace Route of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 423 words


With the seizure of a freighter that is suspected of smuggling Asian immigrants
into the Bahamas this week, Federal officials said they were beginning to piece
together the circuitous journey of 23 Chinese men who illegally landed on a New
Jersey beach two weeks ago.

The 120-foot-long ship seized in the Atlantic Ocean, the Oriental I, may have
been a so-called mother ship used in one phase of a smuggling operation
involving many vessels, the authorities said.

The Oriental I, now in the custody of the United States Coast Guard, was
intercepted about 195 miles east of San Salvador Island on Monday. Only an
eight-man crew -- comprising four Venezuelan and four Korean nationals -- was on
board at the time it was seized. But the day before, United States Customs
officials, watching from an airplane, saw a group of people leaving the ship in
a speedboat, which raced them to Great Abaco Island in the Bahamas.

Bahamian police were alerted and later found 24 Asian men -- 23 from China and 1
from Malaysia -- hiding near the island town of Hole in the Wall. Those men have
been detained as illegal aliens.

Federal officials say they believe the freighter, which is registered in
Venezuela, also played a role in the smuggling of the Chinese immigrants who
were dumped on the beach at Bay Head, N.J., on May 30.

The immigrants had traveled near the American coast on the Oriental I and were
then transferred to a smaller boat, the Oops II, the authorities said. But the
Oops II lost its way in dense fog and ran aground, leaving the immigrants to
jump into the surf and flee toward the mansions lining the shore of the wealthy
town.

The men were apprehended over the next few days and taken to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. The immigrants'
lawyers have said they will all ask for political asylum because they fear
persecution in China, either for their religious beliefs or their opposition to
the one-child policy.

Officials said they doubted that either group of immigrants -- those who ended
up in New Jersey and those who were caught in the Bahamas -- had traveled all
the way from China on the freighter.

A lawyer for one of the immigrants who landed in New Jersey said that the
smuggling route began in South America, the Associated Press reported.

"My guy's trip took about two months," said the lawyer, Jules E. Coven. He said
his client, Dian Lu Jiang, flew from China to Suriname before boarding the first
of three boats involved in the trip.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Permits Deaf Mexicans, Forced to Peddle, to Remain

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words


The 49 deaf Mexican men and women whose ordeal as virtual slaves in a quiet
Queens neighborhood shocked New York and attracted national attention last year
will be allowed to stay in the United States, Federal officials said yesterday.

The illegal immigrants, who were forced to peddle trinkets in the subway and
turn over their earnings to bosses who beat and abused them, will be permitted
to remain because of their help in convicting their tormentors, officials said.

The news came as the Federal criminal case against the men and women who
victimized them ended yesterday with the sentencing of the last of 18 bosses.
That boss, Agustin Rodriguez-Torres, was sentenced to the time he has already
served, 10 months, for crimes including conspiracy to commit slavery and
harboring illegal aliens.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said the deaf Mexicans
and their 11 children, who have been held under the agency's custody at a motel
in Queens for almost a year, would be released within 30 days. Then, city
officials said, they will be allowed to stay in city-owned housing in Brooklyn
for as long as they need to, and will be free to go wherever they choose. The
city has reserved $1 million for their care, said Jerome M. Hauer, the director
of the Mayor's Office of Emergency Management.

Mike Wishnie, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union who represents
the detainees, said he was relieved to hear that the Government did not intend
to deport them. "They are excited that the case is over and the bosses who
oppressed them are going to jail," he said. "At the same time, they are anxious
to leave the hotel and begin new lives in the United States."

It was unclear how the Mexicans might make a living, but Mr. Wishnie and city
officials said several nonprofit organizations were willing to pay for whatever
training they need to become self-sufficient. Other organizations are prepared
to help them apply for Federal welfare benefits and health care.

"They will be clothed, fed, their children will go to school," Mr. Hauer said.
"The Mayor has repeatedly said he is committed to help them, and we will."

A spokesman for the immigration agency, Russell A. Bergeron Jr., said the
workers would be allowed to apply for a special visa granted to people who
contribute significantly to a criminal investigation. Although the workers do
not have the visas yet, "it is highly unlikely any of them will be denied," Mr.
Bergeron said. Those who want to return to Mexico will be free to do so as soon
as travel can be arranged, he added.

Mr. Wishnie said 10 to 15 of the workers, including a woman who has not seen her
two sons for years, want to go home. But many are worried about going back to
Mexico, he said, because they fear retaliation from the families of the men and
women they helped convict.

Citing concerns over the nature of their status, their lawyers did not allow
reporters to interview them yesterday.

The end of the criminal case came 11 months from the day when four deaf Mexican
immigrants walked into a police station in Elmhurst, Queens, and handed an
officer a note asking for help. An investigation revealed that the immigrants
were part of a larger group of laborers who had been smuggled into the country
and forced to work up to 20 hours a day selling trinkets for $1 in the subways.
They were living in two cramped apartments in Queens and sleeping on the floor.
If they did not earn enough money for their bosses, they were beaten and
starved.

Twenty people were indicted. Two remain in a Mexican jail awaiting trial and 18
pleaded guilty in the United States.

Prosecutors said Mr. Rodriguez-Torres, who was sentenced yesterday, was an
enforcer who beat the workers and held them down while the ringleaders shocked
them with stun guns. His sentence was lenient, though, because Mr.
Rodriguez-Torres never initiated the violence himself, prosecutors said, and
because he cooperated with the Government from the start. He said in court
yesterday that he was sorry for what he had done and that he wanted to go home.

As he spoke, about 45 of his victims watched from three benches at the front of
Judge Nina Gershon's courtroom. They looked sober and transfixed, with their
eyes moving from the judge to the sign language interpreter translating the
proceedings. Only after the session was over did they smile. Several wept
quietly.

The other 17 bosses had been sentenced earlier this year to jail terms that
ranged from 14 years for Adriana Paoletti, the woman considered the ringleader,
to 5 years of probation for Frank Coenen, who was charged with conspiracy to
commit slavery but cooperated with the authorities.

"We're satisfied with the job we did, that the sentences were fair and that
justice was served," said an assistant United States attorney, Sandy Cohen, a
prosecutor in the case. Mr. Cohen said his office was seeking to extradite the
two bosses still in Mexico.

Days after the workers were found in the houses in Queens, similar cases of
abuse against deaf Mexicans were discovered in North Carolina and in Chicago.
Mr. Bergeron said the workers who had been victimized in North Carolina had all
chosen to return home, but he did not know the status of the victims in Chicago.

While the New York case wended its way through the courts, the workers and their
11 children -- one was born last week, the fourth born in custody -- were held
at the Westway Motor Inn in Astoria, Queens, on the ground that they had entered
the country illegally and were witnesses in a criminal case. They filled their
hours making arts and crafts, watching Spanish-language soap operas and playing
board games. Their view from their rooms was an expressway that leads to La
Guardia Airport, and beyond that, a cemetery.

Because they were I.N.S. detainees, they were not allowed to go outside without
an escort. Agency officers continue to guard the doors to the motel.

Mr. Wishnie said that for a long time, the Government did not raise the
possibility that his clients would be allowed to stay, refusing to discuss the
options until all of the men and women convicted had pleaded guilty. It was only
in February, he said, that prosecutors began exploring the possibility of
offering them legal status, he said.

The visas they could soon receive, known as S-visas, are offered to cooperating
witnesses who can provide information for the prosecution of cases in the United
States, or those who, having provided the information, fear for their lives once
they return home. The immigration agency grants no more than 250 a year for the
entire country. To apply for one, a petitioner has to have a law enforcement
agency as a sponsor.

In this case, the Mexicans have three sponsors: The Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of
New York and the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. The final
decision is made by the Attorney General and the I.N.S.

While it could take months to process the petitions, Mr. Bergeron said the
workers would not remain in custody for more than 30 more days. Once they have
the S-visas, they can apply for legal residency in three years, and five years
after that, for citizenship, the goal of many immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 49 deaf Mexicans forced to peddle trinkets in the subway
were housed at the Westway Motor Inn in Queens while their bosses were on trial.
Two workers stood at the motel's guarded entrance yesterday. (Barbara Alper for
The New York Times)(pg. B3)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 26, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Fear of Deportation Is Cited In Killing of Illegal Immigrant

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 574 words


An illegal immigrant who friends said was afraid to report to the police that
she was being abused by her former boyfriend was found dead in the basement of
her Englewood, N.J., apartment yesterday, officials said. Prosecutors said they
suspect the former boyfriend, who has apparently fled the country.

Prosecutors said the woman, Alena Gonzales, a 36-year-old mother of two from the
Philippines who disappeared Saturday night, had tried to break off her
relationship with the man, Fredy Bustamanti, 32, and was engaged to another man,
Peter Bartels. Mr. Bartels reported her missing to the Englewood police on
Sunday after she failed to meet him Saturday morning.

Friends of Ms. Gonzales said that Mr. Bustamanti repeatedly beat her over the
course of a four-year-relationship and threatened to report her to immigration
officials if she reported his actions. They said that after Ms. Gonzales began
seeing another man, Mr. Bustamanti repeatedly threatened to kill her, her
boyfriend and himself. "Fredy was always physically abusive and violent with
her," said Susan Goodman, a friend of Ms. Gonzales. "She is illegal herself and
she always had this fear of being deported."

After receiving a tip yesterday, the police discovered Ms. Gonzales's body in
the basement of the apartment building in which she and Mr. Bustamanti lived at
26 West Palisade Avenue, Englewood's main commercial thoroughfare. The Bergen
County prosecutor, William H. Schmidt, said the autopsy results showed that Ms.
Gonzales was strangled to death.

"An object was used to effect the strangulation and the asphyxiation," he said,
adding that the police were not sure exactly where Ms. Gonzales was killed.

Mr. Schmidt said investigators believe Mr. Bustamanti, who worked for Campoli
Construction in Cresskill, N.J., flew to his native Guatemala on Saturday. He
said Mr. Bustamanti's estranged wife had once filed a domestic abuse complaint
against him.

Violeta Hernandes, 30, the landlord of the Palisades Avenue building, said Mr.
Bustamanti had moved in about three years ago. He then asked her if Ms.
Gonzales, the mother of twin 12-year-old girls still in the Phillippines, could
move into a $250 room in the building.

She said the couple looked "happy" and she never saw any hitting in the
relationship, and added that she was "very surprised" by the allegations against
Mr. Bustamanti.

But Mr. Schmidt said Ms. Gonzales's friends told prosecutors that the
relationship was "not a good one." When asked whether the relationship was
violent he said yes.

Mr. Schmidt said "the vast majority" of homicides prosecutors see in Bergen
County are the result of "violent relationships."

Experts say that Ms. Gonzales's plight is not unusual and that illegal
immigrants frequently hesitate to report domestic abuse. They are also
threatened with exposure to immigration officials by their employers or people
they get in disputes with.

"I think it's a widespread problem," said Ai-Jen Poo, a program director for the
Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence. "Reporting it renders them vulnerable to
being deported. Immigration laws don't take into account the power relations
immigrant women face."

Ms. Goodman said that Ms. Gonzales had arrived in the United States about 10
years ago and had held a variety of jobs as a housekeeper. Her earnings here
went primarily to supporting her two daughters and her 65-year-old mother in the
Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Guard Given 4 Years In Immigrant Beating

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


The last defendant in the 1995 beating of illegal immigrants at the Union County
Jail was sentenced yesterday to four years in prison.

The defendant, Joseph Werthmann 3d, who had been free on $50,000 bail, did not
participate in the beatings, which occurred after 300 immigrants rioted at the
Esmor detention center in Elizabeth. But he was convicted in April of failing to
report fellow guards who did.

Judge Walter R. Barisonek of Superior Court in Elizabeth, who could have
sentenced Mr. Werthmann to 10 years in prison, revoked Mr. Werthmann's bail and
yesterday ordered him held at the Burlington County Jail, said Blair Zwillman,
Mr. Werthmann's lawyer.

But Mr. Werthmann could be free again on Monday, when Judge Barisonek is due to
reset bail after the revocation was overturned by an appellate panel yesterday
afternoon, Mr. Zwillman said. Mr. Werthmann is appealing his conviction.

Among the 11 other officers charged, 6 pleaded guilty, 3 were convicted, 1 was
acquitted and 1 died in a car crash.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: THE OVERVIEW;
7 Arrested in Abuse of Deaf Immigrants

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words


Seven Mexican immigrants were arrested yesterday on charges of running a
smuggling ring that sneaked scores of deaf Mexicans across the border, stashed
them in safe houses in California, flew them to New York City and forced them,
under threat of beatings, to work as trinket vendors in the subways.

An eighth suspect, Reinaldo Paoletti, who is considered the ringleader, is still
at large and the authorities are searching for him in the United States and
Mexico. Four of those arrested are also members of the Paoletti family, who kept
a tyrannical reign over two apartments crowded with deaf Mexicans in Jackson
Heights, Queens, officials said.

Yesterday morning, 57 of the Mexicans, including 3 pregnant women and 12 young
children, ate waffles at the Westway Motor Inn in Elmhurst, Queens, as
immigration authorities determined that almost all were illegal immigrants.
Although Federal immigration officials had been ready to bus them to a county
jail in Pennsylvania on Saturday night, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani insisted that
they remain in New York City custody as crime victims and witnesses.

"At least some of the people here have been through a very terrible ordeal that
should not happen to anyone," the Mayor said after leaving the motel yesterday.
"The allegations are that these people were brought here under false pretense.
They were told they would be able to make a living and to live decently here.
One man told me that one of the bosses slapped his children. I spoke to one
child who had some scars around his eyes from a beating."

Hundreds of other deaf Mexicans have moved north recently to sell trinkets in
American cities, driven away by intolerance and drawn north by a perception of
greater opportunity, according to the director of the National School for the
Deaf in Mexico City. The director, Jose Badilla Huerta, said he had visited
small communities of deaf Mexicans in Rochester, Chicago, Los Angeles and Long
Beach, Calif. Although they are also exploited, he said, he does not know of any
enduring the kind of forced-labor conditions that existed in Jackson Heights.

In their enforced New York routine, the immigrants would leave their apartments
before dawn wearing backpacks filled with a hundred $1 key chains. All day, they
crisscrossed the city by train, timidly laying the trinkets down next to subway
riders with a card saying, "I am deaf." They said they often worked until
midnight because if they returned without $100 in earnings, they would be
slapped or punched. They had two days off a month.

They did not go completely unnoticed by city authorities. On at least one
occasion before Saturday's raid, police officers and city emergency workers went
to one of the two apartments to aid a woman who refused their offers of medical
attention. On another occasion, a building inspector visited. Nothing came of
either incursion into their world.

The Federal authorities arrested four Mexicans -- including Alfredo Rustrian
Paoletti, 37, whom the immigrants called "the boss" -- in Queens on charges of
smuggling, transporting and harboring immigrants. The New York police arrested
three others on charges that they slapped and punched immigrants who would not
work, threatened them with injury and stole their proceeds at day's end.

Some of those arrested understood and spoke Spanish. Others appeared to be as
deaf and mute as their victims; they apparently served as "the crew chiefs, or
enforcers, who were under the bosses and over the worker bees," said Daniel
Molerio, an assistant district director for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in New York. The enforcers appeared to be living with the immigrants;
some $30,000 in cash was found in one of the apartments.

The criminal charges followed nearly 24 hours of investigation at the 115th
Precinct in Jackson Heights on Saturday. The inquiry began when four of the deaf
immigrants showed up at the station house at midnight with a three-page letter
in Spanish, only to leave nervously without giving it to the police. They went
in and out of the station several times before turning over the letter at 4
A.M., then led the police at dawn to two apartments crammed with bunkbeds,
mattresses and sleeping bags. The authorities have not released the letter's
contents.

Through interviews in New York and Mexico, a clearer picture emerged about the
journey taken by these deaf immigrants, which apparently began with high hopes
of starting a new life in this country and settled into a grim reality that the
Mayor said was "virtually slavery."

Although they were free to roam about New York while working, the immigrants
believed they were captive to the bosses who had taken away their personal
documents and kept most of their earnings. They were bound to them in a
complicated relationship, the authorities said.

"The biggest factor that kept them there was their disability, which kept them
dependent on the smugglers, and isolated them terribly," Mr. Molerio said. "That
was their key vulnerability, and the smugglers exploited it tremendously."

Federal authorities say they believe that the Mexicans were recruited by the
Paolettis to work in what they were told was a small business. They may have
been recruited at a school for the deaf -- although many are illiterate -- or at
what Queens District Attorney Richard Brown called "homes for the impaired."
Some may have been taken to the United States against their will.

They arrived gradually, in small groups. Almost all were smuggled over the
border by a professional coyote, or expert border crosser, hired by the ring,
officials said. They were met on the other side by vans that took them to the
Los Angeles area, where they were kept in houses controlled by the ring before
taking commercial flights to Newark or La Guardia Airports, according to Federal
investigators.

The smugglers themselves appear to have traveled back and forth on tourist
visas. In New York, the immigrants turned over their documents -- their birth
certificates, Mexican identity cards and, for those few who had them, their fake
tourist visas -- to the enforcers.

The immigrants were stashed in one of two Jackson Heights apartments near the
Number 7 subway line, where men, women, teen-agers, toddlers and infants slept
in shifts, stacked atop one another in bunkbeds.

They received a salary of $400 a month, from which $200 was withdrawn for rent,
leaving $200 that was pooled to buy food and clothing.

During a long day of questioning on Saturday, investigators scrambled to find
interpreters of sign language and Spanish to help them communicate with the
victims and the defendants. Since the police took the victims and the defendants
into custody at the same time, it was hard at first to tell who was who.

"For a while, our people didn't know who was saint and who was sinner," Mr.
Brown said.

The situation was not completely solved even by the arrival of sign language
interpreters fluent in Spanish. Many of the deaf Mexicans were uneducated, even
unsocialized, and spoke a kind of pidgin sign language that baffled the
specialized interpreters.

"It was excruciatingly difficult to deal with these people's disability," Mr.
Molerio said. "This thing to me was worth two Golden Ventures in difficulty." He
was referring to the ship that ran aground off Queens filled with smuggled
Chinese immigrants, and the complex saga of immigrant desperation that was the
point of reference for New Yorkers yesterday.

At the Westway Motor Inn, near La Guardia Airport, the Mexican immigrants were
held in a curious limbo. They ate hamburgers and potato salad, watched
television, lounged and slept, only to be interrupted at intervals by the police
and medical workers -- who examined the children and found them healthy. In the
morning, one frustrated officer requested and got a master room key from the
front desk because no one could hear him knocking.

"They asked what was on the television about them," said Robert Wingate, a
spokesman for the American Red Cross in New York. "Some of them asked about
baseball scores. Having a hotel room of your own to relax in can't be a negative
after what some of these people have been through."

From outside the motel, a sign language speaker waved to an immigrant peering
out a window. She signed, "Are you afraid?"

"No," the man answered. "I feel O.K. I feel good. But I have no money."

The interpreter continued, "Will you go to Mexico or stay in America?"

"I don't know," the man said. "It's up to the police."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adelja Paoletti, 59, left, and Adriana Paoletti, 29, were among
seven arrested in the case of deaf Mexicans being held against their will.
(Associated Press)(pg. A1); One of 57 Mexican immigrants rescued from forced
labor waved yesterday from the Westway Motor Inn in Elmhurst, Queens. (Chester
Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5)






                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Abuse of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 430 words


The deaf Mexicans discovered last weekend living in virtual slavery in two
cramped houses in Jackson Heights, Queens, were victims of the evils that can be
inflicted on illegal immigrants who live in constant fear of discovery and
deportation. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of New York has responded to the Mexicans'
plight with sensitivity and compassion, arranging for them to be sheltered by
the Red Cross in hotel rooms instead of being bused off to a Pennsylvania jail.
But there is little question that most of the illegal immigrants will eventually
have to be deported back to Mexico.

The United States has a right and a duty to restrict immigration to this
country. But people who are powerfully motivated to come here anyway will find
themselves highly vulnerable to their smugglers and abusive employers. The only
practical answer is tougher enforcement of laws against illegal working
conditions, overcrowded housing and the smuggling of illegal immigrants.

These men and women were especially vulnerable because they are deaf. Most of
them spent 18-hour days selling trinkets in the subways, afraid to return home
until they had sold their quota of 100 key chains at a dollar each. They were
also afraid or unable to reveal their condition to the thousands of riders they
encountered daily.

Eventually their torment became unbearable and several approached the police,
though they probably knew that would bring their deportation. Meanwhile,
neighbors who glimpsed what was going on chose not to tell the authorities, some
because their own immigration status was irregular.

To prevent such inhumane treatment, authorities need to crack down on employers
who profit from abuse of immigrants and on smuggling rings that keep these
employers supplied with workers.  Congress might also think about granting green
cards, under carefully defined circumstances, to illegals who report major
violations of labor law and cooperate in prosecuting those responsible.

More aggressive efforts to investigate overcrowded housing could also help
uncover immigration abuses, although the city housing inspectors who visited the
Jackson Heights premises failed, astonishingly, to recognize the extent of the
problem. Meanwhile the victimization of the deaf workers, well publicized in
Mexico's newspapers, may deter others from similar mistakes.

Incidents like the sickening abuse of the Jackson Heights peddlers are
increasing. Whenever such cases come to light, maximum compassion should be
shown to the victims and maximum punishment doled out to the exploiters.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Angst

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe;  Alan Wolfe is a professor of sociology and political
science at Boston University and author of the forthcoming "One Nation, After
All," about middle-class morality.

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Long before gays in the military became a political issue, Americans had adopted
a "don't ask, don't tell" approach to illegal immigration. Immigrants did not
tell because they did not want to be noticed. And the rest of us didn't ask
because we knew the details of their passage would turn our stomachs. Some
illegal immigrants would eventually realize the American dream, and then their
story could be celebrated. But the American dream was not supposed to include
forced labor.

The tales emerging out of New York of Mexican immigrants held in virtual bondage
force us to confront realities of illegal immigration we would rather avoid. But
now that we know what illegal immigration can mean, what exactly should we do?

Those who have always had their doubts about immigration will surely find in the
news from Queens confirmation of their fears that immigrants undermine the
American way of life. Ask those who hold this view what the American way of life
actually means and they will often respond that it involves speaking English,
working hard and believing in God. To this can be added living in freedom. That
immigration has brought to our shores the kind of peonage abolished in this
country long ago would seem to confirm the belief that allowing indiscriminate
entry into the United States would corrupt our most fundamental values.

For defenders of immigration, by contrast, it was only a matter of time before
someone, seeing the profits to be made by employing illegals as gardeners or
shopping-bag packers, got the idea of making money by forcing them to peddle
trinkets in the subways. To people who maintain this perspective, those who
smuggled the Mexicans to New York City are different from agribusiness companies
that employ illegal immigrants only in degree; both thrive by finding the
cheapest workers they can. And workers cannot come cheaper than the truly
desperate: deaf mutes, already cut off from the hearing world around them,
condemned to obedience in a land not their own.

From this viewpoint, the lesson to be learned from Queens is that illegal
immigrants are especially vulnerable to exploitation, which can be remedied only
by allowing all immigrants to remain in the country legally.

Stories contrasting the wealth and opportunity of the United States with the
downtrodden struggling against odds to make it here touch a nerve among
Americans. Before the Mexicans there was the Golden Venture, the ship smuggling
Chinese immigrants that ran aground off Queens four years ago.

But the very emotional power of these tales suggests why we should avoid drawing
too many conclusions from them. Immigration policy is too important to the
politics, economics and culture of the United States to be made by anecdote.

Moved by the plight of people barely capable of communicating their distress, we
might decide that the nation has a humanitarian duty to help the vulnerable,
especially those attracted to this country by the opportunities it offers. That
would be a wrong conclusion. This was not, after all, a tale of wealthy
Americans exploiting helpless immigrants, but of one group of immigrants
exploiting another in a country to which neither belonged. Headlines in Mexican
newspapers screamed about slavery in New York, ignoring the fact that their
bosses were just as Mexican as the peons.

But even more important, sainthood is for saints, not policy makers. Just
because people suffered greatly to get here, and then suffered even more after
they arrived, is not by itself reason to allow them to stay. A society that
extends its obligations to everyone extends them to no one. So long as some of
our fellow citizens are in need -- and who can doubt that some of them are? --
they must have first claim on our conscience. Sympathy has to be rationed. As
much as our hearts go out to people as vulnerable and exploited as the Mexican
trinket sellers, our heads must insist that they be returned to their country.

Yet we would also be wrong to conclude from the events in Queens that we ought
to be hard-nosed realists and close our borders. Immigrants have rejuvenated the
American work ethic. Many of them are deeply religious, and they have
re-invigorated American religious life. And they have brought vitality to many
American cities. Several new American citizens were born to the deaf illegal
immigrants in Queens. They may wind up being the fortunate in this unrelenting
tale of misfortune.

At least in this country, conditions so alien to freedom do not survive once
exposed to the light of day. Yet what happened in New York City is not a parable
of evil or compassion. It is not a parable of anything. The very aspects of the
story that make it newsworthy also make it atypical. We would be wise to allow
the gut-wrenching emotional impact of these recent events to pass before
deciding whether to tighten or further open our borders.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Kuper)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 27, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Belabored;
What Modern Slavery Is, and Isn't

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words


SLAVERY has been in the news a lot lately. Last week, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani
said a Mexico-based ring had been holding deaf Mexican illegal immigrants in
"virtual slavery" in New York. A few days later, the Mayor himself was accused
of condoning slavery by requiring at least some of the city's million-plus
welfare recipients to work at community jobs. "Rudy, we will not be your slave
drivers," said posters held by representatives of religious organizations and
voluntary agencies who refused to participate in the city's workfare plan.
Slavery is a label applied to low-wage workers in the garment and sportswear
industries abroad and sweatshops in American cities. It is invoked to condemn
the sex industry and prison labor.

But what is slavery nowadays anyhow? It is a question the United Nations has
been wrestling with for decades by assigning experts to look at what are called
"contemporary forms" of enslavement. There have been conventions signed and
conferences held, and still the word is open to considerable interpretation.
When scores of Thai workers were found confined to a compound behind razor wire
in a garment sweatshop in California two years ago, an American Civil Liberties
Union official said the news should hardly have come as a surprise, since slave
labor in the state "is one of those dirty little secrets everyone knows about."

Hype Factor


Really?

Slavery is older than recorded human history and probably occurred in some form
or another almost everywhere in the world at some time. It was common in ancient
Babylon, Persia, Egypt and the Roman Empire. It was found in Asia and Africa. It
did not disappear in Western Europe until late in the Middle Ages, and was still
present in the Western Hemisphere when the early Spanish explorers arrived.
Press-gangs rowing ancient Mediterranean war boats, captive victims in
pre-Columbian sacrificial rites, Africans brought to the Americas in chains --
all are recognizable, indisputable examples of enslavement.

But as slavery seems to take new forms -- or as the word is applied to more
conditions -- there is a danger that its meaning will be diluted or even
diminished, said Mike Dottridge, the director of the world's oldest monitor of
forced labor, Anti-Slavery International (formerly the Anti-Slavery Society) in
London.

"The word slavery is abused," he said, "and it is abused so much that people
begin to feel that real slavery doesn't exist. Unfortunately, it does."

Slavery is identified by an element of ownership or control over another's life,
coercion and the restriction of movement -- by the fact that "someone is not
free to leave, to change an employer," Mr. Dottridge said. Short of that, he
added, there may be terrible situations, but they are not slavery. Low-paid
factory work is not necessarily slavery, he said, though it may exploit the poor
and socially disadvantaged. The United States, vaunted land of immigrants, was
largely made from generations of such toil.

Child labor does not always fit the category either, Mr. Dottridge said, though
there may be hundreds of millions of children at work, most of them in Asia.
"Some people will go so far as to say that all cases of child labor amount to
slavery," he said. "For us, looking as we do at real cases of slavery, we think
that's rather a mockery of the word."

Ill-Defined



Jemera Rone, legal counsel for Human Rights Watch in New York, said,
"Contemporary slavery has never been really defined with any specificity." But
she added that in her opinion "workfare," meant to get people off welfare, does
not fit the description of slavery because there is no physical coercion.

"The definition of slavery has been expanded by conventions signed by almost all
countries in the world to include trafficking in women and bonded labor, which
did not exist under the 19th-century definition of slavery," Ms. Rone said. "But
there always are efforts by other affected populations to see if their
situations fit into the definition of slavery."

Slavery is one of several terms that have suffered "word inflation," said Felice
Gaer, the director of the Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human
Rights. "Genocide" and "holocaust" are two others, she said. In an age when
there is little that is really shocking, people reach for such words to draw
attention to their causes or strengthen them.

When outsiders seize on the word slavery to describe some forms of labor, they
can seem patronizing. Many can't imagine a poor village woman in Bangladesh or
Indonesia working arduously in a garment factory for little pay unless there is
some element of compulsion. But down at the ground level, women who choose such
work, however odious to the foreign eye, frequently see their jobs as more like
opportunities.

Advances for Women



On the other hand, expanding a definition of abuse does not always have negative
consequences. Ms. Gaer said that the recently broadened interpretations of
women's rights have given women in many countries legal ground on which to fight
conditions that may indeed be forms of slavery. The prostitutes whose bodies
were found chained to their beds after a fire in a resort town in Thailand a
decade ago did not have the same standing to demand better treatment that others
have now. The old term "white slave trade" was well chosen, said Ms. Gaer. "We
politely call it trafficking in persons, but today in fact it is right to see
this as a form of slavery," she said.

Contemporary slavery is not always easy to identify or root out because much of
it is accepted within a society. "Debt bondage is practiced on a huge scale in
certain parts of the world, particularly in South Asia," Mr. Dottridge said. In
India and Nepal it is buttressed by a caste system that makes subjugation
socially acceptable, he added. Advocates for the rights of outcast and low-caste
people agree.

Asma Abdel Halim, a Sudanese who is Africa's director of Equality Now, an
international women's rights organization, said real slavery exists in the
Sudan, a contention supported by the United Nations and independent human rights
investigators. Islamic tribes in southern Sudan regularly raid villages of
non-Muslim animists and take away captives who must work for them as unpaid
labor unless they are bought back by their clans. Race is not the issue. "We are
all black, just different shades of black," she said.

Old-Style Bondage



Anti-Slavery International has also found traditional, 18th-century-style
slavery in West Africa, where children in poor countries like Togo and Benin are
seized from villages and sold into domestic servitude in Nigeria, Gabon and
elsewhere in the region. In Asia, a well-organized begging industry mutilates
Indian children and transports them to Saudi Arabia to plead for money outside
mosques.

Illegal immigrant rings tend to operate within their closed cultural systems,
like the Mexican networks placing trinket-sellers in New York and California.
Migrants within their own countries are also vulnerable, among them poor
Brazilians lured to the Amazon to work on plantations. "Exploiters have created
a complete subculture, because after the migrants leave home, they are unable to
look to the authorities, the rule of law, to protect them in any way," Mr.
Dottridge said.

This fate appeared to befall the dozens of deaf Mexicans discovered in Queens
last week, so they seem to fit the new definition of slavery. Their freedom of
movement and action was curtailed, the authorities said, as they were crowded
into apartments and monitored at work in the subways by enforcers of the
smuggling ring that brought them here; they seemed unable to escape.

Closed Systems



Mr. Dottridge says the upswing in migration around the world, a hallmark of the
age, is behind a substantial amount of enslavement today.

"It is fair to say that in the 1990's, the more oppressive forms of slavery are
affecting migrant laborers who are traveling and already vulnerable because they
moved from their own societies into quite different societies, where they
perhaps don't understand the language and are much more easy to exploit," he
said. "The minute a migrant worker leaves home, the odds are that some form of
slavery will emerge."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laborers or slaves? In this ancient wall painting from an
Egyptian tomb (circa 1450 B.C.), it's hard to tell. You could say the same for
many exploitive situations today. (Egyptian Expedition of The Metropolitan
Museum of Art, Rogers Fund, 1930)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 28, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
U.S. to Bolster Its Force On Texas-Mexico Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., July 27


A crackdown on illegal immigration will send hundreds of new agents and pieces
of sophisticated equipment to the Texas-Mexico border.

Under Operation Rio Grande, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will
dispatch 69 agents to Brownsville from other parts of the country by Aug. 25,
Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of the agency, said on Saturday.

Ms. Meissner said that the lower Rio Grande Valley "is the part of Texas most
heavily pressured right now by both illegal immigration and illegal drug
crossings."

By the end of this fiscal year, the number of immigration agents will have
increased to 2,693 from 1,756 in 1993, Ms. Meissner said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 29, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Man Held as Enforcer in Chicago Ring Exploiting Deaf Peddlers

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 320 words


A 21-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico was charged yesterday as the
enforcer -- the man who took in the money and gave out the beatings -- of a
Chicago ring that law enforcement officials said was associated with a New York
operation accused of exploiting deaf Mexican immigrants.

Federal officials said the illegal immigrant, Juan Antonio Limon-Sosa, who is
not deaf, had traveled at least twice from Chicago to New York, where he also
beat and threatened trinket peddlers at a house in Jackson Heights, Queens.

While the charges appeared to cement further the link between the operations in
New York and Chicago, law enforcement officials remained unsure whether they
were different branches of the same organization or merely loosely linked. Nor
had officials determined whether a group of trinket peddlers in North Carolina
was associated with the other two.

Mr. Limon-Sosa is among 11 people arrested since July 19 in the peddling
operations. On that day, the police raided two houses in Queens, finding 57
people, most of them deaf illegal immigrants from Mexico who were forced to sell
key chains and other trinkets on the subways. Last weekend, two people, one
deaf, were arrested in Chicago in the peddling ring there.

Law enforcement officials said they were exploring leads to possible operations
in other cities, though it seemed clear they were still trying to determine how
extensive, lucrative and sophisticated the operations in New York, Chicago and
North Carolina were. "We're still trying to figure out what's a real operation
or just a set of circumstances where people are being rotated in and out," said
an official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

In Chicago yesterday, a Federal magistrate ordered the three people arrested
there to New York. Mr. Limon-Sosa was charged on Federal counts of conspiracy to
smuggle, harbor and transport illegal immigrants.




LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 3, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Deaf Mexicans Are to Remain As Witnesses

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 707 words


Some of the deaf Mexicans who were found living in servitude in Queens two weeks
ago will be allowed to stay in the United States for at least three years to
help investigators pursue criminal cases against the people who have been
accused of enslaving them, an immigration official said yesterday.

Those allowed to stay will be granted special three-year "S visas," which are
offered by the Justice Department to allow crime witnesses to remain in the
United States to help prosecutors assemble their cases. After the visas expire,
the Mexicans will be able to apply for status as legal residents of the United
States, said Brian J. Jordan, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Washington.

The Federal authorities are preparing criminal cases against 17 men and women in
New York, Los Angeles and Chicago who have been arrested on charges ranging from
smuggling illegal immigrants to keeping them enslaved.

Mr. Jordan said it had not yet been determined how many of the 55 Mexicans, most
of whom are illegal immigrants, would be allowed to stay. But, he added, some
have already been selected, based on the testimony they have offered.

As the investigation continues, others may be added to the list of those who
stay, he said. Exactly what information they can provide is being determined as
the investigation continues, Mr. Jordan said.

"It all depends on how legitimate the information they have is," he said.

On July 21, United States Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn
Democrat, asked Attorney General Janet Reno to grant S visas to the Mexicans.
Through a spokesman yesterday, Mr. Schumer said he was "gratified" by the
decision of the Justice Department to allow at least some of the Mexicans to
stay.

"The I.N.S. and the Justice Department have done the right thing and the humane
thing by granting these visas," he said. "I'm gratified that these men and women
will not be victimized twice."

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had also asked the immigration service to let the
Mexicans remain in New York. From the beginning, Mr. Giuliani has insisted that
the Mexicans were not only victims but also witnesses to a crime. Yesterday, Mr.
Giuliani could not be reached for comment.

The fate of those who are not selected as witnesses has yet to be determined.
Mr. Jordan said his agency would not deport any of the Mexicans while there is
legislation pending in Congress concerning their status in the country. On July
22, United States Representative Nydia Velazquez introduced a bill that would
allow Congress to grant legal residence to the Mexicans.

"This is a very sensitive issue," Mr. Jordan said. "We want to see how we can
work together with the city, Congress and everybody involved in this issue.
While Congress is talking about having them stay, the decision remains up in the
air."

The immigration service's current caution contrasts markedly with the position
immigration officials took when the Mexicans were found two weeks ago in houses
in Jackson Heights and Corona by the New York City Police Department. Several of
the Mexicans had delivered a note to the police asking for help. Then, Federal
immigration officials had been ready to bus them to a county jail in
Pennsylvania, and there was talk about immediate deportation. But Mr. Giuliani
insisted that they remain in New York.

Eventually, Federal officials and the city agreed that the Mexicans would stay
in New York City while the investigation continued, but under the custody of the
immigration service, which has kept them at the Westway Motor Inn in Astoria,
Queens. The city and the immigration service also agreed to share the expenses
of the Mexicans while they were in New York.

An immigration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said yesterday
that, as the investigation widened to other states and more arrests took place
practically every day, the deaf Mexicans from Queens became central to the
investigation and their chances of staying in the country as witnesses improved.
Mr. Jordan said that once officials determined how many of the Mexicans would
remain as witnesses, they would be moved from the motel. But he said he did not
know where the immigrants would be housed.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 7, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
6 Bodies Found in Ditch At Arizona Border Town

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz., Aug. 6


The bodies of five men and one woman were found today in a drainage ditch, all
apparently illegal immigrants who drowned trying to cross the border from
Mexico, the authorities said.

A storm dumped over an inch of rain here on Tuesday night, sending water surging
through the normally dry channel. The authorities said the victims were believed
to be part of a larger group that crossed the border from neighboring Agua
Prieta.

The Border Patrol averages about 350 arrests a day in Douglas, 100 miles
southeast of Tucson.

The chain-link fence that used to separate Douglas and Agua Prieta has been
removed while the United States builds a wrought-iron fence, Mayor Ray Borane
said.

"This is the primary place of crossing now," Mr. Borane said. "That's why
there's such an urgency to get this fence up."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 9, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Charges Detailed in Case of Mexican Peddlers

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 434 words


Law enforcement officials in Mexico City and Washington yesterday began
preparing criminal charges against two men arrested on Thursday and accused of
smuggling dozens of deaf Mexican immigrants into the United States and forcing
them to sell trinkets in New York and other cities.

After an 18-day manhunt, Renato Paoletti Lemus, known as the Boss in the Queens
homes where his workers slept on the floor in two overcrowded apartments, was
apprehended in Mexico City by the Mexican police and agents of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Mexican officials said they planned to charge Mr. Paoletti and his father, Jose
Paoletti Moreda, with organized crime, saying they lured hundreds of deaf
Mexicans to the United States with promises of high-paying jobs, smuggling them
illegally across the border.

But American officials hope to try the younger Mr. Paoletti in New York, where
he is accused of forcing the illegal immigrants to panhandle 12 hours a day,
seven days a week, and using violence and threats to prevent them from leaving.

Federal agents have accused Mr. Paoletti of links to similar operations in Los
Angeles and Chicago, and have arrested 19 people nationwide in the case.

An official in the Attorney General's office in Mexico City who spoke on
condition of anonymity said the Paolettis had several bank accounts and more
than $1 million in assets from their peddling ring.

Court papers filed yesterday in District Court in Brooklyn charged Renato
Paoletti with extortion, saying he sexually abused some female peddlers and
ordered beatings of any workers who failed to meet a $100-a-day sales quota.

Federal officials said the affidavit is the first step in the extradition
process, but it will be several weeks before prosecutors make a formal request.

In Mexico City, Mexican officials interviewed Mr. Paoletti and his father
yesterday, along with two other men who were arrested on Thursday as they tried
to cash a certificate of deposit at a Banamex branch. Initial reports from the
Attorney General's office in Mexico City said the Paolettis were found locked in
a room in the city's Narvarte section, and may have been the victims of a
robbery.

Mexican prosecutors said yesterday that they planned to charge the two men
apprehended in the bank, Jose Rustrian Paoletti and Ezdra Suri Dahab Kassin,
with forgery.

But American law enforcement officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said yesterday the men may have been working in concert with Renato Paoletti and
his father.  Al Atkinson, a spokesman for the I.N.S., declined comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Paoletti Moreda, left, and his son, Renato Paoletti Lemus,
are accused of smuggling and forced labor involving deaf Mexicans. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Immigrants Are Detained

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: FREEHOLD


When 55 illegal immigrants, most of them Mexican, arrived for work at seven
Monmouth County businesses on Wednesday morning, agents from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service were waiting for them. The immigrants, including 12 women
with children, were led away in plastic handcuffs and told they could leave the
country voluntarily or plead their case before a Federal immigration judge in
the next two weeks, Lynn Durko, a spokeswoman for the agency, said yesterday. So
far, 38 have agreed to leave, she said. The mothers were released to be with
their children Wednesday, but the rest of the immigrants were still being held
yesterday at a detention center in Elizabeth. The businesses involved, which had
been under surveillance for several weeks, could face fines of up to $2,000 for
each immigrant hired without documentation, Ms. Durko said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 31, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S.-MEXICO STUDY SEES EXAGGERATION OF MIGRATION DATA

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 30


The first formal migration study to be sponsored by the American and Mexican
Governments has concluded that the number of undocumented Mexican workers who
have settled in the United States in this decade is far lower than some
politicians have suggested, only about 105,000 a year.

Drawn from a two-year analysis of American and Mexican census and other data,
the figure is the first authoritative estimate of the net annual flow of illegal
Mexican workers into the United States, which has been an elusive statistic at
the center of political and academic dispute on both sides of the border.

During the last Presidential campaign in the United States, some conservatives
made immigration a powerful issue, with lurid portrayals of an America overrun
by illegal Mexicans, a million of whom were said to pour across the border each
year, taking jobs from Americans and driving up welfare costs.

The new estimate appears alongside a series of other groundbreaking conclusions
in a new Binational Study on Migration. The document was commissioned by
Presidents Clinton and Ernesto Zedillo in early 1995 and brought together 20
prominent demographers and scholars -- 10 Mexican and 10 American -- for two and
a half years of research, field work and analysis.

"No controversy ever really ends, so it would be ingenuous for us to think this
will resolve all the disputes over migration," said Francisco Alba Hernandez, a
demographer at the Colegio de Mexico who took part in the study. "But this is
our attempt to arrive at the most reasonable overview."

The study was circulated Friday to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright,
Attorney General Janet Reno, Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria of Mexico and
other senior officials; it is to be made public Tuesday. A contributor to the
study provided The New York Times with its executive summary and key chapters.

Migration is one of the most contentious issues dividing the countries, and for
three decades each Government has molded policies to suit its own needs. The
joint study is part of a shift toward increased cooperation, officials said.

"We have focused on protection of migrants' rights," Mr. Gurria said in a recent
interview, "and you in the United States have focused on containment, meaning
stopping them with physical obstacles or more agents or whatever. Now we're
trying to find common interests, to develop a few common approaches, and just
deciding how we are going to manage our differences over the things we cannot
agree upon."

Among the study's conclusions were these:

*Migrant workers in the United States, both legal and undocumented, most of whom
in the past have returned to homes in Mexico at least once a year, are tending
to stay longer north of the border. "The rate of back-and-forth movement seems
to be slowing," the study concludes.

*The average income of Mexican migrants has dropped in this decade. In 1996, 11
percent of recently arrived families headed by a Mexican-born person had incomes
below $5,000, as against 5.5 percent in 1990.

*Mexican migrants are no more likely to receive welfare than poor Americans. But
many local governments pay more in services to Mexican-born households than they
receive in taxes, largely because the migrants, earning little, pay little. The
largest expense is education.

*The most important direct result of the migration is the money that migrants
send home to Mexico, estimated at $2.5 billion to $3.9 billion each year. That
is the equivalent of about half the direct foreign investment in Mexico, the
study says.

*The migration's primary beneficiaries are the migrants themselves, as well as
American business people, farmers and consumers. The American economy grows
through employment and consumption generated by the migration.

If the study itself is a sign of the two Governments' increasing willingness to
work together on migration, sharp differences remain. Just last week, for
instance, the United States began the latest in a series of border crackdowns,
this one focused on channeling hundreds of new Border Patrol agents to the lower
Rio Grande Valley, where many migrants have recently been crossing.

The Mexican Government reacted angrily, convening an urgent meeting of its
border-based consular officials in San Antonio to discuss ways of protecting
migrants. About 80 migrants have died this year trying to cross the border in
the desert and other remote areas as a result of toughened American enforcement
in border cities and towns.

If the latest disagreement focuses on American enforcement tactics, migration
statistics themselves have been just as hotly disputed in recent years.

The Mexican-born population living in the United States numbers 7 million to 7.3
million, of whom 4.7 million to 4.9 million are legal residents and 2.3 million
to 2.4 million are "unauthorized residents," the study says.

In the 1980's, some American demographers said the number of undocumented
Mexicans living in the United States was far higher; one influential study put
the figure at 5 million to 6 million, said Jeffrey S. Passell, a demographer at
the Urban Institute in Washington.

Even more vigorously argued in the 1990's, however, have been estimates of the
annual growth in the population of Mexican illegal aliens living in the United
States. This figure has been especially difficult to estimate because neither
country has any direct way to measure the flow of migrants illegally crossing
the border.

Apparently using extrapolations of the law enforcement detention figures,
politicians who made immigration a major issue in the 1996 Presidential campaign
-- including Pete Wilson, California's Governor, and Patrick J. Buchanan, the
conservative commentator -- suggested that the population of undocumented
Mexicans in the United States was exploding. Mr. Buchanan implied that it was
growing by a million or more a year.

In a 1993 op-ed article in The Washington Times, for instance, Mr. Buchanan
referred to "the soaring cost of services for illegal aliens, perhaps a million
of whom walk into the United States every year from Mexico."

But based on analysis of American census and other data, the binational study
concludes that from 1990 to 1996, the total increase in the population of
undocumented Mexican migrants was 630,000, an annual average of 105,000.

"This is obviously lower than the popular impression put out by the
politicians," said Frank D. Bean, a demographer at the University of Texas at
Austin who worked on the Binational Study. "It was not that Buchanan was telling
a falsehood, but he was leaving out part of the equation. He talked about
migrants pouring in, but neglected to talk about migrants pouring out. He was
putting out numbers that invited misinterpretation."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Deterring Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 165 words



To the Editor:

A Sept. 29 editorial suggests that the solution to illegal immigration is to
deter entry at the border. There is a misconception that illegal immigrants
typically sneak into the United States from Canada or Mexico. In fact, a larger
number of them enter the country legally as visitors or students, but they
become illegal by remaining beyond their authorized staying period.
Strengthening border security will only go so far.

A better solution would be to increase penalties for employers who hire illegal
immigrants. If employers feared a heavy prison sentence, a substantial fine and
the threat of losing their businesses as punishment for hiring illegal
immigrants, this would more than neutralize the economic benefits of cheap
labor.

As immigrants found it increasingly difficult to get work, there would be less
incentive to come here illegally.

CONSTANTINOS E. SCAROS
Cliffside Park, N.J., Sept. 29, 1997

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 12, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Tighter Borders Also Keeping Illegal Immigrants in the U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 11


A study of California's agricultural communities concludes that illegal
immigrants working in the United States stay in this country instead of
returning to their homelands because of fears about tightened security at the
Mexican border.

The study, titled "Poverty Amid Prosperity," was released on Thursday by the
Urban Institute, a research group in Washington.

It found that the illegal immigrants make up 40 percent of the California farm
work force today, compared with under 10 percent in 1990, after the amnesty
program of the late 1980's. The percentage continues to grow, the study found.

"People are still getting in through the border, and because it's tougher to get
back in once they leave, they're staying longer," said a co-author of the study,
Philip L. Martin, an economist at the University of California at Davis.

In the past decade, the Federal Government has more than doubled Border Patrol
forces at the border while using more enforcement money and hardware than ever
before, from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico. But increased enforcement
has driven prices charged by smugglers higher while pushing illegal immigrant
traffic away from thoroughly policed hubs like San Diego to the deserts and
mountains to the east, where Border Patrol ranks are stretched thin.

Some officials concede that the building pressure has served to turn temporary
illegal immigrants into permanent residents.

"It's a predictable response," said Eric Andrus, spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, who considered the phenomenon evidence of success at
the border. "This is another sign that our efforts to control the border are
working."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

3 Stowaways Suffocate

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Part 2; Page 35; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: MIAMI. Nov. 5


Three Dominican men hoping for a new life in the United States suffocated in a
container packed with garments aboard a ship from the Dominican Republic, the
authorities here reported today.

The men's bodies were retrieved from the steel tomb by immigration agents after
the vessel, the Pampero, docked at the the Port of Palm Beach on Tuesday
afternoon.

Six other Dominicans and a Cuban survived the ordeal. They were found
dehydrated, some unconscious, and taken to local hospitals.

The group of men, all in their 20's, entered the container after cutting a hole
in it at Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic, before it was loaded on to the
freighter. It was crammed with clothes from a local assembly factory packed in
plastic bags. The hole was later blocked by other containers.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Law Curtails Help for Illegal Immigrants With AIDS

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words


For more than 10 years, using an obscure provision of Federal law, illegal
immigrants with AIDS living in New York City were able to secure a range of
government benefits usually beyond the reach of illegal residents, including
Medicaid.

Now, under the sweeping changes to Federal immigration and welfare laws enacted
last year, they are about to lose their Medicaid benefits. And for some of the
illegal immigrants with AIDS, Federal immigration authorities in New York who
had once granted them temporary legal status have begun the lengthy process that
could lead to deportation.

As a result, people like Antonio, 40, an illegal immigrant whose AIDS was
diagnosed six years ago, now faces a wrenching choice. He can remain here
illegally and risk deportation. Or, after 13 years in New York City, he can
return home to Cali, Colombia, where he will not have access to protease
inhibitors, the new AIDS drugs that have helped to keep his disease in check.

Equally frightening, he says, is the prospect of returning as a gay man with a
reviled disease. No one in his family knows of his condition except his brother,
who has advised against returning. "Sometimes I feel like a prisoner in New
York," said Antonio, who, like the other immigrants interviewed for this
article, said he feared reprisals from the authorities and agreed to speak only
if his last name was withheld. "I can't go back. And I don't want to go back."

Daniel, 28, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who also has AIDS, offered a more
graphic illustration of his prospects. He placed two fingers on his left temple,
as if pointing a gun, and whistled out a shot. In Mexico, AIDS was the third
leading cause of death in men between 25 and 34 in 1995, according to a United
Nations report released this month.

Immigrants with AIDS were not the targets of the new Federal welfare and
immigration laws, but among the illegal inhabitants of the city, they are some
of the most vulnerable and they have therefore been among the hardest hit.

In the past, local officials with the Immigration and Naturalization Service had
the authority to grant humanitarian relief to illegal immigrants facing extreme
hardship. The local officials were able to grant temporary legal status, often
for several years, to illegal immigrants with AIDS. This in effect made them
eligible for Medicaid, disability benefits and state-financed housing vouchers
for people with AIDS.

Over the last 10 years, the provision had been used widely for people with AIDS,
as well as for other illegal immigrants whose illnesses could not be properly
treated in their home countries or who were too sick to travel, said a
spokeswoman for the New York district office of the I.N.S., Shyconia Burden. She
said her agency did not keep records of how many people were granted the status.
The Latino Commission on AIDS, a local nonprofit agency that handles many of
these cases, estimated that there were roughly 800 illegal immigrants with AIDS
in New York City who had been granted the special status.

Now, under the new immigration law, an I.N.S. district director can grant the
status for a maximum of 120 days, after which the immigrant must leave the
United States.

Ever since the new law was passed, advocates for immigrants have appealed for
compassion for people with AIDS. Most of these immigrants, the advocates say,
have no hope of legalizing their status because under Federal law, those who
test positive for H.I.V. cannot obtain an immigrant visa. If they were to return
home, the advocates have argued, many would probably face a swift death.

"It's a human rights issue," said Marisol Arriaga of the Latino Commission on
AIDS.

The commission, along with the Gay Men's Health Crisis and other advocacy
groups, is negotiating with immigration service officials in New York about
using other provisions of the law to grant temporary legal status to illegal
immigrants with AIDS. The advocates have also appealed to Attorney General Janet
Reno to make AIDS services -- including Medicaid, housing vouchers and
disability benefits -- available to everyone, regardless of immigration status.
Her spokeswoman, Carol Florman, said Ms. Reno was reviewing the requests.

Those efforts are likely to face stiff opposition in Washington. The lawmakers
who pressed for the new immigration rules say the changes were needed because
the special status provision had been abused by immigrants seeking Government
aid. New Federal laws also bar many legal immigrants from public benefits.

"The law is very clear that illegal aliens are not to receive needs-tested
public benefits such as Medicaid," said United States Representative Lamar
Smith, a Republican from Texas who is chairman of the House Immigration
subcommittee and has been a driving force behind the new limits. "Providing such
benefits contradicts the intent of Congress, undermines immigration enforcement
and leaves less money to care for impoverished American citizens with serious
illnesses."

Neither the immigration service nor the Department of Health and Human Services,
which administers welfare and Medicaid, could provide estimates of how many
illegal immigrants nationwide had received Government benefits. But it is clear
that in dealing with the changes imposed by Congress, local and state policy
makers face some thorny choices about the fate of immigrants like Antonio. In
September, a directive from health officials in Albany to local Medicaid
administrators noted that immigrants like him would no longer be eligible for
Medicaid. A spokesman for the State Health Department, Bob Hinckley, said local
administrators had not yet discontinued anyone's benefits, though they expect to
do so in the coming months.

Mr. Hinckley said his agency was trying to verify the immigration status of all
who received Medicaid benefits. He said he did not know yet how many Medicaid
recipients were illegal immigrants, like Antonio, who had been granted special
relief.

Nor have state officials yet decided whether they will maintain the
state-financed housing voucher that pays the rent on Antonio's $480-a-month
studio apartment in Woodside, Queens, or the $310 monthly check on which he now
subsists.

Among immigrants with AIDS, Antonio has been one of the lucky few. Many others
have never had access to these public benefits.

Daniel, who came to New York from Mexico two years ago, has never been eligible
for Medicaid or welfare here. He has medicines from a federally financed drug
program that remains available to people with AIDS regardless of their
immigration status. Daniel also has a tight network of compatriots to keep him
afloat. He says he will never go back home. "I don't want to die," he said.
"Whatever little I have gained here, I would lose."

Like Daniel, Maria, a 42-year-old immigrant from Ecuador, has survived on the
kindness of compatriots and strangers. When she arrived in New York City three
and a half years ago, Maria said she did not plan to stay. But she met a fellow
Ecuadorean, fell in love and married. The man, a United States citizen, promised
to sponsor her. She hoped to bring her children.

Maria's hopes were dashed within months, when she tested positive for the virus
that causes AIDS. Her husband, she discovered at the time, was also infected.
Then last year, when he died of lymphoma, a common AIDS-related illness, Maria
made another discovery. For reasons she says she still cannot comprehend, he had
not filed sponsorship papers for her. And he had left her with nothing to live
on.

Now, Maria can either return home to see her three children, the youngest of
whom is 9. Or she can go on living here, in a friend's small Brooklyn apartment,
clutching to a tight regimen of Crixivan and Epivir, two of the latest AIDS
drugs she receives free under the federally financed program.

"I have to choose between my health and my family," Maria said.  "I've had to be
selfish. I've had to think about my health."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andres Duque, left, a counselor with the Latino Commission on
AIDS, in Greenwich Village, talking with Antonio, 40, an illegal immigrant.
(Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 2, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Aliens Would Get Food Stamps Back In Clinton Budget

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30


In the budget he is to present to Congress on Monday, President Clinton will
call for spending $2.5 billion in the next five years to provide food stamps to
the hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants whose benefits were cut off by the
sweeping Federal welfare law of 1996.

The welfare law removed 935,000 immigrants from the Federal food stamp rolls,
according to Government estimates. While the states with the largest immigrant
populations, including New York, California, Texas and Florida, have partly
filled the void with their own programs, nearly 700,000 poor immigrants are
still without food stamps.

And in New York City, where officials say 65,000 immigrants have lost the
benefits, the President's plan takes on an even greater importance.

Since the day that he signed the 1996 bill, Mr. Clinton has advocated restoring
some aid to legal immigrants who have not become citizens. With the Federal
budget nearing balance and a strong economy pumping unanticipated tax dollars
into the Government's coffers, the time is ripe, his aides argue.

But the proposal is expected to ignite a heated debate on Capitol Hill over its
cost and over the role of the Federal Government in assisting noncitizens.
Already, word of the President's plan has generated strong opposition from House
conservatives, who charge that Mr. Clinton is trying to undermine the 1996 law
by bits and pieces.

"Noncitizens should look to themselves, their families and their sponsors, not
the American taxpayers, for financial support," said Representative Bob W.
Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, who is chairman of a House subcommittee that
oversees the food stamps program.

But in New York City, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been strenuously lobbying to
restore the benefits. Officials there say that some families who lost their food
stamps have been pushed to the brink of hunger, placing new burdens on already
stretched food pantries.

The fight over restoring the aid could also spill over into New York's already
contentious Senate race. Advocates of Mr. Clinton's plan are trying to prod
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato into carrying their fight to the Republican
leadership, as he did last year in pushing to restore other welfare benefits for
legal immigrants.

The advocates warn that Mr. D'Amato, a Republican who is running for his fourth
term, will incur the wrath of immigrants who have obtained citizenship if he
fails to lead the food stamp battle in Congress.

"He is pivotal," said Josh Bernstein, a policy analyst for the National
Immigration Law Center in Washington.

Mr. D'Amato, who voted for the 1996 welfare bill, said in an interview that he
supported Mr. Clinton's plan, although he had not seen details. "I will be
joining with my colleagues to try to win this battle," he said.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is seeking the
Democratic nomination to challenge Mr. D'Amato, said he also supported Mr.
Clinton's plan, though he wanted better Federal oversight of the food stamp
program to prevent fraud and waste.

Except for a few small groups, including military veterans and recent refugees,
the 1996 welfare law ended food stamp benefits for almost all immigrants, a
number put at 935,000 by the Department of Agriculture. But more than a dozen
states, including New York and New Jersey, have created locally financed
programs that are helping to feed more than 240,000 immigrants -- leaving almost
700,000 without benefits.

The New York program provides food stamps to children, the elderly and disabled
immigrants who came before Aug. 22, 1996, the day Mr. Clinton signed the welfare
bill. The program has restored food stamps to about half of the state's 150,000
immigrants who had lost their benefits. The New Jersey program, which is similar
to New York's, returned benefits to 10,000 of 16,000 households. Connecticut has
not established such a program.

But advocates for the poor say that despite local programs, many immigrants are
stretching their meager resources to feed their families by substituting canned
goods for fresh produce and getting groceries from food pantries.

White House officials and people involved in budget negotiations say Mr. Clinton
will call for restoring benefits to the elderly, the disabled and families with
children. His plan would also provide assistance to some Hmong refugees. The
Hmong are a Laotian mountain tribe that was allied with the United States during
the Vietnam War. The Clinton plan would extend to seven years from five the time
that refugees are eligible for food stamps after arriving in the country.

In his State of the Union Message on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton made an oblique
reference to his plan, saying, "I also want to thank Congress for restoring some
of the benefits to immigrants who are here legally and working hard, and I hope
you will finish that job this year."

The plan is expected to cover many, perhaps most, immigrants who were in the
country before Mr. Clinton signed the welfare bill. But White House officials
said there was not enough money to cover all those immigrants.

Advocates for the poor say that if Mr. Clinton's plan is approved, states like
New York could supplement the new Federal money with their own funds to provide
food stamps to all immigrants. Aides to Gov. George E. Pataki said that he was
unlikely to support giving food stamps to able-bodied, childless adults. But
Tony Coles, a special adviser to Mr. Giuliani, said the Mayor would probably
endorse that idea. New York State splits the cost of its $83 million immigrant
food stamp program with local governments.

"The Mayor would support anything that would maximize coverage for legal
immigrants," Mr. Coles said. "He will not be satisfied until we get 100 percent
restoration."

Congressional sources who have reviewed portions of Mr. Clinton's budget said it
would also significantly increase aid to New York City for job training
programs, education, AIDS treatment and hospitals. Mr. Clinton is expected to
propose eliminating Federal operating subsidies for Amtrak, but he will also
call for a 44 percent increase in Federal aid to the city's mass transit system,
the sources said.

Democrats say Republicans will be under pressure to support the food stamp plan
to inoculate their party from charges of being anti-immigrant. Perhaps sensing
that possibility, even Republican supporters of the President's proposal have
begun questioning Mr. Clinton's motives.

"It's just a throwaway line in a speech," said Representative Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican from the Miami area. "Unless he pushes it, it's not
going to happen. And he's not pushing it."

But some moderate Republicans said they thought the plan had a strong chance of
passing, though perhaps in restricted form. "We have a good cross-section of
members supporting this," said Representative James T. Walsh, a Republican from
Syracuse who sponsored similar legislation last year. "If it went to a vote on
the floor, we'd get it."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 25, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Bargain to Restore Some Food Stamps

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24


Congressional negotiators struck a bargain today to restore food stamps to
thousands of legal immigrants who were cut off by the 1996 welfare law. But the
money would cover fewer people than President Clinton had hoped.

The deal between the House and Senate would spend $642 million over five years
to restore benefits to the immigrants. Mr. Clinton had sought at least $2
billion to cover up to 730,000 immigrants; Congressional aides could not say how
many would be covered under the lower figure.

The agreement would use some of the $1.8 billion in savings from administering
the food stamp program to guarantee subsidies for agents who write crop
insurance and to increase spending on agricultural research instead of devoting
it all to food stamps.

Agriculture Department officials said the deal was "in the range" of what the
Administration could support, depending on which groups of legal immigrants --
refugees, the elderly and disabled, families with children -- were given
priority for food stamps.

"We need to see the details," said Greg Frazier, chief of staff to Agriculture
Secretary Dan Glickman.


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 13, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

In New Retreat, Senate Restores Food Stamps for Legal Immigrants

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 12


The Senate today voted to restore food stamps to a quarter of a million legal
immigrants and refugees, retreating from some of the provisions of the 1996
welfare overhaul law.

The restoration is part of an agreement between the two chambers and is expected
to pass the House. It would be the second time in a year that Congress had
backtracked on the landmark welfare law, which has been criticized as unduly
harsh to immigrants.

The measure passed overwhelmingly -- 92 to 8 -- despite a Republican broadside
from Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who contended that it would lure immigrants to
the United States for the wrong reasons.

Lawmakers have been under considerable political pressure from President
Clinton, Republican governors and immigrant groups to restore some aid to legal
immigrants since the welfare law cut them off the rolls.

Last year Congress voted to reinstate Medicaid and Supplemental Security Income
to some immigrants as part of the balanced-budget agreement, but food stamps
were not part of the package.

The House is expected to take up the provision in the next few weeks, as part of
a larger agricultural research and crop insurance bill. It faces slight
opposition among conservatives who object to both the food stamp and
agricultural research provisions.

"With this action, we have reaffirmed our compassion and our priority for taking
care of the most vulnerable in our society," Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the
ranking Democrat on the Agriculture Committee, said in his opening remarks. "The
bill takes a major step toward fulfilling a promise that was made by our
President and many of us here in the Congress on both sides of the aisle to
correct inequities made in the 1996 Welfare Reform Act."

The provision, which would cost $816 million over five years, would restore food
stamps to about 250,000 legal immigrants -- children, the elderly and the
disabled -- who were dropped from the program in 1996. The measure would be paid
for in large part through cuts in what the Federal Government pays states to run
the food stamp program.

To qualify for the nutrition benefits, immigrants must have been living in the
United States on Aug. 22, 1996, the day Mr. Clinton signed the law (after
vetoing two earlier versions). Those who arrived after that date would not be
entitled to food stamps.

The measure would also enable refugees and people who have received asylum in
the United States to receive nutrition benefits for seven years, instead of
five. Refugees are in a separate category from legal immigrants because they are
classified as victims of political persecution.

Before the welfare overhaul, legal immigrants constituted 1.8 million of the 25
million food stamp recipients, a number that dropped to about 800,000 after the
bill became law.

The sharp drop in the number of legal immigrants entitled to benefits, many of
whom had lived and worked in the United States for years, prompted unrelenting
criticism from immigrant groups who asserted that noncitizens had been unfairly
singled out. The nation's governors joined in the campaign, fearing they would
have to shoulder a larger share of the financial burden.

The President, responding to the outcry, promised to work to restore many of the
lost benefits. And Republicans, concerned about further alienating Hispanic
voters, agreed to revisit the welfare legislation, one of their proudest
achievements in 1996.

Last week a prominent human rights group added to the chorus of opposition when
it drew attention to a new study showing hunger among immigrants in three states
at "alarmingly high" levels. The group, Physicians for Human Rights, urged
Congress to pass the food stamp provision.

To underscore the Senate's commitment, 75 Democrats and Republicans signed a
letter to Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, asking him to
restore the benefits and bring the bill to the Senate floor. Despite his own
reservations about the measure, Mr. Lott acquiesced.

Today it was Senator Gramm who led the opposition to the bill, persuading seven
other Republicans to vote with him against the measure. They were Senators Judd
Gregg and Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire, Jesse Helms of North Carolina, James
M. Inhofe and Don Nickles of Oklahoma, Jon Kyl of Arizona and Jeff Sessions of
Alabama.

Debating the measure on the Senate floor, Mr. Gramm reminded his colleagues that
Americans enthusiastically support the welfare revisions and do not necessarily
endorse any tinkering. Mr. Gramm also argued that changes in the law would
simply tempt freeloading immigrants to come to the United States.

This bill puts up "a neon sign that says, 'Come to America and get welfare,' "
the Senator said.

"That's what's wrong with this bill," he continued. "We need to let people with
a new vision and new energy come to America, legally, but with their sleeves
rolled up, ready to go to work, rather than with their hands held out."



LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 30, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Punishing the Past

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


In 1967 the apartheid Government of South Africa passed a Terrorism Act that
defined hostile words as "terrorism." An ingenious provision said the act should
be deemed to have come into effect in 1962, so that things said and done in the
previous five years were retroactively made criminal. And people were prosecuted
for past acts.

It can't happen here: So most Americans would assume. Our Constitution forbids
ex post facto laws.

But one thing can happen and has happened. Congress has passed immigration laws
that require the deportation of people for past acts that at the time were not
deportable offenses. That is possible because the Supreme Court has held that
the bar on ex post facto laws applies only to criminal punishment and
deportation is not that. But retroactive deportation laws, if constitutional,
can still offend our sense of justice.

Gabriella Dee is a 33-year-old Canadian married to an American, Stephen Dee.
They live in Bethlehem, Pa. She has a doctorate in biology and has taught at
several colleges in the area, with permission to do so under temporary U.S.
visas.

In 1996 Ms. Dee applied for a green card, the first step toward becoming an
American citizen. As the spouse of a citizen she would qualify. An agent of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service checked their documents and found the
marriage legitimate. But then he checked a part of the form that asks whether
the applicant has ever been arrested. Ms. Dee had answered, honestly, yes. In
1985, when she was a student at Concordia University in Canada, an Israeli
boyfriend was visiting her. He wanted to see the United States but could not get
a visa. A fellow student at Concordia drove her across the border; the Israeli
walked across without going through immigration, and they picked him up. I.N.S.
agents immediately stopped them. A magistrate found Ms. Dee guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined her $25.

At the time, her offense was not grounds for deportation; only professional
alien-smuggling, for pay, was. But in 1990 Congress passed a law barring from
this country anyone who had ever been involved in bringing someone here
illegally. Ms. Dee knew nothing about it, but it made her deportable.

Last month an immigration judge ordered her deported. She is appealing to the
Board of Immigration Appeals, but her chances there do not look bright. If she
loses, she will be forever barred from the United States.

"It seems they wrote a very, very strict law that affects a lot of people," Ms.
Dee said when I spoke with her. "And even though some of them may not be the
kind of people you really want deported, it doesn't seem to make any
difference."

Yes, retroactive changes in immigration law are now condemning many people who
do not fit the image of evil criminals. Another example is Jesus Collado, who 23
years ago was found guilty of a misdemeanor for sleeping with his teen-age
girlfriend. The 1996 immigration law called that an "aggravated felony" and made
it, retroactively, a deportable offense.

Mr. Collado was detained by the I.N.S. for six months last year. When there were
protests from local citizens and a member of Congress, Nydia Velazquez of New
York, the agency released him on parole. But it is still pressing for his
deportation.

The prevailing attitude in Congress seems to be that "criminals" should be
deported without regard to individual justice. A principal sponsor of the 1996
immigration law, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, said recently, "The
American people like a law that keeps criminals out of their communities."

But the people in and around Bethlehem, Pa., do not want Ms. Dee removed from
their community. They have written to the local newspaper, The Morning Call,
about what a valued teacher and community volunteer she is.

When I hear about a case like Gabriella Dee's or Jesus Collado's, I want to ask
those who make and enforce our immigration laws: What is the point? Why do we
want to look back at what at worst were foolish mistakes long ago, forgetting
about the hard-working lives lived ever since? Why do we want to hurt ourselves
by driving out decent people and depriving them, as Justice Brandeis said, of
"all that makes life worth living"?

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 5, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Food Stamp Bill Is Blocked

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 89 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4


The opposition of conservative Republicans to restoring food stamps to legal
immigrants has stalled a Senate bill that would also guarantee crop insurance
for farmers and pay for agricultural research.

Led by Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, a handful of senators this week
blocked a vote on the measure, contending that it should not be used to change a
decision made in the 1996 welfare law to deny food stamps to more than 900,000
legal immigrants.

"It's overriding the welfare reform bill," Mr. Gramm said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 19, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Another Insult to Immigrants

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 245 words


Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, and Senator Phil Gramm are holding up a
floor vote on a conference bill that could restore food stamps for 250,000 legal
immigrants, ameliorating the most odious remaining provision of the 1996 welfare
law. The law removed the only federally guaranteed support program for
immigrants, stripping food stamps from about 800,000 of them. In New York State
alone, the law has driven 140,000 immigrants into soup kitchens and other
desperate measures.

The conference bill would reduce by almost $2 billion over five years the food
stamp program's administrative costs and funnel about $800 million of the
savings back into the program. The money would restore food stamps for three
groups of legal immigrants who resided in the United States before the 1996 law
was passed -- children, the elderly and those who have become disabled. The
senators who oppose the bill would instead use the money to pay for highway
demonstration projects.

New York, New Jersey and a few other states are spending their own money to
restore food stamps. But most legal immigrants do not benefit, and the families
that do are usually forced to get by with only a half to two-thirds of their
normal allotment of food stamps. Besides, few states are likely to keep spending
their own money once the next downturn hits and their budgets tighten. In a year
when the Federal Treasury is flush, there is no excuse to deny food to hungry
neighbors.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

On High-Tech Jobs: More Training, Not Quotas;
New Visa Policy

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words



To the Editor:

The solution to the problems with immigration visas for foreign investors cited
in your April 13 front-page article is not the creation of new Immigration and
Naturalization Service regulations but in a full overhaul of the law.

The current threshold requirement of an investment of at least $500,000 in high
unemployment areas that creates or saves jobs is too high to attract a
significant number of foreign investors. Congress should lower the amount to
$100,000. Congress should also direct the I.N.S. to collect the money from
foreign applicants directly and to use the fund to help reduce the huge backlog
of pending cases clogging the system.

JOHN H. KIM
New York, April 14, 1998

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 23, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Split Court Casts Doubt on a Citizenship Law

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22


A splintered Supreme Court today cast serious constitutional doubt on a
provision of Federal immigration law that treats the citizenship of foreign-born
illegitimate children differently, depending on whether their fathers or their
mothers were American citizens.

But two of the five Justices who thought the law was unconstitutional also
thought the issue had not been properly raised in this case.

As a result the Court affirmed, by a 6-to-3 vote but without a majority opinion,
a lower court's ruling denying citizenship to a woman born in the Philippines
whose mother is a Filipino and whose father is a former United States serviceman
who did not acknowledge his paternity until after his daughter turned 21, in
1992.

Under the challenged law, had the citizenship of the unmarried parents been
reversed, with the mother the American citizen, the mother would not have had to
take any affirmative steps to enable her foreign-born child to be deemed a
United States citizen at the moment of birth.

The validity of that distinction between mothers and fathers was the question
before the Court, but it was only one of the issues that split the Justices, who
produced five separate opinions totaling 74 pages. The Court divided as follows:

Two Justices, John Paul Stevens and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist -- an
unusual combination of one of the most liberal and one of the most conservative
members of the Court -- found the distinction reasonable and "well supported by
valid governmental interests," as Justice Stevens wrote.

He said that while the mother's relationship to the child was "immediately
obvious" at birth, an unmarried father's relationship "may often be undisclosed
and unrecorded in any contemporary public record."

Two other Justices, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, said the daughter's
lawsuit should have been dismissed because the courts had no power to grant
citizenship on terms other than those specified by Congress.

Two other Justices, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony M. Kennedy, said that while
the law was almost certainly unconstitutional when analyzed under the
"heightened scrutiny" that applies differential treatment on the basis of sex,
the victim of the discrimination was not the daughter, Lorelyn Penero Miller,
but her American father, Charlie Miller.

It was the father's right to transmit his American citizenship to a child on the
same basis as a mother would have, Justice O'Connor said, adding that it was the
sex of the parent and not the child that made the difference under the law. Ms.
Miller did not have legal standing to raise her father's sex discrimination
claim, Justice O'Connor said.

The remaining three Justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and David
H. Souter, said that the law was unconstitutional and that Ms. Miller was
entitled to assert both her father's rights and her own, as a victim of
discrimination "solely on the ground of the parent's gender," as Justice Breyer
wrote. He said the law, which dates to 1940, was based on outmoded sex
stereotypes about parental roles.

"What sense does it make" Justice Breyer asked, to treat parents differently "in
today's world, where paternity can readily be proved and where women and men
both are likely to earn a living in the workplace?"

Justice Ginsburg noted in her dissenting opinion that an earlier version of the
law, enacted in 1934, had treated parents impartially. Congress is "positioned
to restore that impartiality before the century is out," she said in an
unusually direct appeal for legislative action. Under the law's current version,
the paternity of the American father must be established before the child turns
18.

The decision, Miller v. Albright, No. 96-1060, affirmed a 1996 ruling by the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The ruling
may make little practical difference to Ms. Miller, now 27 years old, who has
married an American citizen and is a legal resident of the United States.

Also today, the Court ruled unanimously that the Federal courts had jurisdiction
to resolve disputes between states and treasure finders over rights to sunken
ships discovered in state waters.

The decision, California v. Deep Sea Research, No. 96-1400, sent back to the
Federal courts in California a dispute over ownership of the Brother Jonathan, a
gold-laden ship that sunk off California in 1865 and that was discovered and
claimed by treasure hunters in 1993. California had claimed constitutional
immunity from the suit brought by the finders to establish title.

The main question remaining in the case is whether, as a legal matter, the wreck
was abandoned. If so, under a Federal law, the Abandoned Shipwreck Act, the
state takes title and is obliged to protect the site.



LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Inconsistency at I.N.S. Complicates Refugees' Asylum Quest

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1870 words


They are both students from Congo who fled to the United States, certain they
would have been killed in the political turmoil at home. Bakam Mimpongo, 21, was
caught at Kennedy International Airport, trying to enter with fake papers.
Bisinwa Borumbi, 22, stowed away in a cargo ship and was seized in Jacksonville,
Fla.

Each gave similar accounts of persecution, of paramilitary groups and rebels
ravaging villages and taking prisoners, of their desperate need for asylum.

But in the United States, their paths have sharply diverged. Ms. Mimpongo spent
five months and 10 days in a Federal detention center in Queens last year before
being granted asylum. Mr. Borumbi, detained in Miami in February of this year,
was freed on parole after three weeks, but his case has not yet been resolved.

Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees point to the different treatment
of cases like these as a sign that Federal immigration laws are applied unevenly
throughout the country. Important decisions -- from how long it takes to review
an asylum seeker's case to whether he or she is quickly paroled or detained for
months -- seem to hinge more on the number of beds available at a detention
center than on a cohesive national policy.

Since April 1, 1997, when a new law took effect, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has detained all asylum seekers upon arrival and required
them to go through a procedure called "expedited removal." The process was
intended by Congress to reduce the number of false claims for asylum. The law
denies asylum seekers full hearings with legal representation and the right to
Federal appeals unless they can quickly convince immigration officials that they
have a "credible fear" of persecution in their homeland. Those found to have no
"significant possibility" of winning asylum are swiftly deported.

Those whose claims are found plausible can be freed on parole. The law
specifies, however, that parole be granted only case by case and only for
"urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit."

But since Congress never defined "urgent humanitarian reasons," the I.N.S. has
allowed its 33 district directors to exercise their discretion in deciding
whether to keep detainees behind bars.

"Congress has raised the bar as to who can be paroled, making it more difficult
to justify releasing someone from detention," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an
I.N.S. spokesman in Washington. "And what's urgent and humanitarian for one
district director may not be so for another."

The inconsistencies in granting parole are dizzying, said Charles Wheeler, who
monitors the cases of asylum seekers nationwide as the supervisor of the
detention project at the Catholic Legal Immigration Network, a private advocacy
group in San Francisco.

In El Paso, he said, many asylum seekers have to post bond before being paroled.
In Los Angeles and New Jersey, asylum seekers are usually released, but only if
family members will sponsor them. In Miami, virtually everyone is released. In
New York, virtually no one is.

"If, in fact, this law was conceived to send a strong message abroad that the
United States was getting tough on immigration," Mr. Wheeler said, "then the
message ought to be a consistent one. Right now the message is: If you come
through Miami, you are O.K., but don't come to New York. You'll be stuck in
detention."

A recently released study and interviews with more than a dozen lawyers and
their clients confirm Mr. Wheeler's findings. While some asylum seekers are
allowed to argue their cases shortly after arrival, others languish in detention
for months, sometimes surrounded by convicted criminals in county jails. Some
are released after posting bond as low as $5,000, or simply by providing the
address where they plan to reside. While some women with children are released
immediately, others are held for months, separated from their children. Lawyers
said that clients with identical cases might be treated differently from one
month to the next.

Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees say that these irregularities are
an especially urgent issue now because the swiftness of deportations under the
new law makes the need for a good, timely defense more critical than ever.

Under the old law, people who requested asylum were allowed to stay in the
country while their cases were heard by immigration judges. If the judges ruled
against them, they could appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals and then the
Federal courts, a process that could take a year or more.

Now, detainees are under pressure to prepare a compelling case quickly -- and
lawyers say this is a difficult task for people behind bars. Instead of freely
searching for lawyers and preparing their cases, detainees who do not speak
English or know the laws of the United States must often wait for lawyers to
spot them and visit them at detention centers, usually out-of-the- way places
that resemble jails and afford little privacy.

There is no way of knowing precisely how many people have been affected
adversely by the law, because the Federal Government does not keep statistics of
how many people who go through the new procedures are denied asylum. But asylum
seekers are always a tiny percentage of the hundreds of thousands people who
seek entry into the United States every year. From August of last year through
the end of January, for example, 1,300 new arrivals expressed a fear to return
home. Of those, 1,066 were sent to detention centers; the rest were deported.

"How we treat asylum seekers is a reflection of who we are as a nation," said
Leonard S. Glickman, executive vice president at the Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society in Manhattan, the group that helped Ms. Mimpongo win her case. "The law
was not just for the benefit of the country. It was also supposed to help those
who needed help. That's where we have fallen short."

The irregularities in the process -- and the fact that much of it remains closed
to public scrutiny -- have led members of Congress to call for a study of the
ways the I.N.S. deals with asylum seekers. The bill directs the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees to study whether immigration officers in the
United States are "detaining such aliens improperly or in inappropriate
conditions."

"We have heard many complaints and we are concerned," said Elizabeth Kessler,
general counsel of the Senate's immigration subcommittee, whose chairman is
Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan. "We do have a Federal law, and it should be
interpreted the same way."

Immigration officials in Washington said they would welcome such a study.

A report released in May -- the first independent study of the new procedure --
indicates that the number of days asylum seekers remain in detention is higher
in New York than anywhere else in the nation. The study, prepared by the
International Human Rights and Migration Project of the Markkula Center for
Applied Ethics at Santa Clara University in California, revealed that by the
time the study ended, the average number of days in detention for detainees in
New York was 92, while for detainees in San Francisco the average was 44 and for
those in Miami it was 62.

The I.N.S. has dismissed the study as "flawed."

Karen Musalo, a co-director of the study, said that asylum seekers -- sometimes
mothers and their children -- are routinely kept in detention in New York for
months until a judge hears their case.

That is what happened to Sivajini Kadambarathnam, 35, and her 13-year-old son,
Rajakumar. The two were stopped on March 12, upon arrival at Kennedy Airport
without documents from Sri Lanka, and ordered detained, her immigration records
show. But because no children are allowed in the Wackenhut detention center in
Jamaica, Queens, Rajakumar was sent to a center for juveniles in Miami.

"I cried and cried and cried," said Mrs. Kadambarathnam, who fled her country
after her husband was taken away by the military last year. "But then they put
handcuffs on me and that shut me up. No one had ever done that to me before."

Immigration officials said they were willing to release the boy, but not the
mother, to sponsors. But the sponsor would not take the boy by himself, so the
two remained in detention but separated, one of her lawyers, Eileen Collins
Bretz, said. The I.N.S said the two were separated because minors were not
allowed in the New York detention center. Mrs. Kadambarathnam was granted
political asylum and released on June 2, after nearly three months in detention.
Her son had been released a day earlier.

In Miami, where the influx of Haitian and Central American immigrants seldom
lets up, the Krome detention center routinely releases asylum seekers who can
show they have a place to stay, said Stacey Taeuber, a pro-bono lawyer who works
with detainees. The policy was different last year: to be released on parole,
asylum seekers needed to post a $5,000 bond.

One of Ms. Taeuber's clients was Gabriel Jaime Castano, 28, a Colombian
immigrant who said he had no intention of seeking political asylum when he
arrived at Miami International Airport in January with a visitor's visa. A
farmer from near Medellin, Mr. Castano said he had gone to Miami to escape his
country's violence for a few weeks. He was tired of paying off both the army and
the guerrilla -- with 20 live chickens a month -- to stay alive, he said.

Immigration officers detained him because they did not believe he intended only
to visit, Mr. Castano said. After consulting with lawyers there, he said he
realized that asking for political asylum would get him out of detention faster
than sticking to his original claim.

That tactic would probably not have worked in New York. When the Wackenhut
detention center fills up, asylum seekers are sent to a detention center in
Elizabeth, N.J., or to the York County Jail, in York, Pa., said Mark Thorn, a
spokesman from the I.N.S. office in New York. Judy Epstein, a spokeswoman from
the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, said that one of the agency's clients -- a
20-year-old woman from Ghana who has been detained for seven months -- was
recently transferred to Pennsylvania. The woman, Swaibatu Mohammed, told the
agency that five other women were moved with her.

In years to come, the I.N.S. intends to detain even more people as it builds
more detention centers, Mr. Bergeron, the I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, said.
In doing so, he said, the agency would be following the mandate of Congress,
which since 1996 has allocated $205.3 million to add 7,364 spaces to the
agency's current detention capacity and 882 positions to its payroll.

The I.N.S. already has 15,000 beds in nine detention centers, prisons and an
array of local jails around the country, an 80 percent increase from the number
of beds available just three years ago. Yet, Mr. Bergeron said, to accommodate
all the people the law mandates be detained -- those who seek entry into the
United States with no papers or with fraudulent documents -- the agency will
have to double its current detention capacity.

"For the first time now," Mr. Bergeron said, "we have both the statutory mandate
to detain them and the space to hold them."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sivajini Kadambarathnam, right, and her son, Rajakumar, were
held in separate detention centers for months after arriving without documents
at Kennedy Airport from Sri Lanka. They recently reunited in Queens. (Philip
Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 11, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Acts To Suspend Deportations

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10


Attorney General Janet Reno intervened today to prevent the possible deportation
of tens of thousands of refugees from the civil wars in Central America whose
status was changed by a provision of the new immigration law enacted last year.

Ms. Reno said she would suspend a February ruling by the Board of Immigration
Appeal, an agency in the Justice Department that held that the provision should
be applied retroactively. She said that because of the ruling, nearly 300,000
people who had qualified to apply to remain in the United States could no longer
do so.

At issue are people who had entered the United States under special programs for
refugees from the civil wars in El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua. The new
law makes it much harder to get permanent residency and avoid deportation, and
the ruling applied the law to immigrants who were in the process of attaining
legal status under the old law.

The immigration board's ruling has caused widespread distress in South Florida,
where more than 40,000 Nicaraguans are now threatened with early deportation.
Leaders of several Central American countries said their economies would suffer
if the ruling were enforced and the immigrants returned, and have pleaded with
President Clinton to intervene.

Ms. Reno will review the ruling and is expected to reverse it, Justice
Department officials said. At the same time, Ms. Reno said, the Clinton
Administration will propose legislation amending the law to deal with people
affected by the ruling.

"We must recognize the special circumstances of individuals whose cases were
pending when the new law was enacted and avoid any unfairness that comes from
applying new rules to pending cases," Ms. Reno said.

Many members of Congress, including Speaker Newt Gingrich, had complained that
it was unfair to apply the new law retroactively and had urged Mr. Clinton to
find a solution. Still, it remains uncertain whether Congress has any appetite
for revisiting the volatile topic of immigration.

In a meeting with Mr. Clinton in Costa Rica in May, several leaders of Central
American nations exhorted him to prevent any mass deportation. The leaders told
Mr. Clinton that their economies had come to depend on the hard currency sent
home by compatriots working in the United States. Moreover, they said, their
economies could not absorb a large number of people returning.

Under the old law, any immigrant facing deportation who had lived in the United
States for more than seven years could apply to have any deportation proceedings
suspended, the last step toward legal permanent residency. To prevail,
immigrants also had to prove that they were of good moral character and would
suffer unusual hardship if deported.

Under the new law, which took effect on April 1, immigrants must must
demonstrate that being deported would result in "extreme and unusual hardship,"
not to them, but to a United States citizen or permanent legal resident. Having
a child who is a citizen is not necessarily considered a hardship.

What has caused the most concern, though, is that under the new, immigrants must
prove continuous presence in the United States for 10 years and any time spent
in deportation proceedings would no longer count toward the residency
requirement. For example, if someone had been in the United States for 10 years,
that time would not count toward the requirement if deportation proceedings had
been instituted in the first year as was often the case.

Ira Kurzban, a Florida lawyer who has represented immigrant groups, said people
who had been living in the United States for as many as 14 years were suddenly
without protection because of the ruling.

Many of these people have been living in limbo for more than 10 years under
various temporary programs while the Government wrestled with a permanent
solution for the refugees.

Another provision in the new law allows officials to exempt from deportation
only 4,000 people a year. But Ms. Reno had earlier delayed implementation of
that provision.

Mr. Gingrich commended Ms. Reno and the Administration for "a positive first
step."

But Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who is the heads the
immigration subcommittee, today said Ms. Reno and the Administration had bent to
the will of foreign governments.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Mayor Is Rebuffed On Welfare

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 777 words


In a setback for the Giuliani administration, a judge in Manhattan yesterday
upheld the constitutionality of the Federal welfare law that cuts off benefits
for legal immigrants who are not citizens.

While acknowledging that the measure, which ends food stamps and disability
payments for resident aliens, would pose hardships, Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York said it was
up to Congress to make such decisions.

The Giuliani administration had argued that the measure was unconstitutional
because it would deprive legal immigrants -- who had paid taxes and, in some
cases, even served in the military -- of benefits available to citizens. City
officials have also expressed concern that the cutoff of Federal benefits will
increase costs to the city.

Judge Kaplan did rule in the city's favor on a small but related issue, saying
the Government could not withhold accrued benefits for about 10,000 elderly and
disabled aliens residing legally in New York, Connecticut and Vermont. Those
noncitizens applied for aid before President Clinton signed the welfare law in
August but have not received any checks.

Under the welfare law, Federal benefits to millions of recipients were to end
this August. But the cutoff has been delayed until October, and the budget bill
now moving through Congress is likely to restore the benefits. Nonetheless, Paul
A. Crotty, the city's Corporation Counsel, said the city would appeal Judge
Kaplan's decision.

"The bottom line is, they will be left penniless by this decision," said Scott
A. Rosenberg, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society. "We hope that Congress sees
that making elderly and/or disabled people penniless is not only foolish public
policy, but also life threatening. I would hope Congress would look at this and
say, 'That is not what we intended.' "

Judge Kaplan's 53-page ruling focused on Section 402 of the welfare law, which
disqualifies legal aliens from receiving Federal Supplemental Security benefits
and food stamps. Judge Kaplan called those persons "guests in our nation" who
had "succumbed to poverty, age and disability."

The city and a coalition of nonprofit legal groups had sought to preserve
benefits for about 100,000 elderly and disabled legal immigrants in the city and
the two states. They stand to lose their Supplemental Security Income benefits,
the city argued, and could become "destitute and homeless" unless the city pays
for their care.

"The impact of this legislation" on resident aliens, Judge Kaplan acknowledged,
"will be severe." He noted that the 1997 Federal welfare benefit was $484 a
month, with supplements from New York State bringing the total to $570 -- "still
a figure far below the current poverty level of $657.50 per month," he wrote.

Because noncitizens might be eligible for some benefits under city-run home
relief or Aid to Dependent Children programs, Judge Kaplan said, "the financial
burden that will be shifted to the city is substantial."

But the judge said that the Social Security Administration was wrong to deny
benefits that accrued to legal resident aliens who applied for them before the
President signed the welfare bill.

Mr. Crotty estimated that that element of the judge's ruling covered about
10,000 noncitizen aliens in New York City and the two states. And the director
of the nonprofit New York Legal Assistance Group, one of the organizations that
was joined by the Giuliani administration in the series of lawsuits that led to
Judge Kaplan's ruling, said that they could look forward to retroactive checks,
though if the benefits are indeed stopped nationwide, they will receive no
further payments.

"From the poor people's standpoint, this is an important first step in
overturning the mistake that Congress made in August of '96," when it passed the
welfare bill, said the director, Yisroel Schulman. "The court is clearly sending
a message that there are parts of this where Congress needs to rethink its
logic."

One of the issues in the fight over the budget bill is whether immigrants who
are in the United States legally and become disabled in the future could qualify
for Supplemental Security Income benefits. President Clinton wants such a safety
net; the Senate bill would provide it, but House Republicans rejected that idea
earlier in the week.

In the case before Judge Kaplan, the city had argued that cutting off benefits
to legal resident aliens was not what Congress intended, unless doing so
encouraged self-sufficiency among immigrants and discouraged foreigners from
entering the country in search of cash benefits.




LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 30, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

THE BUDGET DEAL: Details of Some Provisions Covering Children, Health, and
Welfare -- WELFARE;
Legal Immigrants to Benefit Under New Budget Accord

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 632 words


President Clinton persuaded Congress to accept many of his proposals to undo the
effects of the 1996 welfare law, but Congress rejected some of his requests.

In general, Congress showed great solicitude for legal immigrants who are losing
disability benefits and Medicaid under the 1996 law.

Lawmakers have felt growing political pressure to help these noncitizens.
Several legal immigrants are reported to have committed suicide after learning
that they would lose Federal aid.

Elderly immigrants and refugees who have been in the United States for many
years faced the prospect of destitution; some said they would be forced out of
nursing homes. And Republican governors prodded Congress to help these
immigrants.

Congress was much less willing to restore food stamp benefits. The 1996 law
reduced food stamp allotments for many American citizens, and ended food stamps
for many legal immigrants who had not become citizens.

In debates over the budget, hardly anyone suggested restoring the Federal
guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children. Mr. Clinton made
no effort to restore this entitlement. But Congress did approve his request for
$3 billion in the next five years to help welfare recipients move into jobs.

Congress also accepted Mr. Clinton's proposal to give tax credits to businesses
that hire long-term welfare recipients.

Under this provision of the budget agreement, employers could receive a credit
of up to $3,500 for the first $10,000 of wages paid to a welfare recipient in
the first year he or she is employed.

The company could receive a credit up to $5,000 for wages paid in the next year,
for a maximum credit of $8,500 for each eligible employee.

In last year's Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to create one
million jobs for welfare recipients by the year 2000. White House officials said
the tax credits would help achieve that goal.

The budget agreement would restore Supplemental Security Income benefits for
legal immigrants who were receiving such aid last August, when Mr. Clinton
signed the welfare law. It would also allow immigrants who were here then to
receive benefits if they become disabled in the future.

But Congress rejected the President's proposal to pay benefits to legal
immigrants who arrive here in the future and later become disabled.

Mr. Clinton sought $4.8 billion over five years to reverse cuts in food stamp
benefits made by the 1996 law. Congress provided $1.5 billion.

Under the 1996 law, able-bodied adults with no dependents can receive food
stamps for only three months in any 36-month period unless they are working.
Congress earmarked $1 billion of the $1.5 billion to help create jobs for this
group of people. The remainder of the money would be used to provide food stamps
to people who would otherwise suffer severe hardship if they lost their
benefits.

Congress rejected Mr. Clinton's proposal to restore a special allowance for food
stamp recipients with high housing costs.

The agreement would continue Medicaid for 20,000 to 30,000 children who might
otherwise lose it because they were losing disability benefits under the welfare
law. The 1996 law established a strict new definition of disability, and many
children qualify for Medicaid because they are receiving disability benefits.

Rhoda Schulzinger, a lawyer at the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, praised
the guarantee of Medicaid coverage, saying: "It's terrific for youngsters who
would otherwise have been facing the loss of both cash benefits and Medicaid.
This will insure that those kids can receive the medical help they need,
including physical therapy, speech therapy and mental health care. For some
families, that's more important than the cash benefits."   ROBERT PEAR

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE BUDGET DEAL: IMMIGRATION;
New Alliances and Attitudes on Aid

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words


The decision by the President and Congress to restore benefits to half a million
elderly and disabled legal immigrants in Tuesday's budget agreement provides a
window on the volatile politics of immigration and the way legislators'
attitudes toward immigrants can swing from suspicion to sympathy.

Last summer, Republican Congressional leaders depicted many immigrants as people
from the Third World whose families were abusing the generosity of the United
States so their old folks could live off the taxpayers. Now, prominent
Republicans who supported the cutoff last summer -- including Senator Alfonse M.
D'Amato of New York -- are emphasizing protection of innocent, aged people from
destitution.

"You know, Republicans have a heart, too," said Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr.,
a South Florida Republican who was instrumental in cutting off Supplemental
Security Income, or S.S.I., to legal immigrants last year, but who said
yesterday that he had worried about the consequences for the elderly who
depended on them.

A strange-bedfellows alliance was crucial to restoring the benefits, estimated
to cost $11.4 billion over five years. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was at the head
of the lobbying line of governors and mayors, some of them Republicans from
high-immigration states, who were convinced that immigrants who lost their
Federal benefits would become a fiscal burden on state and local governments.

Joining them were advocates for immigrants who collected sad stories about
individual cases of hardship that appeared in newspapers across the country.

"That created outrage and made what happened real in the way that months of
advocacy before the bill passed failed to do," said Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice
president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a nonprofit Hispanic
civil rights group in Washington.

And President Clinton, who made restoring the benefits a priority in budget
negotiations, provided the leverage to shift the position of Congressional
Republicans who had pushed last year for the provisions, with some support from
Democrats. Advocates for immigrants were horrified last year when the President
signed the 1996 welfare bill on Aug. 22, despite his own opposition to
provisions that denied benefits to legal immigrants already in the country.

"In less than a year since they shredded the safety net for legal immigrants,
Congress and the President have decided to restore much of it," said Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group
in Washington. "That's a remarkable political turnaround."

But the budget agreement does not restore everything that legal immigrants lost
in the welfare bill. Those who arrive in the United States after Aug. 22, 1996
and subsequently become aged or disabled will still be ineligible for S.S.I.,
which provides monthly cash payments to poor people who are aged or disabled.

And a million legal immigrants who are not citizens will still lose food stamp
benefits by the end of August, Federal officials estimate.

Advocates who had pushed to restore S.S.I. benefits say they will now turn their
attention to food stamps. A study commissioned by the Department of Agriculture,
which operates the food stamp program, estimates that about 1 in 6 of the
immigrant food stamp recipients are children and another 1 in 6 are elderly.
Almost one-third of the immigrant recipients are working poor.

Whatever the outcome of the next skirmish on benefits, the landscape of American
politics has come to seem a much less hospitable place to legal immigrants since
Congress voted last year to cut off S.S.I. and food stamps to most of them.

"There used to be a bargain between immigrants and the United States," said
Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director of the international migration program at
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "That bargain was that you came
here, worked hard and we created a level playing field. We didn't treat you
differently. We undid that bargain last year."

Immigrants' fears about losing access to the United States' social safety net
have helped to propel hundreds of thousands of them to seek citizenship, a rush
that is expected to produce 1.8 million naturalization applications this year.

The effort to deny benefits to legal immigrants, and the harsh tone of much of
last year's debate on immigration issues, have not only mobilized legal
immigrants to become citizens, but some Republicans and immigration experts say
they also may politicize the new citizens and their American-born citizen
children, boomeranging on Republicans.

In the 1996 Presidential election, surveys at the polls found that Mr. Clinton
had improved his showing among Hispanic voters since the previous election, to
72 percent from 61 percent, and among Asians, to 43 percent from 31 percent. The
Republican Presidential candidate, Bob Dole, received 21 percent of the Hispanic
vote, down from the 25 percent received in 1992 by George Bush. Mr. Dole got 48
percent of the Asian-American vote, down from Mr. Bush's 55 percent.

"The message was clear to immigrant communities: 'Hey, the Republican Party is
giving us every indication they don't want us in their big tent,"' said
Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a naturalized, Cuban-born Republican from
Florida. "We took a hit in the last Presidential election, no doubt about it."

Mrs. Ros-Lehtinen lobbied within her party for the restoration of benefits and
hopes it will heal some political wounds.

It is hard to measure how much the flip-flop on S.S.I. was based on political
calculation as opposed to a substantive reconsideration of the issue. Some in
Congress said they did not realize how harsh the effects of the cutoff of
benefits would be until after they voted for the measure.

Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, said he had thought that legal
immigrants who really needed help would become citizens to requalify. Only
later, he said, did he realize that many could not naturalize, either because
they were mentally incompetent to take the oath or too old to learn enough
English to pass the citizenship test.

"It seemed wrong to change the rules for them," Mr. DeWine said, explaining his
own change of heart.

Mr. D'Amato said he decided too many old, ailing people would be left with no
means of financial support.

The willingness of influential members of Congress to soften their stance on
benefits for vulnerable immigrants may also reflect a broad national
indifference to the issue of immigration. That apathy, combined with the
passionate interest of immigrants and their advocates, may have given Congress
the political room to change its collective mind.

When asked directly by pollsters whether there should be more or less
immigration to the United States, a majority of Americans have replied in the
1990's that immigration levels should be reduced. But when asked generally what
is the most important issue facing the country, less than 1 percent name
immigration.

"Consistently, in poll after poll, immigration ranks lower than 'don't know,' "
said Thomas J. Espenshade, a sociology professor at Princeton University. "I
don't think it's really a voting issue, except maybe in some very high
immigration pockets."

So perhaps it is not surprising that in the last year, Republican-led efforts to
sharply reduce legal immigration and to deny public education to the children of
illegal immigrants were both defeated in Congress.

Alan Brinkley, a history professor at Columbia University, said the moment
reminds him of the late 19th century. "There are a lot of people who feel
vaguely that too many immigrants are coming, but the anti-immigrant sentiment is
not yet strong enough to dominate the discourse," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Hispanic Lawmakers, Time to Take the Offensive

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1669 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24


At times lately, Hispanic legislators in Congress have felt like a ragtag group
of volunteer firefighters confronting a scorched earth campaign against
immigrants.

The early brush fires, the ones that took aim at illegal immigrants, seemed
predictable and not much of a threat. But when Republicans took control of
Congress in 1994, the G.O.P. leadership set its sights on taxpaying legal
immigrants. Almost daily, Hispanic Democrats and Republicans in the House of
Representatives confronted new legislation -- bills to ditch bilingual education
or to kick green-card holding residents off welfare. There were efforts to keep
would-be immigrants out of the country.

"Yes, we were constantly having to put out fires," said Representative Xavier
Becerra, Democrat of California, who is chairman of the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus. "And when you are constantly fighting fires, it's hard to develop a
strategy of pre-emption on some of the major issues. You've got all of your fire
engines out on the scene already."

That may be changing. While Hispanic lawmakers and advocacy groups have suffered
a string of policy defeats, namely on welfare and immigration, they are
convinced that the worst flare-ups are behind them.

One indication that attitudes might be shifting was a victory last month on the
reinstatement of Supplemental Security Income benefits for some elderly and
disabled legal immigrants, after a bitter and protracted battle that seemed lost
early on.

In many ways, Hispanic House members, 20 in all, are at a pivotal juncture. The
economy is on a rollicking roll, which has always helped dampen anti-immigrant
fervor. The Republican Party, alerted to the burgeoning electoral clout of the
Hispanic population -- now 10 percent of the population of the United States and
expected to become the largest minority in the country by 2010 -- appears to
have softened its stance on issues relating to immigrants.

And although most Hispanic lawmakers are, in the words of Mr. Becerra, "a
minority within a minority" as Democrats in a Republican-controlled Congress,
they are beginning to make small but important inroads in the political
landscape.

More Hispanic Representatives now sit on major committees than ever before. Mr.
Becerra sits on the Ways and Means Committee, which handles tax issues. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, a Republican from Florida, is a member of the Rules Committee,
which plays an important role in shaping or blocking legislation. And a handful
of Hispanic Representatives sit on the Appropriations Committee.

But it took a maelstrom of adversity to galvanize Hispanic leaders, both in
Congress and across the nation, to focus on the issues most important to them in
a more aggressive and comprehensive way.

"The welfare reform bill that was signed into law a year ago last Friday was a
rallying point" for the Hispanic community, said Representative E. Clay Shaw
Jr., Republican of Florida, who was instrumental in cutting off S.S.I. welfare
benefits for legal immigrants, but later changed his position out of concern for
the elderly. "It was something that brought them together."

Last year's Presidential election also proved to be a watershed. Hispanic
immigrants, a group that typically stayed home on Election Day and tended to
shrug off citizenship, recognized the power of their vote. Prodded by the
Republican-led movement to deny immigrants benefits, millions became citizens
and marched into the polls.

In doing so, they helped President Clinton capture Florida and Arizona, and they
helped keep him on solid footing in California. Their presence at the polls also
played a role in a major coup in conservative Orange County, Calif., where
Loretta Sanchez, a Democratic political novice, defeated Robert K. Dornan, a
nine-term Republican Congressman known for his diatribes against immigrants, in
a race that is still being contested.

Hispanic influence at the ballot box accomplished several things: It provided a
burst of much-needed confidence. It forced Republicans to reconsider their
position on immigrants. It gave more weight to the voices of the three Hispanic
Republicans in Congress. And it enabled Hispanic Democrats, especially Mr.
Becerra, who became chairman of the caucus this year, to ratchet up their
pressure on President Clinton.

"They are becoming much more vocal and much more effective, and they are
exploring how they can get their positions across," said Georgina Verdugo,
regional counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund. "In
the White House, the Latino voting population in general is seen as much
stronger. They can capitalize off that a bit more."

Since the election, Mr. Becerra and other Hispanic Democrats have tried to hold
the President to his promises, particularly his pledge to undo the more punitive
measures in the welfare bill and immigration bill, as well as his 1992
commitment to establish a more diverse Administration. The departure of Housing
Secretary Henry Cisneros in this term leaves Federico F. Pena, the Energy
Secretary, as the only Hispanic member of the Cabinet.

But it was this year's battle over benefits for disabled and elderly immigrants
that best illustrated how Hispanic members of Congress can effect change when
they coalesce around one issue.

In December, it seemed to some members that reclaiming any of the benefits wiped
out by last year's welfare reform law would be next to impossible. Republicans
were arguing that the law should be given a chance to work before any tinkering
went on. And Democrats, while earmarking at least some money, did not initially
press the issue.

Sensing the urgency, some members of the Hispanic caucus seized on the 1996
election results as leverage and began a series of high-level meetings with the
White House. They knew the President had to push for the restoration of benefits
as part of the balanced budget deal or the battle would fizzle.

"The President pledged to do this in August, and we were there in November
supporting this President," Mr. Becerra said. "We expected that something would
be done."

As part of their strategy, they enlisted 77 members of Congress for a protest
vote of "present" on a piece of legislation and worked closely with advocacy
groups.

The two Florida Republicans, Representatives Diaz-Balart and Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, orchestrated their own crusade and met repeatedly with several
party leaders. Other allies also stepped up the pressure, including several
influential Republican Governors and Senators.

In the end, $11.4 billion was included in the budget deal to restore benefits,
more than expected but half of what was originally cut. "I think it showed with
this welfare battle that we were victorious," Ms. Ros-Lehtinen said.

Yet, much of the criticism aimed at the caucus in the past -- that the members
cannot work effectively as a group on most issues -- remains unchanged. Hispanic
members of Congress are a mixed bag: Republicans and Democrats, urban and rural,
Puerto Rican, Mexican-American and Cuban-American. The diversity is viewed as an
asset, but still drives a wedge among them.

As chairman of the caucus, Mr. Becerra, 39, has touted one goal -- unity. "The
base line consideration for me is to have a cohesive working group," he said in
an interview last week.

But Mr. Becerra has been privately and roundly criticized for driving away the
only two dues-paying Republicans in the caucus, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen and Mr.
Diaz-Balart, Cuban-Americans who are steadfast in their enmity toward Fidel
Castro.

The two members expressed dissatisfaction with a working trip Mr. Becerra, who
is Mexican-American, and his family took to Cuba while he was campaigning for
chairman of the caucus in December, and with his failure to call for free
elections in Cuba when he returned.

Mr. Becerra defended the trip, saying he had traveled to Cuba as a member of
Congress, not as caucus chairman. He also said that other caucus chairmen and
members who had visited Cuba and openly expressed support for Mr. Castro had not
faced such vehement criticism from Ms. Ros-Lehtinen or Mr. Diaz-Balart. The
caucus does not take a position on Cuba policy because there is no consensus.

Hispanic advocacy groups have widely bemoaned the February departure of the two
Republicans, who are considered invaluable while Republicans control Congress.
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen and Mr. Diaz-Balart, who did not sign the party's Contract With
America because of its harsh posture toward immigrants, still lobby on behalf of
immigrants, but they do so apart from the caucus.

"The Republican leadership certainly listens to Lincoln and Ileana," Mr. Shaw
said. "Any time you make one of these caucuses a one-party caucus, you are just
telling them to go sing to the choir."

Raul Yzaguirre, the executive director of National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic advocacy group, agrees that the departure of the two is a setback, but
one he hopes is only temporary. "There is no question about it," he said. "It is
a loss. It is not an irreparable loss."

Mr. Yzaguirre is optimistic that the lessons learned from the internal turmoil
of the caucus and the welfare bill will help in upcoming battles.

The caucus is already gearing up for what it predicts will be the next heated
controversy in Congress, the debate over how to conduct the census. "We've
decided to pre-empt the fires to the degree we can," Mr. Becerra said.

More important, Mr. Yzaguirre said, the political powerhouses are now paying
attention. At La Raza's convention earlier this year, Vice President Al Gore and
Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, who is a possible
Presidential rival of Mr. Gore, both made appearances, even though the race is
three years away.

"We have every reason to believe, and there are an awful lot of examples that
both Gore and Gephardt, and whatever their counterparts may be in the Republican
Party, are taking the Hispanic vote very seriously, very early on," Mr.
Yzaguirre said.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The chairman of the Hispanic Congressional Caucus, Xavier
Becerra, right, joined Pedro Perez, a New York State Police major, center, and
Robert Quincana, a Buffalo councilman, at a conference in Buffalo on Friday.
(Wayne Scarberry for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Is a Law Unto Itself

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 218 words



To the Editor:

Thanks to Anthony Lewis (column, Sept. 8) for exposing how the new immigration
law has given low-level immigration inspectors untrammeled authority to deny
entry to the United States to bona fide business people, visitors and others
entitled to live and work here. Based on the most conservative estimates, 15,000
people have been summarily expelled under the new process since it began on
April 1.

Even worse, it is designed to take place entirely in secret. Lawyers, family
members or friends are barred from participating or observing. Detainees are not
allowed a phone call. The procedures also apply to refugees fleeing persecution.
Immigration inspectors can unilaterally decide if a refugee's claim will be
presented.

If the Government has its way, the legality of these procedures will never be
reviewed by any court. A challenge brought by the American Civil Liberties Union
and other organizations has been opposed by the Government on the ground that
the suit was not brought on behalf of individual named refugees. But the very
procedures we are challenging make identification of these individuals
impossible.

JUDY RABINOVITZ
New York, Sept. 9, 1997

The writer is senior staff attorney, American Civil Liberties Union immigrants'
rights project.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Steven Brower)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 16, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK CITY;
Representative Plans Bill To Aid Deaf Immigrants

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 189 words


Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of Brooklyn, said yesterday that she
would introduce legislation to temporarily bar the deportation of the deaf
Mexican immigrants who were found living in virtual servitude in Queens in July.

Ms. Velazquez, who has introduced a bill that would allow Congress to grant the
Mexicans legal residence, said she would propose the new legislation as an
amendment to a House Appropriations bill, which would remain in effect for the
fiscal year. The House of Representatives is expected to take up the bill next
week.

"After the painful experience these people have endured, the very least we can
do is to make sure that they will not have to worry about being deported," Ms.
Velazquez said.

Federal immigration officials said yesterday, however, that the Mexicans were
under no immediate risk of being deported.

Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said that they would be allowed to remain in this country at least
until the conclusion of a Federal investigation into the smuggling of deaf
Mexicans, which could take years.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 20, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

In New Deportation Process, No Time, or Room, for Error

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2008 words


An Albanian asylum seeker, whose lawyers believe she was gang-raped this spring
in retaliation for her husband's refusal to fight for the Government, fled to
the United States in May. Detained in Elizabeth, N.J., she failed to convince
immigration officials that she had a good chance to win asylum and was deported
in July under a new law designed to weed out groundless asylum claims.

She now lives with a family that found her, disheveled and forlorn, on a street
near the airport in Tirana, the capital of Albania, after her flight from Newark
landed. She said in a recent interview in Tirana that she has contacted no one
in her own family because she fears that the masked men will come after her
again.

"You have no idea what it's like up north where I lived," said the woman, who is
29. "If I went back, I would be finished."

Her story has become a test case of the new law that denies asylum seekers full
hearings with legal representation and the right to Federalappeals unless they
quickly convince immigration officials that they have a "credible fear" of
persecution. Those found to have no "significant possibility" of winning asylum
are deported.

Before the law took effect on April 1, people who requested asylum were allowed
to stay while their cases were heard by immigration judges. If the judges ruled
against them, they could remain while they appealed to the Board of Immigration
Appeals and then the Federal courts.

The Albanian woman, who asked that her name not be used, became a plaintiff this
week in a Federal lawsuit challenging the new "expedited removal" procedures.

Last year, about 3,600 people asked for asylum at ports of entry to the United
States with no documents or false documents. Since the law took effect,
immigration officials estimate that more than 1,000 people have requested asylum
at the nation's airports alone and that about 80 percent of them have been found
to have a credible fear of persecution. The rest were deported.

Experts believe that the number of people who sought asylum at ports of entry
has dropped sharply since 1994, when the Clinton Administration stopped
automatically giving asylum seekers work authorization cards. Before that, the
United States Commission on Immigration Reform estimated, there might have been,
at most, 15,000 asylum seekers in any year.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who wrote the new asylum
provisions, said that many people had abused the old system, asking for asylum
simply to avoid being deported. He said the new law has enabled the Government
to swiftly deport those with fraudulent or groundless claims, while admitting
those who are believable. "Neither the law nor its implementation is anything
other than generous," Mr. Smith said in a statement.

The Commission on Immigration Reform, which is a bipartisan Federal advisory
panel, disagrees. Citing the relatively small number of asylum seekers affected
by the new law, it recommended in June that the old safeguards be reinstated to
ensure greater protection to asylum seekers.

Fewer Safeguards In a Faster Process

The Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union, which sued
in Federal District Court in Washington on behalf of the Albanian woman and
groups that represent refugees, contends that officials will mistakenly send
refugees back to their persecutors.

The speed of the new process and the absence of judicial oversight leave little
room for error, A.C.L.U. lawyers say. The Albanian woman was first interviewed
by a female asylum officer, but with a a male translator, and she later said she
had been too embarrassed to discuss the gang rape, the central element in her
claim. She went to her only interview with an immigration judge without having
had a substantive discussion about her case with a lawyer.

Both the asylum officer and the judge found that she had no credible fear of
persecution. The judge said the woman did not respond directly to questions and
gave what appeared to be scripted answers, and only brought up the gang rape
late in the second interview, a Justice Department official said.

By law, people can win asylum if they are determined to have a well-founded fear
of persecution on grounds of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a social group. Women who have been raped for one of those reasons
have won asylum.

For those on both sides of the debate over how asylum cases should be handled,
the central question in the Albanian woman's case is whether she should have
been allowed to remain while she sought to establish that she was gang-raped
because of her husband's political opinions.

Masked Men, Hiding and Violence

It was not possible to verify the woman's story because she said questioning
people in her village would put her life at risk and bring shame on her family.

Human rights workers and Western diplomats who were in Albania this spring as
the country spun into anarchy following the collapse of vast pyramid schemes
said her story sounded plausible.

This is her account, based on interviews with her and her advocates, and
immigration records in her case.

She grew up in the mountainous north of Albania, in a family persecuted by the
Communist regime of Enver Hoxha.

When she was 16, her family arranged for her marriage to a man from another
persecuted family. She kept house, tended the livestock and lived in a home with
her husband's extended family. She was unable to have children.

In the early 1990's, after the Communist regime collapsed, and the authoritarian
Government of Sali Berisha came to power, her husband joined Mr. Berisha's
Democratic Party and was given a part-time job in a local government office.

This March, Mr. Berisha declared a state of emergency as protesters in the south
rebelled. Human rights workers and Western diplomats said that groups of armed
Berisha supporters were recruiting people for military service.

"They were definitely arming people and trying to recruit people in Tirana and
the north to fight," said Fred Abrahams, a researcher at Human Rights Watch in
New York, who was there at the time.

The Albanian asylum seeker said that on March 19, four armed, masked men came
yelling for her husband to go fight in the south. She hid in the cellar, where
the family kept pigs and chickens.

The men returned in April. Again she hid in the cellar. In May, her husband went
into hiding in the mountains. She has not seen him since and says she does not
know where he is.

A few days after he left, on the evening of May 13, masked gunmen forced their
way into the house. They separated her from the rest of the family, gagged her
with her headscarf, tied her hands with a blanket and pinned her to the floor.
Then the five of them raped her.

"It was terrible," she said, over and over, during an interview at a women's
counseling center in Tirana, weeping.

"It's a huge shame for both families, even though it's not my fault," she said.
"I have no other relatives anywhere in Albania. I have no job, no one to turn
to."

Her brother-in-law borrowed about $7,000 to buy her a false passport and a plane
ticket to Boston.

"I just did what I was told," she said. "I had no husband to advise me. I had to
leave."

In Detention, A Partial Account

Four days after the rape, she flew, via Rome, to Boston and was taken into
custody. "I was totally lost and confused," she said. Officials provided her
with a document in English that described the "expedited removal" process,
informing her she could obtain an adviser before immigration officials
interviewed her and request a female interpreter.

An official familiar with the case said an interpreter translated the document
for her over the phone. But she said she remembered little of what she was told
that traumatic day.

She was moved to a detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. New York area relatives
made attempts to hire a lawyer for her, and it appears that the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service gave her extra time to find one. But on
July 1, she ended up being interviewed by an asylum officer without a lawyer.

She told the officer that masked men had tried to recruit her husband to fight.
She said she feared she would be tortured and raped if she returned. But she
never mentioned that she had been gang-raped.

"The translator was a male and on top of that an Albanian," she explained. "I
was afraid to say anything about the rape in case he talked. There are many
Albanians in America, too. You never know."

The asylum officer, Aster Zeleke, found the asylum seeker's story incredible,
vague and inconsistent with known conditions in Albania.

"Country conditions report consulted do not indicate that the Government was
forcing people to go and fight in the south," the officer wrote in her decision.
"In addition, the avoidance of military service does not ordinarily form the
basis for a valid political asylum claim."

The asylum seeker had one last chance: an interview with an immigration judge.

In mid-July her relatives hired a lawyer, Irwin Berowitz, to represent her, but
on the day of the interview, July 29, Mr. Berowitz had to be elsewhere and a
young lawyer from his firm, Eileen Bretz, went in his place.

"No one else was available to go," Ms. Bretz said. "That's why it was me. I'm
not the best person for the job."

The judge, Mirlande Tadal, warned Ms. Bretz that she was not allowed to speak
during the hearing. The Government-supplied interpreter was an Albanian man.

The judge thought that the asylum seeker was answering her questions as though
she was speaking from a script or text, said Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for
the Executive Office of Immigration Review, the branch of the Justice Department
that oversees immigration courts. "She doesn't remember being hostile, but she
does remember being close to losing her patience because of the person's refusal
to answer questions," he said.

The asylum seeker said she could tell by the judge's voice and gestures that she
was unsympathetic. Desperate, the woman said she decided to tell about her gang
rape "even though the translator was a man -- he was in his 60's, so I thought
it would be less embarrassing."

Ms. Bretz said that the woman told what happened with her lips trembling, and
tears pooling in her eyes.  But the account, unmentioned to the asylum officer
and brought up late in this interview, raised more questions in the judge's
mind, Mr. Kenney said.

"Why are you bringing this up now?" Ms. Bretz recalled the judge asking. The
lawyer said her client replied, "I was ashamed of myself for what happened."

The judge ruled against her. Under the new law, there is no appeal.

Ms. Bretz's firm contacted Judy Rabinovitz, an A.C.L.U. lawyer, who had already
sued in Federal court to challenge the expedited removal law.  The next morning,
Ms. Bretz, an A.C.L.U. summer intern, Michele Caldera, and a female translator
spent hours with the asylum seeker.  "She was crying," Ms. Caldera said. "It was
hard to hear."

Hours later, immigration officials put the woman on a flight back to Albania.

A Haven in Tirana, But for How Long?

The woman, timid and soft-spoken with curly, black shoulder-length hair, was
interviewed Friday in Tirana, at the counseling center where she sees a
psychiatrist who is an expert in treating rape victims. She said she was living
with an electrician and his wife, a factory worker and their two children in the
north.

The electrician, who asked that his name not be used, said he found her outside
the airport and took her in out of pity. "She tries to do as much housework as
she can and she eats a bare minimum," he said. But he also said she cannot live
with his family indefinitely.

The A.C.L.U., in its lawsuit on her behalf, has asked that the American
Government return her to the United States to pursue her asylum claim.

"The future is going to be extremely difficult, whether I stay here or go to
America," the woman said.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Albania showing location of Tirana: A woman who fled Albania is
now living in its capital, Tirana. (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Vigilance and Fairness

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words


A stringent new immigration law became fully effective six months ago. Some of
its fundamental features -- elimination of judicial review in many cases,
restrictions on asylum, retroactive application -- are being tested in the
courts. But it is possible to make a few preliminary observations on how the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is carrying out the new law.

First, the statute creates a system of "expedited removal" of people arriving at
our borders. In that process, a single immigration agent may deny entry to
someone, and ban him or her from the United States for five years, without a
hearing or appeal.

The provision was aimed originally at people who arrived at ports of entry with
fraudulent documents, notably asylum claimants who might not really be fleeing
persecution. But it is in fact being applied primarily to ordinary visitors.
Since the new law took effect in April, thousands of people with valid U.S.
visas have been summarily turned away because an I.N.S. officer thought, for
example, that their frequent previous stays here showed an intention to do more
than visit.

Putting a decision of such importance in the hands of a single official is a
sharp break with the tradition of American law that anyone affected by a
Government ruling is entitled to a hearing. But even under the new summary
process it is possible to insist upon a minimum of fairness and accountability.
I.N.S. officers could and should be required to tell each excluded visitor
clearly why she is being removed, and give her a chance to answer. As it is,
those denied entry too frequently complain of a Kafkaesque inability to find out
what they have done wrong.

Second, anyone stopped at an airport because of doubts about his admissibility
is entitled to decent treatment while the inquiry goes on. There are too many
reports of visitors who have been treated in inhumane ways: imprisoned, held
without food or water, denied the right to use the toilet.

I.N.S. policy is to imprison, while they are investigated, only suspected
criminals or others presenting a risk. But people plainly not in those
categories have been imprisoned. One about whom I wrote was Martina Diederich
Thompson, the young German wife of a Louisiana contractor, who arrived without
the proper visa and was held in the notorious New Orleans Parish Prison for a
week.

In several cases described to me, people stopped at the Miami Airport were
refused permission for many hours by I.N.S. agents to use the toilet. That
practice can only be intended to torment and humiliate. It was used by the
K.G.B.

Such mistreatment seems to reflect an endemic problem in the I.N.S. Like
policemen hardened by the viciousness they see in criminals, some immigration
agents generalize from fraudulent aliens to a skepticism of all. The great power
given to individual agents by the new law increases the chance of abuse.

Third, U.S. immigration laws and regulations and forms are hard for anyone to
understand. When someone makes a mistake without wrongful intent, he or she
should be allowed to correct the mistake without being punished.

Martina Thompson, for example, plainly wanted to stay with her husband in
Louisiana. But she came as a visitor, so she was inadmissible; but there was no
reason to handcuff and imprison her. I.N.S. officers should simply have
explained her mistake and told her to go back to where she started and file the
correct documents.

Indeed, it is I.N.S. policy to do just that. Of those turned away at the border,
30 percent are allowed to withdraw their entry applications and leave without
penalty. But not all I.N.S. officers are following the policy.

Accountability is what the I.N.S. needs: more than ever because of the new law's
summary process. The I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris Meissner, is trying to assure
that while she carries out the new law, respecting the need for both vigilance
and fairness. But it is not easy in a sprawling agency that deals with millions
of people under exigent conditions. And it is the harder because of
anti-immigrant feeling in Congress and the country.

When I wrote about the imprisonment of Martina Thompson as she tried to reach
her husband in Louisiana, a California doctor sent me a copy of the column on
which he had written in red ink: "Bull. Bleeding heart liberals are responsible
for we Californians paying through the nose for goof-offs."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 26, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Kafka In America

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The prisoner has been in solitary confinement for 17 months. There is no charge
that he has ever committed a crime. He is held as a danger to the security of
the state -- on the basis of evidence that he is not allowed to see and cannot
answer.

It sounds like a report from a tyrant state, but it is happening in our country.
The prisoner, facing a deportation proceeding, is being held in a New York City
jail without bail because an immigration judge heard secret charges that he was
a risk to national security.

The U.S. Department of Justice is using secret evidence in at least nine other
current deportation cases. And the practice could be greatly expanded under a
clause that the chief Congressional scourge of immigrants, Representative Lamar
Smith of Texas, is trying to slip into a supposedly non-controversial bill.

To penalize someone without giving him a chance to confront his accusers goes
against fundamental American ideas of fairness. That happened in this country
during the McCarthy years. Even when officials in good faith use secret evidence
that they think is reliable, testimony untested by cross-examination may be
tainted by bias or mistake.

The New York deportation case shows how unfair such a shadowy process can be.
The prisoner is Nasser Ahmed, an Egyptian who has lived in the United States
since 1986 and has three American children. He worshiped at the mosque in
Brooklyn where Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman preached and was a court-appointed
translator at the trial in which the sheik was convicted of conspiracy to blow
up buildings in New York.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service sought to deport Mr. Ahmed to Egypt
for overstaying his visa. He asked for asylum, on the ground that his
association with Sheik Abdel Rahman would subject him to persecution by the
Egyptian Government.

Bail is usually granted in such cases, but Government lawyers opposed it. In
secret they gave the immigration judge, Donn Livingston, evidence they said
showed Mr. Ahmed was connected with a terrorist organization. They would not
tell Mr. Ahmed the names of the alleged terrorist group or of his accusers.

On the open evidence, Judge Livingston said, Mr. Ahmed "would most certainly be
found to be a good candidate for release" -- and there were "compelling" reasons
for him to fear what would happen to him if sent back to Egypt. But on the basis
of the secret hearing, the judge denied bail.

Mr. Ahmed's lawyers argued that it was unconstitutional to imprison someone on
evidence he could not examine and rebut. Judge Livingston found that argument
"appealing because it is based on the most important principles of a free
society." But as an immigration judge, he said, he had no jurisdiction to
consider constitutional objections. Mr. Ahmed's lawyers have now gone to a
Federal court to seek his release.

Another case is that of Mazen Al-Najjar, who taught at the University of South
Florida in Tampa. He has been in prison since May 19, again on the basis of
secret evidence said to show he had connections with a terrorist organization.

The subjects in those two cases are Arabs. And so are eight others against whom
secret evidence is being used. Four of them, imprisoned in Bakersfield, Calif.,
are Iraqis whom the U.S. Government brought out of Iraq after a C.I.A.-managed
plot against Saddam Hussein collapsed but whom we now apparently consider
pro-Saddam.

Representative Smith is trying to broaden the use of secret evidence through a
provision he has written into a proposed "Technical Corrections Act" for last
year's immigration law. It would require deportation of any alien found, on
secret evidence, to be a member of an organization that has been described by
the Secretary of State as "terrorist." Anonymous accusations of Communist Party
membership were a scandalous feature of the McCarthy years. Here the accusations
would often come from foreign governments that want to get a critic home where
they can deal with him.

On Nov. 23, 1953, at the height of McCarthyism, President Eisenhower told a
B'nai B'rith dinner about the ideals he had learned growing up in Abilene, Kan.:
"In this country, if someone . . . accuses you, he must come up in front. He
cannot hide behind the shadow. He cannot assassinate you or your character from
behind."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 15, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Old Crime Returns to Haunt an Immigrant;
Facing Deportation, Dominican May Become Test Case for New Law

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO  By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan DeskSection B;Page 1;Column
2;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words


For 171 days now, immigration officials have held Jesus Collado, a Bronx
restaurant manager and a legal resident of the United States, in a detention
center in Pennsylvania for a misdemeanor he committed 23 years ago and for
which, until now, he had never spent a day in jail.

Mr. Collado was convicted of statutory rape and given probation in 1974 because,
at 19, he had sex with his 15-year-old girlfriend. Now, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service wants to deport Mr. Collado to his homeland, the
Dominican Republic, which he left in 1972 and has only returned to for
occasional family visits.

Mr. Collado, his wife and their three children, and even the family of his
onetime girlfriend, are baffled and horrified that his long-ago misdeed -- a
crime of moral turpitude, in legal terms -- could tear apart the life that he
has built in this country. The I.N.S. says that under tougher laws passed by
Congress last year, the agency has no choice but to deport him. The laws
broadened the definitions of what constitutes a deportable crime and who is
subject to deportation.

But some members of Congress who supported the new laws say they are troubled by
cases like Mr. Collado's and are considering whether some of the language of the
new laws needs to be clarified. They say it was never Congress's intention to
deport people who committed minor crimes decades ago but have spotless records
since.

Even some immigration officials acknowledge that Mr. Collado could become a test
case of how exactly the new rules should be applied. Meanwhile, the 43-year-old
man at the center of the legal battle sobs on the telephone as he describes his
life at the York County prison.

"The nights are the worst," Mr. Collado said yesterday. "Every half an hour, a
guard comes by with a flashlight and opens a little door in my cell and peers
in. That noise, that pum-pum-pum of the door, is ingrained in my brain and, no
matter what, will always be there."

In the six months he has been jailed, his oldest daughter and his wife have both
been hospitalized with serious ailments. First, his daughter Julissa, 18, was in
a car accident and underwent two major operations. Then his wife, Judith, 39,
had a hysterectomy when doctors found tumors in her ovaries. In both instances,
Mr. Collado's lawyers petitioned the I.N.S. to allow him to visit his family.
The requests were denied.

"I sometimes think we are being punished for something bad we did, but I can't
imagine what," Mrs. Collado said. "All we've done is work our entire lives."

The story of how Mr. Collado, a quiet family man from Brooklyn, became a test
case for new immigration rules began on April 7, when he returned to the United
States after a two-week trip to the Dominican Republic.

An immigration inspector at Kennedy International Airport punched Mr. Collado's
alien registration number into his computer and asked him to step aside. "They
asked me if I had ever been convicted of a crime, and I remembered that little
problem I had in 1974 and told them," Mr. Collado said.

While his wife and one daughter waited outside for four hours, Mr. Collado was
ushered into a room and told to wait. Twenty-four hours later, he was told he
was being detained. Two days later, he was sent to Pennsylvania.

An immigration judge ruled in favor of Mr. Collado in May, arguing that the new
laws could not be applied to him because he was already a permanent resident of
the United States, not an arriving alien, a term used for people seeking entry
to the United States. But I.N.S. officials say that the new law applies to any
noncitizen convicted of a crime of moral turpitude.

I.N.S. officials appealed the judge's ruling to the Board of Immigration
Appeals, hoping the board would clarify the statute.

Joseph P. McMonigle, communications director for Senator Spencer Abraham, a
Michigan Republican who supports tougher laws against immigrants who are
criminals, said the immigration agency was going too far. "It is puzzling to us
that I.N.S. continues to pursue cases involving individuals who committed crimes
20 years ago, rehabilitated themselves and are making contributions to society,"
he said.

The dispute over how to interpret the 1996 laws may prompt members of Congress
to call immigration hearings and, if necessary, introduce a bill next year
amending some of the language of the law, Mr. McMonigle said.

The basic question is whether I.N.S officials must detain and try to deport
every immigrant who has committed any of the crimes now punishable with
deportation under the law, which is retroactive. Members of Congress say I.N.S.
should pursue only those cases that merit it, and that the agency still has
prosecutorial discretion.

But I.N.S. officials say the law has stripped them of discretion, and clearly
makes Mr. Collado and others like him criminal aliens subject to deportation.

"We are bound to enforce the law," said one I.N.S. official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  "But we need to know clearly what the law is. We need a
decision to clarify those statutes."

While the issue is debated, people like Mr. Collado linger in detention centers,
sometimes, as in the case of Mr. Collado, surrounded by hardened criminals. Mr.
McMonigle said his office has heard of at least a dozen cases of legal residents
detained for crimes they committed decades ago.

Mr. Collado's lawyer, Stephen D. Converse, said he was investigating the
possibility of asking New York State to pardon Mr. Collado. If a pardon is
granted, I.N.S. could not pursue the case, said Russ Bergeron, an I.N.S.
spokesman.

Meanwhile, Mr. Collado waits.  Yesterday, he said he was having a particularly
bad day, because he was thinking about his mother, who came to the United States
in 1967 and worked two jobs to bring her eight children five years later.

"Did she work all these years for this?" Mr. Collado said.

Mr. Collado's sister, Carmen Collado, wrote a letter to Attorney General Janet
Reno, but received a response on Monday saying that Ms. Reno could not intercede
on her brother's behalf. Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez of Brooklyn and
Queens and Major R. Owens of Brooklyn also wrote on his behalf, but have not yet
heard back.

"Why can't I.N.S. overlook something like this in a permanent, legal resident of
the United States?" Ms. Velazquez said. "This man does nothing but contribute to
our society."

While the I.N.S. demurs, the victim of Mr. Collado's transgression has already
forgiven him. In a letter dated May 20, Melida Alcantara, the mother of Mr.
Collado's former girlfriend, asked an immigration judge for mercy.

"Now I feel extremely guilty that what we did to him," Ms. Alcantara wrote, "so
many years ago, has come back to cause him and his family such pain and
hardship. I truly wish this incident would not have escalated to the point that
it did. Jesus is not a criminal nor a violent or immoral person, and he does not
deserve to be treated as such."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A picture taken from a videotape showing Jesus Collado, a Bronx
restaurant manager, being visited by his wife and family in a prison in York
County, Pa. Mr. Collado, a Dominican who has been an American resident since
1972, faces possible deportation for a crime he was convicted of in 1974.
(Alliance for Justice)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Harsh Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 79 words



To the Editor:

Every day that Immigration and Naturalization Service officials do their jobs to
the letter, Jesus Collado and his family suffer (news article, Oct. 15). For the
officials to throw up their hands and exclaim, "We are bound to enforce the law"
is an outrageous affront to compassion. In an enlightened society, the people
charged with enforcing a law should have a mandate to recognize its spirit, too.


MARC SCHULHOF
Bethesda, Md., Oct. 15, 1997

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Harsh Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words



To the Editor:

Your Oct. 15 news article on the plight of Jesus Collado highlights the
harshness of the immigration law that Congress passed last year. Mr. Collado
faces deportation for a misdemeanor offense -- having sex with his teen-age
girlfriend when he was 19.

While your article refers to Mr. Callado's statutory-rape conviction as "a crime
of moral turpitude," amazingly his misdemeanor offense may qualify as an
aggravated felony under immigration law.

Among other consequences, an aggravated-felony conviction renders a lawful
permanent resident ineligible for relief from deportation.

Mr. Collado has been incarcerated in a high-security prison for six months now
only because the I.N.S. reads the present rules on detention too stringently. He
should be released while his removal proceedings are pending.

MARGARET H. TAYLOR
Winston-Salem, N.C., Oct. 15, 1997

The writer is an associate professor of law at Wake Forest University.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Law's Fine Print Emerges, Setting Off a Debate About Welfare
Provisions

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words


On Dec. 19, the Government will begin enforcing a new law that will make it more
difficult for poor and working-class immigrants living legally in the United
States to have members of their families immigrate to join them.

The law will require an income test for the half a million legal immigrants and
citizens who annually seek to bring relatives to the United States. Research
sponsored by the Government found that 30 percent of the sponsors of immigrants
would not have passed the new income test.

Under the new law, the sponsoring relatives will generally be required to prove
that they earn 125 percent of the poverty level, or $20,062 this year for a
family of four.

Forty pages of rules spelling out how the law will be applied and when it takes
effect will be published today in The Federal Register.

The new law also requires the sponsoring families to sign contracts to support
the newcomers and to reimburse the Government if their relatives receive welfare
benefits.

But the new rules limit the definition of such public aid to the major
anti-poverty programs -- food stamps, Medicaid and income supports for
low-income families and for poor people who are elderly or disabled.

The new reimbursement requirement will have little impact for at least a few
years because the welfare law adopted last year made most legal immigrants who
enter the country after August 1996 ineligible for the major Federal
anti-poverty programs for at least five years.

The rules exempt the sponsoring families from reimbursing the Government if
their relatives use a range of smaller programs, including school lunches, Head
Start, foster care, student loans and emergency medical care.

Before the new law was passed, there was no income requirement for families
sponsoring their relatives, nor had the courts found sponsors' general promises
to support relatives to be legally enforceable.

Typically, able-bodied immigrants who showed proof that they had a job waiting
for them in the United States were not required to have sponsors who promised to
support them indefinitely.

The new rules drew sharp criticism on Friday from an author of the law,
Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House
immigration subcommittee, who said the Clinton Administration had defined the
liability of sponsoring families too narrowly and should have defined welfare
benefits more broadly.

"The effect of the Administration's groundless interpretation will be to relieve
immigrants' sponsors of all responsibility to repay the taxpayers for a vast set
of welfare benefits," Mr. Smith said.

But Federal officials said their interpretation of which welfare benefits were
covered was consistent with both the law and Congressional intent. They included
programs in which benefits are based on recipients' incomes and spending is
mandated by Congress. Programs like Head Start, whose financing is
discretionary, were not included.

The Clinton Administration opposed the new income test for sponsors, but it
supported the requirement that sponsors sign contracts to support their
relatives.

Despite their disagreement over the definition of welfare benefits, both the
Congressional authors of the provision and Clinton Administration officials say
the law, part of the immigration bill adopted in September 1996, sends an
important signal to immigrants that their sponsoring families are responsible
for supporting them.

Under the guidelines, sponsors will have to commit to supporting immigrant
relatives until the new arrivals have become citizens, worked for 10 years in
this country, left the United States permanently or died. If the immigrants
receive welfare benefits, state and local government agencies will be able to
sue their sponsors for reimbursement.

Advocates for immigrants and some scholars say the income test will have
unnecessarily harsh consequences and is likely to backfire. It will prevent many
poor and working-class immigrants and citizens who do not meet the new test from
legally bringing in relatives even though those relatives would be unlikely to
wind up on welfare under the new welfare law, they said. And it will encourage
wives, children and others who want to be reunited with their families in this
country to come illegally, the critics of the income test say.

"It's another example of the law of unintended consequences," said Thomas
Espenshade, a sociology professor at Princeton University. "It's particularly
perverse because Congress has long set as its objective to preserve legal
immigration and reduce the number of immigrants coming illegally."

The new income test will make it extremely difficult for immigrants who work in
the underground economy and do not pay taxes to bring in relatives, even if the
relative has a job offer here.

For example, some farm workers, day laborers and sweatshop workers may have
trouble qualifying as sponsors. The new guidelines state that sponsors must
provide income tax returns for the past three years to establish their income.

The new law is also likely to hit Mexicans and Salvadorans hard because their
incomes are generally lower than those of other groups, according to research
sponsored by the Immigration and Naturalization Service that has not yet been
released. The analysis of a random survey of 2,160 statements signed by sponsors
of family immigrants in 1994 found that roughly half of Mexicans and Salvadorans
would not have met the new requirement.

A third of Dominicans and Koreans, a fourth of Chinese and Jamaicans and a fifth
of Filipinos, Indians and Vietnamese would not have met the requirement, say
several people familiar with the survey, including both critics and supporters
of the new law. Over all, the survey found that 3 immigrants in 10 had incomes
below the new standard.

Similarly, a study of 1993 Census Bureau data by the Urban Institute, a
nonprofit research group in Washington, found that 40 percent of immigrant
families and a quarter of Americans born in the United States would not make
enough to sponsor an immigrant.

But it is impossible to predict how many prospective immigrants will be excluded
because the guidelines provide two ways that poor families can bring in their
relatives, even if the head of household alone does not earn enough to qualify.

Family members who have lived in the sponsoring household for at least six
months can pool their earnings to reach the income standard, though each person
must then sign a contract promising to help support the newcomer.

The family is also allowed to find an employer, friend or relative who is not
part of the household to co-sponsor the immigrant. Again, the co-sponsor has to
sign a contract to support the immigrant in hard times.

Advocates for immigrants say that families who are considering sponsoring
relatives fear that the new rules can spell financial ruin in extreme
circumstances and play havoc with relations within families.

What if a relative develops a catastrophically expensive illness after arriving?
What if a husband brings in his wife, and she leaves him for another man? Under
the guidelines, divorce does not release a sponsor from the responsibility to
support a former spouse. In fact, immigrants can sue their sponsors for
financial support under the new rules.

The immigration service says it will keep computer records on the estimated
565,000 immigrants who will be sponsored annually by family members and will
make this information available to state and Federal agencies that provide
welfare benefits.

Sponsoring relatives will be required to notify the immigration service if they
move. Sponsors who fail to send in a change of address form can be fined $250 to
$2,000, or up to $5,000 if they know that a relative they sponsored has received
welfare benefits.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 13, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

LAWMAKERS EASE IMMIGRATION CURBS APPROVED IN 1996

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12


Seeking to avert a possible political problem for Republicans, Congress is
relaxing two important provisions in a 1996 law that threatened to uproot
hundreds of thousands of immigrants living in the United States.

Lawmakers agreed in the waning days of this year's session to exempt thousands
of refugees from civil wars in Central America from sweeping new deportation
rules. As many as 150,000 Nicaraguans would receive the most generous gift
handed out by members of Congress: automatic permanent residency.

In another change supported by Speaker Newt Gingrich, Congress is allowing
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who hope to gain permanent visas to
stay in the United States instead of having to go home to file their
applications.

Taken together with Congress's decision in August to restore benefits to legal
immigrants that had been stripped away by last year's welfare law, the softened
provisions in the immigration law mark a retreat by House and Senate Republican
leaders, who are trying to burnish their tainted image with immigrants in states
with large immigrant populations, like California and Florida.

"All this represents a reversal of some pretty ugly things that happened in last
year's immigration bill," said Cecilia Munoz, a deputy vice president for the
National Council of La Raza, an immigrant advocacy group here. "It is a strong
indication of what we've said all along, that Congress went much too far last
year."

While immigrant advocates generally praised the overall changes to the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, they criticized
lawmakers for exempting Cubans, Salvadorans, Nicaraguans, Guatemalans and even
some Eastern Europeans from the new deportation rules but not thousands of
Haitians who fled after a military coup in 1991.

"My assumption is that immigrants of color have had a very, very hard time,"
said Representative Carrie P. Meek, a Florida Democrat whose Miami district has
a large Haitian population. "It's discriminatory and it's unfair."

Signaling the Clinton Administration's sensitivity to the Haitians' plight,
Deputy Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. promised Senator Carol Moseley-Braun,
an Illinois Democrat, last Saturday that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service would not seek to deport Haitians for six months while Congress
reconsidered an exemption for Haitians.

The two immigration provisions are each tucked into large spending bills, one
for the District of Columbia and another for the State, Commerce and Justice
Departments, that the House and Senate are expected to approve by Friday.

While the provisions have stirred little notice outside immigrant communities,
the Republican-led Congress's handling of the thorny issues reflects a balancing
act between cracking down on the five million illegal immigrants in this country
and the political consequences of ripping apart families and sending immigrants
back to their homelands.

"There's a perception that the Republican Party is anti-immigrant," said
Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Florida Republican who helped negotiate
the deportation exemptions. "What we're seeing now is a recognition that in
1996, Congress perhaps acted in some haste and some corrections were warranted."

Restrictionists and their allies expressed bitterness today over the changes
that Congress was adopting.

"Congress stiffens the rules for electoral effect, and then starts watering them
down for specific interest groups who complain loudly," said Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that supports
reducing legal and illegal immigration.

Indeed, as many as 200 lobbyists from businesses, immigration groups and
religious organizations urged Congress in recent weeks to allow illegal
immigrants who are on the verge of obtaining legal status to obtain permanent
visas in the United States after paying a $1,000 fine. The penalties raise about
$200 million a year for the immigration service.

About 600,000 people have applied for legal residence since the provision took
effect in late 1994. Its supporters say it has also allowed immigrants in line
for legal status to keep their families together in the United States, where
they are often raising American-born children.

But the provision is due to expire on Friday. After that, illegal immigrants
seeking to change their status would face a wrenching decision. They would have
to leave the country to apply for the visa. But under the 1996 law, illegal
immigrants would be barred from re-entering the country for 3 to 10 years. The
other choice would be to lead the uncertain life of an illegal immigrant.

The Senate backed a permanent extension of the provision, but some House
Republicans balked. The compromise would end the provision but will grandfather
in everyone who applies for permanent visa by a cutoff date lawmakers are still
negotiating.

The second provision Congress is approving would exempt several immigrant groups
from new deportation rules. This agreement would grant certain amnesty for
150,000 Nicaraguans and about 5,000 Cubans who have been here in quasi-legal
status since Dec. 1, 1995.

The deal would also allow about 200,000 Salvadorans and 50,000 Guatemalans who
have been in the United States since 1990 or 1991, depending on the category, to
apply for permanent residency under the more lenient rules that existed before
the 1996 law.

In addition, Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan, succeeded in
broadening the exemption to include immigrants from Eastern European or former
Soviet republics who sought asylum here before December 1991. It is unclear how
many thousands of people might be covered by this provision.

The exemptions cover only these groups. All other nationalities face more
stringent standards to avoid deportation. Among these are more than 14,000
Haitians.

"There's no reason for them to be included," said Representative Lamar Smith, a
Texas Republican.  "The Haitians have been treated exceptionally well, almost
better than any other immigrant group."

Advocates for Haitian immigrants disagreed. "Nothing could be further from the
truth," said Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in
Miami.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Partial Fix for Immigration Flaws

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words


When Congress passed the 1996 immigration act, many legal experts argued that
the law went too far to truncate immigrants' rights and speed deportation of
hundreds of thousands of people who had lived in the United States for many
years. Congress acknowledged the truth of those complaints when it passed
legislation this month to undo two provisions in last year's law. Other flaws,
however, still need to be corrected when Congress convenes next year.

The 1996 law made it much harder for Central American refugees who fled civil
wars in the 1980's to fight deportation. It increased the minimum residency
requirement from 7 years to 10 and eliminated hardship to immigrants themselves
as a basis for challenging deportation. Congress, belatedly recognizing the
unfairness of changing the rules midstream, will now grant permanent residency
to 150,000 Nicaraguans and 5,000 Cubans. Salvadorans, Guatemalans and some
Eastern Europeans will also be allowed to stay and apply for permanent residency
under more lenient rules. Haitians in similar situations, however, have not been
given such relief. The White House says it will delay deporting Haitians in
order to give Congress time to consider exempting them, as it should.

Congress also decided to allow individuals who now qualify for permanent
residency to have their applications for immigrant visas, or green cards,
processed here rather than at American consulates in their home countries.
Without this right, many people who are technically illegal but eligible for
legal status would find themselves barred from re-entering this country for up
to 10 years if they had to go abroad to file their visa applications.

These changes are important, but other parts of the law also need revision. The
law requires deportation of individuals convicted of many types of crimes, even
if the crimes were misdemeanors committed decades ago. Congress should give
immigration judges discretion to prevent deportation if a person has led a
productive, crime-free life.

The law also gives border agents sweeping new powers to exclude individuals and
ban them from returning for five years. Congress should rewrite the law to give
excluded people some right to appeal these on-the-spot decisions. To insure
fairness, Congress should also restore Federal court review of deportation
decisions for abuse of discretion by immigration officers.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 26, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Get Help

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words



To the Editor:

Your Nov. 22 editorial on legislation passed by Congress to correct flaws in the
1996 immigration law says that "Congress also decided to allow individuals who
now qualify for permanent residency to have their applications for immigrant
visas, or green cards, processed here rather than at American consulates in
their home countries." This is true only up to Jan. 14, 1998.

Because of backroom politics, the provision, known as 245(i), was not extended,
although 99 senators and 268 representatives voted for its permanent
implementation. A deal was struck whereby those immigrants who have applications
pending can continue and new applicants have until next Jan. 14 to start the
filing process. Otherwise, the provision is now dead.

DAVID MARTOCCI
Ocean Grove, N.J., Nov. 25, 1997

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'That's The Way It Is'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 39; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Catherine Caza asked the immigration judge, Rex J. Ford, what would happen to
her 7-year-old American daughter if she was deported.

"Ma'am," Judge Ford said, "some of these situations are absolutely
heart-wrenching. I will tell you that the law changed and there are no waivers
for these things now. I'm not unsympathetic to your situation, but . . ." He
ordered her deported.

Ms. Caza, born in Sault St. Marie, Ontario, was brought to the United States at
the age of 3, in 1960. She has lived here ever since: 37 years. Her story has
twists that make it unusually harsh even by the standards of deportation cases.

In 1980 in Florida, where she lives, Ms. Caza was taking amphetamine pills
prescribed by a doctor. Her boyfriend, as she thought he was, repeatedly asked
her to sell him some of the pills. She finally sold him 21, and he turned out to
be an undercover Florida policeman. In 1981 she pleaded guilty to a drug charge
and was put on probation for five years.

The drug offense made her deportable. On Feb. 3, 1982, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service issued an order to show cause why she should not be
deported.

Ordinarily the I.N.S. presents such an order to an immigration judge within
weeks of issuing it. In this case the service did nothing for 15 years. It filed
the order against Catherine Caza in immigration court on Feb. 24, 1997.

The delay is of excruciating significance for Ms. Caza. In 1982 she was eligible
for what is called waiver of deportation, which could be granted when
deportation would cause extreme hardship to someone who had lived in this
country for seven years or more. Changes in immigration law in 1996 made her and
others like her ineligible for waiver.

Why did the I.N.S. move against Catherine Caza this year after doing nothing for
15 years? Why did it act only after she had lost the legal opportunity for a
waiver of deportation? Was some bureaucrat going through dusty files looking for
easy cases to run up deportation numbers?

The questions matter painfully to Ms. Caza, but they have a more general
significance. The I.N.S. is an agency struggling to handle its work load. Why
should it strike at someone as non-menacing as Ms. Caza when its stated priority
in this area is to deport alien criminals currently in prison for serious
offenses?

The I.N.S. takes the position that it does not have prosecutorial discretion to
bring only the more serious deportation cases. It would prefer to have Congress
lay down rules for discretion in hardship cases like Ms. Caza's, by restoring
the waiver process or authorizing some other form of relief.

The issue is not a minor one. The 1996 act has retroactively made thousands of
people deportable for crimes far in their pasts. In many cases deportation would
send them back to countries with which they no longer have any connection.

One case, for example, is that of Hsue Li (Davey) Lee. He was brought to this
country from Taiwan when he was 8 years old. As a teen-ager he began drinking,
and he was convicted a number of times for driving while drunk. He was also
convicted of misdemeanors for shooting at traffic signs in rural Virginia.

In 1991 Davey Lee met Elaine, who changed his life. He went to Alcoholics
Anonymous, gave up drinking, married Elaine and held a steady job. In 1993 the
I.N.S. moved to deport him for the past crimes. He was eligible for waiver, but
that eligibility was held to have been removed retroactively by the new law. He
is now in jail, awaiting deportation to a place -- Taiwan -- whose language he
does not speak and where his wife and child may not be able to live.

The only flexibility the I.N.S. sees for itself in such deportation cases is the
power to grant parole while the cases are litigated, and in its view of the new
law even that very limited discretion ends next October. The service maintains
that it has no choice but to press for the deportation of people like Catherine
Caza and Davey Lee.

At Ms. Caza's hearing last June, Judge Ford told her there was "no relief
available to you from deportation." He added: "Unfortunately, that's the way it
is at this time. It may change in the future, but at the moment that's the way
it is." It will be that way, evidently, unless and until Congress restores some
element of forgiveness -- which is to say humanity -- to our law.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
A Generous Country

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 27;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The immigration law passed by Congress in 1996 has had harsh effects on some
individuals: visitors barred at our borders, aliens marked for deportation after
living here legally for many years. I discussed the issues with the principal
House sponsor of the law, Representative Lamar S. Smith, Republican of Texas.

"America should continue to be the most generous country in the world toward
immigrants," Mr. Smith said. "I think they have much to contribute to this
country."

The 1996 act, he said, was designed to deal with people who do not deserve to be
here, such as those who enter illegally. But it was not intended to deny anyone
fair treatment.

"There is no excuse for anybody being treated unjustly," he said. "Justice is
one of the things that makes this country great, and rightly attracts people
here, along with economic opportunity and freedom."

What about instances, I asked, where the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has admitted that its officers mistreated individuals at the border? The
Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner, has said that about several cases
described in this column in recent months.

"It's not the fault of the law," Mr. Smith replied. "It's the fault of the
I.N.S.

"When you have hundreds of millions of entries every year, and you have human
nature involved, there are inevitably going to be some lapses. That doesn't
excuse them. I hope it won't be interpreted as rationalizing any kind of
insensitivity. It is simply a comment on what is a fact of life."

One provision of the 1996 act, called "expedited removal," allows I.N.S. agents
to keep out anyone they think is trying to enter the country improperly, even if
the person has a U.S. visa, and bar him for five years. I asked whether that
didn't encourage hasty, sometimes unfair decisions.

Mr. Smith said he had been to two border checkpoints in the last several months
and found the border patrol agents "enthusiastic" about the provision. "I think
on the whole it's reducing the abuses," he said, "the gaming of the system."

The new law's process for dealing with applicants for political asylum is also
working well, he said. It requires someone who claims to be fleeing persecution
first to persuade an asylum officer at the border that he or she has a "credible
fear," then to have an asylum hearing before an immigration judge.

"The asylum officers are getting some good training," Mr. Smith said. "Almost 90
percent of people asking for asylum are being found to have a credible fear.
When you have that high a level of initial acceptance of their claims, clearly
the officers are giving people the benefit of the doubt."

Since it was human nature for the I.N.S. to make some mistakes, I asked, why had
the new statute in many areas stripped away the right to judicial review of the
agency's decisions?

"Judicial review," he said, "encouraged many of the people who are in this
country illegally" by allowing them to contest their deportation endlessly. He
said there were about five million, with the number growing by 300,000 a year.

The 1996 law also made legal immigrants deportable because of minor crimes
committed years ago, and removed their right to seek a waiver of deportation. A
notable case is that of Jesus Collado, a Brooklyn man who faces deportation
because he slept with a 15-year-old girlfriend 23 years ago and was put on
probation for contributing to the delinquency of a minor. He has lived a
blameless life since and has an American wife and three children.

"In the vast majority of cases I think the crimes do justify deportation," Mr.
Smith commented. "However, perhaps around the far edges the I.N.S. should have
some discretion in these cases.

"First I'd like to be reassured that the Administration is serious about
deporting hardened criminals. It has a program to deport those currently in
prison when they finish their sentences, but it is deporting less than 50
percent."

The Collado case, he said, "obviously tugs at your heart. Clearly this is an
instance where humanitarian considerations should be taken into account. I
believe in redemption, and I believe it should be granted generously.

"The question is how you do that without creating a giant loophole through which
thousands of others can escape deportation."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 23, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Border Wars: Using Law As a Weapon

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words


IT seemed like an innocent enough idea, Eric Williams had figured. He and his
girlfriend, an aspiring Swedish artist named Annet Katarina Zaguri Trancher,
would get away from New York City for a long weekend in Montreal.

"I was just trying to show my girl a new North American experience," said Mr.
Williams, a reporter in New York for WBLS-FM and WLIB-AM.

They ended up with a different North American experience than they had bargained
for. What they got was a discouraging lesson in how hostile some United States
immigration officers have become in enforcing the tough immigration law that
went into effect early this year.

When the American-Swedish couple took the train back to New York from Montreal
on Nov. 30, Ms. Zaguri Trancher found the door slammed in her face at the border
town of Rouses Point, N.Y. A female agent of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service ordered her off the train, refusing to give her a visa waiver that is
routinely offered to visitors from Sweden and other European Union countries.

To back up for a moment, Ms. Zaguri Trancher, 33, had been given such a waiver
when she arrived in New York from Stockholm in September. But neither she nor
Mr. Williams, 45, realized that it would lose its validity once they crossed
into Canada. A Swedish Government pamphlet had stated, incorrectly, that a short
cross-border trip presented no problem. Ms. Zaguri Trancher, it should also be
noted, had a reservation to fly to Stockholm from New York just two days later
to receive a student visa that would let her return to take courses at the
School of Visual Arts in Manhattan. It might have helped her at the border to
have had her plane ticket and school documents. But who takes such things along
on a weekend trip?

Now, on a snowy November afternoon, it was up to one immigration officer at
Rouses Point to decide whether to let her in with her American boyfriend. The
answer was no, and, the couple said, a needlessly belligerent no.

This agent, they said, was troubled by the many stamps in Ms. Zaguri Trancher's
passport showing that she had visited the United States frequently (though she
had never once overstayed the 90-day limit).

"She said to me, 'Girl, you and I've got to talk,' " Ms. Zaguri Trancher said.
"It was all in a really rough, aggressive voice, before I even said anything."

Mr. Williams said that when he asked what the problem was, the agent replied
nastily, "She's been in the United States a lot of times."

"I asked, 'Is that against the law?' and she said, 'Yeah,' " Mr. Williams
continued. "I said, 'Really.' Then she got really angry and told me to be quiet.
The whole attitude was, 'I'm in charge. This is my show.' "

Attempts to explain Ms. Zaguri Trancher's student-visa situation dissolved in
harsh words. She and Mr. Williams had no choice but to return to Montreal, where
they tried having her plane ticket and school papers sent to them for another
shot at a border crossing. But that failed. Instead, they flew to Stockholm, he
deciding it was only right to stay with her because "going to Montreal was my
dumb idea."

IN the end, things worked out. Mr. Williams returned home, while Ms. Zaguri
Trancher went to the American Embassy in Stockholm for her student visa. Last
weekend, she came to New York without a hitch.

The couple cannot shake the feeling that the agent was unnecessarily rough, even
if the law was on her side.

Asked about the incident, the I.N.S. would not discuss it, but a spokeswoman
said that officers are instructed to be "courteous and respectful."

Mr. Williams and Ms. Zaguri Trancher suspect that race had something to do with
it -- he is black, she is white -- but that is not their concern as much as the
growing anecdotal evidence that some border officers are using the law to treat
many foreigners in ways crude at best and brutal at worst. This case was mild
compared with others that have been reported.

Does the United States have a duty to protect its borders? Absolutely. But
Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, added:
"I don't think that the American public thought these laws would be used to
harass casual tourists and business people. That's exactly what's happening."

And let's not be doltish about race, Mr. Williams said. "If this can happen to a
woman from Sweden, how much worse do you think it is for someone from Chile or
Sri Lanka?"

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of New York State.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
When It Is Unjust

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 39; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nine months after a new immigration law laid down stringent rules for
deportation, the Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner, has come to
believe that her agency and Congress should provide discretion to withhold
deportation when it would be manifestly unjust.

"When we see the new provisions in light of individual people and individual
circumstances," Ms. Meissner said in an interview, "it seems to me evident that
there needs to be some flexibility.".

The kind of case Ms. Meissner had in mind is that of Jesus Collado of Brooklyn,
whom the Immigration and Naturalization Service has moved to deport because he
slept with a teen-age girlfriend 23 years ago and was put on probation for
contributing to the delinquency of a minor. The new immigration law makes that
misdemeanor grounds for deportation.

Under the old law Mr. Collado could have applied for waiver of deportation
because he had lived a good life ever since 1974, and because he had an American
wife and children. The new statute removed that possibility of relief.

Commissioner Meissner said she had come to the conclusion that the I.N.S. has
discretion not to start a deportation proceeding when the circumstances of
injustice are compelling. She said she was working on instructions and field
guidance to the agency's district directors on how they could use discretion.

That is a change in the I.N.S. view. It formerly took the position that it was
obligated to bring a case whenever it came across someone who was technically
deportable because of a past offense, no matter how long ago it was and no
matter how blameless his subsequent life had been.

In the past, she said, "the mindset of this institution" was that it should
start proceedings and rely on the waiver provisions of the old law "to mitigate"
unjust results. But recently she and other I.N.S. officials have come to
understand that, with waiver no longer available, the new statute requires a
different approach.

"We now have to exercise discretion the way criminal prosecutors do," Ms.
Meissner said, "by deciding whether or not to put people into proceedings in the
first place."

Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, a principal framer of the new immigration
law, said in an interview in October that the I.N.S. had "prosecutorial
discretion" not to bring a deportation case against someone like Mr. Collado.
Ms. Meissner seems to have moved toward that position.

But Commissioner Meissner said it was important for Congress to act on the
problem, too, by amending the new law to provide an administrative mechanism for
relief in deportation cases. If the agency simply decided not to start a
proceeding against someone, she pointed out, that decision could be changed
later -- and the individual would live under a legal cloud. A formal system of
relief would make him or her "a whole person again."

Officials are now considering what kind of relief mechanism would be
appropriate, she said. She would then seek Administration approval to make a
proposal to Congress. Ms. Meissner said she was optimistic that Congress would
act, because otherwise cases like Jesus Collado's would produce private relief
bills -- which are much more burdensome than an administrative system.

"It doesn't mean being soft on criminals," she added. "Criminal aliens by and
large should be removed."

Another issue that Commissioner Meissner hopes Congress will revisit is
mandatory detention of individuals during deportation proceedings. The I.N.S.
put Mr. Collado in prison when it discovered his old offense, and kept him there
despite protests, until it found that a transitional provision of the new law
allowed his release on parole. But the transitional rule allowing parole expires
next October.

One purpose of the new statute was to make deportation orders effective -- to
see that they were carried out. Ms. Meissner said she had always thought that
could be done if the effort was adequately funded by Congress -- and now it has
been. Deportation numbers are rising.

"There has to be credibility in the system," she said, "and part of credibility
is that a deportation order isn't just a piece of paper in a file." But she also
wants ways of dealing with the exceptional cases "where it's simply unjust for
there to be deportation."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pursues Deportation Of Haitians

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8


The Government's immigration lawyers and judges are continuing to pursue
deportation cases against Haitian immigrants, despite a Presidential order
issued two weeks ago to exempt as many as 20,000 Haitians from strict new
deportation rules for at least a year.

No Haitian eligible for the new exemption has been deported, but advocates for
the immigrants say several Haitians have been ordered removed since President
Clinton invoked the rarely used authority on Dec. 23. Only Mr. Clinton's
directive spares these immigrants from immediate deportation.

At issue is whether the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the country's
200 immigration judges should immediately suspend individual deportation
hearings.

Advocates for Haitian immigrants expressed dismay today that the Government
might still pursue the deportation cases after Mr. Clinton's decision to grant
an exemption that Presidents have used only four times. "It would be a waste of
taxpayer funds to have the I.N.S. continue with these cases for Haitians
covered" by the directive, Representative Carrie P. Meek, Democrat of Florida,
wrote on Wednesday to Attorney General Janet Reno.

When President George Bush invoked this same authority for Kuwaiti and Chinese
refugees, immigration officials were ordered to stop deportation hearings
against them immediately.

Anything less for the Haitians now would be unfair, their advocates say.

"What a double standard," said Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center in Miami, which has one of nation's largest concentrations of
Haitians. "Time and again, the Haitians have been discriminated against."

An Administration official said it was very likely that Haitians covered by the
order would be allowed to request a suspension of deportation hearings. "We're
leaning that way, but the final decision is still a week or so away," said the
official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

In the meantime, the official said, deportation hearings involving Haitians
covered by the order will proceed on schedule. As of April 1997, there were
3,928 Haitians in deportation proceedings, according to the latest figures
available. Haitian immigrant advocates say deportations are ordered in as many
as 85 percent of these hearings.

Suspending the proceedings is bound to anger at least one influential
Congressional critic of the Administration's immigration policy.  "It's just
common sense that the Department of Justice should continue to work deportation
cases while evidence and witnesses are available," said Representative Lamar
Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the House immigration subcommittee.

The Haitians' fate has stirred bipartisan interest on Capitol Hill mainly
because Congress agreed in November to exempt hundreds of thousands of Central
American war refugees from deportation rules it approved in 1996. The deal
included Nicaraguans, Guatemalans and Salvadorans, but not Haitians.

Since then, the Administration has sought an interim strategy to shield from
deportation a large group of Haitians who were allowed into the country for
humanitarian reasons.  Most of those covered by the exemption fled from the
military government that was ousted when an American-led peacekeeping force
entered Haiti in September 1994.




LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 14, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Albanian Seeking Asylum Is Allowed to Return to U.S.

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 792 words


An Albanian asylum seeker deported in July under a new law intended to quickly
weed out groundless asylum claims has been allowed to return to the United
States to seek refuge.

Immigration officials said new information about the dangers she faces in
Albania, where she says she was gang-raped in retaliation for her husband's
refusal to fight for the Government, prompted their decision to admit her on
humanitarian grounds. She landed in Zurich yesterday en route to Newark.

Her lawyers say the 29-year-old woman should never have been sent back in the
first place. They say her story illustrates the failure of the new law to
protect legitimate refugees, especially women like her who are initially too
ashamed to say they were raped for political reasons.

The woman, who spoke on condition that her name not be used, has lived in hiding
in Albania, cut off from her village and family, since she was sent home in
July, according to her own account, which was corroborated by the family that
has harbored her and human rights workers in Albania who have counseled her.

She was deported under a new law that denies asylum seekers full hearings with
legal representation and the right to Federal appeals unless they quickly
convince immigration officials that they have a credible fear of persecution.
Those found to have no significant possibility of winning asylum are deported.

Before the law took effect last April 1, people who asked for asylum were
entitled to a hearing before an immigration judge and could appeal a denial of
asylum to the Board of Immigration Appeals and then Federal courts.

The Albanian woman, who arrived in Boston in May and was held at a detention
center in Elizabeth, N.J., was first interviewed by an asylum officer, through a
male Albanian translator, and later said she was too embarrassed to describe in
front of the translator how masked, armed men had tied her up and raped her.

She went to her first and only interview with an immigration judge, Mirlande
Tadal, without having had a substantive discussion of her case with her lawyer.
At the start of that interview, the judge informed her lawyer, Eileen Bretz,
"that she is not able to participate in any way whatsoever in these
proceedings," according to a transcript of the hearing.

At the end of the interview, the woman, distraught and weeping, told the judge
that men had come to her home looking for her husband to fight in the southern
part of the country, which had spun into anarchy after the collapse of vast
pyramid schemes. When they did not find him, she said, they raped her. Her
husband has since disappeared and the woman says she has no idea where he is.
They have no children.

At the the conclusion of the interview, Judge Tadal found the woman's testimony
vague, implausible and inconsistent with conditions in Albania and ordered her
deported. "This is final," the judge said.

The woman's case was then taken up by the Immigrants' Rights Project of the
American Civil Liberties Union, which was challenging the new law's application
to asylum seekers in Federal court. In September, an article about the woman's
case appeared in The New York Times, and in October, a broadcast on National
Public Radio also described the case.

Contrary to what the immigration judge concluded, human rights workers and
Western diplomats who were in Albania last spring said they found the woman's
account plausible, though they could not vouch for her particular story.

Last month, Judy Rabinovitz, an A.C.L.U. lawyer, got in touch with immigration
officials to tell them that a man from the woman's village had come to the town
where she was hiding and twice tried to get in touch with the man whose family
had given her sanctuary.

Ms. Rabinovitz also reported that Silvana Miria, a professor of psychology at
the University of Tirana, had evaluated the woman and concluded she was severely
depressed and contemplating suicide because of the rape and her subsequent
isolation. In her conservative, traditional hometown, the woman would be seen as
having lost her honor because of the rape.

Phyllis Coven, director of the Office of International Affairs at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said the new information provided by the
woman's lawyers gave officials reason to believe that the woman was "in
desperate and fearful straits."

The decision to let the woman return to apply for asylum shows that the
immigration service has the flexibility it needs, even under the stringent new
law, to handle such special cases, officials say. "This shows that we very
carefully consider all the cases brought before us and that if new and
additional information is presented to us, we can respond appropriately," Ms.
Coven said.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 20, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Congressional Fact-Finding in Saipan: They Came. They Saw. They Golfed.

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19


At least five members of Congress and dozens of Congressional aides have
traveled a grueling 9,000 miles, crossed nine time zones and endured serious jet
lag, all in the name of diligent fact finding.

Their destination: Saipan, a volcanic island and capital of the Northern
Marianas, a chain of 14 islands in the western Pacific that is a commonwealth of
the United States. The islands, which are about 3,500 miles west of Hawaii,
boast crystalline lagoons, balmy climes, championship golf courses and, for the
free-market minded, relaxed wage and immigration rules.

The bills for the journeys, which can run as high as $5,500 for one person for
one week, were paid by the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, which
is trying hard to keep its exemption from Federal minimum wage and immigration
laws.

"You have people coming here who, before they came on the trip, couldn't find
Saipan on the map and have no direct responsibility over it, no history of
involvement," said Representative George Miller of California, the ranking
Democrat on the House Resources Committee who is a vocal critic of the
commonwealth's low wages and labor policies. "It's just a pure and simple
lobbying job."

For the past year and a half, the office of the commonwealth's Governor has
conducted an ambitious public relations campaign, paying millions of dollars for
fact-finding trips and in fees to Washington lobbyists, particularly the law
firm of Preston, Gates, Ellis & Rouvelas Meeds.

What sets this lobbying strategy apart from others is the success that the
Marianas government has had in convincing Congressional Republicans that
Democrats are wrong in pushing a bill that would raise wages and curtail
immigration there.

Over the New Year's holiday, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House
majority whip who has been a staunch supporter of the commonwealth's policies,
made the trip to Micronesia with his wife, his daughter and three aides. He
stayed for five work-filled days but also found time to play two rounds of golf
on a pristine seaside golf course. Upon his return, Mr. DeLay proclaimed the
Democrats' legislation dead.

The government-paid trips, first reported by Roll Call, the Capitol Hill
newspaper, have become especially popular in the last year, when the former
Governor of the Northern Marianas, Froilan Tenorio, sensed a threat from the
Clinton Administration to the islands' status quo. The Administration has
described the laws as exploitative to workers.

Called to action, the Washington lobbyists hired by the commonwealth got to
work. They extended invitations to nearly all members of Congress and their
aides, as well as to officials of conservative research centers and newspaper
editorial writers, to "educate" them about the Northern Marianas, said Jack
Abramoff, the Preston, Gates lobbyist who arranged the trips. As many as 80
Congressional staff members, most of them Republicans who espouse free-market
beliefs and dislike Democratic labor policies, have visited the island courtesy
of the government.

"They don't have a Congressman or a delegate to the United States," Mr. Abramoff
said. "It's the farthest territory from the United States. Nobody knew anything
about it. And the Federal bureaucracy, which for so long had a paternalistic and
almost colonialist rule over these guys, said let's make a move on their
economy."

After World War I, Japan controlled Saipan and the Northern Marianas under a
League of Nations mandate. Saipan, which was the site of a Japanese air base in
World War II, was seized by United States forces in July 1944 after a three-week
battle in which 3,400 Americans and 27,000 Japanese were killed. The island, 13
miles long and about 5 miles wide, then became a base for air attacks on the
Japanese home islands.

Saipan and the other Northern Marianas voted to become a commonwealth in 1975.
To help stimulate industry, the United States agreed to exempt it from Federal
minimum wage and immigration laws.

Now Democrats say the exemption should be revoked. Most of the garment factories
are not owned by American citizens. The workers hail mostly from China,
Bangladesh and the Philippines, brought in for one or two years and paid $3.05
an hour, compared with $5.15 in the United States. So many workers have arrived
-- 35,000 -- that they outnumber Saipan's permanent residents.

To the Democrats' chagrin, the clothing can be shipped to the United States with
labels that say "Made in the U.S.A. With Imported Fabric," because Saipan is
American soil. Earlier this week the bipartisan United States Commission on
Immigration Reform deplored what it described as systematic labor and
human-rights violations relating to the treatment of workers there.

But Congressional visitors on Government-paid trips return home with a rosier
picture of the islands, said Allen Stayman, an Interior Department official and
critic of commonwealth policies.

Saipan is "essentially being taken over by Asian garment interests who are
exploiting it for their own greed," said Mr. Stayman.

At least five members of Congress have made government-paid trips to Saipan in
the past year and a half, but the island's most illustrious Congressional
visitor was Mr. DeLay, the Texas Republican, who came at the invitation of the
former Governor, Mr. Tenorio. Mr. DeLay's trip was arranged by Mr. Abramoff, a
friend who, along with his wife, contributed $4,000 to Mr. DeLay's 1998
re-election campaign.

To be sure, Mr. DeLay's official itinerary was chock full of meetings. He met
with the former Governor and the new Governor, Pedro P. Tenorio, a relative of
his predecessor. Mr. DeLay sat down with members of the legislature and with the
Roman Catholic Bishop of Saipan, who touched on human rights.

But there was time for regaling and relaxing, too.

Mr. DeLay was honored and entertained every evening. One reception was given by
a Hong Kong businessman, Willie Tan, who agreed in 1992 to pay $9 million in
back wages for his companies' failure to pay garment workers overtime.

And Mr. DeLay, an avid golfer, twice played on one of Saipan's finest golf
courses, the Lao Lao Bay Golf Resort. He and his family also visited Managaha
Island, a 10-acre island in the lagoon that is known for its snorkeling.

When he returned to Washington, Mr. DeLay spoke glowingly of the commonwealth's
economic policies and renewed his vow to block legislation that would tinker
with its wage and immigration policies.

Mr. DeLay's press secretary, John P. Feehery, who accompanied him, said the
Congressman wanted to see for himself whether Saipan's purported sweatshop
conditions were as outrageous as the Democrats say.

" 'Tis the season to cry junket," Mr. Feehery said. "He would not travel 30
hours for some fun in the sun. That's not what he's about."

By and large, Republicans maintain that Mr. Stayman and other Democrats are
simply doing the bidding of American labor unions. Saipan's policy, they say,
has been fruitful and effective at making the islands increasingly
self-sufficient.

It is an opinion they have honed during their visits to the Marianas.

Representative Phil English, Republican of Pennsylvania, just returned from his
own trip to Saipan, where he represented Congressional Republicans at the new
Governor's inauguration.

Other guests of the Marianas government have included Representatives Dana
Rohrabacher, who later gave a complimentary speech about the commonwealth on the
House floor, and Brian P. Bilbray, both California Republicans. Mr. Rohrabacher
took his fiancee along, and Mr. Bilbray took his wife.

Because the commonwealth is the equivalent of a state government, the
Congressmen did not have to disclose the trips in the same way as those paid for
by private businesses. At least four Democrats have made the trip, but the
Marianas government did not pay the expenses of three of them. Mr. Miller, who
introduced legislation to change the wage and immigrations laws, visited the
island this week. His expenses were paid for by taxpayers because he traveled on
committee business.

The same will apply for Representative Don Young, the Alaska Republican who
leads the Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction over the commonwealth, and
10 members of the panel, who plan to visit Saipan in February. But one of Mr.
Young's aides took a trip there earlier this month, paid for by the
commonwealth.

Some members of Congress are distancing themselves from the Pacific voyages.

"You can't make a decision here in Washington that affects the Northern Marianas
with your head stuck in the sand," said Ken Johnson, press secretary for
Representative W. J. (Billy) Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who decided this
week not to take the February trip.

"That said," Mr. Johnson continued, "there have been instances where staff
members have been shielded from seeing and talking to people who would be able
to shed some light on what is happening over there. You're only going to see
what they want you to see."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of the Northern Marianas showing location of Saipan: Saipan draws
immigrant labor from China and the Philippines.

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 21, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

White House Will Reject Advice to Abolish Immigration Service, Officials Say

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20


The White House is preparing to reject a Federal advisory commission's
recommendation to abolish the troubled Immigration and Naturalization Service
and assign its duties to other Government agencies, officials said today.

Instead, the Clinton Administration proposes reorganizing the agency to clarify
its dual -- some say conflicting -- roles of battling illegal immigration and
giving benefits to legal immigrants. Toward that end, it has hired a major
consulting firm, Booz-Allen & Hamilton, to help work out the details of the
redesign.

A White House official who participated in the review, speaking on the condition
of anonymity, said, "Right now, we're not ready to embrace the commission's
proposal to disband the I.N.S., but many of its points are valid, and reform is
necessary."

White House officials insist that President Clinton and his top aides have not
made any final decisions and that Mr. Clinton will outline his plan in the
fiscal 1999 budget he proposes to Congress early next month. But other
Government and Congressional officials say they have been notified that a White
House review has decided in principle against splitting up the agency, as the
United States Commission on Immigration Reform recommended in September.

Even before the Administration's plan was formally announced, Republicans on
Capitol Hill who have been exploring the idea of disbanding the agency,
expressed skepticism that a reorganization plan would solve the problems.

"The proposal to split the agency is an issue that needs to be vetted further,"
said Senator Judd Gregg, the New Hampshire Republican who heads the Senate
appropriations subcommittee that controls the immigration service's spending.
"It is a major move and I don't subscribe to it carte blanche, but it may be the
best way to go. But I don't think this requires another outside consultant to
review the management structure."

At issue is the advisory panel's conclusion that the immigration service suffers
from such "mission overload" that it can no longer manage its many priorities
effectively.

The panel recommended that the Justice Department, the immigration service's
parent agency, retain responsibility for controlling the border and removing
illegal immigrants. The State Department, which now deals with visas at American
embassies overseas, would handle immigration services and benefits, like
citizenship requests. The Labor Department would assume a greater role in
overseeing the hiring of foreign workers.

Breaking up the immigration service is an idea that has bounced around
Washington for at least a decade. But the proposal has gained greater currency
lately as Congress and many of the nation's governors are growing increasingly
exasperated with the immigration service's inability to cope with soaring
requests for citizenship, to weed out criminal aliens living in the United
States and to crack down on the steady stream of illegal immigrants entering the
country.

Republicans greeted the Administration's plan for a reorganization and outside
review with skepticism, and said they would continue to consider more drastic
changes.

Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who heads the Senate
immigration subcommittee, said last August, "We should consider splitting the
I.N.S. up into one law enforcement agency and one legal immigration agency to
increase the efficiency of both."

A spokesman for Mr. Abraham, Joe McMonigle, said today that the Senator stood by
his remarks and would hold hearings early this year on reorganizing the agency.

The House Appropriations Committee last summer directed Attorney General Janet
Reno to review the commission's report and, along with other Federal agencies,
develop a restructuring plan by April 1 that would allow the immigration service
to perform its duties more efficiently.

In response, the White House's Domestic Policy Council interviewed a wide
variety of officials in Government, Congress and independent groups about the
advisory panel's conclusions. "For the most part, there was support for reform
but not for the commission's recommendation" to disband the agency, said the
White House official who was involved in the review.

Ms. Reno and Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, vociferously opposed any proposal to abolish the agency, and
urged the White House to let them solve the agency's problems.

Mrs. Meissner argued that the agency had recently achieved significant victories
in tightening the nation's asylum system and the border with Mexico south of San
Diego, and deserved a chance to clean its own house.

At the same time, other agencies that would assume duties from the immigration
service were cool to the idea. The State Department, for example, argued that it
was already absorbing the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the United
States Information Agency.

Mrs. Meissner said White House officials notified her in late December that the
immigration agency would remain intact. The immigration service then hired
Booz-Allen to a two-month contract for $374,498 that requires the consultants to
give their recommendations by March 1.

By laying out a detailed reorganization before Congress's April 1 deadline,
Administration officials say they hope to head off any effort by Republicans to
use the agency's troubles as a political issue in the 1998 elections.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 25, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Tariff-Free in Saipan

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words



To the Editor:

Re "Congressional Fact-Finding in Saipan: They Came. They Saw. They Golfed."
(news article, Jan. 20): The exemptions from United States wage and immigration
laws that Saipan is trying to protect are much like those Guam was lobbying the
Clinton Administration to gain, while Guam citizens and interests were
contributing nearly $1 million to the Democratic National Committee.

At least Saipan brought members of Congress and their aides to the Northern
Marianas to see the situation on the ground. Would Saipan be having problems
with the Democrats and the Clinton Administration, which support a bill that
would limit immigration and raise wages in Saipan, if citizens there had
contributed to the D.N.C.?

TRACEY A. WEST
Weston, Fla., Jan. 20, 1998

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 28, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

20 Charged With Helping 13,000 Cheat on Test for Citizenship

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27


Federal officials indicted 20 people today on charges of falsifying the
naturalization examinations of more than 13,000 legal immigrants in 22 states
over the last two years.

The fate of those immigrants remains uncertain, but at a minimum they face
re-testing and at a maximum being stripped of their citizenship and deported.
The indictments exposed an embarrassing hole in the naturalization process, for
which 1.6 million people applied last year, making United States citizenship the
most sought-after in the world.

The charges also prompted the Immigration and Naturalization Service to announce
today that it would revamp the entire procedure. This includes reconsidering its
1991 decision to privatize the testing to make the exams more accessible in
neighborhoods where immigrants live. The companies subcontracted with hundreds
of private individuals nationwide to conduct the tests.

"This raises questions about the testing program," said Michael R. Bromwich, the
inspector general of the Justice Department. Mr. Bromwich said the procedure had
broken down because of a lack of supervision between accredited testing
organizations and the subcontractors. The subcontractors, he said, "had a
tremendous amount of autonomy."

Officials said the subcontractors had sent recruiters, or runners, into ethnic
neighborhoods in several states, mainly New York and California, to solicit
money from immigrants in exchange for a guarantee that they would pass the
naturalization examination. They said private subcontractors in some cases would
take the tests for the immigrants. In some cases, they supplied the answers. In
others, they simply certified that the immigrants had passed the test when they
had not even taken it.

The immigrants were said to have paid up to $500 per person for passing the
examinations, collectively paying the testers more than $3 million from 1995 to
1997.

Paul L. Seave, the United States Attorney in Sacramento, announced the
indictments and said 15 of the 20 were arrested this morning in New York,
California, Nebraska and Oregon. Among those arrested in New York was Daud
Mohammad Amiri, 36, of Flushing, Queens. Still sought by the Justice Department
is Khalilullah Raouf, 35, of Flushing. Officials said the two were involved in
recruiting immigrants from Afghanistan. Like the others, they face a maximum of
10 years in prison and $1 million in fines on each of several counts of
conspiracy.

After receiving a tip from the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N.J.,
Federal officials went undercover and sought out a private subcontractor.

"We told them we had nine people who wanted to become citizens," said Daniel S.
Linhardt, an assistant United States Attorney in Sacramento who is to prosecute
the cases. "We gave them $300 for each person, and nine certificates came back
saying we had passed the test."

Johnny Williams, regional director of the immigration service, acknowledged
today that "the testing process doesn't meet muster" and said that it would be
"re-engineered" within the next few months.

"Everything is on the table," Mr. Williams said, including whether to
discontinue contracting with private testing firms.

Still, he said, the indictments today should not give the impression that the
entire system is tainted. Only about 15 percent of the exams were conducted by
private concerns, he said. As for the immigrants, he said, each will be
evaluated individually. Some, he said, were unknowing victims of fraud; others
"can be criminally prosecuted and deported."

Passing the exam, which tests a person's proficiency in English and knowledge of
American history, is a crucial step but not the only one that a legal permanent
resident, someone who has lived in this country for five years, must take before
becoming a citizen. Mr. Williams said other steps in the process, including an
oral exam with an immigration officer, could catch problematic applicants. Of
the 1.6 million immigrants who applied for citizenship last year, 700,000 were
granted it.

Citizenship allows a person to vote, join the armed forces and, now, receive
certain welfare benefits. A revocation of citizenship would reduce a person's
status to that of legal permanent resident, which would still allow him to work
in the United States.




LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 2, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

4 Lawmakers Hope to End Immigration Service

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1


The four most influential members of Congress on immigration matters are moving
toward a plan to abolish the Immigration and Naturalization Service, saying they
are angered by a series of scandals and missteps at the troubled agency.

The lawmakers, senior House and Senate Republicans who head powerful
subcommittees that oversee the agency's missions and financing, have been
galvanized by a Federal advisory panel's recommendation to disband the
107-year-old immigration service and assign its duties to other Government
agencies.

A bipartisan bill in the House to transfer all enforcement and inspection
responsibilities to a new office in the Justice Department is gaining momentum,
and a second, more sweeping, House bill is being written.

Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the
majority leader, have in recent months discussed in general terms with their top
lieutenants the need to reorganize the agency.

Some senior Clinton Administration officials fear that Republicans are eager to
repair frayed relations with immigrant groups who are angry about
Republican-backed reductions in benefits to legal immigrants and that
Republicans will wage an "I.N.S.-bashing" campaign to energize support in border
states like California and Texas before the elections in November.

Clearly, a showdown between Congress and the White House is brewing over the
agency's fate. The Administration is expected to strongly oppose any plan to
dismantle the agency when the Administration submits its fiscal 1999 budget to
Congress on Monday. Instead, the Administration has hired a consulting firm,
Booz-Allen & Hamilton, to help revamp the agency.

But senior Republican lawmakers say the agency is collapsing under the weight of
its dual conflicting missions: service and enforcement. Immigrants who apply to
become citizens are having to wait up to two years in large cities. The I.N.S.
deports 112,000 illegal immigrants a year, fewer than half the 275,000 who enter
illegally each year or stay after their visas have expired.

"The missions and jobs they're charged with are too big and too important to be
botched, and that's what they've done, botched their job," said Representative
Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican who heads the House Appropriations
subcommittee that controls the agency's financing.

"I've reached the end of my rope," Mr. Rogers said in an interview.

He has directed aides to use the report issued in September by the advisory
panel, the United States Commission on Immigration Reform, as a blueprint to
draft legislation to disband the agency.

Some Democrats are also upset. Representative Silvestre Reyes, a Texas Democrat
who is a former chief of the United States Border Patrol in El Paso, is
sponsoring a bipartisan bill that would leave the agency's service functions
intact but create a new office for enforcement.

"The agency has gotten so large that one person can no longer manage both
missions," Mr. Reyes said in an interview.

In the Senate, an angry sentiment that the agency has failed badly despite a
doubling of its budget since 1993, to $3.8 billion this year, is fueling a
similar rallying cry to reorganize the agency.

"There's a general sense that the I.N.S. is an administrative disaster," said
Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican who heads the Senate Appropriations
subcommittee that controls the agency's financing. "The proposal to split the
agency needs to be vetted further, but it may be the best way to go."

Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who heads the Senate Judiciary's
immigration subcommittee, has expressed interest in splitting up the immigration
service and plans to hold hearings in the next few months on the issue.

Under the Federal commission's plan, the Justice Department, which is the
immigration service's parent agency, would continue to control the borders and
remove illegal immigrants. The State Department, which now issues visas at
American embassies overseas, would handle immigration services and benefits like
citizenship requests. The Labor Department would assume a greater role in
enforcing rules on the hiring of foreign workers.

Attorney General Janet Reno and the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, Doris M. Meissner, have forcefully argued to Congress and to
critics in the Administration that the agency's service and enforcement
components must remain under one roof.

"Dismantling the agency now would severely disrupt services we provide to
immigrant communities and jeopardize significant improvements in enforcing
immigration law," Mrs. Meissner said.

Mrs. Meissner said the agency had made progress in the last few years in
tightening the Southern California border with Mexico, as well as in reducing
fraudulent claims for asylum and instituting a technological makeover to an
antiquated agency.

For those reasons, many Democrats, including Senator Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts, agree with Mrs. Meissner that the agency should have a chance to
work on its problems without Congressional micromanaging.

In addition, most groups that advocate immigration oppose splitting up the
agency, fearing that a separate law-enforcement agency might be more prone to
abuses against immigrants than the I.N.S. and that services would become even
worse than they are now.

"I'd be the last person to suggest keeping the status quo, but I'd be skeptical
if these members of Congress have the best interest of immigrants at heart,"
said Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, an
advocacy group in Washington.

Republicans say they are frustrated with the steady drumbeat of agency woes.
This week, for example, Federal authorities indicted 20 people involved in a
nationwide scheme to falsify the citizenship-testing results of up to 13,000
immigrants in 22 states. Critics of the agency, which participated in the
investigation, say the service failed to oversee its testing of contractors
adequately.

"The problems are getting worse, not better," said Representative Lamar Smith, a
Texas Republican who heads the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. "We
need to do more than reshuffle organizational boxes. We need to focus on the
results we want to achieve."


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican shown last
week in his Capitol Hill office, has said the operations of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service are "too big and too important to be botched." (Andrea
Mohin/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 28, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-Somali Army Officer Is Arrested in Virginia

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27


A former Somali Army officer believed to have been responsible for the deaths of
thousands of his countrymen in the early 1990's was arrested in suburban
Virginia today, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

The suspect, Col. Yusuf Abdi Ali, was arrested for lying about his past so that
he could stay in the United States, said Russ Bergeron, an immigration agency
spokesman.

"The information that we obtained indicates that this person was directly
involved in the incidents that led to the deaths of thousands of people," Mr.
Bergeron said.

Mr. Bergeron said Colonel Ali lived in a Virginia community just outside
Washington but the agency would not say where. The colonel is married to an
American citizen, Mr. Bergeron said.

Colonel Ali is accused of "genocidal acts" committed when he served under the
Somali President, Mohammed Siad Barre, the immigration agency spokesman said.
Mr. Bergeron said he had no details of the crimes that Colonel Ali is accused
of, but that "genocidal acts" by definition involve horrific crimes -- wholesale
persecution, torture and death.

The suspect was being held in a Washington-area jail and faces a hearing in the
next four to six weeks before an immigration judge. The charges against him are
administrative, not criminal, and the penalty he faces is revocation of his visa
and deportation, Mr. Bergeron said.

Mr. Bergeron said the agency had concluded that the colonel lied on applications
filled out in 1993 and 1996 -- for asylum and later for permanent residency --
in which he stated that he had never participated in genocidal acts.

The agency spokesman said Colonel Ali was arrested after an investigation
lasting several months. Mr. Bergeron said he could not divulge the source of the
original information implicating the colonel.

Officials familiar with the case said tonight that the colonel was the same
Yusuf Abdi Ali who was deported by Canada in October 1992 after being accused on
a Canadian television broadcast of being a Somali war criminal. The colonel was
then expelled from the United States, these officials said, and later re-entered
the United States after giving misleading information.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 11, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

6 Iraqis Who Aided C.I.A. Are Ordered Deported From U.S.

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10


Six Iraqis who worked in concert with the Central Intelligence Agency in failed
plots against Saddam Hussein have been declared threats to American national
security in a court ruling so secret that their lawyers cannot read it.

The ruling, handed down Monday by a Federal immigration judge in Los Angeles,
means that they may be deported to their homeland, where they would probably
face execution, their lawyers said.

The immigration judge, D. D. Sitgraves, in a public part of the ruling, called
the six Iraqis imprisoned in California "a danger to the national security of
the United States." Her decision was largely based on secret testimony provided
by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents.

The six Iraqis say they worked for two C.I.A.-backed resistance groups trying to
undermine President Hussein; United States Government officials did not dispute
that today. The Iraqis were offered refuge by the United States when two C.I.A.
plots against President Hussein collapsed in 1996. Then after arriving in
California they were thrown into detention centers run by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

They said last year that they had been falsely accused of being Iraqi spies.
They said the accusations flowed from political and personal infighting within
the Iraqi resistance. Several protested what they felt was a miscarriage of
justice in the making.

"We came to this land legally, on account of the U.S. Government, and they put
us in a jail," said Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim, who worked with the Iraqi National
Congress in northern Iraq. "Where is the law?"

The Iraqis' lawyers said today that they could not cross-examine the F.B.I.
agents who testified against their clients. Their questions called for answers
that the I.N.S. claimed were too secret to discuss in open court. The judge's
decision was also deemed too secret to disclose.

The public section of the ruling said, "The decision of the court is based in
main part on the classified information and analysis in the 92-page classified
decision." It continued: "The classified decision may only be released to
individuals with proper clearance and authority from the Government."

Those individuals did not include the Iraqis' lawyers, Neils Frenzen and Daniel
Levy.

"How do you appeal a decision you can't read?" Mr. Frenzen said in an interview.

Mr. Levy said: "We never knew what was in the record, we never knew what the
case was about, and we still don't know."

Under the law and the facts of the case, the lawyers said, the judge's order of
deportation means that the men must be deported to their country of origin --
Iraq -- unless Attorney General Janet Reno finds another nation willing to take
them.

But Mr. Frenzen said: "I can't believe the United States is going to try to
physically deport our clients to Iraq, because people believe our clients will
be killed."

The immigration judge's decision can be appealed within 30 days, to an
immigration board or a Federal appeals court panel. That appeal could take
years. The men remain in an overcrowded detention center in Los Angeles,
separated from their wives and families.

John Salter, the Los Angeles district counsel for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which prosecuted the case, confirmed that the judge had
issued the secret ruling but said he could not comment.

The Iraqis are Mr. Karim, Safa al-Betat, Adil Hadi Awadh, Mohammed Jawer
al-Ammary, Mohammed Tuma and Ali Saleh. All are in their 30's, except Mr. Awadh,
who is 29.

They said in interviews last year that they had worked with two resistance
groups, the Iraqi National Congress and the Iraqi National Accord, which
together received tens of millions of dollars from the C.I.A.

The efforts began faltering in 1995 and early 1996, as the groups were riven by
rivalries and suspicions that they had been penetrated by Iraqi intelligence.
The secret plots collapsed in the summer of 1996, after President Hussein
arrested Iraqi officers working secretly for the resistance and sent tanks,
troops and secret police to crush a C.I.A. base in northern Iraq.

The six jailed men were among a group of 600 Iraqis who fled into Turkey in
August and September 1996 after the countercoup. That group, along with 5,500
other Iraqis and Kurds, were evacuated by the United States to Guam.

In Guam, where they were told to apply for political asylum, they took civics
lessons, learned English and underwent F.B.I. security checks.

When they went to California, the Iraqis were imprisoned in county jails and
I.N.S. centers, although their wives and children were allowed to settle. The
immigration service tried to deny the men political asylum and to deport them in
April, citing secret evidence obtained by the F.B.I. Others from their group
have been granted asylum, according to their lawyers.

The lawyers for the six say they are still in the dark. "We know no more about
the allegations than we did when the proceedings began 11 months ago," Mr.
Frenzen said.




LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

March 8-14;
Thanks, But No Thanks

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 79 words


In a court ruling so secret that their lawyers cannot read it, six Iraqis were
ordered deported by a Federal immigration judge. They had worked in concert with
the Central Intelligence Agency in failed operations against Saddam Hussein and
have been declared threats to American national security. Offered refuge by the
United States, they were thrown into Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention centers after arriving in California last year.   TIM WEINER

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 16, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Fee Increases

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words



To the Editor:

A March 12 news item reports that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
wants to raise fees for 22 types of applications and petitions, including
foreign adoptions. But the most severe impact of the proposed increases will be
on legal immigrants in their naturalization applications. The naturalization fee
is to go up to $225 from $95 (plus $25 for the fingerprint).

Are the immigration service and Congress trying to send a message to legal
immigrants that they are not welcome to be United States citizens? If the agency
needs additional money to function more efficiently, Congress should provide it
instead of shifting the burden to legal immigrants in an unfair, punitive
manner.

JOHN H. KIM
New York, March 12, 1998

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-C.I.A. Chief Offers Aid to Iraqis Facing Ouster

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


R. James Woolsey Jr., a former Director of Central Intelligence, said today that
he wants to defend six Iraqis who fought with the C.I.A. against Saddam Hussein
and now face deportation as threats to American national security.

Mr. Woolsey would give the jailed Iraqis something they lack: a lawyer qualified
for the high security clearances necessary to see the secret evidence against
them and the secret order to deport them.

"I am available to take this on," said Mr. Woolsey, a lawyer at the Washington
firm of Shea & Gardner.

Mr. Woolsey said he would meet next week with the Iraqis, who are jailed at an
Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in Los Angeles, to offer
his services for free. Their current lawyers, Neils Frenzen and Daniel Levy,
said the Iraqis were certain to accept.

The evidence presented against the Iraqis by the Federal Bureau of Investigation
to a Federal immigration judge in Los Angeles was kept secret from the men and
their lawyers. So was the judge's 92-page ruling ordering them deported, which
was handed down on March 9.

The lawyers said they despaired of appealing an order that they could not even
see. Such secrecy is a once-rare -- but increasingly common -- practice used to
deport people in immigration courts.

"This is going to change the whole dynamic of the case," Mr. Levy said. "Now
somebody on the defense team can look at the actual information."

The jailed men said in interviews last year that they had been falsely accused
as Iraqi spies by personal enemies within the Iraqi resistance. They worked with
two C.I.A.-backed resistance groups, the Iraqi National Congress, based in
London, and the Iraqi National Accord, based in Jordan.

Together, the groups have received tens of millions of dollars from the C.I.A.
Their efforts to undermine the Iraqi regime peaked and then collapsed in 1996.

The jailed men fled Iraq in August and September of 1996 after President Hussein
crushed the groups' plots against him. They were flown by the United States to
Guam, and then to California, where the six Iraqis were denied political asylum
and jailed as threats to national security.

As Director of Central Intelligence, Mr. Woolsey helped shape clandestine
intelligence operations aimed at strengthening the Iraqi resistance against
Saddam Hussein. His offer to represent the men came after he and Ahmed Chalabi,
the head of the Iraqi National Congress, testified on March 2 before a Senate
committee. Mr. Woolsey criticized American policy on Iraq as "feckless and
flaccid" under Presidents Clinton and Bush.

Mr. Chalabi said tonight that Mr. Woolsey's decision was "great news." He also
said he was acquainted with three of the six jailed Iraqis, and that all were
members in good standing of the Iraqi National Congress. "I vouch for them," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Out of Servitude, Deaf Mexicans Languish in Limbo of Motel

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1473 words


Eight months after they walked into a police station seeking relief from bosses
who kept them as virtual slaves, 48 deaf Mexican men and women are still being
held by Federal authorities in a motel in Queens while the case they set in
motion winds through the courts.

The Mexicans and their 11 children, including three born since they were
detained, are being held as important witnesses for the prosecution, said Leslie
Cornfeld, an assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn. Because they entered
the country illegally, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is in charge
of them. The Federal Government and the City of New York have spent close to $3
million on caring for the immigrants.

As detainees, they cannot step outside the motel without an escort or receive
visitors who have not been approved. But because they are also victims with
special needs, they are treated to a variety of perks rarely offered to
undocumented immigrants detained elsewhere: they send their children to public
schools, eat Mexican food and go outside to play sports several times a week.

The detainees declined to talk to a reporter for fear that their comments might
jeopardize the prosecution's case against the men and women who are accused of
smuggling them into the United States and exploiting them here.

They also fear that talking to reporters, which prosecutors discourage, might
hurt their chances to remain in this country once the case ends, said a regular
visitor who counsels them. Immigration officials are not expected to rule on
whether they can stay here until the detainees are no longer needed as
witnesses. But prosecutors and city officials are arguing on their behalf.

The plight of the Mexican immigrants became national news on July 19, after four
of them went to a police station and handed a note to an officer asking for
help.

The details of their horrific life shocked the city as government officials,
neighbors and commuters realized that the deaf young men and women who sold $1
trinkets in the subways were really indentured laborers, kept in cramped
apartments and often tortured or starved by their bosses. Soon after, 20 men and
women were indicted on charges that ranged from slavery to alien smuggling; 18
have pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.

While lawyers and prosecutors wait for the sentencing hearings, the Mexican
immigrants -- 26 women, 22 men and 11 children -- wait at the Westway Motor Inn,
a nondescript motel opposite a cemetery in Astoria, Queens, and close to La
Guardia Airport.

Interviews with lawyers, prosecutors and others who see the detainees regularly
provided some details of what life is like in the motel. They are well cared
for, their lawyers said. They receive medical assistance and frequent visits
from volunteers and church members. But, just as detainees everywhere, they
cannot go to the movies or walk outside by themselves or visit friends.

It is a boring life, one restricted by guards who monitor them and by the
uncertainty about what is going to happen next. "They are like a big family,"
said Florrie Burke, the executive director of the Lexington Center for Mental
Health Services, who spends many hours at the motel counseling the immigrants.
"Sometimes they get along; sometimes they don't. Who wants to live in close
quarters? It's been a long time and there are moments of boredom and
uncertainty, but it is not a bad life."

Ms. Burke said they keep busy. No one spends the day in bed, but they do watch a
lot of Spanish-language television. They also draw and paint and decorate their
rooms with handicrafts that awe those who see them.

"Through their art, they have taught us about their culture and values," Ms.
Burke said. "When they see our admiration, they tell us, 'Isn't this what you do
in America too?' And we have to tell them that well, mostly, we go to the stores
and buy it and that's it."

Six times a week, in alternating groups, they are escorted to the Lexington
School for the Deaf/Center for the Deaf, five minutes away in Jackson Heights.
They are driven to appointments with doctors and to the hospital when needed, as
was the case with the births of three children -- 5 months, 3 months and 2 weeks
old. A 16-year-old, who is deaf, goes to the Lexington school, while a
7-year-old, who can hear, attends a public elementary school in Queens, Ms.
Burke said. Immigration officials would not say whether the children are
escorted to school.

Younger children and their parents attend parenting and toddler classes. Adults
are taught to write English and to perfect their communication skills in
American Sign Language. Those who need to, can talk to mental health counselors.
Those who want to, can communicate with their families in Mexico through letters
or telephone conversations using an interpreter and aided by the Mexican
consulate. They celebrate birthdays and baptisms as well as Mexican and American
holidays, and they are often visited by a priest who offers Mass. Although they
have no garden or courtyard in the motel, they are taken to local parks where
they play soccer.

"Life goes on inside the motel," said Mike Wishnie, a lawyer with the American
Civil Liberties Union who represents the detainees. "But they are eager to begin
a normal, productive life."

In an agreement between prosecutors, the Mayor's office and immigration
officials, the Mexicans were taken to the motel, in part, because they have
special needs and because there was no other place to put them. They do not have
a home or relatives in New York. The Federal Government agreed to pay for most
of their motel costs, interpreters and medical needs, while the city offered to
pick up some of their lodging bills, as well as the cost of food and personal
items.

Although they have not been charged by the immigration service for coming to the
United States without visas, the Westway motel has, in effect, become a Federal
detention center, run by immigration officials and protected by 14 guards who
watch the detainees day and night in two 12-hour shifts. Michael W. Gilhooly,
the director of public affairs for the Eastern region of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said none of the detainees have tried to escape.

Federal officials estimate that they have spent $2.5 million on lodging and
interpreters. New York City says it does not have a total of how much it has
spent, but a spokeswoman for the Mayor's Office of Emergency Management said it
costs $13.55 a day to feed each person at the motel, which means the city has
spent about $200,000 on food so far.

Ms. Cornfeld, the lead prosecutor on the case, said the Mexicans would remain in
the motel until the case had concluded. Eighteen defendants, including the
ringleaders, have pleaded guilty to a variety of charges, including keeping the
Mexicans in involuntary servitude, money laundering and alien smuggling. Two
others are being held by Mexican authorities, but the United States Government
is seeking their extradition, Ms. Cornfeld said. Sentencing hearings for the
defendants in the United States are expected in April or May.

After that, the fate of the immigrants is in the hands of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, but Ms. Cornfeld said that the United States Attorney's
Office in Brooklyn has begun looking into the possibility of getting special
visas for the immigrants that would allow them to become residents of the United
States. Such visas, known as S-visas, are offered to cooperating witnesses who
can provide information for the prosecution of cases in the United States, or
those who, having provided the information, fear for their lives once they
return home.

The Mexican immigrants qualify on both counts, their lawyer said. Mr. Wishnie
said his clients are terrified of what could happen to them or to their families
in Mexico once their bosses are sentenced. They have told him that the deaf
community in Mexico is a small and close-knit one; the relatives of those they
have helped to convict know where their families live.

"These are uniquely vulnerable individuals, because of their deafness and lack
of status," Mr. Wishnie said. "And yet, they came forward to turn in their
exploiters, they have cooperated to see that the bosses go to jail despite their
fears of retaliation. And now, if given the chance, many of them would like to
stay."

The city, too, would like them to stay. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has written to
the Justice Department asking that the Mexicans be granted visas. Jerome M.
Hauer, the director of the Mayor's Office of Emergency Management, said the city
is prepared to offer them job training, jobs, housing, and medical benefits.

"We've tried to make them comfortable as much as possible," Mr. Hauer said. "We
will put all city resources in place to assist them."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 25, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

MANY GREEN CARDS DELAYED BY 'BUGS' IN A NEW MACHINE

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words


The Federal Government has delayed issuing tens of thousands of residency
permits for immigrants because a new machine designed to produce fraudproof
green cards has been dysfunctional since it was installed last summer.

Immigration lawyers say this is only the latest ineptitude in a system that has
never functioned efficiently. But spokesmen for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said the agency was only working out the bugs that were
inevitable as it started using advanced technology to produce a green card that
contains digital fingerprints and high quality photographs.

Few immigrants will suffer dire consequences from the delay. But some are
panicky, and many will be nervous until they hold their green cards in their
hands. The cards, which confer permanent legal residency, are a precious
commodity, representing the first formal step toward becoming an American.

Many immigrants are worried because they do not understand what is happening.
The immigration agency has not notified them that there have been technical
delays in manufacturing the cards. So only those immigrants determined enough to
dial their way through the agency's dizzying bureaucracy have learned about the
problem.

Grant Saff, a geography professor at Hofstra University on Long Island, had been
eagerly awaiting his green card since his application for residency cleared its
final hurdle last October. After four months, Professor Saff, a native of South
Africa, called the immigration agency's hot line and found "with horror," he
said, that there was no record of his application in the computer system.

"I finally got someone who knew something on the phone, and they told me the
green card machine was broken," Professor Saff said. "The machine is broken?
Can't the U.S. Government call in a technician? Is there no other machine
available? The vast bulk of immigrants are just sitting around waiting for this
most important thing, and they have no idea what's happening."

A spokeswoman for the immigration agency, Amy Otten, said the new machine, which
was installed late last summer in a regional immigration office in St. Albans,
Vt., could not be called broken. She said that the machine was functional and
producing cards but that the cards were not all "of high quality."

"They may appear with a scratch across the face in the photo, for instance," she
said. "We're still working the bugs out of the new system. I think the problem
has something to do with static and dust."

Ms. Otten said 78,000 green cards were being processed in St. Albans.  Of them,
about 40,000 cards are considered to be of acceptable quality, some 15,000 are
of poor quality and 23,000 have not yet been produced.

None have been mailed because the agency did not want to introduce the new cards
before it was certain that the machine could produce them in high volume without
flaws, said Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the agency, which issued 915,900 green
cards in 1996.

"This is a process in which our old card is being phased out and a new one is
being phased in," Mr. Andrus said. "We've been gearing up this facility and
working out kinks. Some applications, granted, are being delayed in the process.
But the vast majority of people, if they have stable employment, won't be
impacted by that delay."

Immigration lawyers say that many clients accept the latest delay with
equanimity because the road to a green card is paved with frustrations. "There
are usually half a dozen delays until you get to the stage where your
application is approved," said David Grunblatt, chairman of the New York chapter
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "Then you're so close you can
taste it and you still don't have the card. But many people are so beaten down
by the process that they just shrug their shoulders and say, 'What else is new?'
"

With a green card, immigrants receive permanent authorization to work in the
United States and become eligible for most loans and Government benefits that
were closed to them as illegal immigrants or temporary workers, as foreign
students or as professionals with a special visa status. They are also much
freer to travel outside the United States and return with ease.

Once approved for permanent legal residency, immigrants receive a dated stamp in
their passport that serves as a temporary permit until their green card arrives,
supposedly a few months later.

Lawyers say employers are leery of accepting the stamps as proof of residency,
as are Government employees who use the cards to determine immigrants'
eligibility for benefits.

Under the old system, green cards were processed in Texas by a private company
under contract to the immigration agency. Last fall, the Government took over
the operation with the intent of making it immune to fraud. They installed the
machine in St. Albans, and that office then took over production of documents
for the Northeast and some other regions.

The Texas plant continued to process some green cards for immigrants in the
Southwest and West, but will shut down this week when a second machine starts
production in California. Immigration officials could not say yesterday how many
cards were processed during the fall in Texas, or what percentage of the total
were being held up in Vermont.

The machines are supposed to operate without human assistance, feeding
photographs, fingerprints and biographical information onto plastic cards,
embedding them with security information and slipping them into envelopes for
mailing. (The new cards are actually off-white with a green stripe, replacing
the current pink ones, which replaced the original green cards.)

So far, the system has not produced consistently functional cards, and there is
no backup mechanism for processing applications. Immigration officials said the
system would be functional in two to six weeks, and that the start-up problems
would be forgotten once it was in place.

But accusations of ineptitude have long plagued the immigration agency. The
agency has had a particularly uneasy relationship with technology, relying well
in the 1990's on an antiquated computer system that did not allow one division
of the agency to communicate with another.

Immigration lawyers were quick to mock the agency's latest misstep.

"It's the latest instance of the Keystone Kops," said Brian O'Dwyer, a lawyer in
Manhattan. "It would be hilarious if it weren't so tragic."

"A dysfunctional machine?" said Nora Lee, another New York lawyer. "It's a
dysfunctional agency."


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 5, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

An Uncomfortable Debate Fuels a Sierra Club Election

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4


The Sierra Club, one of the largest and most influential environmental groups in
the United States, is in the final throes of a bitter and divisive debate over
whether to call for restrictions on immigration as a way of controlling growth
in the nation's population.

Unlike most major environmental groups, the Sierra Club allows its members to
elect its board of directors and to direct the club's policies through ballot
initiatives. Campaigns are often hard fought, but this year the immigration
question has raised unusually sensitive questions about social justice, racial
equity and political strategy, to the intense discomfort of many in the group's
generally liberal constituency.

Two competing propositions on population and immigration are on the group's
ballot this month, and the debate has been fierce.

"This election, more than any time in the recent past, is showing the fissure
lines in philosophy over what the club is and ought to be, and what its
priorities should be," said David Orr, one of 22 candidates running for 5 open
seats on the 15-member board. Although several candidates are running on a
platform of controlling population by restricting immigration, Mr. Orr is not
one of them; his slate opposes the board's current majority as being too prone
to compromise, but on other issues.

The proposition on immigration that sparked the current debate was put on the
ballot after a successful petition drive by those who want the club to advocate
stabilization of the United States population as soon as possible, both through
lowering fertility rates among the existing population and by restricting
immigration. They argue that immigrants and their offspring will be responsible
for most of the nation's population growth in the next several decades and that
the environment is sure to suffer as a consequence.

The competing proposition, affirming the need for global population
stabilization but disavowing any club policy on immigration levels, was put on
the ballot by the board of directors, which two years ago adopted a position of
neutrality on immigration issues without putting the question to a membership
vote. The proposition's supporters say that the growing American population is a
symptom of a worldwide problem that cannot be solved by immigration controls.

Fueling the debate is concern that endorsing curbs on immigration would alienate
minorities, especially in the club's historic stronghold of California, where
about a third of its 550,000 members live, and undermine the club's broader
conservation goals with a fight over an issue on which the club has little real
influence.

About 75,000 members are expected to vote by mail in the current election,
perhaps more if the competing publicity campaigns have much effect. Ballots have
already been mailed out and are due back later this month.

The club's magazine has given space to advocates of both sides, as has the
official Sierra Club Web site at http://www.sierraclub.org. And both sides have
established extensive Web sites to spell out their arguments. Sierrans for
Population Stabilization, as one camp is known, has a Web page at
http://www.ecofuture. org/ecofuture/susps/info/endorsers.html. The opposing
camp's views are presented at http:// www.igc.org/sierrapop/.

At the same time, the club's professional cadre is devoting considerable effort
to the fight against restricting immigration.

"It is offensive to people of color, even those who think we should limit
immigration," said Carl Pope, the executive director of the club. "It says to
the world, we in the United States can enjoy a life style that is a threat to
the planet. We will not let you come here; we have no intention to get off this
life style. And please don't aspire to it back home in Moscow, Buenos Aires or
rural China.

"It is seen by people in the immigrant communities as saying: You are a form of
pollution."

Mr. Pope, an appointee of the board, said that the debate was attracting unusual
attention partly because several groups who want immigration reduced had seized
on the balloting to press their agendas.

"The dialogue is now being substantially dominated by groups which are
interested in immigration for reasons that are not environmental," he said.

The Political Ecology Group, a small organization based in San Francisco that
advocates environmental protection as well as immigration rights, issued a
recent report documenting how several anti-immigration groups have worked on
behalf of the ballot proposal to restrict immigration.

"These organizations are generally known for extremist, anti-immigrant work,"
said the report, citing positions taken by such groups as the Federation of
American Immigration Reform and Californians for Population Stabilization.

But Leon J. Kolankiewicz, vice president and network coordinator for the
Carrying Capacity Network, an advocacy group based in Washington, rejected the
accusation of extremism. The group calls for a moratorium on immigration.

"A lot of environmental groups have been under the same pressure, to hire more
minorities, to prove they are more sensitive to minority concerns," he said.

Describing himself as a longtime Sierra Club member who has worked for the
immigration control proposal for almost two years, he called the debate "part of
a larger struggle for the soul of the environmental movement."

Although most current and past officials of the club favor the position of the
current board, as do many local chapters of the club and leaders of other
environmental organizations, the call for immigration restrictions as part of
the club's policy on population has drawn the endorsement of many prominent
figures from the environmental movement.

"It seems to me that as a society we have to face the population issue," said
Lester R. Brown, president of the Worldwatch Institute, who said he endorsed the
population control initiative although he is not a Sierra Club member. "It is
just very difficult to preach population stabilization in developing countries,
and convince them that they have to take it seriously, if we are not going to do
so."

But Sam Schuchat, executive director of the California League of Conservation
Voters, urged the club in a statement to its Los Angeles chapter not to "commit
suicide over the immigration issue."

"This is something the environmental community in California cannot afford," he
said. "We need you united, strong and credible with all Californians."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Hopes Iran Won't Misread Treatment of Visiting Wrestlers

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5


The Clinton Administration said tonight that it hoped that Iran did not
misinterpret the short detention of Iranian wrestlers by the immigration
authorities when the athletes entered the United States last week to take part
in a tournament.

The group, the first Iranian sports team to visit this country since the fall of
the Shah in 1979, was detained for two hours, photographed and fingerprinted as
it entered the country at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. They were on
their way to take part in the World Cup of Freestyle Wrestling championships at
Oklahoma Sate University.

"We certainly hope that this procedure is not misinterpreted as a sign of
diminished interest in promoting such exchanges because it is not," said an
Administration official who insisted on not being identified.

James Foley, deputy spokesman for the State Department, said tonight that
Federal law required such procedures for "non-immigrant" visitors -- mainly
tourists who are not government officials -- from Iran, Iraq, Libya and the
Sudan. Mr. Foley said he hoped that the delay and the procedures would not
disrupt the tentative steps that the United States and Iran have been taking to
warm relations.

"The Iranian wrestlers are welcome visitors in the United States, and we
certainly hope that no offense was taken from the application of these
long-standing procedures," Mr. Foley said.

In recent months the Administration and the Government of President Mohammad
Khatami have been inching closer after 20 years of alienation and invective
between the two nations. In February, a five-member American wrestling team took
part in an international wrestling competition in Teheran, and the State
Department has softened its travel advisory for Americans seeking to visit Iran.

The visit of the Iranian wrestlers is a follow-up to the participation of the
American team in that tournament, and Administration officials hoped it would be
a harbinger of the kind of people-to-people exchange that could lead to
increased contacts.

But Iranian officials have reacted sharply to the detention of the Iranian
wrestlers. Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency quoted Mahmoud
Mohammadi, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, as saying the treatment of the
wrestlers indicated the absence of any shift in Washington's policy toward
Teheran.

Mr. Mohammadi is very close to the President Khatami, and his comments were read
by Administration officials as reflecting Government policy.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 13, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

ABUSES ARE CITED IN TRADE OF MONEY FOR U.S. RESIDENCE

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


A Federal program that grants wealthy foreign investors permanent residency in
the United States is being manipulated, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service says, with investors' money being pooled so that most of them obtain
residency visas without making the required investment.

The program, established by Congress in 1990, envisioned wealthy foreigners
investing directly in American businesses. But in recent years, a cottage
industry of consultants has sprung up to pool money in creative ways from the
foreigners, who under the program must invest at least $500,000 in an American
business that creates or saves jobs. In return, the foreigners receive a
permanent residency visa, or green card, the coveted document that is the first
step toward American citizenship.

A six-month Government review concluded last month that many of the consulting
firms that link the immigrants to business opportunities in the United States
had improperly exploited loopholes to guarantee rates of return and limit
investor risk. Under some consultants' plans, for example, foreigners would only
have to pay about one-third of the required $500,000 investment, with a
promissory note for the rest that could eventually be forgiven by the consulting
firm or the American business.

"These plans do not meet either the spirit or the letter of the law established
by Congress," said Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration service.

But when immigration officials moved this year to revoke more than 5,000 visas
granted under the program, mostly to immigrants from Taiwan, China, South Korea
and Hong Kong, a number of influential lawmakers from both parties, including
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, protested that the
Government was changing the rules in midstream.

The immigration service, the lawmakers said, knew all along what the investors
were doing and never raised an eyebrow when the Government approved the visa
petitions. The lawmakers criticized a freeze the agency has imposed on most new
visas until it sorts out what kinds of investments are allowed. They contend
that the freeze has stymied growth in economically depressed parts of the
country that the program was intended to help invigorate.

"For months, American jobs, created by the investor visa program, have been
ensnared in bureaucratic red tape," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas
Republican who heads the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. "Job
opportunities have been stifled by a heavy-handed Government agency."

In response to the criticism, the immigration service backtracked a bit late
last month, allowing 1,500 investors and their families, who had received
conditional green cards and completed a two-year waiting period, to stay in the
United States.

But hundreds of other applicants in the pipeline will have to refile their visa
petitions under new guidelines being developed. Critics say the immigration
service did not publicize this decision, leaving immigrants and their lawyers in
limbo.

"The immigration service is wreaking havoc on everyone's lives, and it makes
zero sense to me," said Denyse Sabagh, a former president of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, who now represents one of the consulting firms.

The issue has rekindled a fierce debate over the propriety of using permanent
residency visas to attract foreign capital and create, or at least save,
American jobs.

The uproar also underscores deficiencies in the immigration service. Its loosely
worded regulations are an easy target for consulting firms looking for
loopholes. And its examiners, who are trained to ferret out most routine
immigration fraud, are ill-equipped to address increasingly complicated
financial plans.

"The I.N.S., unlike the I.R.S., isn't typically an agency that has to police
against highly sophisticated investment devices," said David A. Martin, the
former general counsel of the immigration service whose blistering 36-page
memorandum last December became the centerpiece of the Government's review of
the program.

For the immigration service, the visa program is the latest in a string of
contentious issues to catch the attention of the Republican-led Congress, which
over the past year has criticized the agency for wrongly naturalizing tens of
thousands of immigrants and which has even suggested abolishing the service.

The immigrant investor program, which offers 10,000 visas a year, has never
caught on the way its proponents had hoped. Until two years ago, the immigration
service never issued more than 600 visas a year to investors and members of
their immediate families.

Congress created the program to compete with other countries, including Canada
and Australia, that offered similar visas to attract foreign capital and create
jobs. But the American model required larger investments, the hiring of at least
10 employees who were not related to the investor, and an audit two years after
the visa was issued to insure the investment and employees were still in place.

In the past two years, immigration officials say consulting firms have devised
savvier business plans for immigrants to use and stepped up their marketing,
particularly in Asian and Middle Eastern publications. The number of visas
issued to investors jumped to 1,110 in fiscal year 1997 from 295 visas in fiscal
year 1996.

At the same time, American consular officials in Tokyo, Taipei, Guangzhou, Seoul
and Hong Kong raised questions about dozens of visa petitions. Consuls found
that many plans called for a down payment, typically $150,000 on a $500,000
investment, and arranged a promissory note for the rest. After two years, the
investor would get a green card and then, the plans suggested, the remaining
$350,000 would be forgiven.

Last month, the California Department of Corporations ordered a Virginia-based
firm, Interbank Immigration Services, to stop offering investment programs to
wealthy immigrants.

The company, California officials said, promised qualified immigrants a green
card within eight weeks if they bought a stake in a Delaware limited
partnership. The stakes were in turn sold to a Bahamian enterprise for an
annuity that matured in five years. But state officials said investors had no
guarantee that they would realize the promised benefits.

Reports like this prompted the immigration service to conduct its review.
"Little by little, the program may have gotten out of control," said a State
Department official familiar with the visa program.

But many consulting firms say that they have followed the rules and that they
are being penalized for the abuses of a few or by lax oversight by immigration
officials.

One such firm, American Export Partners of Charleston, S.C., has pooled more
than $8 million in cash and promissory notes from investors, mostly from Asia,
and, with the Government's blessing, created a commercial financing company to
make loans to American exporters.  Thirty-eight of the firm's investors have
received green cards, said Timothy D. Scrantom, a managing director.

One loan was a $750,000 line of credit to Pillow Perfect, a bedding manufacturer
in Woodstock, Ga.  "They're providing financing for my company to grow and hire
more people," said Paul Ratner, president of Pillow Perfect, whose work force
has increased to 50 employees from 20 employees in the past two years.

Mr. Ratner said that he had consulted several local banks but that American
Export was "more competitive and easier to deal with."

Other middlemen are changing their marketing practices to address the
Government's complaints. One of the largest consulting firms, AIS of Greenbelt,
Md., said it sent a revised business plan to the immigration service in
February.

"Things are continuing to evolve," said William P. Cook, a lawyer for AIS who
was the immigration service's general counsel when the visa program was created.

The immigration service insists that it still supports the program -- but with
several changes -- and plans to ask the Commerce Department and Small Business
Administration for technical help in reviewing future immigrant-investor
financial packages.

But immigration lawyers and their clients say the program will stay stuck in
neutral until the immigration service drafts a clear set of rules for the
industry and immigrants to follow. "What we need now is for the I.N.S. not to
issue more general counsel memos, but regulations," Mr. Cook said.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul A. Ratner, the president of Pillow Perfect, in Woodstock,
Ga., said his company has grown with loans from an immigrant-financed lender.
(Michael A. Schwarz for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A RECORD BACKLOG TO GET CITIZENSHIP STYMIES 2 MILLION

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1515 words


More than two million immigrants throughout the country are waiting to become
citizens of the United States, the largest backlog of naturalization
applications since the Federal Government began keeping those records at the
turn of the century.

The backlog means that for those in the pipeline -- legal residents of the
United States who, for the most part, have already waited five years for the
right to apply -- the waiting time for citizenship is up to 18 months,
immigration officials said. Before the backlog started increasing in 1996, the
normal waiting time was 6 months.

Advocates for immigrants estimate that without emergency measures, the wait
could be much longer than 18 months in some places. In New York, they say, it
could take five years at the current pace of about 4,600 cases decided per
month.

"I just think the Government has completely abandoned these people," said Luke
E. Williams, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of
Los Angeles. "You know, if anybody else in the United States had to wait two
years to get an ID or an important piece of paper, it wouldn't be tolerated."

Immigration officials and advocates say the backlog is a result of an
inefficient, antiquated agency, interference by Congress and a soaring number of
citizenship applications that was prompted by anti-immigrant sentiment and
recent laws that cut benefits to noncitizens.

For those eager to become United States citizens, any delay is crucial. It could
mean the difference in keeping a job, receiving government benefits or being
able to bring siblings from abroad. And, of course, without citizenship,
immigrants cannot vote.

"I feel American, but I can't even decide who represents me," said Olga, 26, a
Russian hairdresser who has lived in Jackson Heights, Queens, for 14 years and
did not want to reveal her last name. She filed her citizenship application two
years ago, but with no word on its fate, she has decided to send another.

"How many times do I have to show them how much I want to become an American
citizen?" she said.

The backlog is so great that it has created a secondary one -- people who have
waited so long to have their applications reviewed that their criminal
background checks have expired after 15 months, forcing them to have
fingerprints retaken.

There are about half a million people in that situation in the six cities with
the heaviest flow of applicants: Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Miami,
Chicago and Newark.

Caught in the backlog are people like Naufhad Ally, a 43-year-old mathematics
teacher from Guyana who works at Jamaica High School in Queens. Mr. Ally applied
for citizenship in November 1995. He has been interviewed by immigration
officials twice, and twice he has been told that his file is lost. Mr. Ally has
a temporary teaching license that expires in August, and must become a citizen
to obtain a permanent one. "I'm desperate," he said. "If I lose my job, I don't
know what I'd do."

The growing backlog prompted the Immigration and Naturalization Service to ask
Congress last year for $150 million to modernize the entire citizenship
operation. Four months ago, Congress granted that request and approved an
additional $61 million, releasing to the immigration service a total of $211
million.

About $14 million has been earmarked to begin chipping away at the backlog. Last
month, retired immigration service officers and other temporary workers were
hired and sent to Los Angeles, the city with the worst backlog of applications
in the nation (405,000 as of Friday). New York, with a current backlog of
282,000 applications, comes second. Immigration officials said they were ready
to take similar measures in other cities with heavy caseloads.

The rest of the money, immigration officials said, would be used to open 129
offices where fingerprints will be taken and written tests conducted, to deploy
44 vans to roam the country taking applicants' fingerprints, to maintain four
newly opened centers that handle only citizenship applications, and to buy
computers and software to fully automate a system in which some applications are
still processed by hand.

With the help of an outside management firm hired last year, the immigration
service has also come up with a blueprint for changes that it says will
eliminate the backlog by the end of 1999.

"There is a plan and a way to get there," said Eric Andrus, an immigration
service spokesman in Washington. "We just need time." Mr. Andrus called the
elimination of the backlog "one of the agency's top priorities."

But immigration lawyers and advocates for immigrants, some of whom marched
outside the immigration district offices in lower Manhattan last week to protest
the backlog, predict that the agency will be unable to meet its own deadline.

Mr. Williams of the Los Angeles coalition chuckled when asked what he thought of
the agency's plans.

"Yes, yes, they announced the changes a month ago with a lot of fanfare," he
said. "But unless they are ready to send a small army of people out here, it's
not going to be enough to make a noticeable dent."

Mr. Williams said there were crates full of files in the hallways of the
district immigration office in Los Angeles. Even now, he added, his clients were
unable to get immigration officials to answer simple questions about missing
forms or future appointments.

Angelica Salas, an administrator who works with Mr. Williams, said that despite
the help Los Angeles was receiving, the agency was as disorganized as ever.
Recently, she said, community organizations were handed a list that included 30
centers in California where applicants could get their fingerprints. When the
immigrants arrived at several of the centers for fingerprinting, employees there
told them they had no idea what they were talking about.

Just five years ago, most immigrants were shunning citizenship. That was before
new Federal and state laws that restricted benefits like welfare for noncitizens
and threatened deportation. Now more applications are filed every year than in
the years from 1911 to 1920, when there was an unprecedented wave of immigration
from Europe. In 1996, 1.3 million applied for citizenship, and the figure
climbed to 1.5 million in 1997. Close to 2 million applications are expected
this year.

"We simply had a record number of applications hit a 1950's sort of system,
totally unprepared to deal with that volume," said Andrew L. Lluberes, an
immigration service spokesman in Washington.

A report released last week by The Citizenship Now Collaborative, a national
coalition of six immigrant rights groups, blames the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and Congress for allowing citizenship applications to
mushroom while the two bickered about how best to run the agency.

Congress has been particularly hard on the agency since 1996, when it was
discovered that an earlier initiative to reduce the backlog had resulted in
sloppy work. Hundreds of people with criminal backgrounds were granted
citizenship. Republicans accused the Clinton Administration of rushing the
naturalization process to gain votes for Mr. Clinton's 1996 re-election from
immigrants, who are thought to largely vote Democratic.

The debate led Congress to delay much-needed money for the immigration service,
and forced the agency to rush a series of measures to placate Republicans in
Congress. Immigration officials say the measures will ultimately improve the
system. Now, however, they are having the opposite effect.

The waiting time in some cities has been doubled by the mandated measures, which
include having two people and a supervisor go over the same citizenship
application and waiting to receive clearance from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for each set of fingerprints (formerly, a lack of response from
the F.B.I. was a sign of a clean criminal record).

"Congress exaggerated our flaws," said an immigration official in Washington who
spoke on the condition of anonymity. "They used a 50-pound hammer to hit a fly.
Creating the hammer and training people how to use it made the backlog grow
wildly."

Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, said
neither Congress nor the immigration service has realized the impact of the new
procedures. "In the meantime, more and more people have filed," she said. "At
this rate, the backlog will only continue to grow and more and more people will
fall behind."

The backlog has already affected Sunny Chan, a 27-year-old radio operator from
China and aspiring journalist who thinks he was turned down for a job in London
because he did not have a United States passport.

"I was so embarrassed sitting there," Mr. Chan of his job interview. "How could
I explain to them who I was?" He has not heard from immigration officials since
he was interviewed in August of 1996, shortly after he sent his application in.
"I have written letters, called many times, even stood in line for four hours,"
Mr. Chan said. "They tell me there is nothing they can do and I have to wait."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants protested outside the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's New York office on Wednesday. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg.
A16)

Graph: "ADDING IT UP: More Wait to Pledge Allegiance"
The sharp rise in the number of people applying to become United States citizens
has led to huge backlogs in some cities processing the applications. Graph
tracks number of applications for citizenship, from 1988 through an estimated
1997.

Cities with the largest applications backlogs*
Los Angeles -- 438,557
New York -- 255,230
San Francisco -- 188,116
Miami -- 178,803
Chicago -- 99,564
Newark -- 48,120

*As of November 1997

(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. A16)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 30, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigrants Attain Parity in Pay and Taxes

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words


Legal immigrants in New York make more money and pay more taxes the longer they
live here, and after 15 years of residence, they earn and pay more than natives.
And their children grow up to earn just as much as other Americans, according to
a new study of the incomes and taxes of immigrants in the state.

But even as legal immigrants move into the state's economic mainstream, paying
roughly the same proportion of their income in taxes as natives, they also have
higher rates of welfare use than natives, the researchers found.

Demographers at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization in
Washington, undertook their study, which will be released today, after Congress
voted to reduce welfare benefits to legal immigrants in 1996. The study was
financed by several nonprofit groups, including one created by the financier
George Soros, an advocate for immigrants.

The study focuses on the contributions immigrants make to society in earnings
and taxes, an approach that has prompted other scholars to criticize the
findings for neglecting the costs associated with immigration in welfare,
education and criminal justice expenditures.

"You want a cost-benefit analysis," said George J. Borjas, a professor of public
policy at Harvard University. "This is just half the equation. It tells you what
they pay, but not what they cost."

Jeffrey S. Passel, who conducted the study with Rebecca L. Clark, acknowledged
that they examined only one side of the issue, but he said the findings are
still crucial to answering the larger questions of whether immigrants, on
balance, are good for the country economically, and whether the new restrictive
welfare laws will help or hinder them as they try to succeed in the United
States.

Research sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences that was published last
year concluded that in New Jersey, households headed by natives paid $232 a year
more in state and local taxes because of the presence of immigrants. In
California, the comparable figure was $1,178 a year. Educating the children of
immigrants was the greatest expense resulting from their presence in the
country.

The Urban Institute study made no attempt to estimate the net cost of
immigration to New York taxpayers.

For the first time, it broke down New York's population of nearly 3.4 million
foreign-born residents by legal status. Of those, 1.4 million are legal
immigrants who have not become citizens, 1.2 million are naturalized citizens,
200,000 are refugees, and 540,000 are illegal immigrants.

They found that New York's legal immigrants, including naturalized citizens, who
make up 15.4 percent of the population, pay 15.2 percent of the taxes, a total
of $17.8 billion in Federal, state and local taxes. About $7 out of every $10
they paid went to the Federal Government. Both immigrants and natives pay 30
percent of their income in taxes.

They estimated that legal immigrants earn slightly more on average than natives
($18,700 versus $18,100). Refugees had the lowest earnings, $8,300, and illegal
immigrants made $12,100.

Immigrants generally had higher rates of welfare use than natives in 1995, 17
percent compared with 11 percent, before new Federal restrictions on welfare to
legal immigrants were adopted.

Almost a quarter of households headed by legal immigrants who had not yet become
citizens and 4 out of 10 refugee households received welfare. Among legal
immigrants, only naturalized citizens had lower welfare use than natives, at
about 8 percent.

Welfare was defined to include public assistance and Supplemental Security
Income payments to poor people who were elderly or disabled. The Census data
needed to evaluate the impact of new, more restrictive Federal welfare laws has
not yet been released.

The New York Community Trust, the Robert Sterling Clark and Heron foundations
and Mr. Soros's Emma Lazarus Fund paid for the $150,000 study, whose findings
were largely drawn from data provided by the Census Bureau, the Internal Revenue
Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"It seems there's a fundamental unfairness that legal immigrants are paying
taxes like everyone else, but are being treated differently in terms of
benefits," Mr. Passel said.

He and Ms. Clark said their research provides no clear answers about the
consequences of new welfare laws, but raises provocative questions.

They found, for example, that many refugees in New York, most of them from the
former Soviet Union, are still dependent on welfare years after they entered the
country. What will happen to them under new laws that end their eligibility for
public assistance after five years and for Supplemental Security Income after
seven years unless they become citizens?

And, they ask, what will be the effect of laws that more sharply restrict the
access to welfare for new legal immigrants in their early years in the country,
when their incomes are lowest?

"We observed fantastic income growth among legal immigrants during their first
10 or 15 years in the country," Ms. Clark said. "The question is whether the new
restrictions on welfare benefits will be a kick in the pants or a kick in the
head for legal immigrants. Will they prod immigrants to do better? Or leave them
worse off?"

In measuring the costs and benefits of legal immigration, they said, it is
crucial that researchers develop ways to separate legal immigrants from other
types of foreign-born residents. Legal immigrants should be considered
separately from refugees, who are admitted for humanitarian reasons without
regard to their economic potential and have much higher rates of welfare use, or
with illegal immigrants, who have much lower rates of compliance with income tax
laws.

The Census data that most researchers use as the basis of their inquiries do not
subdivide immigrants by their legal status, and earlier research has
inadequately distinguished among different types of immigrants, the Urban
Institute researchers said.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 17, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Costly Citizenship Program To Be Continued by the City

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words


A costly city program to help immigrants obtain citizenship will continue, city
officials say, despite the expected passage of a law that could make the program
obsolete.

The program helps needy legal immigrants -- children, the elderly and the
disabled -- become United States citizens so they can hold on to Federal
benefits.

While Congress is on the verge of voting to restore food stamps to those
immigrants, city officials say the program is a success and should not be
canceled just because its client caseload is likely to decrease.

"We will continue to serve the same clientele we have served all along," said
Anthony Coles, senior adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "And then, once
we've dealt with those people, we'll evaluate to see if it makes sense to help
others, regardless of their needs."

The program, called Citizenship N.Y.C., has been controversial since Mr.
Giuliani announced it last May, in the midst of an election year. Some advocates
for immigrants questioned whether the city should pour millions of dollars into
a service that private groups had been providing for years at a much lower cost.
They contended that the city could help immigrants more effectively by
contracting with nonprofit agencies that were well known in their communities
and had experience with the quirks of immigration law.

But in the nine months since six Citizenship N.Y.C. offices opened throughout
the city, the program has helped almost 5,000 people apply for citizenship, city
officials point out, including some disabled clients who were tracked down and
interviewed at home. Through a special arrangement with the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the program has shepherded more than 150
immigrants to naturalization ceremonies, despite a two-year delay facing most
applicants.

The success comes with a high price tag. Based on the program's spending so far
($5 million since last summer) and the number of people helped (4,800), it costs
the city $1,042 to file each citizenship application with the I.N.S. By
contrast, the top five community agencies that help immigrants become citizens
spend an average of $325 per application and work with budgets that rarely reach
$1 million per year.

Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
advocacy organization for nonprofit groups, said she hoped that the city would
continue to invest in citizenship efforts, but in a way that helps the most
people.

"It makes sense, given the direction of food stamp negotiations, that the city
would be thinking of opening the program to everyone and not just those who were
losing benefits," she said. "And given how severely underfunded citizenship
efforts have been in the past, any expansion of services for the city's
immigrant residents will be welcome."

The city responded to criticism from community-based organizations last year by
distributing a total of $3.53 million among 30 such groups and contracting with
them for services like language classes and legal consulting. This year, it
plans to disburse about $2.93 million for the same purpose.

Mr. Giuliani also said the city was facing a crisis and government intervention
was needed.

Last year, about 130,000 elderly and disabled immigrants in the city were
expected to lose benefits under the new Federal law aimed at noncitizens. To
speed the naturalization process, the city worked out a deal with immigration
officials for Citizenship N.Y.C. that gave it advantages not regularly afforded
to other groups that do similar work.

Unlike other groups, which must mail all citizenship applications to a
processing center in Vermont, Citizenship N.Y.C. sends its applications directly
to the immigration office in lower Manhattan. While clients of other programs
wait months and sometimes years to be called in for interviews, 155 clients of
the city's program became citizens within six months of submitting their papers.

In addition, unlike other groups, Citizenship N.Y.C. has direct access to
workers in the local immigration office who quickly respond to questions and
train the program's inexperienced workers. As a result, applications filed by
Citizenship N.Y.C. are rarely returned for additional information and move
through the pipeline more quickly.

People who have benefited from the program say they were surprised by their good
luck. Genova Peralta, a 43-year-old immigrant from the Dominican Republic,
submitted her application in October. She became a citizen in April in a
downtown ceremony attended by the I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris M. Meissner.

Immigration officials say other groups have also filed their applications with
the district office in cases that merit special attention. But the city's deal
with the local district office gives it a clear advantage.

"Part of the reason they file directly with us is because we are screening their
applications to make sure that the training we gave them was appropriate," said
Amy Otton, a spokeswoman for the Eastern regional I.N.S. offices.

The city's agreement with the immigration agency upsets some advocates for
immigrants.

"They are not responding to us the same way," said David D. Karran, executive
director of the Liberty Center for Immigrants, a group in Jamaica, Queens, that
filed about 1,700 citizenship applications last year. "Our clients are
taxpayers, too."

But city officials offer no apology.

"The community-based organizations are doing a great job, but look, there are
simply some things they can't do," said Deputy Mayor Ninfa Segarra, who oversees
Citizenship N.Y.C. "They can't have access to private information. They can't
get I.N.S. to respond to them. They can't get the President to respond to them.
Is what we do, therefore, more expensive? Yes, sometimes."

Ms. Segarra said the city had proposed a budget of $4.6 million to run the
program next year, less than half of last year's budget of just under $9.7
million. Ms. Segarra said the drop reflects the city's willingness to keep costs
down.

It is also a bow to reality. The city will probably fall short of its goal to
help 60,000 immigrants become citizens by the end of the year. When the program
began, city employees were filing 600 applications every week. But in the last
few months, the numbers have dropped to 120 per week. The program returned $3
million of last year's budget to the city's coffers, closed one office in lower
Manhattan and eliminated several positions from the payroll.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 19, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Judges May Review Deportation Orders, Appeals Court Rules

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18


In a significant rebuke to the Government's tougher policies on immigration, a
United States appeals court has ruled that immigrants cannot be barred from
contesting their deportation orders in Federal court.

The decision, by the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in
Boston, reversed a decision by a lower judge and, at least for the time being,
staved off the deportation of a Portuguese-born immigrant in New Bedford, Mass.,
who ran afoul of the law years ago.

A lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union said today that the issues in
the case -- including whether the tougher standards can be applied retroactively
-- affected thousands of immigrants, some in the United States illegally but
many others who came here legally, like the New Bedford man. The ruling was the
first by a Federal appeals court on a provision of the 1996 immigration laws
that barred Federal judges from reviewing deportation orders, Lee Gelernt, the
A.C.L.U. lawyer, said today.

In its ruling, handed down on Friday, the appeals court said there were "serious
constitutional concerns" embodied in strict immigration laws that Attorney
General Janet Reno has been carrying out as head of the Justice Department,
which is the parent agency of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Andrew Lluberes, said tonight that the
agency's lawyers would have to study the ruling before deciding whether to
appeal it to the Supreme Court.

Mr. Gelernt, of the A.C.L.U.'s Immigrants' Rights Project, predicted that the
case would go to the Supreme Court because of the importance of the issues, and
because similar cases are pending in the other Federal circuits, including in
New York. The First Circuit has jurisdiction over part of New England and Puerto
Rico.

In 1996, Congress passed two laws to make it easier to deport criminals by
expanding the number of crimes that made an immigrant subject to expulsion. It
also stripped the Federal courts of their power to review such cases.

The case decided in Boston concerned Raul Percira Goncalves, 28, who came to the
United States with his parents, legally, when he was 3. The family
disintegrated, and Mr. Goncalves was arrested in a series of petty thefts as a
youth.

While in prison, he earned his high school equivalency and married. He obtained
a steady job when he got out, his lawyers have said. But his criminal record
drew the attention of immigration authorities and, when Ms. Reno decided to
apply the 1996 laws retroactively, Mr. Goncalves was a target for deportation.

An immigration judge refused to grant him a waiver from deportation proceedings.

Mr. Goncalves took his case to an immigration agency appeals board, which
dismissed his appeal on the basis of the Attorney General's retroactive
enforcement of the 1996 laws.

Mr. Goncalves sought help from Judge Richard G. Stearns of Federal District
Court in Boston, who held that he had no jurisdiction because Congress had
stripped Federal judges of their power to review deportation cases.

The 1996 laws, in effect, cut off an immigrant's access to appeal to the Federal
courts when faced with deportation under certain circumstances.

Mr. Gelernt argued that the retroactive enforcement against Mr. Goncalves was
unfair. But even more important was the intent of Congress to bar Federal judges
-- who have the power to order revamping of prison systems or to enforce racial
integration in schools -- from even looking at deportation orders, the lawyer
argued.

If the appeals court ruling stands, the immigration agency will lose its power
to deport people without proper review, Mr. Gelernt said. The appeals court said
Mr. Goncalves was entitled to a review on the merits of his case by the
immigration review panel, which earlier declared itself powerless to hear the
case.

Mr. Gelernt said illegal immigrants could also get new rights to appeal,
although many of them might not have cases as strong as that of Mr. Goncalves.






LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 20, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Thousands of Immigrants Gain In a Ruling on Deportations

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19


In a decision that affects several thousand immigrants across the country, a
Federal appeals court has ruled that some forms used by the immigration
authorities are so hard to understand that they deprive the accused of their
right to a hearing before deportation.

The ruling, handed down on Monday by a unanimous three-judge panel of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, applies to
people who face deportation because they have been accused of using false
documents. Typically, such document fraud involves work-authorization papers,
lawyers for immigrants say.

If it stands, the Ninth Circuit ruling will apply nationwide, because the court
upheld a lower court finding that the suit is a class action.

Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said tonight that the agency was reviewing the decision and that it would have
no immediate comment on a possible appeal.

The Ninth Circuit ruling, which upheld an October 1996 decision by Judge John C.
Coughenour of the Western District of Washington, ordered the immigration agency
to clarify its documents and grant hearings to people who might have been
deprived of them because they were confused.

Linton Joaquin, a lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles,
said the ruling applied to some people who had already been deported, although
as a practical matter they may be hard to find and in any case may be unable to
afford to return to the United States.

The suit was brought by Mr. Joaquin's organization, the American Civil Liberties
Union and individual plaintiffs in 1994, several years after Congress had passed
legislation to curb the use of fraudulent documents by immigrants.

A noncitizen accused of document fraud can be deported in many instances if he
does not request an immigration hearing. But Judge Coughenour found, and the
Ninth Circuit agreed, that the forms and procedures used to notify a noncitizen
in such trouble were not just confusing but "affirmatively misleading" --
causing the immigrant to think that the all-important immigration hearing will
be scheduled automatically, for instance, when in fact he must ask for one.

"Indeed, the district court observed that the forms are so obscure and confusing
with respect to this point that even some of the I.N.S. agents who administer
them are unable to explain adequately," said the Ninth Circuit's decision,
written by Judge Stephen Reinhardt and joined by Judges Alfred T. Goodwin and
Samuel P. King.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 26, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers' Plight

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words



To the Editor:

You report (news article, June 22) on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's seemingly arbitrary decision making regarding the detention and
release of asylum seekers. We write as the co-directors of an independent study
of the new expedited removal process.

Expedited removal dramatically changed basic procedures under United States law.
Immigration officers can refuse to allow people with valid visas to enter the
United States, and there is no recourse to a higher authority.

Given the number of anecdotal reports of inappropriate treatment of refugees, it
is disturbing that I.N.S. has refused to allow independent monitoring of the
process. Our requests for access to information have mostly been denied, as were
requests for access by Amnesty International.

In light of our Government's commitment to greater openness, transparency and
accountability, we find it paradoxical that I.N.S. has fought so hard for the
right to thwart a study intended to provide needed information to policy makers
and the public.

KAREN MUSALO
DEBORAH ANKER
Santa Clara, Calif., June 23, 1998

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 27, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Says Man Is Terrorist, but Family Sees Plot by Ex-Wife

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 891 words


In the eyes of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Hany Kiareldeen is a
Palestinian terrorist who helped plot the World Trade Center bombing and planned
to kill Attorney General Janet Reno.

But to his family and his lawyers, he is the victim of a vengeful former wife
and the vagaries of immigration law.

Mr. Kiareldeen, the 30-year-old manager of an electronics store in Passaic,
N.J., has been locked up in the Mercer County Jail by the Immigration and
Nationalization Service since March and is awaiting deportation hearings that
could send him back to his native Gaza Strip.

At the time, he was charged with having overstayed the student visa with which
he entered the country eight years ago. His family concedes that he used to
attend classes at Rutgers University and Essex County Community College, but had
not done so for four years. But, they said, he applied in October to become a
permanent resident after his marriage Aug. 28 to an American citizen, Carmen
Negron.

In the normal course of events, experts familiar with immigration practices
said, he would probably have been released and eventually approved for
residency.

But at a bail hearing on April 10, the Newark office of the F.B.I. submitted a
nonclassified summary of a secret report saying its Joint Terrorism Task Force
had information that Mr. Kiareldeen had made "a credible threat" against the
Attorney General and that an investigation had revealed that he had
"relationships with others suspected of membership in terrorist organizations
dedicated to committing acts of violence against the people of the United States
or its allies." Bail was denied.

Then, at an immigration hearing on Thursday, the F.B.I. produced a somewhat
longer, four-paragraph summary that said its "multiple reliable sources" -- who
were not named -- had given information that he not only maintained
relationships with suspected terrorists and planned to kill Ms. Reno, but that
he had held a meeting at his home in Nutley, N.J., at which Nidal A. Ayyad, a
convicted co-conspirator in the Islamic fundamentalist plot, discussed the
bombing of the World Trade Center a week before it took place.

The summary said, "Recently, a source advised Hany expressed a desire to murder
Attorney General Janet Reno for her role in the conviction of those responsible
for the bombing of the World Trade Center."

It added: "A source advised Hany stated in the presence of others that they,
including himself, must kill Janet Reno. Furthermore, Hany stated that an
additional person would assist in the murder of the Attorney General. The FBI
took additional steps to test the veracity of the source reporting the threat
against the Attorney General."

A Justice Department spokesman said Ms. Reno's office and security detail were
aware of the case but he did not know whether Ms. Reno herself was aware of the
purported threat.

Mr. Kiareldeen's brother, Ghassen Khaireldin, who transliterates his name from
Arabic differently, said yesterday that he was shocked by the accusations and
suggested that Federal agents had been deceived by his brother's former wife.
"Hany is not religious, he's a secular guy, and he is extremely nonpolitical,"
Mr. Khaireldin said. "He has been here for eight years and he has never even
gone to a mosque."

Both Mr. Kiareldeen's brother and his wife, in separate interviews, said they
believed that his arrest and the F.B.I. charges were the result of a vendetta by
Mr. Kiareldeen's first wife, the former Amal Mohamed, an Egyptian. The
Kiareldeens were divorced last June, and she had filed more than a half-dozen
charges of abuse against him in New Jersey courts, all of which, family members
and lawyers said, were dismissed. The relatives said that Mrs. Kiareldeen's
previous husband had also been deported, apparently on information she provided.

"She is a vengeful wife -- this has been going on for a long time," Ghassen
Khaireldin said in his own electronics store in Linden, N.J. "They acted on a
tip from her, that is our belief."

Mr. Kiareldeen's current wife, Ms. Negron, added, "I feel personally it's his
ex-wife -- she's obsessed with him." Efforts to find the first wife last night
were unsuccessful.

Michael B. Campagna, a lawyer who represented Mr. Kiareldeen in the dismissed
cases, wrote to the immigration court on April 2 -- before the first F.B.I.
allegation surfaced -- that his first wife had "engaged in a course of behavior
whose intended result is to harass Mr. Kiareldeen."

The lawyer handling the immigration appeal, Regis Fernandez, said the use of
classified evidence complicated Mr. Kiareldeen's case. "How do we rebut this
evidence if we don't know what it is?" he asked. "Due process is being swept
aside because he's an immigrant."

The F.B.I.'s Newark office said through a spokeswoman that it would not provide
any additional information. No criminal charges have been brought against Mr.
Kiareldeen, however, and a Justice Department official in Washington said it
appeared unlikely that any would be.

But his family wants the Government to bring charges so Mr. Kiareldeen can fight
them in court. "We're so sure of his innocence, we're asking the government to
charge him so we can have a trial," said the brother, Mr. Khaireldin. "If they
bring forth the secret evidence, we will be able to rebut it."


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hany Kiareldeen in an undated photograph. He has been in jail
since March. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Texas Assault Leaves 5 Dead, Including 2 in Border Patrol

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: SAN BENITO, Tex., July 7


A young man armed with assault rifles killed a mother and a daughter, and then
fatally shot two Border Patrol agents pursuing him here today, law-enforcement
officials said.

The officials say the shootings in the lower Rio Grande valley, in which the man
identified as the gunman died and a local sheriff's deputy was seriously
wounded, illustrates the growing risks Border Patrol agents face in a territory
transformed into a combat zone as officers pursue drug smugglers, as well as
people moving illegal immigrants across the border. The ranks of the Border
Patrol have swollen to fight these crimes and now its agents are also summoned
to aid the local authorities in other situations.

The two agents, one of whom is the first woman slain while on duty as a Border
Patrol agent, were the third and fourth to die this year, immigration officials
said. Eighty-one agents have died in the Border Patrol's 74-years.

Doris M. Meissner, the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the
agency that oversees the Border Patrol, said at a local news conference today
that she had attended a service for another slain agent only a month ago. "I had
hoped that it would be the last," she said. "Now, so soon, two more courageous
and heroic officers have fallen."

While the greatest risk to agents usually lies along the border, they are
increasingly being summoned by local police and sheriff's departments.

At 5:20 this morning, deputies in the Cameron County Sheriff's Department
investigated a report that shots had been fired in Rio Hondo, another Harlingen
suburb. Sheriff Omar Lucio said they had found Margarita Flores, 53, and one of
her daughters, Delia Morin, dead, and her son seriously wounded.

The authorities said the gunman, whom they identified as Ernest Moore, 24, had
been looking for a woman staying in Ms. Flores's home.  Leaving behind what
deputies said was an AK-47 assault rifle, he fled before dawn in a white pickup
truck, in which he was seen with two other men, after the shootings at the
house. The authorities are investigating whether those men also played a role in
the shootings.

With the help of the Border Patrol, deputies spotted the pickup in the driveway
of a San Benito house the police said Mr. Moore had shared with his father.

The deputies and agents were searching the home and then the nearby cornfields,
when they heard rifle fire. Ricardo G. Salinas, 24, a Border Patrol trainee, and
Susan L. Rodriguez, a 28-year-old agent, were fatally wounded. Officers later
found an AR-15, a civilian version of the M-16 assault rifle used by the
military.

Mr. Moore, who was wounded in the shootout, was taken into custody and died
early tonight at Valley Baptist Medical Center in Harlingen, the police said,
adding that he was the son of a police officer in Harlingen, a larger city
northwest of San Benito.

After taking Mr. Moore into custody, more than 150 law-enforcement officials
combed the fields and dusty roads for the two men spotted in the truck. In
100-degree heat, assault teams from several Federal, state and local agencies
advanced in helmets and flak jackets, as a helicopter whirred overhead. Even the
police from Edinburg, a nearby city, rumbled up in an armored vehicle.

By early afternoon, the officers began wrapping up their search, saying they had
scoured the area and would pursue other leads.

The wounded deputy, Raul Rodriguez, 32, was in critical condition at Valley
Baptist Medical Center. The wounded brother, Danny Morin, 22, was reported to be
in serious condition at the same hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows location of the shooting: A shooting yesterday left five dead
in the lower Rio Grande Valley.


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Relatives of Immigrants Testify at Hearing

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., July 10


It was around 11 A.M. today when 21-year-old Cheng Xing Da finally felt a little
less lonely in an unfamiliar land.

Like 22 other Chinese men who illegally landed on a New Jersey beach two months
ago and have since been detained by Federal authorities, Mr. Cheng had seen few
familiar faces other than business-minded judges, lawyers, translators and
reporters. But today, when he made another appearance at an immigration court
here to request his release on bond, he noticed a gaunt, balding man with a
toothless smile and an oversize suit -- a man he said was his uncle.

Mr. Cheng did not say anything at first; he just smiled, nodded and shook his
uncle's hands vigorously, repeatedly. After the uncle promised Judge Mirlande
Tadal that he would take care of Mr. Cheng, he whispered to Mr. Cheng in the
Fuzhou dialect, "I'll try to get you out."

Today was a day of muted family reunions, as relatives of 9 of the 23 detainees
offered testimony to support the men's release on bond, giving a human dimension
to a tale that had so far been the province of legal procedure.

In all, there were 19 bond hearings today before Judge Tadal and Judge Esmeralda
Cabrera in the Immigration and Naturalization Service's case to deport the men
to China. And for the families, at least, the results seemed promising: bond was
set for most of the men, including Mr. Cheng, at $5,000.

But whether the reunions can actually resume outside Federal custody remains to
be seen. The United States Attorney's office in New Jersey has issued warrants
to arrest any, or all, of the 23, as witnesses in a continuing criminal
investigation into human smuggling -- meaning that if the men make bail, they
face the prospect of being transferred immediately to another jail. This
happened on Thursday, for instance, to Jiang Dian Lu, 22, who was taken to
Passaic County Jail after his relatives posted a $5,000 bond.

In addition, one of the detainees, Chen Chen, appeared today in a Federal
District Court in Newark, where bond was set at $20,000, said Robert E. Porges,
the lawyer for 21 of the 23 Chinese men. Mr. Porges said he did not know why Mr.
Chen was separated from the group several weeks ago and transferred to Mercer
County Jail before appearing in Newark today.

And at the same time, the Federal investigation into Chinese smuggling seems to
be gaining momentum. Faith S. Hochberg, the United States Attorney in New
Jersey, announced today that a Federal grand jury in Newark had indicted six
Koreans in a conspiracy to smuggle the 23 Chinese men whose boat ran aground
near Bay Head, N.J., on May 30. The six are alleged to have been participants in
an international smuggling operation that transported the 23, and other Chinese,
from Fujian province in China via South America to the United States. Five of
the six are in custody.

But here in Elizabeth, where the detention center is wedged between industrial
buildings and trucking-related businesses, the flurry of official proceedings
today seemed secondary to the personal transactions occurring inside the court.

"It's unusual to have relatives testify at bond hearings; it's the first time
that's ever happened," Mr. Porges said. "But this is what the judge wanted."

Most of the relatives said they lived in New York City. And most did not want to
be interviewed by reporters. But one woman, who declined to give her name, said
her brother was one of the detainees. "I haven't seen him for many years," she
said. "He didn't tell me why he left, but I know that our family is poor."

Inside the courtroom, the atmosphere veered from tense to lighthearted. The
first detainee, Ni Zhou Yong, smiled and said, "Hey" as his cousin entered the
witness box. But the cousin offered seemingly contradictory testimony, signing
an affidavit listing a Manhattan address, but acknowledging in court that he had
had a driver's license in Florida since 1995 and that he owned a restaurant in
Gainesville, Fla.

And unlike the other relatives, Mr. Ni's cousin said he knew of the smuggling
plans. In fact, the cousin said he had paid the smugglers on behalf of Mr. Ni:
"Yes, of course, I helped him. That's why he doesn't owe the other people
money."

Judge Tadal set bond for Mr. Ni at $8,000.

In another instance, Judge Tadal seemed surprised that Lu Yi Qiang's aunt, a
Brooklyn resident, would send not herself, not her husband, not her oldest
child, but the baby of the family to testify: a 19-year-old man in shorts and a
black T-shirt. So the judge postponed the bond hearing until Monday, and
beseeched Mr. Porges to secure additional affidavits.

There was also some confusion over who would support Chen Shen Kui, 19. Was it a
cousin? An uncle? The documents were not clear, and no relatives were present.
So Judge Cabrera postponed Mr. Chen's hearing until Monday.

"Find him and bring him in," Judge Cabrera said, "so we can satisfy who it is
that's out there, waiting to receive him."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

In Surge to Be Americans, Thousands Take Oath

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1267 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., July 4


Inspired by a love of America and a fear of her fickleness toward immigrants,
more than 5,000 people from 108 countries raised their right hands today to take
the oath of citizenship on a sun-drenched football field here on Long Island.
They are part of a historic wave of citizenship seekers whose numbers have
quintupled in five years to an anticipated high of 1.8 million this year.

Maria Aracelly, 55, who came to the United States from Colombia 26 years ago and
toils past midnight most nights vacuuming, dusting and cleaning Manhattan office
buildings, said she decided to become a citizen after all these years because of
her devotion to this country and her worries about what would become of her if
she were disabled by a heart attack. She had heard about a law to cut off
benefits to old and sickly immigrants who have not naturalized.

"I'm very happy, all the time working," she said. "But my heart is no good."

Anxiety over laws to deny food stamps and Supplemental Security Income to most
legal immigrants who have not become citizens has helped spur the extraordinary
rush of applicants for citizenship. By this spring, more than one million
immigrants nationally -- almost 200,000 of them in New York City -- were caught
in a backlog of those awaiting naturalization. The wait in New York has grown
from up to five months last year to as long as a year now.

The reasons for the delay include not only the huge surge in applications, but
new procedures instituted by the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service to screen out those seeking citizenship who have criminal records.
Immigration officials say within a few weeks they will ask Congress to approve
the use of fees immigrants pay the Government for various services to beef up
the program, including citizenship processing.

The thousands who took the oath today were in a happy mood, singing along with
the national anthem and placing their hands over their hearts for the Pledge of
Allegiance. When an immigration official announced that they were American
citizens, a soft, joyous murmuring rose from the crowd gathered on the field.
Many gave voice to an old-fashioned kind of fervent patriotism for their new
homeland.

"I'm very happy today," said Yu-Zhen Liu, 34, of China, practicing her newly
acquired English. "I have my baby," she said, pointing to her pregnant belly,
"and I like America because in America there is a future for my baby, me and my
husband."

Josif Shrayman, 62, said he has found a religious freedom here that he never had
as a Jew in Ukraine.  "For Jews it's very good here," he said. "God has helped
me. America is a free country. I celebrate the Jewish holidays. I go to
synagogue every day. I eat kosher."

Still, though the day was festive and gay, many immigrants expressed a duality
of feeling: they said they revere America for its great democratic ideals, but
are also disappointed that the country's laws have, as they see it, unfairly
penalized immigrants who came here legally, paid their taxes and worked hard.

"I love this country," said Vladimir Avter, 64, a taxi driver who immigrated
from Russia in 1976 and now lives in Starrett City, Brooklyn. "This is the best
country in the world," he said. But in the next breath, Mr. Avter said, "The
laws must be for the citizen and the legal immigrant the same." He is safe now
that he is a citizen.

He arrived with $98.50, started working a week after he got here, never asked
the government for a handout and has always paid his taxes. (His last three
years of tax returns were in a satchel at his feet in case anyone asked for
them.) "It is unfair that hard-working immigrants should be denied help from the
government if they need it," he said.

Mr. Avter said he will register to vote, and volunteers that his politics have
changed recently. "Before I was on the side of the Republicans," he said. "Now I
have to think which side I have to take. I think I will vote with the Democratic
people."

Mohammad Khatana, a 57-year-old from Pakistan, said his party identification is
also being formed in the crucible of immigration politics. "The Republicans are
tightening the rules for immigrants," he said. "The Democrats are more liberal
for the immigrants. So I would like to work for the Democrats."

The only Republican elected official regularly singled out for praise today was
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has become a national champion of immigrants
rights.

"Giuliani is a very, very righteous man," said Serafima Kanfer, a 78-year-old
woman from Tashkent, Uzbekistan. "He works too much hours. He helps immigrants.
I will vote for him."

Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the Republican from New York who voted last year to
cut off benefits to most elderly and disabled legal immigrants who are not
citizens, presided over the celebration today like a master of ceremonies at a
church social.

He congratulated the Dominican father of 10 in the audience celebrating his 80th
birthday, noted that July 4 was his parents' 62d wedding anniversary, and told
the new citizens, "God bless you, your families and the United States of
America."

Mr. D'Amato was not only the keynote speaker today, but had used his influence
to ask the president of Hofstra University to donate the stadium for the
citizenship ceremony. His involvement in the large, celebratory event
underscored his latest incarnation as a champion of legal immigrants.

In recent months, Mr. D'Amato has switched his position on the benefits cutoff
and lobbied his Republican colleagues to restore benefits for more than 350,000
individuals. Both the Senate and the House have voted to do so.

The Senator, who faces re-election next year, made no reference to his change of
heart as he spoke here, as an American flag snapped briskly in the gusty breeze,
but he said in an interview Thursday that he had decided that too many innocent
and helpless people would have been injured if their benefits had been cut off.

As the junior Senator is trying to grab the spotlight as a friend to immigrants,
the Democrats who might challenge him for his Senate seat attributed political
motives to his reversal on the benefits issue.

Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn and Queens, who opposed the cutoff
of benefits last year, called Mr. D'Amato "shameless," while Mark Green, New
York City's Public Advocate, said, "He reminds me of the guy who wants the
credit for saving the damsel in distress, except that it was he who tied her to
the tracks in the first place."

The immigrants at today's ceremony were less political than emotional -- and
still hopeful. They said citizenship will bring them many rewards. Eric McBean,
a 59-year-old welder from Jamaica who was disabled last year by a stroke, said
he hoped citizenship would mean he could afford to buy soap, toothpaste and new
undershirts. The Social Security Administration had turned him down for benefits
last year after he had his stroke because he was not a citizen. He will reapply
Monday, he said. He lives in a nursing home now. If he qualifies for benefits,
he will use the money to keep himself clean and clothed. "I like to deodorize my
body," said Mr. McBean, dressed for the occasion in a black fedora and wool suit
and vest.

Absalom Williams, a 56-year-old pathology assistant from Costa Rica, said
citizenship will give him a voice in how this country is run for the first time
since he came here 14 years ago. "It's a great day for the United States and for
me," he said. "America got her independence today and I've been born again as an
American citizen."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man from the Philippines celebrated yesterday at a ceremony
in Hempstead, N.Y., where more than 5,000 immigrants became citizens. (Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 28)

Chart: "OVERVIEW: A Longer Wait to Become Citizens"
The Immigration and Naturalization Service is instituting new rules for granting
citizenship that will make the process more difficult and lengthy than it now
is. This comes as there has been a surge in the number of people trying to
become citizens nationwide, creating a backlog of unprocessed requests. Graphs
show number of requests for citizenship and pending applications. (Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. 28)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

AGENCY STRUGGLING TO IMPROVE WAY IT GRANTS CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1337 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Eight months after vowing to overhaul its troubled citizenship program, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is still struggling to put new procedures
in place to prevent immigrants with criminal records from becoming citizens.

Two highly publicized efforts by the agency had failed to fix a system that
naturalized 180,000 immigrants last year without proper criminal background
checks. At one point, auditors found that only 1 of 23 field offices under
review was following the new orders. So in May, Attorney General Janet Reno
assigned a top trouble-shooter, Robert K. Bratt, to straighten out the mess.

But the widely praised changes Mr. Bratt instituted early this month are taking
a toll: they are doubling to more than a year the time immigrants wait to become
citizens as the agency strains to cope with an expected record 1.8 million
applicants this year. This rush to citizenship is partly driven by anxiety over
new laws that will deny food stamps and other benefits to most legal immigrants
who are not citizens.

Immigration officials say that the delays are temporary and that the agency will
reduce the waiting time to six months once employees learn the new procedures.
But even the normally upbeat Mr. Bratt concedes that after two embarrassing
setbacks, the immigration agency's credibility is down to its third strike.

"This is at a crisis stage, and there is no room for slippage," said Mr. Bratt,
who has helped train a new police force in Haiti and develop training programs
for new judges in Russia. He has been in the Justice Department for 19 years and
is chief administrator for the department's criminal division.

Under Mr. Bratt, the agency has established safeguards to insure that no
immigrant is naturalized until the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducts
criminal background checks using the applicant's fingerprints. Clerks must
follow a 14-point checklist when processing an applicant's form. For the first
time, all offices of the immigration agency will be using the same training
manual.

Nowhere is the urgency more evident than here in the San Francisco Bay area, one
of the country's busiest immigration portals. The number of immigrants seeking
citizenship has jumped to 16,000 people a month from 5,000 a month three years
ago. Applicants here are waiting 12 to 15 months to be sworn in.

This spring, auditors singled out the San Francisco district for some of their
most stinging criticism, citing such failures as the lack of a documented
training program and the mailing of applicants' fingerprints to the wrong F.B.I.
address.

"It was a wake-up call for us," Thomas J. Schiltgen, director of the San
Francisco district, which covers 49 of California's 58 counties, said of the
review. "We complied with the spirit of the procedures, but we didn't meet all
the technical processes. The lesson learned is that we need to be consistent."

Surrounded by stacks of boxed paper files in a dingy second-floor office here,
Joanne Chow exemplifies the agency's battle to restore credibility to the
beleaguered program.

For Ms. Chow, 27, a clerk who earns $22,000 a year, that means following the new
checklist so the most basic and essential tasks, like filling out forms, are
done correctly.

"I'm the first one to pick up a file, so it's important the information is
correct," said Ms. Chow, typing the citizenship application of a Mexican woman
into a computer database.

But Congressional skeptics want more time to judge Mr. Bratt's work.

"I want to see if the actions live up to the promises," said Representative
Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the House Immigration subcommittee.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat on the same panel whose
district includes San Jose, was more blunt: "This was botched up like everything
else they're doing."

Lawmakers have good reason to be skeptical. Auditors determined earlier this
year that a set of sweeping safeguards issued last November to correct flaws in
the program were largely ignored by the agency's field offices. Auditors found
that top immigration officials never followed up on their edict.

Doris M. Meissner, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, was so
angered by the review's results that in April she summoned the directors of the
agency's 33 district offices to Washington. Ms. Meissner also ordered remedial
training for 220 immigration clerks and adjudicators at Jekyll Island, a resort
island off the coast of Georgia. These workers were in turn to instruct their
colleagues back home.

A new set of instructions on how to process an immigrant's application was
written for the Georgia training session. But the hastily drafted manual left
adjudicators more confused than before, and the immigration agency rescinded it
eight days after it was issued.

Enter Mr. Bratt, who likens his latest act of administrative triage to "fixing a
jet engine on a plane while in flight." The training manual was rewritten in
more explicit language and included sample situations as guides. Officials
tested the manual in two field offices and worked out the bugs before
distributing it throughout the agency. Workers did not need to memorize the
entire manual. Mr. Bratt printed laminated cards that summarize key steps in the
process.

Finally, the agency spent $220,000 to send the same 220 immigration clerks and
adjudicators back to Georgia for a second training session. In addition, the
agency spent $800,000 to provide the new manuals, videotapes and other training
materials to its employees.

The new directive standardizes procedures down to details like requiring
adjudicators to write comments on applications in red ink (to distinguish them
from an applicant's information in black ink) and to attach all official file
documents to the left side of an applicant's folder and correspondence to the
right side.

"It's kind of tedious," said Roland Possentini, an adjudicator in San Jose in
the San Francisco district. "But when it's in place, there'll be more checks and
balances."

The biggest change took effect in November, but only now is Mr. Bratt making
sure it happens. Previously, the immigration agency sent an applicant's
fingerprints to the F.B.I. for a criminal background check. If the agency did
not hear from the F.B.I. within 60 days, the agency assumed that everything was
all right and naturalized the applicant.

But when applications more than tripled last year, the F.B.I. fell behind. The
immigration agency says it did not know about the delay and naturalized
immigrants it later learned were felons. The Justice Department says citizenship
could be revoked on about 5,000 wrongly naturalized immigrants.

Under the new rules, the agency does not grant citizenship to anyone until the
F.B.I. reports back on the fingerprints. Adjudicators must document each step of
the process.

"It's going to slow us down until we learn it," said David N. Still, the
assistant district director here responsible for processing citizenship forms.
"Every case has become an exceptional case."

Mr. Still said adjudicators typically completed about 22 cases in an eight-hour
day. Now, he said, 16 cases a day is the standard, at least in the short run.

Supervisors must personally review the case of any applicant with an arrest
record.

"Historically, when employees got new directives from headquarters, no one
talked about how to implement them," said Lois C. Chappell, who heads the
agency's San Jose office. "That's changing. Now we know exactly what's expected
of us."

Mr. Bratt has to deal with even larger technology issues. Of the agency's 100
offices, 38 are not linked to the immigration service's computer database for
managing citizenship cases. In late July, the agency plans to ask Congress to
let it pay for technological improvements using the fees that immigrants pay to
the Government for various services.

Auditors will return for a final inspection in October. "We still have a ways to
go," Mr. Bratt said.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Immigration and Naturalization Service has had record
numbers of citizenship applications. Boxes of records fill an office in San
Jose, Calif. (Anne Dowie for The New York Times)(pg. 16)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Unfair Legal Turnabout

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 228 words



To the Editor:

In your July 11 news article on Attorney General Janet Reno's decision to
suspend a ruling of the Board of Immigration Appeals, which applied a strict new
immigration law retroactively to people already in deportation proceedings, you
quote Ms. Reno's concern over the "unfairness that comes from applying new rules
to pending cases."

However, in a recent case concerning other provisions of the new immigration
laws -- those mandating the deportation of lawful immigrants convicted of any of
a broad range of crimes -- Ms. Reno reached the opposite result.

In that case, Matter of Soriano, Ms. Reno held that the law should apply
retroactively to convictions occurring even decades before the law went into
effect. Under that ruling a lawful immigrant who pleaded guilty 10 years ago to
criminal sale of a small amount of illegal drugs, but who has since
rehabilitated himself and led an exemplary life in this country, is now subject
to mandatory deportation.

The Soriano case is currently being challenged in the Federal courts. One hopes
the courts will recognize the same "unfairness" in that decision that Ms. Reno
now perceives in retroactive application of other provisions of the recent laws.


JOHN LANDAU
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., July 11, 1997

The writer is a staff attorney with the Prisoners' Legal Services of New York.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 15, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Moves to Deport Painter of Swastikas

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14


A man convicted two times for painting swastikas and other Nazi symbols in
public places was arrested today by Federal agents and charged with violating
his immigration status.

Agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service took the man, Esyededeea
Aesfyza, 47, of Canada, into custody as he entered a courtroom in District of
Columbia Superior Court with his lawyer for his third trial on charges that he
destroyed and defaced public property. He was arrested in March and charged with
painting Nazi symbols on traffic-signal boxes on Capitol Hill.

A spokesman for the immigration agency, John Ingham, said Mr. Aesfyza would
appear before an immigration judge to consider whether he should be deported.
Mr. Aesfyza was held in $5,000 bail.

After Mr. Aesfyza was arrested, prosecutors told Judge Robert E. Morin that they
would drop the nonimmigration charges.

"We're very happy with the efforts of the I.N.S.," said Julieanne Himelstein,
deputy chief of the misdemeanor trial section in the office of the United States
Attorney for the District of Columbia. "If need be, of course, we can bring our
charges again."

In three years, Mr. Aesfyza has been sentenced two times and served a total of
12 months in prison. After another series of silver-colored swastikas and SS
logos began appearing early this year, he was arrested, on March 8.

Mr. Aesfyza's lawyer, Dale Saliba, said that his client had been in the United
States "quite a while" but that he was unaware of his immigration status.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

TALKS ON BUDGET YIELD AN ACCORD ON DISABILITY AID

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25


Congressional Republicans bowed to President Clinton's demands today and
tentatively agreed to restore disability benefits to more than half a million
legal immigrants, as budget negotiators broke a weeklong impasse and began
making progress on several bitterly contested issues.

The Republicans also agreed to continue Medicaid coverage for tens of thousands
of children who would otherwise lose it, along with their disability benefits,
under the welfare law that the President signed last August.

After a day of talks on Capitol Hill between senior Republicans and
Administration officials, negotiators were making headway more quickly on
restraining spending to balance the budget by 2002 than they were on cutting
taxes. But today's progress suggested that they might reach agreement on
spending and taxes alike in time for Congress to pass both bills and send them
to Mr. Clinton before leaving for the summer recess next Friday.

Negotiators pared their ranks today to the most senior participants, who met in
the offices of the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, and Speaker Newt
Gingrich. Aides said tonight that both sides, having adopted a get-it-done
attitude, were spending less time posturing and speechifying and more time
resolving specific issues.

The talks broke up shortly before 8 P.M., and Mr. Clinton's negotiating team
returned to the White House to brief him. The negotiators plan to meet again at
11 A.M. on Saturday in hopes of resolving the outstanding issues.

"They're making a lot of progress on the spending side," a senior Administration
official said.

But another White House official cautioned tonight, "A lot of work remains to be
done."

Earlier in the day, Mr. Clinton sounded an optimistic note about the talks. "I
think we're going to get this agreement," he said. But he also continued to pick
apart the Republican tax-cutting plan, declaring that it fell far short of
commitments to defray the cost of higher education that Congressional
Republicans had made in the preliminary budget agreement.

Republicans agreed today to address two of Mr. Clinton's chief criticisms of the
law overhauling the nation's welfare system, which he signed last Aug. 22. That
law cut off most benefits for legal immigrants as of this fall.

Mr. Clinton criticized the law at the time for denying benefits to certain
immigrants -- those legally living in the United States when he signed the bill
-- if they were disabled, or became disabled later. He also said the law erred
in changing the requirements for providing Supplemental Security Income to
families with disabled children, so that tens of thousands of children would not
qualify, and therefore also risked losing their Medicaid coverage.

Republicans agreed today to continue the disability benefits for legal
immigrants and to extend Medicaid coverage for those children who lose the
S.S.I. benefits.

Members of the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the agreement struck
today would affect about 500,000 legal immigrants who were already disabled as
of August. But it also estimated that one-third of those people could have
ultimately received benefits anyway, because they would become citizens by 2000.

Congressional staff members said the changes would also help an additional
125,000 people who are estimated to become disabled in the future.

And 20,000 to 30,000 children are expected to benefit from the decision to
continue Medicaid coverage.

Despite the progress on those two issues, several crucial disagreements over
welfare remain, including the application of minimum-wage and other labor laws
to welfare recipients in community service and workfare programs.

The principal author of the 1996 welfare law, Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr.,
the Florida Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human
Resources, was not in the room during the negotiations. His aides said tonight
that he wanted to see the entire package of welfare changes before passing
judgment.

The compromise reached tonight may prove unpalatable to Republicans who
considered the curtailing of benefits for immigrants an important part of the
1996 law.

Negotiating for the Republicans today, in addition to Mr. Lott and Mr. Gingrich,
were Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee, and Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, chairman of the House
Budget Committee. The White House negotiators were Erskine B. Bowles, the chief
of staff; Franklin D. Raines, the budget director; Gene Sperling, the economic
policy adviser, and John Hilley, the Congressional liaison.

As the senior budget negotiators huddled, Mr. Clinton continued his drumbeat of
criticism of the Republican tax-cut plan. He said it would fail to defray the
costs of higher education, a goal to which Congressional Republicans agreed in
the preliminary budget accord.

In a speech to elementary-school principals in northern Virginia, the President
jockeyed for the political high ground by portraying himself as the guardian of
fiscal discipline and the protector of the middle class.

"The tax cut has to, first of all, put middle-class families who need the relief
most at the heart of its objectives," Mr. Clinton declared.

Mr. Clinton also warned that he would oppose tax cuts that would cause the
budget deficit "to explode in the out years."

"We have been handicapped severely for years and years and years because we went
on a binge of deficit spending in the early 80's that we couldn't break," he
said.

Around the edges, other politicians tried either to speed the negotiations or to
slow them.

Republicans on Capitol Hill tried to speed them. They said they feared that it
would be more difficult to pass such legislation in September than now. "It
would be a real loss of momentum," said the Senate majority whip, Don Nickles of
Oklahoma.

Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who leads the Senate
Finance Committee, urged the President to release new Administration budget
estimates, which are believed to show that the strong economy is shrinking the
Federal deficit even more quickly than already expected.

"This is great news, and should not remain hidden," Mr. Roth said in a written
statement. "A booming economy should allow us to provide a much larger tax cut
for hard-working Americans."

For their part, an influential group of Senate Democrats said Mr. Clinton should
be in no hurry to negotiate. Trying to stiffen Mr. Clinton's resolve and perhaps
to strengthen his bargaining position, the nine Democratic members of the Senate
Finance Committee called on the President to wait the Republicans out.

In a letter to Mr. Clinton, the nine Senators said: "We are troubled by the
direction of the budget negotiations currently under way between the
Administration and the Congress. The most recent Republican proposals on both
the tax and spending bills move toward the House in many respects, which we find
unacceptable."

Speaking before the negotiations were finished for tonight, Senator Daniel
Patrick Moynihan of New York, the committee's ranking Democrat, said that "it's
not possible, nor do we think it wise," to complete work on the two bills by
next Friday.

The Finance Committee Democrats are an influential group. They worked closely
with the Republicans on the budget and tax bills, and if they oppose the final
product there will be no chance of bipartisan support for the measures.

Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, echoed his
colleagues' concern, saying, "I'd rather do it well than do it fast."

At the White House, Michael D. McCurry, the press secretary, said the President
would be patient.

"We're not going to accept a deal just because Congress is going on recess," he
said. "We'll stick around and wait to get something that the President thinks is
in the best interests of the American people."

Mr. McCurry said that if necessary, the President would postpone his three-week
vacation on Martha's Vineyard, planned to begin on Aug. 18, to continue
negotiating.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 28, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Editors' Note

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 288 words


An article on June 9 discussed political contributions by Maria L. Hsia, an
immigrant from Taiwan, suggesting that the money helped her obtain the influence
of three Democratic Congressmen in immigration cases handled by a law firm with
which she was associated.

The article, and a correction in this space on July 5, referred incorrectly to
correspondence between the three Congressmen and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The Congressmen wrote to the agency on Dec. 5, 1983, about problems experienced
by a law firm with which Ms. Hsia was associated. The July 5 correction pointed
out that Representative Howard L. Berman received a total of $800 from the law
firm, not several thousand dollars. And it noted that the agency replied on Feb.
27, 1984, not on Dec. 5. It added that Mr. Berman received the contribution
several months after corresponding with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service about the firm's problems, not before.

The three-page I.N.S. reply, to Representatives Berman and Mel Levine of
California and Harry Reid of Nevada, discussed a dispute with the law firm in
detail, and defended the I.N.S. against charges of harassment.

The reply did not analyze in detail the status of each of the 25 immigration
cases that Ms. Hsia and her associates had pending. Such an analysis did appear
in a separate letter, written by an I.N.S. official to Senator Alan Cranston,
Democrat of California, on June 5, 1985.

Representative Berman should have been asked for a response before the article
was published. Both he and Representative Levine have since said that the errors
in the article undermine its assertion that their help to Ms. Hsia resulted from
political contributions.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editors' Note

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 5, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Rules Protect Both U.S. Allies and Adversaries, I.N.S. Says

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 951 words


The conflict between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Federal immigration officials
over the release of a Palestinian asylum seeker later charged in a bombing
conspiracy has drawn attention to a little-known facet of the nation's political
asylum system: Those who claim to have been persecuted by America's democratic
allies are just as entitled to seek protection as people from totalitarian
states.

The suspect, Ghazi Ibrahim Abu Maizar, stated in his asylum application that
Israeli soldiers had tortured him and falsely accused him of being a member of
the militant Islamic group Hamas, and he was free on $5,000 bond this spring and
summer while his asylum request was pending.

Mr. Giuliani has sharply criticized immigration officials and judges for not
insisting that Mr. Abu Maizar be detained until they had investigated whether he
was a member of Hamas. The Mayor pointedly noted that Israel is an important
American ally.

Mr. Giuliani and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato said at a City Hall news conference
yesterday that they were sending a joint letter to the I.N.S. Commissioner,
Doris Meissner.

"We believe it's very, very important that we get answers as to what happened
with regard to some of the people who were allowed to come into New York City,"
Mr. Giuliani said.

"How did it happen, why did it happen, and what can be done to protect people
more effectively in the future?"

But Federal officials yesterday defended their handling of his case, saying that
Mr. Giuliani did not understand the laws and international conventions that
govern the treatment of refugees and asylum seekers. A person's nationality is
not relevant in an asylum case, they said.

"The Mayor of New York is an attorney," said Richard Kenney, a spokesman for the
executive office for immigration review, the branch of the Justice Department
that operates the immigration courts. "He should read the law."

In one New York case earlier this year, a former member of the Irish Republican
Army who had been convicted on a terrorist charge was granted asylum in the
United States. He was not detained while his asylum case was pending.

Immigration authorities appealed the judge's grant of asylum to the man, Brian
Desmond Pearson, in part because they considered him a convicted terrorist.

In Mr. Abu Maizar's case, Federal officials note that there was no evidence at
that time that he was a member of Hamas. Nor has an intensive investigation
since his arrest in Brooklyn on Thursday turned up any such evidence yet. His
statement in an application that he had been wrongly accused of being part of a
terrorist group would not have set off a law enforcement investigation, they
said.

Rather, the immigration judge and lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service would have studied the statements and other evidence to determine
whether he had a legitimate basis for seeking protection in the United States.
In Mr. Abu Maizar's case, for example, officials might have asked the State
Department and even the Israeli Government about the Hamas question, but only in
the context of figuring out whether he should be given asylum.

"Remember, the asylum claim is just that, a claim," said Russell A. Bergeron
Jr., a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It is not
evidence."

Mr. Abu Maizar's statement would not have been immediately assumed to be
implausible since "terrorism is in the eye of the beholder," Mr. Bergeron said.
"Are our critics saying that everyone arrested in the Gaza Strip over the past
decade was a terrorist?"

Immigration officials stress that the asylum process is both confidential and
separate from law enforcement. The reason, they said, is simple: If people who
had been tortured or persecuted in their native countries fear that their
statements about their government could be used against them or their families
back home, they would be afraid to come forward and ask for refuge. And their
nationality would be irrelevant to their eligibility to ask for asylum.

"The law is meant to provide protection to individuals subject to persecution in
their home country," Mr. Kenney said. "It does not matter if the person is from
a democratic country or a totalitarian country or something in between."

"Enforcement is not an issue in asylum cases, period," he said. "We don't use an
asylum application to determine if someone is a danger."

To strengthen the separation between the asylum process and law enforcement, the
division of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that represents the
Government in asylum claims is independent from the district directors, who
oversee law enforcement investigations.

When Mr. Abu Maizar was caught by Border Patrol officers in January after he had
illegally entered the country from Canada into Washington State, his was just a
simple deportation case. The immigration service held him on a $15,000 bond,
which a judge in Seattle, Anna Ho, reduced to $5,000 on Feb. 6.

Mr. Abu Maizar was released on bond, while the Government tried to deport him to
another country. Canada had refused to take him back.

"At that point he was just an illegal alien," Mr. Kenney said.

But on April 7, Mr. Abu Maizar filed his asylum application with the court.
Judge Ho had no hearing date available for nine months, so the case was
transferred to another immigration judge in Seattle, Kendall Warren, who
scheduled a hearing for June 23. At that hearing, Mr. Abu Maizar withdrew his
asylum application and agreed to leave the United States within 60 days.

"In this case, there is no reason or evidence to indicate he should ever have
been held," Mr. Kenney said. "The Mayor is seeing all this in hindsight."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 8, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Welfare Bill Denies Benefits To Immigrants in First Year

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 7


The welfare bill awaiting Gov. George E. Pataki's signature contains a provision
that would deny state-financed benefits to legal immigrants in their first year
in this country. Immigrants are allowed to enter the country only if sponsors
promise financial support, but New York State now provides benefits to
immigrants when sponsors are unable or unwilling to support them.

The welfare bill, which the Governor is expected to approve in the next few
days, would end that practice for immigrants in their first year in America.
Pataki administration officials, defending the provision, noted that the
sponsorship requirement in Federal immigration law made newcomers the
responsibility of their sponsors and the Federal Government, not state
taxpayers.

Beyond that, administration officials said, it is necessary to adopt the
12-month restriction on benefits for newcomers so that the state avoids becoming
a magnet for poor people from beyond its borders.

"When people are granted the right to be a legal noncitizen resident, they're
expected to be self-sufficient," said Daniel D. Hogan, a spokesman for the
state's Department of Social Services. "But if you come to be a ward of the
state, no, that's not a reason to come in. That's not a reason to be a
resident."

The provision has begun to draw fire from groups that advocate benefits for the
poor and immigrants. They said they were surprised and dismayed to find the new
restriction buried in the 200-page state welfare bill, particularly since Mr.
Pataki had expressed a desire to establish more generous state-financed benefits
for immigrants denied Federal assistance under a law enacted last year. That law
denies federally financed benefits to immigrants arriving in this country after
August 1996.

The advocates also contend that the one-year ban on state-financed benefits
might violate the New York State Constitution declaration that state and local
governments have an obligation to care for the needy.

"We were shocked by this," said Marjorie McHugh, executive director of the New
York Immigration Coalition, whose 175 groups represent immigrants and refugees.
"This is a tremendous change in both the Governor's position, as well as state
policy. It is an ill-conceived 11th-hour provision that was inserted into the
law without any consideration of its necessity or impact on people."

The advocates also questioned what the state would gain by excluding this group,
given that it is relatively small.

Between 100,000 and 125,000 legal immigrants come to New York State every year,
according to the coalition. Welfare experts say that 5 percent require public
assistance. The advocates say that people who might need public aid,
particularly mothers and their children, could be left with no means of
financial support if their sponsor, often a male head of household, abandons
them, becomes unemployed or fails to live up to his commitment for another
reason.

"The concern is that there won't be a safety net if these people lose their
sponsor," said Shelly Nortz, director of state policy for New York State
Coalition for the Homeless. "The policy has heretofore been to provide
assistance if no sponsor is available."

Throughout the debate over reforming the state's welfare laws, Mr. Pataki has
cast himself as a defender of immigrants, saying that those here legally should
not be deprived of public assistance.

As recently as last week, after Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders reached a
deal on changing the state's welfare laws, his office issued a news release that
said simply, "Legal immigrants will receive non-cash safety-net benefits with a
personal-needs allowance in year one."

Zenia Mucha, the Governor's director of communications, said today that the
administration only intended to give benefits to needy immigrants already in the
country.

"We're talking about legal immigrants who are here," she said. "They have a
right to be protected."

The welfare bill passed by the Legislature this week would continue providing
state-financed benefits for immigrants already in this country.

The immigrants would be able to get cash benefits for up to two years and then a
combination of vouchers and some cash for as long as they stay on welfare.
Lawmakers have said that this program is crucial for immigrants who do not
qualify for Federal assistance. But newly arriving immigrants, the Pataki
administration said, come under the promise that they will not depend on state
aid and thus must live up to that commitment.


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Pataki Criticizes Giuliani for Giving Welfare to New Immigrants

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 14


The Pataki administration today sharply criticized Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's
decision to provide welfare benefits to new immigrants in the aftermath of the
state's recent decision to begin denying them such benefits during their first
year in the country.

In a strongly worded letter, Brian J. Wing, the state's Commissioner of Social
Services, urged the Giuliani administration to reconsider its policy lest New
York become "an international welfare magnet." As word of the policy spreads,
Mr. Wing wrote, "it could attract thousands of new immigrants to New York City
that could immediately be added to our welfare rolls."

For years, New York State has provided public assistance benefits to new
immigrants under a variety of circumstances, among them the inability or
unwillingness of their sponsors, often husbands or male heads of household, to
support them.

But the welfare bill that Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature agreed to
earlier this month would deny all benefits for a year to legal immigrants who
move into New York from overseas, no matter what their need. The Governor has
not yet signed the bill.

The Pataki administration has defended the change, arguing that immigrants must
now under Federal law obtain a guarantee of financial support from a sponsor to
be allowed into the country.

Earlier this week, Mr. Giuliani said that legal immigrants should not be treated
any differently from citizens, and his administration said it would pay to care
for needy newcomers.

Tonight, Anthony P. Coles, an adviser to the Mayor, said that the Giuliani
administration strongly disagreed with Mr. Wing's contention that immigrants
would flock to the state to collect benefits. "Legal immigrants come to New York
City to work hard and make a better life for themselves," he said.

The dispute presents a striking intramural squabble between two Republicans who
had joined forces just a year ago to oppose provisions of the new Federal
welfare law that deny benefits to legal immigrants. Mr. Giuliani has much at
stake as the mayor of a city where more than 80 percent of the state's legal
immigrants settle. As many as 125,000 immigrants come to the state every year,
with about 5 percent requiring public assistance.

The Giuliani administration has also said it is looking into whether to join
advocacy groups that are considering a suit to challenge the new state policy.
Those groups are concerned that mothers and their children would be left
vulnerable should their sponsors fail to provide the promised support.

But in his letter, Mr. Wing said, "We cannot afford to reverse our policies and
become a magnet state for immigrants who have been abandoned by unscrupulous
sponsors."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 27, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Whitman Order Allows Some Legal Immigrants to Retain Food Stamps

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Aug. 26


New Jersey will continue to provide food stamp benefits to legal immigrants who
are children, elderly or disabled even after the Federal Government stops paying
for them next week, Whitman administration officials announced today.

New Jersey will join New York and nine other states in the nation that are
replacing food stamp benefits or providing emergency food assistance to legal
immigrants. Except for those in a few categories, including refugees and people
on active military service, legal immigrants will no longer be eligible to
participate in the Federal food stamp program after Sept. 1.

Under the executive order signed today by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, legal
immigrants who are age 17 and younger, 65 and older or disabled but not yet
eligible for citizenship will receive food stamp benefits until they reach the
five years of residency in this country that is required for citizenship.

To keep receiving food stamps after that point, they will be required to apply
for citizenship within 60 days. The food stamp benefits would continue until
their application for citizenship is processed, state officials said.

In New Jersey, 16,000 households with legal immigrants will become ineligible
for the Federal food stamp program on Sept. 1 under the Federal welfare law that
took effect last year. Governor Whitman's executive order restores benefits to
an estimated 10,000 of those households. Able-bodied legal immigrants between 18
and 64 will lose their benefits next week, even if they are able to meet the new
law's strict work requirements.

"The extension of benefits for legal immigrants who are children, disabled, or
elderly," Governor Whitman said, "will insure the health and welfare of these
New Jerseyans with special needs while they work toward becoming U.S. citizens."

But Tanya Broder, a staff attorney with the National Immigrant Law Center in Los
Angeles, said that she remained concerned that the parents of immigrant children
will lose their own food stamp benefits.

"It is wonderful that the state is trying to fill in the gap that was left by
the Federal Government," Ms. Broder said of Governor Whitman's executive order.
"But providing food stamps only to some members of the family will not
adequately provide for the nutritional needs of everyone in the family."

The State Commissioner of Human Services, William Waldman, estimated that the
state's policy would cost $15 million, money that is already included in the
budget for the state's welfare program. The executive order would not apply to
immigrants who arrived in this country after the Federal welfare law took effect
on Aug. 22, 1996.

Eleven states, including New Jersey, have decided in recent months to pick up
the cost of food stamp benefits to some legal immigrants. The state programs
range from an emergency food assistance program in Colorado to a plan in
Washington State that fully replaces Federal food stamp benefits to all
immigrant households.

In New York, the Pataki administration agreed with the State Legislature last
month to continue providing food stamp benefits to legal immigrants who are
children, elderly or disabled. Officials said that the measure would cost the
state $31.2 million.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 31, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

World News Briefs;
Ruling Against Iraqis In U.S. Immigration Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 30


Eight Iraqis have lost an early round in immigration proceedings, but can now
seek political asylum.

The men, who participated in C.I.A.-financed dissident groups, say they have
been wrongly accused of being double agents and would be executed if they
returned to Iraq.

They were evacuated from northern Iraq on United States transport planes with
thousands of people after Saddam Hussein crushed Kurdish opposition to his
Government last year. All but a handful of those evacuated have been granted
asylum.

On Friday an immigration judge, D. D. Sitgraves, ruled that the eight could not
stay in the United States because they lacked visas and proper work permits. But
the ruling allows the men to proceed to a second phase of the immigration
hearing and apply for political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Food Stamps Restored

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 81 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


A state legislative committee cleared the way yesterday for welfare agencies to
distribute food stamps to 20,000 legal immigrants who became ineligible for the
program on Monday.

The Joint Budget Oversight Committee approved a $15 million emergency budget
transfer to buy food stamps for legal immigrants who are children, disabled or
elderly and who arrived before August 1996, when the current Federal welfare law
was passed, said Alan Kooney, the committee's secretary.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 8, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
It Can Happen Here

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Suppose an American businesswoman flew to Shanghai to buy Chinese goods for a
New York department store. She had a Chinese visa, but at the Shanghai Airport
an official said she was trying to enter the country illegally. Without a
hearing, or even being told what the problem was and given a chance to explain,
she was strip-searched, handcuffed, held in jail and finally sent home.

A story like that would no doubt be seen in the United States as an example of
the arbitrary, lawless Chinese system. It could not happen in a law-bound
country like ours, we would say. But it has happened here.

Meng Li, an executive with a real estate development company in Beijing, set out
for New York in June to buy plumbing fixtures. She had a business visa issued by
the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. She had used the same visa twice before, in 1996
and February 1997, entering the United States at Detroit.

This time the plane landed first in Anchorage, Alaska. There an agent of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service decided that she was trying to enter
the country by fraud or with improper documents. She was strip-searched,
handcuffed, put in an Anchorage jail and told she was barred from the U.S. for
five years.

Ordinarily we would not have heard about Ms. Li. Under the radical new
immigration law passed by Congress and signed by President Clinton last year, an
alien found by an I.N.S. officer to be trying to enter by fraud is subject to
"expedited removal." She is sent home at once, without any administrative
hearing or review by a judge.

But because of language difficulties, it was thought that Ms. Li was applying
for political asylum. So she was held in jail; and an Anchorage lawyer, Margaret
D. Stock, took up her case.

Ms. Li was never told what was supposedly fraudulent about her attempted entry.
But Ms. Stock thinks the problem was that Ms. Li applied for another kind of
U.S. visa last winter, one that would allow her to work for an American company
while here. That application was first denied. Then in late May it was approved,
Ms. Stock said, but Ms. Li did not know that -- and apparently neither did the
I.N.S. agent in Anchorage.

In any case, Ms. Stock said, it is legal for an alien coming here to use a valid
visa when another has been denied, so long as the alien uses it for the
designated purpose.

An Anchorage Daily News reporter, Rachel D'Oro, interviewed Ms. Li in jail after
she had been there two weeks. She cried as she spoke of how humiliated she felt.
Not only was she in prison, she said; her luggage had been seized, including
$32,000 for purchases in New York. Ms. Stock went to court and got an order
letting her use a bit of the money to buy toilet articles.

"People always think this country is one of the most pro-human rights places,"
Ms. Li said. "But they were so inhumane."

Ms. Stock brought a suit challenging Ms. Li's exclusion. The Government, in its
answer, did not disclose its reasons. It merely said the court had no power to
hear the case under the new immigration law, and the judge agreed. Ms. Stock
appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. But Ms. Li decided
to go home.

"My client was in jail a month and the I.N.S. still wouldn't tell her what she
did wrong," Ms. Stock said. "That is very scary."

Ms. Li flew home on July 3. Just before leaving she told The Daily News that she
had lost all confidence in the United States and from now on would take her
business elsewhere.

Is the case of Meng Li unique? Not in Anchorage. Ms. Stock filed an affidavit in
court in the Li case about five other Chinese she had seen in the Anchorage
jail. All were business people who had visas. They had been headed elsewhere in
the U.S. but were stopped at the Anchorage airport by I.N.S. agents and told
they were being sent back the next day and banned for five years.

Meng Li and the others did not understand what was happening to them. Do
Americans understand? Do they know that the new immigration law allows a single
I.N.S. agent to decide that someone who has a U.S. visa is a fraud, to send him
home without a hearing and ban him from this country for five years?

If Americans understood that, I believe they would demand changes in the
arbitrary new law. Or am I old-fashioned in believing that about my country?

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 16, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

In Lawsuit, I.N.S. Is Accused Of Illegally Detaining Man

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 535 words


The American Civil Liberties Union accused the Immigration and Naturalization
Service yesterday of illegally detaining an Egyptian man it is seeking to deport
based on classified information that the agency still refuses to disclose.

The A.C.L.U. has asked for the release of the man, Nasser Ahmed, who has been in
custody for 16 months.

Mr. Ahmed worked as a legal assistant for the defense of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman
during the cleric's trial in the plot to blow up buildings in New York City.
According to court records, Mr. Ahmed became a follower of Mr. Abdel Rahman
after hearing him speak at a mosque in Brooklyn. Mr. Ahmed later became a
translator for the cleric.

In a suit filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the A.C.L.U. also asked
that the immigration service be prohibited from using classified information to
deport Mr. Ahmed, which it said violated due process. "When you have secret
evidence, you don't know what the motives are of the people providing the
evidence," said Louis M. Bograd, a staff lawyer with the American Civil
Liberties Union in Washington, which is representing Mr. Ahmed. " You don't know
whether they are telling the truth or not."

Mr. Bograd said that Mr. Ahmed, who is seeking political asylum in the United
States, had never accused of any terrorist activity.

An I.N.S. lawyer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, declined to comment
because of the pending litigation. He also would not discuss the agency's
strategies in the Ahmed case or others in which the immigration service has used
classified information. Under the law, the agency may use classified information
in deportations. But the official said the agency rarely does, perhaps in a few
dozen of the thousands of cases it considers each year.

But David Cole, a law professor at Georgetown University, who is also helping
Mr. Ahmed's suit, said he believed the immigration service had been using the
tactic much more aggressively in recent years.

Mr. Ahmed had been living in Brooklyn with his family. He was arrested in 1995
on a charge that he had overstayed his visa, and was released on $15,000 bond.
He continued to help Mr. Abdel Rahman, who was convicted in Oct. 1995.

In April 1996, Mr. Ahmed was again arrested, and in subsequent hearings, the
Government said that it had classified information to support the detention and
deportation of Mr. Ahmed, but would tell him and his lawyers only that the
information concerned his "association with a known terrorist organization."

Mr. Ahmed has denied in immigration proceedings that he was involved in any
terrorist activities.

Earlier this year, Donn Livingston, an immigration judge, initially found that
because of Mr. Ahmed's association with Mr. Abdel Rahman, who has called for the
overthrow of the Egyptian Government, deporting Mr. Ahmed to Egypt would
probably result in his detention and torture. On those grounds, the judge said,
Mr. Ahmed was qualified for asylum.

But Judge Livingston ruled that Mr. Ahmed should not be given asylum after a
private review of the classified information offered by the I.N.S. The judge
concluded that Mr. Ahmed could be "a danger to the security of the United
States."



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'Humans, Not Animals'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Elba Digna Wood is a Honduran woman who lives in Nicaragua with her husband, a
former commandante of the contras. In 1994 she visited her sister in Houston.
She was pregnant and planned to go home in September for the birth. But the baby
was born prematurely in August, and she stayed until the doctor said she could
go home, in December.

Last month she flew to the United States with her now 3-year-old daughter to see
her sister and nephews. She had a U.S. visa, but at the Miami airport she was
stopped by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It was about
5:30 P.M. on Aug. 7 -- the beginning of an ordeal that lasted a week and in a
sense is not over yet.

"Around 7:30 I told an immigration officer that my daughter was hungry and I
needed to go to the bathroom, but they told me I had to wait," Mrs. Wood said in
a sworn statement. "My daughter was crying all this time. . . .

"I said I have a right to know why this is happening to me, I am covered in
grief, what have I done, what is the crime? The immigration officer said that my
first crime was to overstay my visa in 1994 and my second crime was when I took
Medicaid for the birth of my daughter. . . .

"By this time it was about 9:30, and neither me nor my baby had had anything to
eat, to drink or were able to go to the bathroom. [At 10:30 an officer took her
to the bathroom.]

"At about 11:30 a female officer said, 'You know we are going to deport you
because you have illegal papers.' I was just crying. And the female officer said
I had an attitude problem because I didn't respond. . . .

"Around 2 A.M. a male officer came and started screaming at me that I was a
thief, that I had come here to steal from his taxes. He told me 'You're not even
worth this much (he put his fingers together) respect.' Then he said, 'If you're
a tourist why don't you come with $20,000, go to Disney World and spend your
money? . . . We're going to deport you. Then we'll decide how many years you
won't be allowed back.' "

Mrs. Wood said she was allowed to use the telephone for the first time at 7 the
next morning. She called her mother-in-law, who lives in Miami, and she came and
took the baby.

At 2 A.M. the next day, Aug. 9, Mrs. Wood was taken to the Immigration Service's
Krome Detention Center in Florida. During the next five days, she said, her
daughter was brought to her for one 30-minute visit.

She wrote out by hand on Aug. 13 her statement of what had happened to her. She
said she had been told that she would be flown back, without her daughter. Her
statement ends: "I feel like I'm someone else, I feel a burden I can hardly
bear, and my baby is suffering without me. How did all this happen to me?"

On Aug. 14, a week after she landed in Miami, the baby was returned to Mrs.
Wood. Then she and the child were flown back to Nicaragua.

A lawyer acting for Mrs. Wood after her departure asked an I.N.S. inspector why
she had been barred.  Because, the inspector said, she had overstayed her 1994
visa, and the new immigration law enacted last year makes someone who has
overstayed a visa inadmissible. But even if the reason for Mrs. Wood's overstay
-- the premature birth -- was somehow not a valid one, it is not clear that the
provision applies to people who overstayed before the new law took effect.

On Aug. 25 Mrs. Wood's husband, Osorno Coleman, wrote a letter directed to U.S.
authorities and Senator Jesse Helms. "I risked my life fighting against the
Communist system," he said. "Now that this war is finished we are like garbage
to you. . . .

"My daughter was left traumatized. If you do not want a visitor to land, you can
return him without screaming at them with obscene words, comparing them to
animals and incarcerating them. In the eyes of God we are all equal, and we all
deserve to be treated like humans and not like animals."

I asked an I.N.S. spokesman about the case of Elba Wood. The I.N.S.
Commissioner, Doris Meissner, telephoned in reply.

"This was a complete mistake on the part of the immigration officer so far as we
can tell," Ms. Meissner said after looking into it. "She had a valid visa. She
should have been admitted.

"And her treatment was completely against our policy. It violated any acceptable
norm. I am ashamed that it happened. I hope that this is a totally isolated
incident."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 28, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Intimidating Immigrants

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 97 words



To the Editor:

The hardships endured by so many immigrants as a result of the harsh new
immigration law (front page, Sept. 25) are compounded by the cynical way these
laws have been written. On the one hand, noncitizens are faced with long periods
of exile if they leave the United States after the Oct. 1 deadline.

On the other hand, unless they do leave, they will be unable to become permanent
residents even if they meet all of the requirements and have been patiently
waiting for years.

ROGER ALGASE
New York, Sept. 25, 1997

The writer is a lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

System Is Swamped for Immigrants in Quest of Citizenship

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words


In the midst of a vast movement of immigrants to citizenship that dwarfs those
of earlier eras in its magnitude and diversity, the creaky, understaffed
machinery of naturalization ground virtually to a halt last week in Brooklyn and
Queens, national centers of immigration.

Even as 216,000 applicants in the New York metropolitan area are awaiting
naturalization -- more than the number who sought citizenship in the entire
nation in 1991 and more than double the New York district's total just last year
-- the wood-paneled Federal courtroom in Brooklyn, where about 1,200 immigrants
a week have been swearing allegiance to the United States, fell silent on
Wednesday.

"Unfortunately, after that date, the number of eligible applicants for
naturalization has been exhausted," an official from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service informed the Federal court clerk in a letter, then
expressed the hope that the ceremonies would resume in a month or so.

In New York and other major metropolitan areas across the country, obsolete
computer technology and stringent new procedures to screen out applicants with
criminal records have slowed the troubled naturalization process, but it now
appears that staff shortages are hobbling it even more.

Immigration officials say staffing levels have been eroded by high turnover
among temporary workers hired for yearlong stints with no health benefits to
handle the surge in applications. The agency's request to Congress for the
authority to hire 400 workers for two to four years with benefits has not been
approved.

New York has been particularly hard hit by this problem. The number of workers
interviewing citizenship applicants and handling their paperwork has sunk to
194, from 289 last year. In Los Angeles, the staff has dropped to 231 from 269.
In Chicago, the staff has shrunk to 57, from 73. And in Miami, it has dropped to
118, from 127.

The slowing pace of naturalizations is occurring at a moment when citizenship,
for many immigrants, has become a key to putting food on the table. Nationally,
Federal officials said 935,000 poor immigrants were expected to lose food stamp
benefits under the welfare law adopted last year. It made legal immigrants who
have not become citizens ineligible for food stamps.

New York State decided in August to give counties the option to restore food
stamps to legal immigrants who are children or are disabled or elderly, as long
as they have applied for citizenship, but the state will still deny such aid to
able-bodied adults until they become citizens.

New York City, home to more than 70,000 such food stamp recipients, chose to
participate. The food stamp restoration will cost the state and localities an
estimated $20 million.

As the time it takes to become a citizen has stretched from five months last
year to more than a year now, immigrants in the queue, especially the elderly,
say they have grown increasingly nervous. Most of the aged students in a civics
class sponsored by University Settlement House on the Lower East Side of
Manhattan are taking it for the second time, trying to refresh fragile memories
in preparation for the civics examination they will have to pass to become
citizens.

The teacher, Eleuteria Ventura, asked Julian Fonseca Cruz, 91, of Nicaragua, for
the date of Independence Day. "July 24?" he asked tentatively. Mr. Fonseca, who
wears a worn fedora and walks with a cane, cannot read or write and finds that
facts now slip easily from his mind. He took the class for the first time in
March, when he applied for citizenship, and is now in it again. He still has no
exam date.

"I am worried that I haven't heard from the I.N.S.," said Mr. Fonseca, who
receives food stamps. "It takes so long."

The growing waves of new immigrants seeking citizenship in the last few years
have been driven by a variety of factors, including the feared loss of Federal
benefits and concerns about a national backlash against immigrants.

But while the number of citizenship applications nationally has continued to
climb this year and is expected to reach a record 1.8 million, the number of
completed naturalization cases has tumbled at an accelerating pace, compared
with last year -- by almost one-third in the first three months of this year and
by more than half from March to June, Federal statistics show.

And the backlog seems especially likely to worsen in New York's already clogged
naturalization pipeline. New York City has opened six offices and hired 120
people in the last two months in a $10 million effort to help even more of those
whose food stamps are at risk to apply for citizenship.

In the last two months, it has contacted 9,700 people at risk of losing food
stamps. Most had already applied for or attained citizenship. So far, city
workers have helped 650 to prepare applications. City officials say there are
still tens of thousands more immigrants to contact. Until that work is done,
they said, they will not know how much demand there is for the citizenship
services the city is offering.

"Whether or not this initiative is ultimately a success I can't tell after a
month," said Martin Oesterreich, Commissioner of the city's Department of Youth
and Community Development. "We've not been in operation long enough to draw any
conclusions."

The state and private philanthropies are spending an additional $4 million this
coming year on English and civics classes and other services immigrants need to
apply for citizenship.

"It's not going to do any good for all these people to apply if they can't get
through the process," said Jane Stern, a program director at the New York
Community Trust, which has dispensed almost $2 million to nonprofit groups for
naturalization efforts. "That's a huge problem. Obviously, we don't have any
power to do anything about the I.N.S."

This week, there are only two small ceremonies for a total of 200 immigrants
scheduled for the Federal District Court in the Eastern District of New York,
which covers Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
After that, there are no more on the calendar.

The immigration service submitted a $150 million request to Congress in July to
support its naturalization programs in the Federal fiscal year that begins on
Wednesday, but the request has been bogged down in the acrimonious debate about
the agency's failure to screen out criminals in the citizenship process. Last
fall, Republicans accused the Clinton Administration of rushing to naturalize
immigrants before the election without conducting thorough criminal background
checks. In May, the Administration announced that it would try to strip 5,000
people of citizenship who have criminal histories and were wrongly sworn in.

The chairmen of the House and Senate Appropriations subcommittees that oversee
the immigration service, Representative Harold Rogers, a Republican from
Kentucky, and Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican, have both made it
clear that they are leery of giving the agency more money for naturalization
staff until they are convinced that it has set up a system to insure that no
more criminals will become citizens.

The immigration service asked Congress in July for authorization to increase
spending on overtime and to hire 246 permanent workers and 400 employees with
contracts of two to four years to chip away at the naturalization case backlog.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Rogers, Susan Zimmerman, said last week that he would
review the staffing request after the appropriations bill that contains the
immigration service's budget for next year is approved in the coming week or
two. "He remains gravely concerned that there are serious management problems at
the I.N.S.," she said.

Senator Gregg expressed similar reservations. "I don't want to give them more
money to approve applications incorrectly," he said.

Their inaction on the immigration service's request has infuriated advocates.
"Chairman Rogers is out to cripple naturalization," said Mark Hetfield, a lawyer
at the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, a nonprofit group that serves immigrants.
"His idea of fixing it is to bring it to a complete screeching halt."

Immigration service officials say the modernization of the naturalization
system's computers and other efficiency measures should begin to speed the
process next year.

"With the proper resources and the time to apply them, we can start to ease the
backlog," said Eric Andrus, an I.N.S. spokesman. "If that doesn't happen, the
backlog could likely increase."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants in a class taught by Eleuteria Ventura on the Lower
East Side are preparing for a civics exam. The class, sponsored by University
Settlement House, meets at the Rafael Hernandez Community Center. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: A Backlog of Citizenship Applications"
Applications for citizenship are rising, but the I.N.S. has acted on fewer of
them, so the number of pending applications just keeps growing. Chart shows the
number of applications for citizenship, of applications that have been either
approved or denied, and of pending applications in Los Angeles, New York City,
and Miami during both 1996 and 1997. (Source: U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service)(pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Is Fair on Asylum Claims

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 255 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis (columns, Sept. 26, 22, 19 and 8) criticizes the treatment of
certain visitors by the Immigration and Naturalization Service as it puts in
place expedited-removal provisions of the 1996 immigration law.

Individuals who attempt to enter the United States without valid travel
documents can be ordered removed from the country by an immigration officer, but
the agency has worked hard to build safeguards beyond those required by the law
.

For example, we ask all individuals subject to expedited removal whether they
have a fear of returning to their home country and give them the opportunity to
discuss their fears confidentially in a nonadversarial setting. Asylum seekers
are interviewed by trained officers who provide written information about the
asylum process and about local free legal services. We require supervisory
review of each case before an individual can be removed.

We have authorized inspectors to permit individuals to withdraw applications for
entry and leave the country without penalty if no intent to circumvent the law
is found. To date, about one-third of those who arrive without proper documents
have been permitted to withdraw their applications, avoiding the five-year bar
from returning to the United States.

The process of implementing a complex law is not immune to human error. When
misjudgments or abuses occur, we will correct them.

DORIS MEISSNER
Washington, Sept. 26, 1997

Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Panel Urges That Immigrants Become Further Americanized

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30


A Federal advisory panel called today for a major campaign to integrate new
immigrants into American society, and it won support from an influential
Republican Congressman for its proposal to dismantle the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

In its final report to Congress after five years of work, the panel, the United
States Commission on Immigration Reform, also said that some decisions on
applications for visas should be subject to review by a new Government agency.

That would represent a radical change. Now, would-be immigrants and their
American sponsors generally cannot appeal decisions of consular officers who
deny applications for visas. The panel would allow such appeals in some cases.

Bruce A. Morrison, a member of the panel, explained the reason for appeal rights
by saying, "Lack of accountability in any decision-making structure is not
tolerable."

The nine-member commission concluded its work with a ringing endorsement of the
value of legal immigration, saying that migrants contributed to the nation's
economic growth and productivity.

But it said that Federal and state officials must step up their efforts to
incorporate immigrants into the nation's civic and political culture. For
example, it said, newcomers need help in English-language skills and should be
trained for high-tech jobs, so that they will move up the economic ladder.

Susan Martin, executive director of the commission, said that many children of
Hispanic immigrants dropped out of school and that many immigrant teen-agers
never enrolled in schools in this country.

Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights organization, said she saw great merit in the proposal for
a new emphasis on the "Americanization" of immigrants.

"The United States has relied on immigrant families and on employers to help
immigrants adjust to life in this country -- to find jobs and housing, to enroll
in school, to open bank accounts," Ms. Munoz said. "If the Government and the
larger society would invest in such services, we could get a huge return, and
immigrants would make a quicker adjustment to American life. Immigrants are
accused of not wanting to learn English, but they are eager to do so. Many
English-language programs have enormous waiting lists."

The chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee responsible for the
immigration service, Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, welcomed many of the
panel's recommendations. He endorsed the proposal to dismantle the immigration
service and distribute its functions among the Departments of Justice, State and
Labor.

He agreed with the commission's conclusion that the immigration service was
suffering from "mission overload," but not from a lack of money. Indeed, he
said, the budget of the agency, $3.1 billion this year, has increased 50 percent
in the last two years and has more than tripled in the last decade.

"At last," he said, "someone is telling it like it is. The I.N.S. is overloaded,
and money is no longer an excuse. The agency has too much on its plate. It
cannot control our borders, process immigrants and safeguard U.S. citizenship.
We've seen tens of thousands of criminals granted the most precious benefit our
country has to offer: U.S. citizenship.  We have over five million illegal
aliens residing in the United States, the same all-time high of 10 years ago."

The House Appropriations Committee recently instructed Attorney General Janet
Reno to devise a plan to "transfer some of the responsibilities of the I.N.S. to
other departments and agencies."

Advocates for immigrants and immigration lawyers were cool to the proposal to
break up the I.N.S.

Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said she doubted that immigrants would receive better service from
the State Department than from the immigration service, which is now part of the
Justice Department. From years of dealing with State Department officials, she
said, "we know that they are opposed to review of their decisions, have no
mechanisms in place to assure due process of law and are ill equipped to deal
with the volume and complexity of cases that I.N.S. must adjudicate on a daily
basis."


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New Immigration Rules Hit Some Companies Hard

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 908 words


In SoHo, a Japanese restaurant closed its doors last Friday after the chef
returned to Japan. In Westport, Conn., a construction company shut down when the
owner, a Chilean immigrant, suddenly left with his family. And in a midtown
Manhattan factory, where 25 employees work making fine jewelry 14 hours a day,
the owner, a Ukrainian refugee, wonders whether he too should pack and leave.

Changes in immigration rules have prompted many immigrants in the New York area
and across the country who are seeking legal status to return to their homelands
in the last week, believing that such a move, however painful, is their best
hope for someday returning legally.

It is impossible to tell how many people may have left the country in the recent
exodus. But immigration lawyers and advocates believe that the wave of
departures will have a great impact on some businesses, especially those that
rely heavily on the expertise of foreigners, like detailed construction work,
specialty restaurants and some highly technical jobs.

Already, in Manhattan, a popular downtown restaurant, Katana, closed after its
chef, Nao Hiko Sugiyama, returned to Japan to continue his appeal for residency
status in the United States, said Sam Firer, the restaurant's public relations
man. Mr. Sugiyama's specialty was kaiseki cuisine, a rare food that originated
with the Japanese tea ceremony.

Other restaurants in the city lost a significant number of employees last week
and had to scramble to find replacements on short notice. Nobu, a Japanese
restaurant in TriBeCa, lost 6 of its 20 waiters, said Richard M. Notar, the
restaurant's general manager. "One day, I had a full staff," Mr. Notar said.
"Next day, no waiters. And it is not easy to replace them. We are very
particular about who we hire. And then there is the training."

The sudden exodus has been set off by two changes in immigration rules. One is
the expiration of a three-year-old law that allowed illegal immigrants who were
seeking green cards to obtain the documents here. Under the new rules, those
close to obtaining a green card, which confers legal status, must go home to get
the document.

Under a second change, which took effect on Saturday, immigrants who have been
in the United States illegally for more than six months and who leave for any
reason, including going home to get a green card, can be barred from returning
for three years. Those who have been in this country illegally for more than a
year can be denied re-entry for 10 years.

The Senate joined the House yesterday in delaying the expiration of the
green-card rule, which was to happen yesterday, for three weeks. But experts
said the brief reprieve would affect very few of the thousands of immigrants
faced with the decision of whether to stay or go. The American Immigration
Lawyers Association and about 80 other national organizations and big
businesses, including Apple Computer and Hewlett-Packard, support a longer
extension of the provision allowing those seeking green cards to stay here.

Those who left, like Mr. Sugiyama, played it safe, being willing to wait for
their green card outside the United States. But those who stayed took a gamble.
Their hope is that the expiring provision will be extended beyond the three
weeks, so that they can continue to live here while seeking their legal status.

Judith B. Sporn, an immigration lawyer in Westport, said 99 percent of her
clients opted to stay despite a letter that she sent them urging them to leave
by the deadline.

"If they are wrong, they are in a lot of trouble," Ms. Sporn said. "But had they
left, they would have had an incredible impact on businesses. There isn't a
restaurant that does not need people like them. How are you supposed to have
foreign specialties without the foreigners?" One who chose to stay, a client of
Ms. Sporn's who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he was a Brazilian chef
who works without a working permit. He stayed, he said, because there is nothing
and no one waiting for him in Brazil.

"My wife is here, my job is here, my home is here," he said. "My boss told me
that if I left, the restaurant would be in a lot of trouble."

That is Feodor Sheffer's dilemma. He is a refugee from Ukraine, who was denied
political asylum two days before the deadline. Mr. Sheffer decided to stay in
the hope that an immigration judge would grant him his asylum in January, his
next immigration hearing.

Mr. Sheffer is the owner of the NK Star Corporation, a jewelry factory in
midtown Manhattan that employs 25 people. If he leaves, Mr. Sheffer said, the
factory will close and his employees will have no work.

Despite the disruption for some families and businesses, Rae D. Rosen, a
regional economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said she did not
expect the departures to have a broad effect on the economy. "The size of the
labor market here is so great, that their departure will not have a significant
impact, however painful to the individual it is," Ms. Rosen said.

Lawmakers who oppose the extension of the expiring rule say that if illegal
immigrants leave, more Americans, who are now unemployed, will find jobs.

Allan Kay, a spokesman for Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who
opposes the provision, said the Congressman "is deeply concerned about American
citizens and legal residents not getting jobs because they are filled by people
who are here illegally."


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The NK Star Corporation on West 45th Street, a maker of jewelry,
is among the companies affected by recent changes in immigration rules.
Yesterday, Feodor Sheffer, the company's owner, watched employees at work.
(Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B2)



                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Fanning the Flames?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The United States is famously a country of immigrants. It is also a country with
a strain of nativism going back at least to the Know Nothing movement of the
1850's, anti-Catholic and anti-immigrant.

That ambivalence was plainly felt by the bipartisan Commission on Immigration
Reform, which over the last five years considered how to create a more rational
system. Its final report, submitted to Congress this week, threaded its way
between the two themes: the open door and fear of immigrants.

The report spoke in warm terms of what immigrants contribute to this country:
"to its vibrant and diverse communities, its vital intellectual and cultural
life, its job-creating entrepreneurship. . . ." Yet it called for a sharp cut in
legal immigration starting five years from now -- to 550,000 from the recent
annual figure of between 700,000 and 900,000.

The commission indicated concern about harsh effects of changes made by Congress
last year in immigration procedures, eliminating the right of appeal in many
cases. The report called for a new Agency for Immigration Review to assure
legality and accountability, subject to review in the Federal courts. It urged
Congress to make clear that its changes in the rules were not meant to be
applied retroactively, as Attorney General Janet Reno has ordered.

But the report put major emphasis on enforcement against those who violate the
rules. Its most striking proposal was to abolish the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and split its functions. Enforcement would go to a new
agency in the Justice Department. The State Department would have the service
role: passing on applications for admission and naturalization.

That proposal drew cheers from the chairman of the House Appropriations
subcommittee that handles I.N.S. funds, Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky.
The I.N.S., he said, "cannot control our borders, process immigrants and
safeguard U.S. citizenship. We've seen tens of thousands of criminals granted
the most precious benefit our country has to offer: U.S. citizenship."

Representative Rogers's statement that "tens of thousands of criminals" were
granted citizenship by the I.N.S. was, to put it politely, mistaken. And it
indicates a danger of the commission report.

In the fiscal year 1996 the I.N.S., urged by Congress to reduce a naturalization
backlog, granted citizenship to 1,049,000 applicants. It turned out later that
72,400 of those had been flagged by the F.B.I. when it examined their
fingerprints. That led to angry denunciations by Republican members of Congress.

The I.N.S. then had an audit done by Peat Marwick. Of the 72,400 cases, 16,400
showed an arrest for a felony of the kind that would make a person ineligible
for naturalization. Most of those proved to be only arrests, not convictions,
and hence would not bar naturalization. The audit, which is continuing, has so
far found 300 cases where a convicted person was improperly naturalized.

The Immigration Service did make mistakes. After a series of columns on I.N.S.
miscarriages of justice, I well know that it is not perfect. But by the
standards of performance in any large organization, public or private, 300
mistakes out of 1,049,000 cases is not bad. And 300 is not "tens of thousands."

The danger of the line taken by the Commission on Immigration Reform is that, if
inadvertently, it will encourage the worst in American attitudes on immigration.
It will encourage members of Congress who at heart do not like immigrants. It
will feed nativism.

Bashing immigrants turned out to be bad politics when the Republican Congress
tried it. But there is a subtler way to do it: charge that criminal aliens are
out of control, that the Government is incapable of solving the problem, that
there must be a Draconian solution.

The commission, I fear, has given credence to that kind of argument. Splitting
enforcement and service in the immigration field would most likely lead to more
punitive enforcement, and to less responsive service from a State Department
unequipped for the job. Changing an organization chart will not solve what are
complex, ambivalent human challenges.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 8, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Criminal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words



To the Editor:

I am compelled to clarify statements in Anthony Lewis's Oct. 3 column about
immigration reform. It was the Subcommittee on National Security, International
Affairs and Criminal Justice, of which I am chairman, that initially
investigated the Immigration and Naturalization Service's program that
naturalized thousands of people with disqualifying criminal histories.

Mr. Lewis cites a study that found only 300 convicted felons have been granted
citizenship. Yet the Department of Justice reported to me in May that at least
5,500 people had been identified as having been improperly naturalized as a
result of violations of the law. The Justice Department is attempting to revoke
the citizenship of these people.

Mr. Lewis failed to mention that a felony conviction is not the only
disqualification for citizenship. Lying about one's criminal past and
misdemeanor crimes involving drugs can also be grounds for denial. And Mr. Lewis
didn't mention that 180,000 people were naturalized with incomplete or no
criminal background checks. It is possible that many of these people had
criminal histories.

(Rep.) J. DENNIS HASTERT
Washington, Oct. 6, 1997

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 10, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'Accent the Positive'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, elected just three years ago, was quickly
made chairman of the Immigration subcommittee. As the grandson of immigrants and
a believer in the American story, he used his key role successfully to oppose in
last year's legislation a proposed sharp cutback in legal immigration. But he
supported stringent new procedures to decide who can enter and remain in this
country -- changes that have had some harsh results. Why? I asked him.

"My strategy is to build the case for legal immigration," he said in a
conversation the other day. "I want to accent the positive -- what immigrants do
for this country -- and make clear that you're going to address the negatives,
especially criminal aliens. There is a public feeling against those who come
here and commit crimes."

The 1996 immigration law greatly expanded the list of crimes for which legal
resident aliens can be deported -- no matter how long ago the crime was
committed. The provision has caught, among others, Jesus Collado, who has lived
in New York as a legal immigrant since 1972.

In 1974, when he was 19, Mr. Collado pleaded guilty to having sexual relations
with a minor: a misdemeanor. He was put on probation and has not been in trouble
since. Last year he left the country briefly. Asked on his return on April 7
whether he had any criminal history, he answered honestly. As a result he was
imprisoned and is being held for deportation -- to the despair of his wife and
three children, all U.S. citizens. The 1996 law forbids his release on bond.

Senator Abraham said he did not know the details of the Collado case, but he
seemed troubled by it.

"I am chagrined by what seems to me the remarkable priorities set by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service," he said. "I assumed the I.N.S. would
use the new standards not to find someone who committed a crime 23 years ago,
and has made a contribution since then, but to go after the large number of
aliens who are actually in prison now."

The I.N.S. says it had no choice but to detain and move to deport Mr. Collado
once he disclosed his record. Senator Abraham did not agree.

"They've got prosecutorial discretion over there," he said. "It's puzzling to me
to go back like that."

A substantial number of Federal and state prison inmates are aliens. The I.N.S.
has started a program to identify them, hold hearings while they are in prison
and then deport them when their terms are up. Record numbers are being deported,
but Senator Abraham was not satisfied.

"It's probably going to lead us into hearings," he said, "and ultimately to
establishing priorities."

The Senator said he questioned whether the I.N.S. could perform its dual
functions -- "be the police force by night and the service provider by day. I
hear constant complaints," he said: "Too many people are coming illegally, and
too many legal visitors are being detained."

For his opposition to cutting legal immigration Senator Abraham has been
attacked by an extreme anti-immigration group, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform. Letters have called him a "dirty lousy Jew."

His courage in standing up for the historic benefits of immigration is
admirable. I hope he will also come to support fairness and humanity in
immigration procedures as essential American values.

In a recent column I criticized a statement by Representative Harold Rogers that
the I.N.S. had naturalized "tens of thousands of criminals." Many of the cases
involved only arrests, which are not disqualifying; an audit has found just 300
in which a convicted person was wrongly naturalized.

Congressman J. Dennis Hastert has now said that the I.N.S. told him "at least
5,500 people" had been given citizenship improperly "as a result of violations
of the law." In fact, those 5,500 failed to disclose arrests when they applied
for naturalization. The I.N.S. is moving to cancel citizenship in some of those
cases because of the failure to disclose.

The actual number of "criminals" found to have been wrongly naturalized remains
not tens of thousands or 5,500, but 300.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 11, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Plan Would Protect Central American Refugees

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10


The chairman of the House immigration subcommittee said today that he expected
Congress to approve within the next few weeks legislation that would allow as
many as 500,000 Nicaraguan, Guatemalan and Salvadoran refugees to avoid
deportation.

Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the subcommittee chairman, announced on
Thursday that the Republican House leadership had agreed to a plan he had drawn
up with a fellow Republican, Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida.

The plan would allow all Nicaraguans who entered the United States before Dec.
1, 1995, to apply to become legal residents. And it would allow Salvadorans and
Guatemalans who entered before 1990 to avoid deportation and seek legal
immigrant status.

The proposal covers countries from which civil wars have driven a tide of
refugees, most of whom have settled in Texas, Florida, California, New York and
New Jersey.

On Tuesday, the Senate approved a measure that would give the three groups a
reprieve of sorts by allowing them to follow the much easier track toward legal
residency that existed before the Republican-controlled Congress passed a tough
new set of immigration laws last year.

Those new laws allow immigrants who have been in the United States at least
seven years to apply for a suspension of deportation that would let them stay
while they worked toward permanent residency. But it set an annual cap of 4,000
who could qualify for the suspensions.

Mr. Smith and Mr. Diaz-Balart, apparently with the backing of their leadership,
have proposed ways to get around that cap. For example, in return for the
extraordinary treatment for the Central Americans, there is an agreement to
eliminate the category in Federal immigration law that specifically allows for
up to 10,000 immigrants each year to apply as unskilled workers.

"We don't need millions of unskilled workers coming in to compete with others,"
Mr. Smith said.

For years, the Governments of the three Central American countries affected by
the plan have lobbied United States political leaders, including President
Clinton, to exempt the refugees from deportation, fearing that mass
repatriations would create social, political and fiscal turmoil in their
war-ravaged nations.

The political concern in Washington over these refugees is tied to the the cold
war, especially in the case of the Nicaraguans. Many Nicaraguans now in this
country were involved in the United States-backed contra insurgency in their
country during the Administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush.
The legislation that Mr. Smith and Mr. Diaz-Balart propose would give
Nicaraguans the kind of special consideration that has been extended only to
refugees fleeing the Communist Government of Fidel Castro of Cuba.

Mr. Smith said of the Nicaraguans, "They have been our longtime allies in the
fight against Communism and they deserve special consideration."

There are no exact numbers, but immigration officials estimate that the total
population of Central American refugees eligible for the special consideration
is about 300,000 -- 150,000 Salvadorans, 100,000 Guatemalans and 40,000
Nicaraguans. Mr. Smith said the number could be as high as 500,000 when family
members were included.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 15, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Old Crime Returns to Haunt an Immigrant;
Facing Deportation, Dominican May Become Test Case for New Law

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words


For 171 days now, immigration officials have held Jesus Collado, a Bronx
restaurant manager and a legal resident of the United States, in a detention
center in Pennsylvania for a misdemeanor he committed 23 years ago and for
which, until now, he had never spent a day in jail.

Mr. Collado was convicted of statutory rape and given probation in 1974 because,
at 19, he had sex with his 15-year-old girlfriend. Now, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service wants to deport Mr. Collado to his homeland, the
Dominican Republic, which he left in 1972 and has only returned to for
occasional family visits.

Mr. Collado, his wife and their three children, and even the family of his
onetime girlfriend, are baffled and horrified that his long-ago misdeed -- a
crime of moral turpitude, in legal terms -- could tear apart the life that he
has built in this country. The I.N.S. says that under tougher laws passed by
Congress last year, the agency has no choice but to deport him. The laws
broadened the definitions of what constitutes a deportable crime and who is
subject to deportation.

But some members of Congress who supported the new laws say they are troubled by
cases like Mr. Collado's and are considering whether some of the language of the
new laws needs to be clarified. They say it was never Congress's intention to
deport people who committed minor crimes decades ago but have spotless records
since.

Even some immigration officials acknowledge that Mr. Collado could become a test
case of how exactly the new rules should be applied. Meanwhile, the 43-year-old
man at the center of the legal battle sobs on the telephone as he describes his
life at the York County prison.

"The nights are the worst," Mr. Collado said yesterday. "Every half an hour, a
guard comes by with a flashlight and opens a little door in my cell and peers
in. That noise, that pum-pum-pum of the door, is ingrained in my brain and, no
matter what, will always be there."

In the six months he has been jailed, his oldest daughter and his wife have both
been hospitalized with serious ailments. First, his daughter Julissa, 18, was in
a car accident and underwent two major operations. Then his wife, Judith, 39,
had a hysterectomy when doctors found tumors in her ovaries. In both instances,
Mr. Collado's lawyers petitioned the I.N.S. to allow him to visit his family.
The requests were denied.

"I sometimes think we are being punished for something bad we did, but I can't
imagine what," Mrs. Collado said. "All we've done is work our entire lives."

The story of how Mr. Collado, a quiet family man from Brooklyn, became a test
case for new immigration rules began on April 7, when he returned to the United
States after a two-week trip to the Dominican Republic.

An immigration inspector at Kennedy International Airport punched Mr. Collado's
alien registration number into his computer and asked him to step aside. "They
asked me if I had ever been convicted of a crime, and I remembered that little
problem I had in 1974 and told them," Mr. Collado said.

While his wife and one daughter waited outside for four hours, Mr. Collado was
ushered into a room and told to wait. Twenty-four hours later, he was told he
was being detained. Two days later, he was sent to Pennsylvania.

An immigration judge ruled in favor of Mr. Collado in May, arguing that the new
laws could not be applied to him because he was already a permanent resident of
the United States, not an arriving alien, a term used for people seeking entry
to the United States. But I.N.S. officials say that the new law applies to any
noncitizen convicted of a crime of moral turpitude.

I.N.S. officials appealed the judge's ruling to the Board of Immigration
Appeals, hoping the board would clarify the statute.

Joseph P. McMonigle, communications director for Senator Spencer Abraham, a
Michigan Republican who supports tougher laws against immigrants who are
criminals, said the immigration agency was going too far. "It is puzzling to us
that I.N.S. continues to pursue cases involving individuals who committed crimes
20 years ago, rehabilitated themselves and are making contributions to society,"
he said.

The dispute over how to interpret the 1996 laws may prompt members of Congress
to call immigration hearings and, if necessary, introduce a bill next year
amending some of the language of the law, Mr. McMonigle said.

The basic question is whether I.N.S officials must detain and try to deport
every immigrant who has committed any of the crimes now punishable with
deportation under the law, which is retroactive. Members of Congress say I.N.S.
should pursue only those cases that merit it, and that the agency still has
prosecutorial discretion.

But I.N.S. officials say the law has stripped them of discretion, and clearly
makes Mr. Collado and others like him criminal aliens subject to deportation.

"We are bound to enforce the law," said one I.N.S. official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  "But we need to know clearly what the law is. We need a
decision to clarify those statutes."

While the issue is debated, people like Mr. Collado linger in detention centers,
sometimes, as in the case of Mr. Collado, surrounded by hardened criminals. Mr.
McMonigle said his office has heard of at least a dozen cases of legal residents
detained for crimes they committed decades ago.

Mr. Collado's lawyer, Stephen D. Converse, said he was investigating the
possibility of asking New York State to pardon Mr. Collado. If a pardon is
granted, I.N.S. could not pursue the case, said Russ Bergeron, an I.N.S.
spokesman.

Meanwhile, Mr. Collado waits.  Yesterday, he said he was having a particularly
bad day, because he was thinking about his mother, who came to the United States
in 1967 and worked two jobs to bring her eight children five years later.

"Did she work all these years for this?" Mr. Collado said.

Mr. Collado's sister, Carmen Collado, wrote a letter to Attorney General Janet
Reno, but received a response on Monday saying that Ms. Reno could not intercede
on her brother's behalf. Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez of Brooklyn and
Queens and Major R. Owens of Brooklyn also wrote on his behalf, but have not yet
heard back.

"Why can't I.N.S. overlook something like this in a permanent, legal resident of
the United States?" Ms. Velazquez said. "This man does nothing but contribute to
our society."

While the I.N.S. demurs, the victim of Mr. Collado's transgression has already
forgiven him. In a letter dated May 20, Melida Alcantara, the mother of Mr.
Collado's former girlfriend, asked an immigration judge for mercy.

"Now I feel extremely guilty that what we did to him," Ms. Alcantara wrote, "so
many years ago, has come back to cause him and his family such pain and
hardship. I truly wish this incident would not have escalated to the point that
it did. Jesus is not a criminal nor a violent or immoral person, and he does not
deserve to be treated as such."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A picture taken from a videotape showing Jesus Collado, a Bronx
restaurant manager, being visited by his wife and family in a prison in York
County, Pa. Mr. Collado, a Dominican who has been an American resident since
1972, faces possible deportation for a crime he was convicted of in 1974.
(Alliance for Justice)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 25, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Frees Immigrant Jailed for 1974 Misdemeanor

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words


Facing a barrage of criticism from members of Congress and advocacy groups,
Federal officials reversed their interpretation of a strict new immigration law
and released a Brooklyn resident yesterday after he had spent 201 days in a
Pennsylvania prison for a 23-year-old misdemeanor.

For more than six months, as Jesus M. Collado, a Dominican immigrant, languished
behind bars, immigration officials had insisted that the new laws had stripped
them of any discretion in the case, even though all sides -- including a Federal
judge who ruled against the agency -- agreed that the stricter rules were not
really intended for people like Mr. Collado, law-abiding residents who had
committed minor crimes many years ago.

But earlier this week, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
revised the regulations they had issued under one provision in the law, and gave
the agency's district directors the power to determine who should remain in
prison and who should be freed.

A free man since early yesterday afternoon, Mr. Collado, a 43-year-old legal
resident of the United States, walked right into the arms of his family and
hundreds of supporters who awaited his release in front of lower Manhattan's
immigration offices. Still, the celebration was shadowed by the knowledge that
Mr. Collado's battles are far from over: the immigration agency still wants to
deport him, but has decided that he can remain free while his case is pending.

The reunion took place on a busy street in Manhattan and not in the privacy of
the family's Brooklyn home because, coincidentally, Mr. Collado was released in
the last hours of a 26-hour vigil to call attention to his plight.

Shortly before 7 last night, an hour after the vigil was scheduled to end, Mr.
Collado stepped out of a green van, accompanied by his lawyer, Stephen D.
Converse, who drove him to New York all the way from York, Pa. Mr. Collado's
family grabbed him in a collective hug before he could set a foot on the
pavement. His daughters, Julissa and Jexenia, kissed his cheeks repeatedly
while, under the glare of 12 television cameras and the flash of photographers,
Mr. Collado's wife, Judith, fainted. She was taken away in an ambulance; family
members said later that she was fine.

Mr. Collado was convicted of statutory rape in 1974, when he was 19, for having
sex with his 15-year-old girlfriend. He was sentenced to just a year's probation
and has never been in trouble since. Although the girl's family has long since
forgiven him and opposes his jailing, under the new immigration laws passed last
year, such a conviction is grounds for deportation.

Immigration officials continue to insist that Mr. Collado should be deported.
But they said that under their new interpretation of the rules, Mr. Collado and
others in similar circumstances could remain free until their cases had been
decided. Another Brooklyn man was also released from York County Prison
yesterday, immigration officials said; they declined to identify him.

The change came about after the agency received dozens of complaints from
advocacy groups, lawyers and members of Congress about how it was interpreting
the new law.

"Initially, we did not think the new law allowed us the flexibility we once
had," said Eric Andrus, an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington. "We have reevaluated
our initial interpretation and now believe that we can restore some of the
flexibility for now."

About 200 legal permanent residents have been detained in cases similar to Mr.
Collado's, officials said. They committed crimes in the United States, left the
country at some point and were arrested when they tried to reenter the country.
Mr. Andrus said only those who have ties to communities, jobs and family, and
who pose no risk, will be released under the revised policy.

Some members of Congress have criticized the agency's interpretation of the law,
saying its officials are using its limited resources to go after law-abiding
residents who committed minor crimes. Instead, the agency should go after
hardened criminals, they said.

Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who supported the new law,
criticized the agency in a Senate speech on Wednesday.

"Either because of an inability to set priorities, difficulty in interrelating
the many different sections of the immigration bill or a combination of both,
they seem to be pursuing some admittedly minor cases aggressively," Mr. Abraham
said. He added that he would conduct hearings to determine "why this is
happening and what is needed to clearly establish the right priorities."

Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, a Democrat from Brooklyn and Queens who
championed the cause of Mr. Collado, said that although she was pleased with the
new interpretation of the law by immigration officials, the language of the law
remained strict and needed to be changed. "Until the law is changed, we will
have many more cases such as Collado's," Ms. Velazquez said before flying to New
York to welcome Mr. Collado.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jesus M. Collado last night outside the Federal immigration
office in lower Manhattan, where his family had been holding a vigil to protest
his imprisonment for a minor 1974 offense. He was freed after 201 days. (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B3); Released after 201 days, Jesus M. Collado
hugged his lawyer, Stephen D. Converse, yesterday outside a Pennsylvania prison.
(Associated Press)(pg. B1)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 5, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Facet of Immigration Law Is Argued

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1043 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4


A constitutional challenge to a Federal immigration law governing the
citizenship of foreign-born illegitimate children who have an American parent
led to a spirited Supreme Court argument today, one that ranged over the
respective natures of motherhood and fatherhood and led Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg to suggest with unusual directness that the Clinton Administration was
endorsing sex discrimination.

The law draws a distinction between a child born overseas to an unmarried
American woman and one born to an unmarried American man. If the mother is a
United States citizen, the child is considered a citizen at birth. But if it is
the father who is the United States citizen, the child has no rights of
citizenship unless the father acknowledges paternity and formally agrees to
support his child before the age of 18.

The distinction amounts to unconstitutional sex discrimination, a lawyer
representing the Philippine-born adult daughter of a Filipino woman and former
American serviceman told the Court today. The father, Charlie Miller, did not
acknowledge his relationship to his daughter, Lorelyn Penero Miller, until
shortly after her 21st birthday, too late to confer American citizenship on her
under the challenged provision of the Immigration and Naturalization Act of
1952. The fact that Ms. Miller is now legally his daughter under the laws of
Texas, where Mr. Miller lives, makes no difference for purposes of her
citizenship.

"The mother has to do nothing except be the mother" while the father has to meet
specific requirements under the law, Ms. Miller's lawyer, Donald R. Patterson,
told the Court.

Justice John Paul Stevens, who as one of the Court's most liberal members was a
likely ally for the attack on the law, threw Mr. Patterson off stride when he
observed that the distinction made sense to him. The identity of the mother "is
established at the moment of birth, no matter where the birth takes place" while
there often are "a lot of questions that have to be resolved" about the father's
identity, he said. Modern genetic testing does not necessarily provide a simple
answer, Justice Stevens said, because the parents may be far apart
geographically by the time the question comes up.

"Isn't it a fact that most of the people affected by this case are the
illegitimate children of U.S. service people and most of those are male?"
Justice Stevens asked Mr. Patterson. "It seems to me there are quite obvious
differences at least justifying some differential treatment," the Justice said
at another point.

Mr. Patterson said it was not permissible for Congress to base legislation on
generalizations. "This Court has said you deal with individuals, not
generalizations," he said.

He said that while the Government argued that children of American mothers are
likely to have a greater sense of attachment to the United States than children
born to far-distant American fathers, an American woman could have a child
overseas and abandon it immediately without jeopardizing the child's American
citizenship.

A debate over the proper role for generalizations as a basis for making law
dominated the second half of the argument, in which Justice Ginsburg and, to a
lesser degree, Justices Stephen G. Breyer and David H. Souter, confronted Edwin
S. Kneedler, a deputy solicitor general who defended the law's
constitutionality.

Describing citizenship as "an attribute of sovereignty," Mr. Kneedler said
Congress was entitled to conclude that a foreign-born child of an American
parent should have a substantial tie with the United States as a condition of
citizenship. When the American parent is the mother, he said, "there is a legal
relationship from the moment of birth that follows the profound experience of
bearing a child."

While it is true that only a woman can bear a child, Justice Ginsburg said, both
parents can care for the child and "increasingly fathers are realizing the joy
and obligation of parenthood." She asked Mr. Kneedler whether the Government was
"retreating" from its strong stand against sex discrimination in its case
against the Virginia Military Institute two years ago.

Justice Ginsburg wrote the Court's opinion holding that the state-supported
military college could not continue to exclude women. Addressing Mr. Kneedler
today, she read from the Clinton Administration's brief in that case, which
asserted that the Government could not make policy based on stereotypes about
the different attributes of men and women "even when those stereotypes reflect
current realities."

The Administration was "certainly not" retreating from its position, Mr.
Kneedler said. Rather, he said, the two cases were simply different. The
Virginia case challenged the "categorical exclusion of women," while in this
case, "all Mr. Miller had to do was take the simple step of making the
relationship legal" by filing a statement of paternity with the State Department
within the legal deadline.

"In the immigration area in particular, Congress is entitled to legislate by
categories," Mr. Kneedler said.

"I'm frankly puzzled," Justice Ginsburg replied, adding that in the Virginia
case, the Government had argued that all legal distinctions on the basis of sex
should be subjected to heightened constitutional scrutiny.  "Are their other
exceptions?" she asked.

In this case, Miller v. Albright, No. 96-1060, the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected Ms. Miller's challenge and
upheld the law on the basis of a 1977 Supreme Court precedent that had rejected
a similar challenge. One judge on the appeals court, Patricia Wald, in a
reluctant concurrence to the appeals court's opinion, said the 1977 case, Fiallo
v. Bell, was a precedent "whose time has come and gone" in light of the Supreme
Court's more recent sex discrimination rulings.

Ms. Miller and her father were in the courtroom audience today, a fact her
lawyer acknowledged only obliquely when he answered a question from Chief
Justice William H. Rehnquist about whether Ms. Miller had ever visited the
United States. "My client is presently in the United States," was all Mr.
Patterson replied. Having recently married an American citizen, Ms. Miller is
now a legal resident.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 8, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Immigration Court Grants Asylum to German Scientologist

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Nov. 7


A Federal immigration court judge has granted asylum to a German member of the
Church of Scientology who claimed that she would be subjected to religious
persecution had she been required to return to her homeland, the woman's lawyer
and a Scientology official said today.

While few details of the case were available, it is believed to be the first
time the United States has given asylum protection to a Scientologist. The
Church of Scientology has been waging a highly public international campaign
against what it considers discrimination against its members by the German
Government.

The asylum case comes as the treatment of Scientologists in Germany remains a
topic of dispute between Washington and Bonn, which has refused to recognize
Scientology as a religion.

Officials at the German Embassy in Washington said today that they had not heard
of the asylum decision and would have no reaction until it was confirmed.

For the last four years, the State Department has criticized Germany's treatment
of Scientologists in its annual human rights report. But the dry language of the
reports did not reach a level that might have been expected to justify asylum.

An immigration court judge decided to approve the woman's application to remain
in this country after a hearing last February. Officials at the State Department
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington said they were
unaware of the case.

John E. Lund, an immigration lawyer in Tampa who represents the German woman,
said his client was in the United States legally.

"She voluntarily applied for asylum," Mr. Lund said, "and the matter was
referred to the immigration court by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The court made the decision, based on her individual facts, that she should be
granted asylum."

Mr. Lund said the woman's case was not part of any orchestrated effort by the
Church of Scientology to publicize its claims of discrimination.

"Our matter was totally outside of any campaign by the church," Mr. Lund said.
"This individual was acting solely on her own."

To protect relatives still in Germany, Mr. Lund and Scientology officials
refused to disclose the woman's name or where she lived.

The asylum process is closed to the public for the protection of asylum seekers,
said Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for the Executive Office for Immigration
Review, which oversees the immigration courts. Mr. Kenney said the decision of
an immigration judge was final unless the Immigration and Naturalization Service
appealed.

Kurt Weiland, an official with the Church of Scientology International, said a
dozen German witnesses testified at the immigration hearing that the woman faced
severe persecution in her homeland.

"She proved her suffering, the damage she experienced emotionally and
economically, and how she was ostracized from society, all for no other reason
than her religion," Mr. Weiland said.

German officials consider Scientology an extremist organization dedicated to
bilking its parishioners of money. The German Government has barred
Scientologists from membership in major political parties and placed the
organization under surveillance. Some local governments have prohibited
Scientologists from holding public service jobs.

Church members in Germany also claim that they have been barred from other types
of jobs, that their businesses have been boycotted and that their children have
been expelled from public schools.

Under international standards and American law, actions that restrict a person's
rights to practice his or her religion, including prohibitions against
membership in political parties or holding government jobs, could constitute
persecution, said Karen Musalo, a lawyer and director of the international human
rights project at Santa Clara University in California.

"Taken cumulatively," Ms. Musalo said, "these constitute serious forms of
discrimination against the practitioners of a particular religion for the sole
reason of their membership in this religion."

Under immigration law, religious persecution is one of five justifications for
granting asylum to a foreigner in the United States. The others are race,
nationality, political opinion and membership in a particular social group.
People who are granted asylum are generally allowed to become permanent
residents within a year.

In the first eight months of the current fiscal year, immigration judges heard
54,276 applications for asylum and granted 4,293 of them.

Mr. Kenney said that a decision made by a judge in one case would not be binding
on applications by people in similar situations. Each request for asylum, he
said, is judged individually.

A State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said he was unaware of the
Scientology asylum case. But Mr. Rubin said the treatment of Scientologists in
Germany was discussed on Wednesday by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright
in a meeting in Washington with Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel of Germany.

The Clinton Administration has discussed the issue several times with German
officials. While maintaining that Scientologists should be granted religious
freedom, Ms. Albright herself accused the church of distorting history last
summer when it compared its treatment to the persecution of Jews in Nazi
Germany.

In January, 34 show-business celebrities ranging from actors to studio heads
signed a $56,000 full-page advertisement in The International Herald Tribune
scolding Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany for his Government's "shameful
pattern of organized persecution" of the Church of Scientology.

The German Government has maintained that Scientology is not a religion, but a
profit-making venture. Officials have argued that restricting the activities of
the church members is necessary to protect against the expansion of an extremist
group in a nation with acute sensitivities on the subject.

Until a landmark reversal in 1993, the United States Government also refused to
recognize Scientology as an organized religion. In that year, the Internal
Revenue Service granted tax-exempt status to the organization.

Congress entered the dispute last week. The House International Relations
Committee approved a resolution condemning the German Government for its
treatment of Scientologists and members of other minority religions.

The resolution drew a sharp protest from Foreign Minister Kinkel, who called the
accusations of discrimination baseless and argued that Scientology's goals in
Germany were exclusively economic.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 19, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Plea of Guilty In '94 Shooting Is Renounced

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 306 words


A Jordanian immigrant who pleaded guilty to hindering prosecution after a 1994
terrorist attack on yeshiva students on the Brooklyn Bridge has asked a state
judge to withdraw his guilty plea.

The immigrant, Bassam Reyati, wants to withdraw his plea and face a trial on
charges that he helped a gunman hide the car he used in the attack on the
students, his lawyer said. The gunman, Rashid Baz, is serving a life sentence
for the murder of 16-year-old Aaron Halberstam, who was killed in the attack.

The lawyer, Joyce David, said Mr. Reyati wanted to withdraw the guilty plea
because it was instrumental in an immigration judge's decision to deport him.
Mr. Reyati, who is married to an American citizen, has tried to remain in the
United States following his guilty plea.

Prosecutors said yesterday that they would file papers opposing the request by
the end of this week.

Ms. David said Mr. Reyati's original plea, in June 1996, was made on the
condition that it not influence his immigration status. She said that court
transcripts confirmed that the judge and the prosecutor both agreed to that
condition.

The judge who accepted the plea bargain, Harold J. Rothwax, died earlier this
year after suffering a stroke. The judge who has replaced him on the case, Carol
Berkman, said in court yesterday that she would review arguments from both sides
before rendering a decision next month. If the judge allows the withdrawal, the
District Attorney's office could take Mr. Reyati to trial. If convicted, he
would face a sentence of up to four years.

Mr. Reyati, the former owner of a Brooklyn car service, was sentenced to five
years probation under his original plea. Last month, he was arrested in Brooklyn
and charged with receiving stolen property. That case is under review by a
Brooklyn grand jury, Ms. David said.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Law Hurts Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words



To the Editor:

"New Rules at U.S. Borders Provoke Criticism" (front page, Nov. 14) spotlights
the unreviewable discretion the new immigration law grants low-level immigration
inspectors at airports and land borders to summarily deport and penalize those
entering the United States. The cases cited pale in comparison to the effect
these new procedures have on those who arrive fleeing torture and political
persecution in places like China, Iraq, Colombia and Congo.

You quote Representative Lamar Smith as saying that mistakes are "an expected
and natural part of the process." That's why it's wrong to apply these
procedures to refugees, whose lives hang in the balance. The prior system
contained safeguards against arbitrary decision-making that comported with
international standards of refugee protection.

Under the prior system, our obligation to refugees was carried out under a
system allowing for legal representation and judicial review. But now this
weighty responsibility lies with immigration inspectors.

ELISA MASSIMINO
Dir., Washington Office, Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights
Washington, Nov. 14, 1997

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Dashed Dreams: Visas Invalid, Airline Workers Told

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words


When Delta Air Lines decided in January to shut down its base in Warsaw, Slawek
Bardski, a flight attendant there, saw it as an opportunity. The company said it
would move him and his wife, Anna, to New York.

Eager for the chance at prosperity that America represented, they rented out
their prized one-bedroom apartment near downtown Warsaw, sold their white Fiat,
said goodbye to friends and family and moved to Wantagh on Long Island, a town
that reminded Mrs. Bardski of the village where she grew up. They loved their
new home and were eagerly awaiting the birth of their first child.

Now the Bardskis and 27 other families who also left Poland to work for Delta in
New York have seen their new lives turned upside down. Immigration officials
have ruled that their work visas were issued by mistake and that all 28 flight
attendants and their families must leave the country within two weeks -- even
though they have no jobs back in Poland, and in many cases no homes.

Delta executives say that they are sorry to lose their workers, but that they
have exhausted their efforts to appeal the decision. Officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which has come under fire repeatedly
from critics who accuse it of inefficiency and bungling -- admit the mistake was
theirs, but say they have no choice under the law except to send the workers
home.

And the people in the middle of the mix-up are left to wonder how their dreams
of a new start fell apart so quickly and so completely.

"The first thing I thought about was our baby," Mr. Bardski, 29, said in an
interview. "My wife is nine months' pregnant. She expects to deliver any day."

"It just seems heartless and mean," he said.

Delta Air Lines will provide a severance package for the workers, said Kimberly
King, a spokeswoman for the company, though the details have not been worked
out. They could also be eligible for a transfer to another international base,
she said.

But the flight attendants want to stay, and they have retained the Manhattan law
firm of Wildes & Weinberg to challenge the immigration agency's decision.

"This is not what the Federal Government should be known for doing to
well-educated and well-meaning people who came here legally," said Michael J.
Wildes, the lawyer representing the group. "This should not happen."

He said he would first try to persuade the immigration agency to reopen its
appeals process, but that he was prepared to go to court and ask a judge to
overturn the decision if necessary.

The visas involved, called intracompany transfer visas, are usually reserved for
managers or employees with special knowledge of a company, and immigration
officials now say the Delta workers do not qualify. But Mr. Wildes contended
that the flight attendants should be eligible, citing their language skills and
knowledge of Eastern Europe.

Mr. Wildes said that one flight attendant was distraught at the prospect of
having to return to his native Kenya, where he has not lived for more than a
decade. He cannot return to Poland, where he worked for Delta for 12 years,
because his visa there has expired, and now he cannot stay in the United States
either.

Another worker, Ilona Kieltyka, 34, said the upheaval had already taken an
emotional toll on her and her family. When she first learned last month that her
job was in jeopardy, she sent her 15-year-old daughter, Agnieszka, back to
Warsaw to live with the girl's grandmother. Now, Ms. Kieltyka lives alone in a
tidy apartment in the East Village.

"I didn't want her to miss school during all of this," Ms. Kieltyka said. "It's
been very hard. I miss her. She was ready to start her life here. She even went
to school here for a while."

Elzbieta Jaworska, 37, had left her husband and 14-year-old daughter behind in
Warsaw, planning to send for them once she got settled. It was a difficult
decision, she said, but the chance to come to the United States had seemed too
good to pass up. "I didn't want to leave my country, but on the other hand, it
was a tremendous opportunity," Mrs. Jaworska said. "So I took it."

Mrs. Jaworska found herself a studio apartment in Kew Gardens, Queens, which
allowed her to travel between the city's two airports with ease.

"The change was huge," she said. "I had to go through a lot to adjust.
Everything was different: the medical care, the insurance. I had to transfer
everything from Poland to here." She had planned to stay at least three years,
she said; now she must figure out how to start again in Poland.

The problem apparently started last summer, when an immigration examiner at a
regional I.N.S. office in Vermont approved Delta's application for the transfer
visas, said Amy Otten, a spokeswoman for the agency in Vermont.

The visas are temporary, but can be renewed annually for up to seven years. Last
year, the agency issued about 140,457 such visas, including 66,357 from Europe
and 188 from Poland.

The visas have never before been issued to flight attendants, said Russell A.
Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration agency in Washington. "The purpose
of these visas is not to take a whole existing office and transfer it to the
United States lock, stock and barrel," Mr. Bergeron said. "Employers are
required to demonstrate, if they are applying for a visa, that they meet the
criteria for the purpose for which that visa was intended."

The mistake was discovered in September by an immigration official at Kennedy
International Airport, who was surprised to see a flight attendant with the
special visa and checked with his superiors. Though the agency is still trying
to determine exactly how the error was made, officials do not plan to discipline
the examiner who made the decision, Ms. Otten said.

D. Scott Yohe, Delta's senior vice president for government affairs in
Washington, said that because the process of seeking intra-company transfer
visas was unfamiliar to them, company executives decided to submit three test
applications before making a pitch to the Warsaw employees to move to New York.
When those three expedited applications were approved, they submitted 35 more
applications, which were approved in June, he said.

"Instead of terminating those individuals, because they had continued value to
our organization, we decided to bring them over here," Mr. Yohe said. "We are as
disappointed as they are about what happened. We felt like there was good and
sufficient reason for the I.N.S. to issue these things. We were disappointed
that the I.N.S. reversed itself because these workers have always been superior
employees."

But good intentions are of little solace to the flight attendants. They want to
get on with their lives in the United States.

With a hand on her rounded stomach, Mrs. Bardski expressed concern about the
future of her child, who could become an American citizen if born before Dec. 5,
when the flight attendants must leave.

"We feel afraid to leave the States right now," she said. "We felt good for
America. We are sorry that we might have to go back."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elzbieta Jaworska left her husband and daughter in Warsaw,
planning to send for them. She said the chance to come to New York had seemed
too good to pass up. (Timothy Fadek for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Michael J.
Wildes, standing, is representing a group of Delta flight attendants from Warsaw
in their efforts to stay in the United States. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York
Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 25, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Delta Workers Are Given Reprieve From Order to Leave U.S.

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 620 words


Twenty-eight Delta Air Lines flight attendants who were told last week to return
to Poland because their visas had been issued by mistake can stay in New York
while the airline appeals the decision, officials said yesterday.

The announcement gives at least a temporary reprieve to the flight attendants,
who last summer accepted Delta's offer to transfer to New York after the airline
closed its base of operations in Warsaw. Many had sold homes and cars and had
uprooted families for the chance to work in the United States.

Both immigration officials and airline executives said last week that the
attendants would have to leave the country by Dec. 5, after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service ruled that they should not have been granted special
visas to work for Delta in New York. The airline said it had exhausted its
appeals, and the Federal agency said it had no choice under the law but to
demand that the workers depart.

But yesterday, immigration officials said the airline could appeal the decision
and the workers could stay while the appeal was considered, which could take up
to a year. That announcement came after the workers had retained an immigration
lawyer, Michael J. Wildes, to press their case, and their plight was described
in an article last week in The New York Times.

Elected officials and others expressed dismay over the agency's handling of the
case. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, for example, wrote to Doris M. Meissner, the
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, urging her to find a
way to allow the attendants to stay.

Immigration officials said yesterday that the airline had failed to take
additional steps to appeal the decision barring the workers. Russell A. Bergeron
Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said that
correspondence sent to Delta clearly stated that it had the right to appeal the
decision formally.

"If there was no appeal filed by Dec. 5, then they would have had to leave," Mr.
Bergeron said.

But Delta executives said they had been led to believe there was nothing further
they could do.

"We thought our original application was complete. We thought all the i's were
dotted and the t's were crossed," said Kimberly King, a spokeswoman for Delta in
Atlanta.

Neither immigration officials nor executives for the airline would speculate on
what the outcome of the appeal might be. But Mr. Wildes has said he would argue
that the workers were entitled to the visas and that the immigration service was
wrong to revoke them.

The visas involved, called intracompany transfer visas, are usually issued to
managers or to employees with special knowledge of a company. Immigration
officials said an immigration examiner at a regional office in Vermont had been
wrong to approve the visas for the Delta workers because flight attendants did
not qualify for the special status. The mistake was discovered in September by
an immigration official at Kennedy International Airport, who was surprised to
see a flight attendant with the special visa, and checked with his superiors.

Mr. Bergeron defended the agency's ruling that the flight attendants had to
leave the country. "Once we discovered that an error in judgment had been made,"
he said, "we had an obligation to set the record straight, because these
determinations form the basis for future decisions."

In a case that has been beset by problems from the beginning, the workers are
now wondering whom they can trust.

"I wonder how can you rely on a company that says we are out and then we are
in," said Slawek Bardski, a flight attendant, whose wife is expecting a child.
"We are pleased, but at the same time we don't feel any security."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 26, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Get Help

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 215 words



To the Editor:

A Nov. 22 editorial advocates giving Haitian immigrants the same permanent legal
status that Congress recently enacted for Central American refugees. But the
Haitians have no similar claims of unfair treatment by the Government and have
been treated better than immigrants from nearly every other country.

For example, the "Guantanamo Haitians" were allowed into the United States and
received work permits while they pursued asylum claims. During the last 11
years, more than 200,000 legal immigrants from Haiti have been admitted, a
higher percentage of that country's population than from almost any other
country.

By contrast, many Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans were not given a real
chance to make their case for asylum. Those from El Salvador and Guatemala filed
suit and won the right to special consideration of their asylum claims in the
future.

Finally, you would allow every foreigner who is denied entry into the United
States to appeal to a Federal court. We tried that. It was a major factor in
increasing the population of permanent illegal immigrants in the United States
to more than five million.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Washington, Nov. 24, 1997

The writer is chairman of the House Immigration and Claims Subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Immigrants Haven't Had Special Help

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words



To the Editor:

I disagree with Representative Lamar Smith's justifications for excluding
Haitian immigrants from legislation Congress just passed to ameliorate the
effects of the 1996 immigration law for immigrants from Cuba, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Nicaragua and Eastern Europe (letter, Nov. 26).

He asserts that immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala merit special
consideration because they had to file suit to have their asylum claims heard.

But this is also true of Haitian immigrants. In a series of lawsuits beginning
in 1978, Federal judges have found that Haitians seeking asylum were the victims
of discrimination by the Government.

Representative Smith notes that 200,000 Haitians have been admitted into this
country in the last 11 years, or about 3 percent of Haiti's population. He
ignores the fact that more than 500,000 Cubans, almost 5 percent of Cuba's
population, and about 400,000 Salvadorans, or 7 percent of that country's
population, have been admitted to the United States since 1971.

(Rep.) CARRIE P. MEEK
Member of Congress, 17th Dist., Fla.
Washington, Nov. 26, 1997


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 4, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Refugees Improve U.S. Quality of Life;
New Death Squads

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 161 words



To the Editor:

James R. Edwards Jr. (Op-Ed, Dec. 2) wrongly assails Congress's recent relaxing
of the 1996 immigration reform legislation.

First, he argues that the Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Nicaraguans could return
home today and not fear persecution. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The
individuals who perpetrated the bloody massacres of the 1980's are still at
large, and new death squads have reportedly been formed in El Salvador.

Secondly, Mr. Edwards is mistaken in his assertion that the majority of the
refugees have not filed for political asylum. Most have applied for political
asylum and have cases pending before the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Thirdly, Mr. Edwards seems to feel that immigrants are somehow hurting our
country. Immigrants provide not only an economic boost but an enthusiasm and
appreciation for what it means to live in the United States.

ALEX SCHAFRAN
Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 3, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 4, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Refugees Improve U.S. Quality of Life;
No 'Special Treatment'

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words



To the Editor:

James R. Edwards Jr. (Op-Ed, Dec. 2) wrongly attacks recent legislation
ameliorating one aspect of the 1996 immigration law by complaining that it
grants "special treatment" to undeserving Central Americans.

In the 1980's the United States perverted the asylum process to serve its cold
war foreign policy. Tens of thousands of Salvadorans and Guatemalans fleeing
human rights abuses and civil war came here and should have received asylum and
legal residence years ago. But their asylum applications were rejected solely to
allow the Reagan Administration to deny that foreign aid was going to regimes
engaged in human rights violations.

It took a lawsuit and settlement to finally end our Government's discrimination
against Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees. But before that settlement could be
put in place, President Clinton signed the 1996 immigration law and took away a
protection against deportation available to longtime residents. All Congress has
done for Salvadorans and Guatemalans is restore the pre-1996 deportation
protection rules. This would not have been necessary if these refugees had been
treated fairly in the first place.

LUCAS GUTTENTAG
New York, Dec. 3, 1997

The writer is director of the American Civil Liberties Union immigrants' rights
project.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Road To Asylum

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


To protect the dignity she still has, I shall call her Fatima Kwakuud. She is a
Somali woman who fled rape and threatened murder in her terrorized country to
seek asylum in the United States. Her story has a happier ending than many, but
what happened along the way shows how difficult the asylum process can be under
the 1996 immigration law.

Somalia has for years now been riven by warfare between clans. When Ms.
Kwakuud's parents were targeted in the conflict and killed by a bomb in their
home, she and her children left Mogadishu for the countryside. But on the way
out of the city she was gang-raped, in the presence of her children, by members
of an antagonistic clan. Three cousins who tried to protect her were killed.

Her extended family, fearing that she would be a continuing target for attack,
arranged for her to leave the country. Because there is no central government in
Somalia and no way to get a passport, she got false papers.

Ms. Kwakuud arrived at Kennedy Airport in New York in May, shortly after the new
immigration law went into effect. Under that law she was held for two days, then
interviewed by an Immigration and Naturalization Service asylum officer to see
whether she had a "credible fear" of persecution in Somalia.

The interview was unavoidably difficult: a devout Muslim woman telling strangers
about being raped. But she had an advantage that many asylum applicants do not.
A volunteer lawyer had heard about her and was there to help. Often the process
moves too fast for the person seeking refuge to get any help.

The asylum officer believed Ms. Kwakuud, finding that she did have a credible
fear. But under the new law, that only opened the way for her to apply for
asylum at a hearing before an immigration judge.

While she waited for that hearing, she was held in an I.N.S. detention center, a
converted warehouse in Queens. She had to wear an orange prison jumpsuit: again
difficult for a woman who had worn clothing that covered her from head to foot.

She was in the prison for four months. She had relatives in this country --
American citizens -- who wanted to take her in, but the New York district of the
I.N.S. denied her parole.

The immigration judge granted asylum to Fatima Kwakuud. She is safe here now;
her husband and children are in hiding somewhere in the Somali countryside.

One thing in her case raises a question for the statute and I.N.S. policy: Why
should a person who has been found to have a credible fear of persecution be
kept in prison until the asylum hearing? Many, perhaps most, asylum applicants
have been tortured or raped. Prison seems an unnecessary further trauma -- and
an expensive one for the United States.

The wait for a hearing may be far longer than Ms. Kwakuud's; I know of one woman
who has been waiting for 10 months now. And asylum applicants are often held not
in I.N.S. detention centers but in state and local prisons, where they are mixed
in with hardened criminals.

Moreover, the I.N.S. practice is not uniform. In New Jersey and other districts,
applicants who have passed the credible-fear test are judged case by case and
may be granted parole if they are found to pose no risk of flight. In the New
York district, according to lawyers, I.N.S. officials allow parole only for
those who are witnesses or who have extreme medical emergencies.

The I.N.S., I believe, has been trying to administer fairly the new threshold
requirement to show "credible fear." But the process is so hasty that there is
no way of avoiding mistakes, especially because the 1996 act bars judicial
review.

The new legal process that confronts men and women fleeing persecution would
daunt most Americans. Eleanor Acer of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights,
which provides volunteer counsel for them, says, "Just think how traumatic it is
for someone who doesn't speak our language or know our culture to go through the
process."

The Congress that passed the new immigration act -- and President Clinton, who
signed it -- were presumably concerned about abuses by fraudulent asylum
applicants. But experience under the act shows that it can meet that point while
being made less costly to administer and less harsh to those fleeing savagery.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Our Hungry Legal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words


Close to a million legal immigrants across the country have had food stamps
revoked under the 1996 welfare law, 50,000 in New York City alone. The city's
food distributions to soup kitchens and food pantries are soaring, and some are
reportedly running out of food each month. But statistics mask the individual
tragedies. As reported by Rachel Swarns of The Times, a mother of four from
Trinidad has been forced to use her rent money for food and substitute Kool-Aid
for orange juice. A Peruvian mother spends her days pleading for groceries in
one food pantry after another.

White House officials will meet next week to decide what programs need
additional money next year. No item should rank higher than food stamps for the
legal immigrants cut off by the harsh 1996 act. Congressional leaders and some
Administration officials smugly believe that this year's balanced-budget plan
corrected the worst of the 1996 cuts in aid to immigrants. But Congress restored
Medicaid coverage and cash assistance for only some elderly and disabled
immigrants. It did not restore food stamps. Food stamps are crucial because they
are the only surviving welfare program whose benefits are set by Washington and
not dependent on the generosity of state legislatures.

A dozen states, including New York, have decided to spend their own money
restoring food stamps for immigrants. But almost all of these state programs
cover only some groups of immigrants, like children or the elderly, and are
likely to shrink once state budgets contract under the weight of the next
recession. Even in these generous states, however, the picture is not pretty. In
New York, for example, a Cambodian father of six has seen the value of food
stamps fall to $127 a month from $354. A Dominican mother of three has lost $214
a month in food stamps.

Rising tax revenues in flush economic times should give the Administration some
leeway to raise spending next year. White House officials have already drawn up
a tentative list of entitlement programs to trim to make way for new
initiatives. The cost of restoring food stamps need not be huge. Providing them
for immigrant households with children would cost only about $400 million a year
-- a small price to put food back on children's plates.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Money, Not Miracles, Is Reviving South Bronx;
Immigration's Cost

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 132 words



To the Editor:

You beg an important question in "Our Hungry Legal Immigrants" (editorial, Dec.
13): Why are we admitting immigrants who cannot feed themselves without the
generous assistance of native-born taxpayers? One million immigrants on food
stamps is a substantial fraction of our total immigrant population. Where is it
written that America must be the almshouse to the world?

Congress has the power -- and the duty -- to correct this through selective
immigration. First preference must go to college graduates and their immediate
families, and second to high school graduates and their families. Only then
would family reunification immigration be allowed, under a limit of perhaps
400,000 immigrants a year.

WARREN WETMORE
Hazel Crest, Ill., Dec. 13, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 21, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Agents Learn to Assess Tales of Torture

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words


In a sunny fourth-floor conference room at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan, 10 of
the Government's most experienced immigration officers who decide which refugees
shall stay, and which shall be turned away, met last week over bagels and coffee
to talk about torture.

Aided by color slides, they discussed in gory detail electrocutions, beatings,
burnings and other afflictions that leave visible scars. They also delved into
suffocation, sleep deprivation, mock executions and other forms of psychological
torment that leave no telltale marks.

Then came the hard part: figuring out how to listen to horror story after horror
story from refugees, to decide who is lying and who is telling the truth and
still remain sensitive to the plight of some of America's most vulnerable
immigrants.

In an unusual pilot program, the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service has hired doctors, psychologists and even Broadway actors to teach its
asylum officers how to better judge whether refugees are truly the victims of
torture and deserve Government protection.

Officers also honed their interview skills to delicately divine the information
they need without touching off an onslaught of traumatic memories for the
refugee.

"This training will enable asylum officers to more easily identify people who
are the victims of torture, or trauma sufferers," said Wally Bird, an asylum
supervisor in Lyndhurst, N.J., who completed the two-week course given by the
Bellevue/New York University Program for Survivors of Torture and the Center for
Victims of Torture, in Minneapolis.

The new training comes at a pivotal time for the 300 members of the asylum
corps, who are often the first contact that refugees have with the Government.
More than 130,000 people applied for asylum last year, and experts say that 5
percent to 35 percent of them are survivors of torture. The immigration service
grants only about 20 percent of asylum requests.

Increasing the pressure on asylum officers to make the right call is a new law
intended to swiftly weed out groundless asylum claims from refugees who arrive
here with false papers or no documents at all.

The statute denies newly arriving asylum seekers full hearings with legal
representation and the right to Federal appeals unless they quickly convince
immigration officials that they have a "credible fear" of persecution in their
native countries. Those found to have no "significant possibility" of winning
asylum can be deported in nine days.

Before the law took effect on April 1, refugees without documents who sought
asylum were allowed to stay while their cases were heard. If immigration judges
ruled against them, the refugees could appeal to the Federal courts.

"The new law places additional responsibility on the asylum officers," said
Eleanor Acer, coordinator of asylum programs for the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, an advocacy group. "They're now forced to make life-and-death decisions
within a few days of someone's arrival in this country."

Other human rights advocates say that additional training cannot make up for a
law that rushes some of the most vulnerable immigrants through a complex process
without adequate legal safeguards. The result, these advocates say, is that some
legitimate refugees may be sent back to the countries they fled.

"More sensitivity is better, but training and sensitivity can never compensate
for a fundamentally flawed process," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the
American Civil Liberties Union's immigrant rights project, which has filed suit
to block the new law.

Top immigration service officials say they are mindful of their new powers.
"We're being very cautious about how we exercise this authority," said Paul W.
Virtue, the agency's executive associate commissioner for programs.

A three-week training course taken by all new asylum officers includes a lecture
on identifying signs of torture in refugees. But the two-week pilot program,
which ended on Thursday, was the most comprehensive training asylum officers
have ever received on torture. The immigration service said it would decide
whether to expand the training to more officers after polling the participants
of the pilot course.

Those officers are recommending the training to their colleagues, and with good
reason.

Torture survivors are arriving with symptoms that are becoming more difficult to
discern. "Tragically, torturers around the world are becoming increasingly
sophisticated in the methods they use," said Dr. Allen S. Keller, an internist
who heads the Bellevue-N.Y.U. program.

Many of the new techniques leave no physical scars and are indigenous to
specific cultures. For example, human rights advocates say, the Chinese
authorities take a mere vial of blood from imprisoned Tibetan monks and
carelessly discard it, violating strict religious tenets that govern the
disposal of bodily fluids.

"It depletes the Tibetans' spiritual energy and leaves them depressed," said Dr.
David Eisenman, the Bellevue program's associate medical director, who has
treated several Tibetans in Manhattan.

Asylum officers also heard about a West African diplomat who was locked for more
than a year in a closet-sized room with racks of 500-watt light bulbs that were
never turned off. The diplomat, who is seeking political asylum here, bore no
physical scars, but suffered debilitating effects from a lack of sleep.

"There's a feeling that someone who's been tortured is going to have scars on
his arms, is having nightmares and bursts into tears," Dr. Keller said. "It's
not that simple."

The signs may be as subtle as a loss of hearing or inattentiveness.

In mock interviews with actors playing the roles of torture survivors, asylum
officers learned that torture victims often do not tell their stories clearly
and coherently.

Sitting in the Bellevue conference room on Thursday, Mr. Bird gently questioned
Michelle Ingkavet, an actress playing the role of a 20-year-old Chinese woman
whose profile was drawn from real cases. The mock interview went slowly, as Ms.
Ingkavet fidgeted, dabbed at tears and barely whispered short replies to Mr.
Bird's questions.

Every few minutes, specialists in the room gave Mr. Bird an on-the-spot
critique: Slow down your questioning. Let her tell her own story. Watch for
nonverbal cues. Build her trust.

In addition to sensitizing asylum officers, the pilot program sought to deal
with the stress officers experience listening to refugees' histories.

The concern is so widespread that the San Francisco asylum office has hired
counselors to help its 25 officers manage stress. Ultimately, the move could
benefit asylum seekers.

"If you hear too many of these stories, you're liable to become numb and
unresponsive," Dr. Eisenman said. "And if that happens, the officers may not
believe them."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Is she a torture victim or a fraud? Michelle Ingkavet, an
actress, took part in a training session for asylum officers on Thursday in
Manhattan. Wally Bird, a supervisory officer, questioned her under experts'
guidance. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 36)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Detention Centers Need Monitoring;
Unwarm Welcome

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words



To the Editor:

Regrettably, I can confirm the aggressive behavior of the United States
immigration officials on that Nov. 30 New York-bound train ("Border Wars: Using
Law as a Weapon," news article, Dec. 23).

Traveling aboard Amtrak's scenic "Adirondack" to Montreal over the Thanksgiving
holiday weekend, I was stunned by the stark differences in the demeanor of the
immigration officers on the two sides of the border.

On the trip north, the Canadian inspector greeted the coach's passengers with a
warm smile and welcomed us to Canada (in two languages), while her American
counterpart, on the return trip, barked threatening orders to us -- 90 percent
of the passengers were Americans returning home -- as if we were fresh recruits
at a marine boot camp, immediately souring a wonderful trip.

Come on, I.N.S., surely you can do better.

IRA SOHN
New York, Dec. 23, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

After 15 Years in Court, Workers' Lawsuit Against Trump Faces Yet Another Delay

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words


Eighteen years ago, Wojciech Kozak helped build Trump Tower, the skyscraper
jewel in Donald J. Trump's real-estate empire. Today, Mr. Kozak recalls that
time with nightmare memories of backbreaking 12-hour shifts and of being cheated
with 200 other undocumented Polish immigrants out of meager wages and fringe
benefits.

"We worked in horrid, terrible conditions," Mr. Kozak said of the six months he
spent in 1980 wielding a sledgehammer and a blowtorch in demolishing the Bonwit
Teller Building on Fifth Avenue to make way for Trump Tower. "We were frightened
illegal immigrants and did not know enough about our rights."

Mr. Kozak, like other laborers on that job, has no hope of collecting about
$4,000 in back wages from a contracting company that began the demolition and
later became insolvent. But after almost two decades, the demolition workers are
still struggling to compel Mr. Trump and his business associates to compensate a
union's welfare funds and thus increase pension and medical benefits for some of
the Polish workers.

Mr. Kozak is now a party and witness in a class-action lawsuit that has
meandered through the Federal courts for 15 years and charges that Mr. Trump
owes $4 million to the union welfare funds for the work the Poles performed.
Filed in 1983, the suit has been bogged down by a torrent of motions and appeals
of judicial decisions and by the deaths of a judge, a lawyer, the original lead
plaintiffs, an important witness and two of Mr. Trump's co-defendants.

In an effort to resolve the tangled case -- one of the oldest on the civil
dockets of the Federal District Court in Manhattan -- Judge Kevin T. Duffy last
month warned lawyers for both sides to be prepared to begin a jury trial on 48
hours' notice.

But on Thursday, in a development that could delay the trial yet again, Judge
Duffy ordered the case assigned to another judge. Lawyers for both sides said
the 48-hour notice was still in effect, but that it was unclear when the trial
would start.

Mr. Trump denies that he was aware of the working conditions at the site in 1980
or that any of the demolition workers were undocumented immigrants. He is also
chal lenging claims that he is liable for payments to the union that were evaded
by the demolition contractor.

"All we did was to try to keep a job going that was started by someone else,"
Mr. Trump, in an interview, said of his company's efforts to guarantee that the
demolition contractor paid wages to employees. "In fact, we helped people and it
has cost a lot of money in legal fees."

Mr. Kozak and other Polish immigrants who were hired for the demolition said in
interviews that they often worked in choking clouds of asbestos dust without
protective equipment. They accepted the conditions because they thought the job
would pay 10 times as much as they could earn in Poland, said Mr. Kozak, 56, a
slightly built man who became an American citizen and joined a laborers' union.

Julian Nalepa, 63, who suffered a head injury in the demolition, said he and
fellow workers were baffled by the unending suit. "It makes you think that only
the rich have rights in the courts," he said.

The demolition project on Fifth Avenue and 56th Street lasted from January to
June 1980. It cleared the way for an ornate 68-story glass-sheathed structure
containing shops and an atrium on the lower floors and 263 condominium
apartments above that originally sold for $500,000 to $10 million each.

The tower was financed and built by Mr. Trump's development company, the Trump
Organization, and the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States.

According to court records and testimony, the Trump-Equitable joint venture
hired Kaszycki and Sons Contractors Inc. at a fee of $775,000 to raze Bonwit
Teller's 10-story flagship department store although the contractor had little
demolition experience. Demolition Workers Local 95 of the Laborers'
International Union of North America had a collective bargaining agreement with
the Kaszycki company, of Herkimer, N.Y., requiring it to pay specified wages to
union and nonunion workers at the Trump Tower site and to make additional
payments for each worker into the local's pension and medical insurance funds.

Wendy E. Sloan and Lewis M. Steel, lawyers for current and retired Local 95
members in the suit, assert that William Kaszycki, owner of the contracting
company, hired about 200 Polish immigrants who were not Local 95 members and
agreed to pay them $4 to $5 an hour on 12-hour shifts seven days a week.

The Kaszycki company, the plaintiffs said, violated the union's $11-an-hour
minimum wage scale and made payments to the local's welfare funds for only 12 to
15 employees. The contractor also failed to pay the 200 Poles their full wages,
causing work stoppages and delays.

The plaintiffs contend that Mr. Trump was desperate to meet demolition and
construction deadlines and that his company in May 1980 began supervising the
demolition, assuming full responsibility for adhering to the union contract and
for the payments to the union welfare funds.

When the suit was filed in 1983, the lead plaintiff was Harry J. Diduck, a
dissident member of Local 95. Mr. Diduck had not worked at Trump Tower but
maintained that that he and about 500 Local 95 members and retirees lost medical
and pension benefits because Trump-Equitable and the Kaszycki company owed the
union funds more than $300,000.

After eight years of arguments and a nonjury trial on some of the issues, in
1991 Judge Charles E. Stewart of Federal District Court in Manhattan ruled that
Mr. Trump and his associates conspired with Local 95's president, John Senyshyn,
to withhold payments to the funds. He determined that Trump-Equitable owed
$325,415 plus interest.

Both sides, however, appealed the findings and each won partial victories. A
Federal appeals court upheld most of Judge Stewart's decisions but ruled that
Trump-Equitable had been denied a full opportunity to rebut the charge that the
funds had been damaged by the loss of contributions for the Polish workers.

The appeals court also ruled that Judge Stewart wrongly dismissed a claim by the
plaintiffs that the Trump group was responsible for payments to the funds
because it had been the workers' actual employer.

Judge Stewart died in October 1994 and the case, with new issues at stake, was
assigned to Judge Duffy. But progress was further hampered by the deaths since
1991 of Mr. Diduck, the original plaintiff; Burton H. Hall, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, and Mr. Kaszycki and Mr. Senyshyn, who were co-defendants.

Before ordering lawyers to be ready for trial on two days' notice, Judge Duffy
recently denied motions for further delays.

Admonishing both sides, he said, "There must be an end to all litigation: even
Jarndyce v. Jarndyce ground down to a conclusion." He was referring to an estate
dispute in Charles Dickens's novel "Bleak House" involving generations of the
Jarndyce family that was so convoluted no one understood it.

Edwin G. Schallert, the chairman of the Federal Court Committee of the
Association of the Bar of the City of New York, described the Trump case's
longevity as "extraordinarily rare" for the District Court. Mr. Schallert said
records show that the average civil suit in the court takes 29 months and that
90 percent of cases are tried within four years.

At different stages, Mr. Trump has retained four prominent Manhattan law firms
to represent him. "The legal history of this case is a jigsaw puzzle," said
Thomas A. Bolan, Mr. Trump's latest lawyer and a former partner of the late Roy
M. Cohn. "We are now back to square one on the key issues."

Mr. Trump, who is expected to testify at the trial, said he had resisted efforts
to settle the case out of court. "It would be cheaper, but on principle I
won't," he said. "We did nothing wrong."

Ms. Sloan, the plaintiffs' lead lawyer, said she would be paid for 15 years of
legal work only if her side won. The fees would be set by by the court, she
added, and would be paid by Mr. Trump and his co-defendants. She estimated that
if the $300,000 judgment, and accumulated interest, is upheld a second time, the
payments would reach about $4 million.

"When you are facing large firms, it tends to make the litigation protracted,"
said Ms. Sloan, who is a solo practitioner specializing in union and civil
rights law. "But we are stubborn."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 7, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Easy Illegal U.S. Entry in Northwest

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

DATELINE: BLAINE, Wash., Aug. 5


The first time Ghazi Ibrahim Abu Maizar crossed the world's longest undefended
border, he followed a typical pattern for illegal entrants at the far western
edge of the boundary. He hiked into the Cascade Mountain woods from Canada last
year and simply walked into the United States.

On his second illegal entry, Mr. Abu Maizar, one of two men arrested last week
in a Brooklyn apartment and accused in a bombing plot, again strolled across the
border. On the third attempt, he took a bus.

He was apprehended on all three occasions, then was allowed to stay in the
United States while appealing for political asylum. But the wonder,
law-enforcement officials on both sides of the border say, is that he was caught
at all.

For people trying to enter the United States illegally from the north, the
corridor of choice is across the border here in northwestern Washington, much of
it wild and unmanned.

Border Patrol figures indicate that there are more attempts at illegal entry in
this far-western section than at other place along the entire 3,500-mile length
of the United States-Canadian border. But the region is so short of Border
Patrol agents that on a recent week, only a single agent was patrolling a
stretch of about 100 miles of saltwater inlets, forest roads and mountain
backcountry.

"We have a lot of wilderness here, and you're lucky if you can see 30 feet,"
said Dale Brandland, the sheriff of Whatcom County, which borders British
Columbia. "From outside North America, it's easy to get into Canada, and from
there, it's extremely easy to get into the United States in this section."

Whether this gateway between the populous Vancouver area in British Columbia and
Seattle, about 120 miles to the south, has become an entry point for terrorists
or organized criminals remains an open question, law-enforcement officials say.
But Canada has been more receptive to claims of refugee status than the United
States, part of its generally open immigration policy. And then, because it is
so easy to sneak across the border here, the route has developed into something
of smuggler's byway for people who have made their way to Canada from the Middle
East, India and Mexico.

For the last five years, the arrest rate for illegal entry attempts in this
corridor has averaged nearly 4,000 annually -- about one-fourth of all arrests
on the northern border of the United States. But instead of beefing up law
enforcement along this section, the Border Patrol has sent agents from here to
the southern border, where more than 1.5 million people a year are apprehended.

"Apparently, it's going to take a major disaster to get anyone to pay attention
to this border," Mr. Brandland said. Last year, Mr. Brandland pleaded with
Attorney General Janet Reno for help, telling her that the border had become
chaotic. She was sympathetic, Justice Department aides said, but asserted that
more patrols were needed in the south.

Last weekend, the head of the Border Patrol station here complained publicly
about the problem, saying he had repeatedly asked for more help. "It just makes
me sick that I'm so short on people here," said the official, Cary James, The
Associated Press reported.

On the Canadian side, the authorities have similar complaints. "It's gotten to a
point where it really scares me," said Sgt. Glen Rockwell of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police border unit. "It is so easy to get into Canada. And once you're
in, we cannot keep track of people."

Sergeant Rockwell said Mr. Abu Maizar's odyssey through North America was
typical. He arrived in Canada in 1993, seeking refugee status and listing his
nationality as Palestinian. From Toronto, he went to the Vancouver area and made
his numerous attempts to cross the border from there. "If you walk across, it's
pretty easy," Sergeant Rockwell said. "But even if you don't make it today,
you'll get in tomorrow."

After the first two arrests of Mr. Abu Maizar for illegal entry, he was returned
to Canada.

After Mr. Abu Maizer's third arrest, earlier this year, Canada refused to accept
him. Soon thereafter, he applied for political asylum in the United States,
saying he had been falsely accused of terrorism by Israel. He dropped the
request a few months ago at a hearing in Seattle, after promising to leave the
United States voluntarily by Aug. 23.

Mr. Abu Maizar and a second suspect, Lafi Khalil, were wounded in a police raid
last Thursday. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City was harshly critical
of immigration officials for allowing Mr. Abu Maizar to stay in the country. But
Federal authorities said they had followed standard procedures for people
seeking political asylum.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said, "We are looking at our policies and procedures, but based on what
we know, we don't see anything we could have done differently."

The ease with which Mr. Abu Maizar crossed the border, officials say,
illustrates the need for better vigilance. Congress doubled the budget of the
immigration service for this year, to $3.1 billion, ordering the agency to add
1,000 new Border Patrol agents a year until it reached a force of 10,000 agents.
There are now 6,900 agents.

But virtually all the new agents are being placed on the southern border, from
Miami to San Diego, where illegal crossings are chronic.

"The northern border is our neglected border," said Lew Moore, an aide to
Representative Jack Metcalf, a Republican who represent's Washington's northwest
border district. "The area is just made to order for smugglers and terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Undetected illegal crossings into the northwest wilderness of
Washington State are common from this road abutting Canadian farms. (Dan Levine
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 23, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
House Votes Reprieve For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 22


The House agreed today to extend by two weeks a law that allows some illegal
immigrants to remain in the United States by paying a $1,000 fine while they
apply for legal residence.

The short-term reprieve was included in a stopgap spending bill to pay for
Government operations through Nov. 7, giving Congress more time to complete its
appropriations process.

To continue Government operations without a halt, the stopgap bill, which passed
by voice vote, must be adopted by the Senate by Thursday, when an earlier
stopgap bill expires.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 3, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE CLINTON BUDGET: DOMESTIC PROPOSALS;
Increases Urged for Child Care, Medicare and Medical Research

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2


President Clinton proposed expanding a wide range of domestic programs today,
with initiatives intended to appeal in this Congressional election year to
voters from soccer moms to retired workers to aging baby boomers.

There were few surprises in the budget package; most of the programs had been
selectively unveiled in the last few weeks. Mr. Clinton proposed increased
spending for child care, broader Medicare coverage for older Americans and
additional money for biomedical research.

Mr. Clinton asked Congress to expand Medicaid to cover legal immigrant children
who have arrived recently in the United States -- a proposal favored by many
Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans.

Another proposal would help small businesses band together to buy health
insurance for their employees. Mr. Clinton requested "$100 million in seed money
over five years" to help states establish such voluntary purchasing
cooperatives.

Under another proposal, Mr. Clinton would allow states to provide Medicaid
coverage to legal immigrants under the age of 18 who have arrived in this
country since August 1996 and those who arrive in the future.

Currently, states may provide coverage to immigrant children who entered the
country before August 1996, when Mr. Clinton signed major legislation revamping
the nation's welfare system. But immigrant children who arrive after that date
generally must wait five years before receiving benefits.

In his budget request to Congress, Mr. Clinton offered few new details of his
proposal to open Medicare to able-bodied people 55 to 64 years old. He said only
that "the proposal is self-financing, because over time participants pay the
full cost of their coverage."

The White House had previously acknowledged that people with medical problems
were more likely to sign up for the new Medicare coverage. The budget does not
compare the costs for the new beneficiaries with the costs for healthy people of
the same age.

The President estimated that his "Medicare buy-in policies" would cost $1.5
billion over the next five years.

Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said, "Any costs
associated with this proposal will be offset by new initiatives to combat
Medicare fraud, waste and abuse."

Medicare now finances health care for 38 million people who are over the age of
64 or disabled. A Federal advisory commission is studying ways to redesign the
program to keep it solvent for the baby boom generation. Although the deadline
for the commission to complete its study is March 1999, Dr. Shalala said that
Congress should expand Medicare this year, without waiting for the panel's
recommendations.

Mr. Clinton asked Congress for $900 million over the next five years to locate
and sign up three million children who are eligible for Medicaid but not
enrolled in the program.

Of this amount, he said, $330 million would be used for advertising and other
activities to find low-income families and inform them that their children might
be eligible. The remainder of the money would permit schools and child care
centers to enroll children in Medicaid temporarily, on the presumption that they
would later be found eligible.

Mr. Clinton also proposed an initiative to let elderly Medicare patients
participate in clinical trials testing experimental treatments for cancer.

Dr. Richard D. Klausner, director of the National Cancer Institute, said the
President's budget earmarked $750 million of tobacco revenue to pay the costs of
such clinical trials.

The elderly account for half of cancer patients, but Medicare generally does not
pay for the care of patients in clinical trials of new treatments.

Whether such clinical trials save money or increase the cost of patient care is
unclear, Dr. Klausner said in an interview. The new initiative is intended to
answer that question.

Mr. Clinton requested $14.8 billion for the National Institutes of Health in
1999. That represents an increase of $1.15 billion, or 8.4 percent, which is
about half of the increase sought by Congressional champions of biomedical
research. All of the additional money sought by Mr. Clinton would be derived
from an increase in tobacco revenue.

Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who is chairman of the
Appropriations subcommittee responsible for the N.I.H., said last week that he
would seek an increase of $2 billion, which would raise the agency's budget to
$15.6 billion next year.

Over five years, Mr. Clinton would increase spending for the health institutes
by nearly 50 percent, to $20.2 billion in 2003 from $13.6 billion this year. The
Senate, by contrast, has endorsed the goal of doubling the agency's budget in
five years.

The President seeks $80 million next year for public health programs to help
low-income blacks and other racial minorities. He noted that the infant
mortality rate for blacks was still twice that of whites, even though the rates
have declined among both groups.

Mr. Clinton would provide $21.4 billion to subsidize child care in the next five
years. This includes an increase of $7.5 billion in Federal grants to the states
for child care, $4.8 billion in new tax credits for working parents and $478
million for employers who arrange child care for their employees.

The remainder of the money, $8.6 billion over five years, would be spent on
child care programs, including Head Start.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Congress held news conferences yesterday to react to
the President's budget. On the Democratic side were Senator Frank Lautenberg,
left in photograph at left, and Representative John M. Spratt Jr., of South
Carolina. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); The Republicans were Senator
Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, left in photo at right, and Representative John
R. Kasich of Ohio. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 23, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

In Slap at G.O.P. Leadership, House Stops Move to Deny Food Stamps to Immigrants

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22


In a startling rebuke to the Republican leadership, the House today thwarted a
conservative move to deny food stamps to a quarter of a million immigrants,
leaving the fate of the legislation in doubt.

Defying their own party, 98 Republicans joined 190 Democrats in defeating a
last-minute effort to strip the food stamp provision from an agriculture
conference agreement between the House and Senate. That provision would restore
the eligibility of some legal immigrants who were stricken from the rolls by the
1996 welfare overhaul law.

The agreement, which includes the food stamp restoration and a crop insurance
provision for farmers, was overwhelmingly approved by the Senate on May 12. It
is also supported by the Clinton Administration. While the House had not
included the food stamp provision in its agriculture bill, its negotiators
accepted it in conference with the Senate.

The 1996 decision to deny food stamps to elderly and infirm legal immigrants has
been criticized as overly harsh by the Clinton Administration, by Republican
governors as well as Democratic ones, and by advocates for immigrants and the
poor.

The House-Senate agreement would restore food stamps to 250,000 elderly and
disabled legal immigrants dropped from the rolls in 1996. To qualify under the
agreement, the immigrants must have been living in the United States on Aug. 22,
1996, the day President Clinton signed the welfare bill into law.

The agreement would also maintain the Federal crop insurance program, which is
crucial to millions of farmers, for the next five years. Without it, some
farmers would lose such insurance as early as June 30.

The House recessed tonight without resolving the stalemate over the agriculture
conference report, leaving it for their return in early June.

"I don't think I have ever seen a rule so soundly defeated," said Representative
Earl Pomeroy, Democrat of North Dakota.

Mr. Pomeroy accused the Republican leadership of "playing to the far right of
the Republican caucus at the expense of the rural members, with the ultimate
loser being the American farmer."

The combination of food stamps and crop insurance created a formidable alliance
of Republicans and Democrats, from both urban and rural areas, who joined to
defeat the effort to alter the agreement.

Members of the House from rural areas said the last-minute reversal on food
stamps would have doomed the entire conference report, including the crop
insurance provision. They said they made this clear to Republican leaders,
including Speaker Newt Gingrich.

"No disrespect intended, but it's not particularly bright to go into a recess on
a major issue like this," said Representative John R. Thune, a conservative
South Dakota Republican who voted to block the leadership effort despite his
reservations about restoring food stamps for legal immigrants. "We have a
tendency to form a circle and open fire. It's beyond me why we want to take
chances on things like this, especially with something like a precarious
agriculture economy."

Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, the New York Republican who is chairman of
the Rules Committee, spearheaded the move to get rid of the food stamp
provision. Mr. Solomon said he and other conservatives viewed it as a direct
attack on the 1996 welfare law, which was a major victory for Republicans.

"Somebody signed for them when they came over here," Mr. Solomon said, referring
to legal immigrants who were sponsored financially by their relatives. "Somebody
is responsible for them. Do we say no, willy-nilly, the taxpayer will take care
of them? That means that those of us who have worked hard all our lives and are
responsible have to take care of those who didn't."

The move to derail the provision came after a late-night Rules Committee session
on Thursday, during which Mr. Solomon banded with a group of Republicans and
drafted a House rule that removed food stamps from the conference report.
Reinstating food stamps would cost $816 million over five years, which would be
paid in large part through cuts in what the Federal Government pays states to
run the food stamp program.

In a turnaround from his recent overtures to immigrant voters, especially
Hispanic ones, Mr. Gingrich supported the decision to eliminate the food stamp
provision. The move was also vigorously defended on the floor today by
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader.

Democrats and some Republicans said the party's leaders took a calculated risk
on the issue in an effort to appease conservative lawmakers and leaders of
various groups who have been fiercely critical of the nation's immigration
policy and believe that restoring food stamps would lure immigrants for the
wrong reasons. Other House members suggested that the leaders were hoping to
draw a Presidential veto by rejecting the food stamp provision, and then to use
the veto as political ammunition in farm country.

Today's vote throws the agriculture conference report, and the food stamp
provision, into temporary limbo. Republican leaders must now contend with Mr.
Solomon, who maintains he will not budge on the issue of food stamps. Mr.
Solomon's committee is in charge of setting the rules and clearing the path for
a piece of legislation to reach the House floor. The issue will be dealt with
when Congress returns from the Memorial Day recess.

Several Republicans said it will be difficult for the leaders to ignore today's
vote, which they said sent this message to the leadership: The agreement should
not be tinkered with, and food stamps should be a part of it.

"It was wrong to try to use procedure to amend a conference report that had such
overwhelming bipartisan support," said Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart,
Republican of Florida. "After today's vote, there is no doubt about food
stamps."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Use of Work Visas by Technology Companies Is Under Fire

BYLINE: By JERI CLAUSING

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1379 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19


As the information technology industry lobbies Congress to let more high-skilled
foreign workers enter the country, new immigration figures indicate that the
companies applying for the most visas are using them for the kind of jobs that
critics say many Americans could easily be trained to perform.

Figures recently given to Congress by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
show that the 10 companies using the most visas last year all provide contract
labor and services -- jobs like computer and software installation and
maintenance that critics contend do not necessarily require college-level math
and science degrees.

The designation H1-B is used for work visas intended for hard-to-fill jobs. Many
technology companies say they need to import more workers under the H1-B program
because of a shortage of technically proficient domestic workers to fill crucial
electrical engineering and product development jobs -- positions that often
require master's or even doctorate degrees.

And yet, the company that imported the most foreign labor last year under the
H1-B program is the Mastech Systems Corporation, a Pittsburgh company that
received visas for 1,733 employees -- or about 80 percent of its domestic work
force -- to bring in software programmers with only bachelor's degrees.

"This is not brain surgery," Representative Ron Klink, a Pennsylvania Democrat,
said of the jobs being filled by foreign workers at companies like Mastech.
"These jobs do require some skill and intellect. But American workers can be
trained to take these jobs."

Mr. Klink, a member of the House Commerce Committee, requested a recent General
Accounting Office review that questioned the extent of the shortage of
technology workers.

He and other critics want Congress to hold the line on the number of visas
rather than adopt a proposal by Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican,
that would raise the number of H1-B visas to 95,000 from 65,000. American
industry, they argue, is exaggerating the dearth of qualified labor market to
import foreign workers who are willing to work for lower pay and who take jobs
from Americans.

Supporters of the Abraham bill, which is scheduled for a Senate vote early next
month, say the current ceiling will be reached in May, four months before the
end of the Federal fiscal year and leaving many crucial technology projects at
risk.

No comparable House legislation has yet been introduced. But the House Judiciary
Committee's subcommittee on immigration is holding a hearing on Tuesday. And the
chairman, Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican, said he hoped to have a bill offered
within a week and passed by the full House by the end of the month.

Industry lobbyists say the shortage of high-tech workers is so acute that
failing to raise the cap could threaten one of the most vital parts of the
nation's booming economy. Companies unable to fill crucial positions in this
country, they say, will have no choice but to send more sophisticated technology
projects overseas.

The American information technology industry has 346,000 job openings -- more
than enough to go around for foreign workers and Americans alike, said Harris
Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America, a
Washington trade group.

Complicating the debate are some seemingly contradictory trends, as some key
parts of the industry -- including personal computer makers and chip companies
-- are grappling with cyclical softening of their markets.

Two weeks ago, for example, the Intel Corporation played a lead role in
releasing an industry study that contends there is a dire shortage of skilled
technology workers. By last week, the company was announcing plans to cut some
3,000 jobs, mainly through attrition, in response to weakening demand for its
microprocessors.

But the kinds of jobs going dark and the kinds going begging are not of the same
skill level, according to Tracy Koon, an Intel spokeswoman. The company is
always on the lookout for the type of highly skilled employees who receive most
of its H1-B visas. At Intel, about 3 percent of a work force of 67,000 people
have been hired via H1-B visas, and nearly 80 percent of the immigrants hold
master's degrees or doctorates, Ms. Koon said.

Two other Silicon Valley advocates for the Senate bill, including the National
Semiconductor Corporation and Varian Associates Inc., have frozen their work
forces at current levels.

Varian Associates, which is based in Palo Alto, Calif., is a maker of laboratory
instruments, medical equipment and semiconductor manufacturing equipment. It has
only 30 H1-B visa holders among its 7,000 employees and is not currently seeking
to add any new high-skill positions. Nevertheless, Varian wants the immigration
cap raised.

"We don't know when the crunch is going to come; it's so cyclical," said Ernest
M. Felago, Varian's vice president of human resources. "Our only point is that
it's another source of labor, so why dry it up?"

National Semiconductor, also a chip maker, said that 55 of the 450 technical
people it has hired this year required H1-B visas. Even though the company has
imposed a temporary hiring freeze, National Semiconductor, like Varian, wants
the visa limit raised to be assured of having access to the best talent from
where ever and whenever necessary.

"We would probably support taking the lid off altogether, but that's pretty
radical at this point," said Tom Wulf, director of staffing for National
Semiconductor.

A problem with even the current caps, according to companies which seek the
highest-skilled foreign workers, is that too many of the H1-B visas are being
used to fill jobs that do not require searching overseas for candidates.

"They should be hiring double-E people and people in product development," Mr.
Wulf said, using an industry abbreviation for electrical engineers. "Otherwise,"
he said, they shouldn't be allowed to use the visas."

But Mastech, for one, makes no apologies for using the visas or for bringing in
such a high proportion of immigrant labor. Mastech began as a high-tech
personnel service but has expanded into helping companies design, install and
update office computer systems.

"The whole market has grown so fast and the talent keeps declining," said Chuck
Rusdill, investor relations director for Mastech. He said the company has been
forced to dip into the foreign labor pool for even bachelor-degree holders, not
to pay lower wages but because of the dwindling number of American computer
science graduates.

Mastech said that most of its H1-B workers arrive with a bachelor's degree in
computer science and three to five years of work experience. But Mr. Klink said
that many of the jobs at Mastech and companies like it do not require math or
science degrees. Programming, he contended is a skill that many underemployed
Americans can easily be trained to do.

During the 1993 and 1994 votes on free-trade treaties, "we were being told that
as we entered the new information age, our workers were going to be training for
new information technology jobs," Mr. Klink said. "Now, only four years later,
we're being told we don't have enough people, our people aren't trainable."

As the debate rages, even basic data are being questioned about the extent of
the job opportunites in information technology. In addition to the the
Information Technology Association of America study that found 346,000 job
vacancies, the Commerce Department has estimated that the information technology
industry will need an additional 1.3 million workers over the next decade.

But the recent General Accounting Office review questioned the validity of those
numbers and the methods used for calculating them.

And while the industry points to figures showing wages in information technology
are as much as 64 percent higher than the national average, critics say a rather
modest wage growth in the field does not bear out claims of a labor crisis.

Norm Matloff, a computer science professor at the University of
California-Davis, said that Norm Matloff said that Bureau of Labor Statistics
indicate salaries for computer programmers rose 7 percent last year -- not a
rate that would indicate employers are desperate for new labor, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 1998, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

An article in Business Day on April 20 about technology companies' hiring of
foreign workers misstated the name of one company. It is the Mastech
Corporation, not Mastech Systems. The article also misspelled the surname of the
company's investor relations director. He is Chuck Rudisill, not Rusdill.


GRAPHIC: Chart: "Who Uses High-Skill Visas"
Across the country, thousands of foreigners with special work visas, called H1-B
visas, are working for technology companies that say they need the foreign labor
to fill skilled jobs that cannot be filled by Americans. Some critics, though,
contend that the workers are not necessarily more skilled, just less expensive.
Chart lists companies with the largest number of these workers. (Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. D10)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

RACE FOR CITY HALL: LABOR;
City Unions Turn Focus on Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 622 words


The head of New York City's labor movement announced yesterday that the city's
unions would increasingly focus on helping and recruiting hundreds of thousands
of immigrants who often work for low pay under harsh conditions.

Brian McLaughlin, president of the New York City Central Labor Council, the
umbrella group for the city's 1.5 million union members, said this new thrust
was intended to improve wages and working conditions for immigrants who he said
are the most exploited class in the city's work force.

At a breakfast that kicked off the belated Labor Day parade, Mr. McLaughlin said
yesterday that the city's labor council would throw its weight behind an effort
to unionize 10,000 limousine drivers, many of whom earn less than $20,000 a year
even though they often work 70-hour weeks. He said the labor council would also
back other organizing efforts aimed at immigrant workers.

"In this city, workers are increasingly minorities, women and immigrants," Mr.
McLaughlin said in an interview. "New immigrants are usually the most exploited
people in the city. By joining unions they can gain from collective bargaining,
which can increase their wages and win them health insurance and other
benefits."

Labor unions, he noted, have often helped nonunion immigrant workers, by, for
example, lobbying Congress successfully to raise the minimum wage, which rose on
Sept. 1 to $5.15 an hour.

Mr. McLaughlin said the labor movement was working to strengthen its ties with
the city's Dominican, Haitian and Asian leaders to spread the word to immigrants
about the advantages of unions.

As an example of cooperation between unions and immigrant groups, he said they
would join to push for the $2.4 billion bond referendum to build and renovate
schools throughout New York State. He said the measure would improve education
for immigrant children while creating 18,000 construction jobs.

Mr. McLaughlin said he began pushing to have the labor movement focus more on
immigrant workers after reading about the Domsey Fabric factory in Brooklyn,
which dismissed several workers for supporting a union, called some employees
monkeys and required a pass for female workers to go to the bathroom. Most of
the factory's workers were from Haiti. Four years after the National Labor
Relations Board ruled that the company had to reinstate wrongfully dismissed
workers and pay $2 million in back pay, hardly anything has been paid.

The central labor council has persuaded Representatives Gary L. Ackerman, a
Democrat from Queens and Long Island, and Nydia M. Velazquez, a Brooklyn
Democrat, to introduce legislation that would discourage employers from
mistreating workers the way Domsey did.

Their bill would allow workers who were wrongfully dismissed for supporting a
union to sue for punitive damages. Under current law, such workers can receive
only back pay for the work they missed before being reinstated. The bill would
also empower the National Labor Relations Board to issue injunctions. Under
current law, the board must ask Federal judges to issue injunctions enforcing
the board's decisions.

"We must send a message to unscrupulous employers: if you interfere with the
basic rights of workers to organize, you'll receive more than a slap on the
wrist," Mr. McLaughlin said.

John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., was grand marshal of
yesterday's parade, which marched up Fifth Avenue. At yesterday's breakfast at
the Intercontinental Hotel and again at the parade, labor leaders and union
members repeatedly hailed him for reviving the long-moribund labor movement.

Last year, the labor council decided to move the parade from Labor Day to the
following Saturday, to avoid conflicts with vacations.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Carey, president of the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, marched yesterday in the Manhattan labor parade with teamsters being
honored for their successful 15-day strike against the United Parcel Service.
(Dith Pran/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Report Undercuts Proposal To Import More Farm Labor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 818 words


The General Accounting Office has thrown water on a legislative effort, pushed
by the nation's agricultural employers, to allow entry of more foreign farm
workers by concluding in a new report that there is "no national agricultural
labor shortage at this time."

Several leading farm industry associations have been pressing to expand the
number of temporary work visas for the so-called guest workers, arguing that
some regions already face labor shortages, which are bound to increase as
immigration officials step up efforts to keep out -- and send back -- illegal
aliens.

Farm worker advocates are fighting the proposed legislation, asserting that
increasing the number of such guest workers will undercut the wages of field
laborers nationwide and weaken efforts to unionize them.

Congress asked the G.A.O. to study whether there was a farm labor shortage after
Republicans lawmakers asserted that the current law requires farmers to surmount
too many bureaucratic hurdles to win permission to import foreign workers, and
introduced legislation to liberalize the guest-worker program.

In a draft of the G.A.O. report made available to The New York Times by an
opponent of the proposed legislation, the agency essentially backed the
assertions of the United Farm Workers Union and other farm worker advocates who
insisted that there was no national labor shortage.

"A sudden widespread farm labor shortage requiring the importation of large
numbers of foreign workers is unlikely to occur in the near future," the draft
report said, though it acknowledged that localized shortages might exist for
specific crops or geographical areas.

Rejecting another argument made by farmers and ranchers, the report added that
enforcement efforts by the Immigration and Naturalization Service were not
expected "to significantly reduce the aggregate supply of farm workers." Farmers
and ranchers fear that the new immigration restrictions may work too well,
cutting them off from a large part of their labor supply.

The G.A.O.'s final report is scheduled to be made public on Wednesday. Agency
officials said they might revise the 108-page draft before issuing the final
report.

Under the current farm guest-worker program, known as H-2A, farm employers
brought in 15,000 foreign workers last year, a small portion of the estimated
labor force of 2 million farm workers, about 40 percent of whom are illegal
aliens.

The guest workers typically work for two or three months on jobs ranging from
sheep herding to apple picking. The bill proposed by Senator Gordon Smith, an
Oregon Republican, would allow 25,000 more guest workers each year.

Under current law, farmers who want to bring in guest workers must ask the
United States Department of Labor to certify that no labor surplus exists in the
farmer's region. In addition, the farmer must make efforts to hire workers
already in the United States and must wait for the state job service to look for
workers. Senator Smith's proposal would eliminate these requirements, making it
far easier to import such workers. The Smith bill, like the current law, would
require farmers to pay guest workers the prevailing wage received by farm
workers.

"We are facing a crisis in agriculture -- a crisis born of an inadequate labor
supply, bureaucratic red tape and burdensome regulation," Mr. Smith said last
month in introducing the legislation.

Bob L. Vice, former president of the California Farm Bureau Federation, told
Congress in September about an Orange County vegetable farmer who lost most of
his workers when immigration officials apprehended them as illegal aliens. Mr.
Vice said the farmer lost 60 acres of beans and 20 acres of cabbage because the
local job service referred only three workers even though he had asked for 150.

But Dolores Huerta, secretary-treasurer of the United Farm Workers, strongly
denied that shortages existed. "There's definitely a surplus of farm workers,"
she said in a telephone interview. "That explains why there has been a drop in
farm-worker wages over the last 10 to 15 years. They have dropped wages
substantially because they always know there's a large pool of workers they can
get."

As evidence that there is no shortage of farm labor, the G.A.O. said that of the
20 large agricultural counties around the nation that it surveyed last summer,
11 had unemployment rates more than twice the national average of 5 percent, and
15 had jobless rates 2 percentage points higher than the national rate.

The agency also noted that after accounting for inflation, the average hourly
wage of farm workers fell by 17 percent from 1989 to 1995. That, the agency
said, pointed to a labor surplus, rather than shortage.

And in a recent nine-month period, the agency noted, the Labor Department
approved 99 percent of farmers' applications for guest workers, undercutting
their assertions of a shortage.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 4, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Sent Back to China, Man Washes Up Again

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words


Wang Wu Dong was a skinny man of 40 when he washed up on the shores of Queens
five years ago, a passenger on the Golden Venture, a freighter loaded with a
human cargo of 286 illegal Chinese immigrants that shuddered to a halt on a
sandbar within sight of the city's lights.

He was apprehended that night and spent the next three years behind bars, trying
unsuccessfully to win asylum on the ground he had been persecuted for resisting
China's one-child policy. He finally gave up and went home, just months before
Congress passed a law in 1996 that would have made his asylum claim more likely
to succeed.

Mr. Wang's timing was miserably off once again last Saturday. He was among the
23 illegal Chinese immigrants aboard the Oops II, a 30-foot powerboat named with
a cruelly flippant aptness. It ran aground in dense fog off the Jersey Shore,
leaving the men to scatter in the darkened streets of the wealthy seaside area
where they were picked up by police.

Lawyers, advocates, officials and a fellow Golden Venture passenger interviewed
yesterday remarked on Mr. Wang's ill fortune, which was first reported yesterday
in The Star-Ledger of Newark. But they tipped their hats to his determination to
get to America.

"To me, it's unbelievable he went through all of that, then turned around to
come back again," said Beverly Church, a paralegal who became a mother hen to
many of the Golden Venture passengers during their three-year detention in York,
Pa. "It tells me how much he'll go through to be free."

Mr. Wang's lawyers said he would definitely apply for asylum again, citing what
he says was his wife's forced sterilization.  "The law has changed significantly
and I think he has a good case," said Robert Porges, the Chinatown lawyer whose
firm is representing 20 of the 23 detainees.

Mr. Porges said all his clients would ask for asylum, some on the basis of
China's one-child policy and some contending they were persecuted because they
are Christians.

Hearings for Mr. Wang and the other 22 men apprehended after the Oops II
grounded off Bay Head, N.J., will begin today in Elizabeth, N.J., where the
immigrants are being detained in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Immigration officials said all the men from the Oops II would be charged with
entering the country illegally. The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights gave a
briefing to the detainees at the Elizabeth center on Wednesday, explaining the
process to them. Immigration officials said that at the first hearing, a judge
would inform the Chinese of the charges against them. Hearings on the merit of
their cases will probably be held within six months.

The authorities are still searching for Jason Choi, 38, the captain of the Oops
II. Mr. Choi is a Korean who was questioned and released the night the boat ran
aground but before the Bay Head police realized it had been carrying illegal
immigrants. Mr. Choi's former roommate at an apartment at 147-15 Northern
Boulevard, in Flushing, Queens, told The Korea Times newspaper that Mr. Choi
last lived in the apartment from February until late April and had said he came
from Korea about one year ago.

The men who were passengers on Mr. Choi's boat, however, were settling into
detention last night. Mr. Wang, who identified himself to his lawyers as one of
the Golden Venture passengers, conferred with them about how best to fight
deportation to China.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington,
said he could not confirm whether there was a Golden Venture passenger on board
the Oops II because of Federal privacy laws.

Immigration officials said the each man on the Oops II may have paid the
smugglers as much as $40,000 for the journey to New York. The men, from 18 to 45
years old, came from Fujian Province, home to many of New York City's illegal
Chinese immigrants.

When Mr. Wang first arrived in the United States five years ago, he had little
chance of winning asylum on the ground that he had been persecuted under China's
population control policies.

Had he come a year earlier, when Bush Administration policies were in effect, he
would have had a chance. But during the Clinton years, immigration judges
routinely ruled that China was not persecuting the immigrants, but enforcing a
national policy designed to fight overpopulation.

Mr. Wang spent three years behind bars in York, Pa., in the custody of
immigration authorities. Like many of the other men, he began passing the
tedious hours by using toilet paper, water and glue to help make papier-mache
creations like eagles, dragons and Statues of Liberty. But as months and years
passed, he became discouraged, say people who knew him then.

Ms. Church, who regularly visited the York County prison where Mr. Wang was
being held, said he worried about his family in China, especially since he was
unable to work and send money home. "He was of no value to anyone in prison,"
she said.

His asylum petition had been denied. And the legal battle being waged in Federal
court to win new hearings for the Golden Venture detainees seemed to drag on
endlessly. The immigrants' legal advocates maintained that the men had been
unfairly denied refuge in the United States because the Government was using
them to send a message to smugglers.

Finally, in February 1996, Mr. Wang gave up. He asked to be sent back to China.

"Too much depression," said Steven Shi, 27, a Golden Venture passenger who won
an artist's visa last month that allows him to remain in the United States.
"Depression made him go back."

In September 1996, Congress passed a new law backed by anti-abortion Republicans
that made opposing China's one-child policy a potential reason for a grant of
asylum.

It is that law that gives Mr. Wang's lawyers hope that his luck has finally
changed. Already yesterday, Mr. Wang was gaining some potentially important
political allies, including some of the members of Congress who worked to change
the law and lobbied on behalf of the Golden Venture detainees.

"It's obvious that because of the practice of forced sterilization and human
rights violations, these people will do anything to escape," said Representative
Bill Goodling, a Republican whose district included the York prison. "That he
would risk being reimprisoned so soon after he went back shows you how
unbearable the situation is."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 2, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Chinese Men Are Queried In Jersey Shore Smuggling

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 766 words


As the authorities searched for the captain of a smuggling boat that ran aground
on Saturday night in New Jersey, investigators yesterday began to interview its
22 Chinese passengers in the hope of learning who organized and profited from
their flight.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service released little information about the
detainees yesterday, other than that they came from Fujian Province, the
starting point for many of the illegal Chinese immigrants who have made the
tortuous journey to American shores in recent years.

Officials said that investigators were still conducting separate interviews of
the 22 men, the youngest of them 18 and the oldest 45.

The men were being held at the I.N.S. detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., where
they will appear before immigration judges later this week and be charged with
illegal entry into the United States. At that point, usually the beginning of a
long and complicated legal battle, they may ask for political asylum.

Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris
Meissner, said the facts that were known about the men's journey, although
sketchy, fit into a pattern seen in other immigrant-smuggling cases.

"At this point we would operate on the supposition that they are connected to an
organized-crime organization of some kind," she said, calling the Chinese
smuggling business particularly odious because it funnels hapless immigrants
into sweatshop jobs where they are abused, exploited and overworked.

"This is a multibillion-dollar criminal enterprise played out on a global
scale," Mrs. Meissner said.

Investigators were still searching for the captain and presumed owner of the
boat, who slipped through police hands before anyone realized that the abandoned
craft had unloaded a human cargo of illegal immigrants. He was identified by the
authorities as a Korean-American, Jason Choi, 38, of Flushing, Queens.

His 30-foot fiberglass pleasure boat, the Oops II, ran aground at the end of
Mount Street in Bay Head, one of the wealthiest towns on the Jersey Shore, and
for the first three hours, the police treated the incident as little more than a
case of a captain who had foundered in heavy fog and purposely beached his
craft.

When he was questioned by state troopers at a phone booth near the boat, Mr.
Choi identified himself as the owner and said he had lost his way while fishing
and ran the boat up on the beach because he was running out of fuel.

John Hagerty, a spokesman for the state police, said that the registration
documents for the boat were in order and that a check found no outstanding
warrants for Mr. Choi. Troopers even gave Mr. Choi a ride into downtown Point
Pleasant.

When reports began to come in about Chinese men wandering around the town, the
local police called the troopers again.

The aborted ride in the Oops II was probably the final leg of an arduous journey
from China. Typically, smuggling rings bring Asian immigrants across Eastern
Europe or southern Africa, then to South America, before heading up through the
Caribbean or Central America to Mexico.

The boat itself offered few clues -- some blankets, water bottles and a few cans
of a nutrient supplement -- to the conditions or duration of the final leg of
the immigrants' journey, Bay Head's Police Chief, William Dikun, said.

It was still unclear whether the 22 men, like so many before them, were destined
to work off much of the $25,000 to $30,000 in smuggling fees in the sweatshops
of New York City.

While many Fujian immigrants have risen to positions of political and economic
power in the Chinese-American community in New York, the province, a hodgepodge
mix of booming businesses and impoverished rural farms, also supplies the bulk
of the underpaid and undocumented sweatshop work force.

"It's pretty common these days to go into one sweatshop or another," said Wang
Lim, executive director of the Chinese Staff and Workers Association, which is
based in New York and represents Chinese laborers.

"After the liberalization of the Chinese economy and the coming of foreign
investment, many of the Fujian villagers pushed into the cities and others were
pushed out and went overseas," Wang Lim said. "The sweatshops like to employ
these people, taking advantage of the fact that they are poor and don't have
documents."

To help choke off the smuggling pipelines that bring in Asian and other illegal
immigrants, the I.N.S. has opened 13 new offices around the world in the last
three years to intercept immigrants before they reach the United States.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 1998, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article on Tuesday about illegal Chinese immigrants who were smuggled into
New Jersey misspelled the name of the executive director of the Chinese Staff
and Workers Association in New York. He is Wing Lam, not Wang Lim.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Doris Meissner, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner, said the case's patterns suggested organized-crime involvement.
(Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 4, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
18 People Are Arraigned In Deaf Immigrants Case

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 149 words


Eighteen of the 20 people charged with operating a ring that kept deaf Mexican
immigrants in virtual slavery and forced them to sell trinkets on the subway
pleaded not guilty yesterday to various extortion, alien-smuggling and
conspiracy charges.

At an arraignment in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, Judge Nina Gershon set
a trial date for Jan. 12.

Officials said the defendants included ringleaders, people who smuggled the
peddlers into the United States and people who beat them. Two men described as
the main leaders, Renato Paoletti Lemus and his father, Jose Paoletti Moreda,
are in Mexico, where they were arrested last month. The United States is seeking
their extradition, said Leslie Cornfeld, an assistant United States attorney for
the Eastern District of New York.

Most of the defendants are also deaf, and the proceedings were interpreted in
sign language for them.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers Testify on Abuse by Jail Guards

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Feb. 5


This week a multinational parade of immigrant asylum seekers who had seen a
Federal detention center ruined in a melee gave graphic accounts of what
happened at a county jail where they were held next. Testifying at a trial of
three jail guards, they said they had moved from bad to worse: that guards at
the Union County Jail had beat them, stuffed their heads in toilets and squeezed
their genitals with pliers.

Speaking in halting English or through translators, the witnesses talked of
escaping religious or political discrimination in India, Pakistan, Ghana,
Albania and Rumania, only to find themselves hurt and humiliated in New Jersey.

It was the first direct testimony of conditions in the county jail by the
witnesses, some of whom are living in the United States awaiting rulings on
their asylum claims; the others have been deported to their native countries.

Many spent weeks or months in the Federal center, were gassed and dazed by the
melee that started as a protest against abusive conditions there, and then, on
the night of June 18, 1995, were shunted to the jail.

Lawyers for the three guards on trial called the former detainees' testimony an
exaggeration and said their clients had to work across a language barrier to
establish control over people who had been described as "rioters and hostage
takers."

The witnesses testified in a Union County courtroom against the backdrop of a
luminous mural of the Revolutionary War era, titled "Coerced but Undaunted,"
depicting a stern-faced farm woman feeding British troops. They slumped on the
witness stand, speaking in barely audible voices, often averting their eyes from
the defense table where the three guards, who are the first to go on trial in
the case, sat.

"I stopped seeing, I stopped feeling, and I didn't know what was happening to
me," said Amitindar Pal Singh, who was 18 years old when he spent three days at
the jail, where he said guards, in between beatings, used pliers to pinch the
skin on his genitals and to squeeze his tongue.  Speaking through a translator
in response to questioning by Alan Silver, the assistant Union County
prosecutor, Mr. Singh said his injuries were not so much visible as "internal
ones that cannot be seen."

Simion Fiat, a 32-year-old Rumanian who wound up at the Federal detention center
after stowing away on a ship to the United States, told of the gantlet of
jeering guards who met him and others at the jail, and of how the detainees were
kicked and pushed and made to crawl through the guards. By the end of that
night, Mr. Fiat said, he had blood streaming down his face from beatings and
kicks.

Still, none of the seven former detainees who have testified so far have been
able to identify any of the three defendants as the guards who abused them in
the chaotic swirl of that night. Prosecutors are looking to the testimony of
other corrections guards, who are cooperating in the case, to place the
defendants at the scenes of the abuse.

The trial here of the three guards comes as a distant echo of the five-hour-long
disturbance at the immigrant detention center here that was run by Esmor
Correctional Services Corporation -- a disturbance that triggered a sweeping
national re-examination of Immigration and Naturalization Service policies on
detaining asylum seekers and contracting with private corrections companies.

The center was once called the "worst immigration detention center in the
nation" by a member of Congress, Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of New
Jersey, and it was later determined that bad management on the part of Esmor
Corrections, as well as poorly trained and abusive guards, led to the
disturbance. The center was closed and the company was ousted.

Then a year ago it reopened under a new contractor and with a host of new
Federal policies that apply nationally to asylum seekers detained by a host of
private and public prison contractors to minimize detention periods, speed
asylum hearings and provide for the parole of detainees.

The case against the Union County guards over what happened during the three
days, June 18-21, 1995, the detainees spent in the local jail will not be
resolved for some time. The case has split the county's Corrections Department
as a dozen of its guards have been indicted, largely on the grand jury testimony
of their fellow corrections officers.

In addition, the county faces lawsuits by at least two groups of former
detainees, some of whom have been deported. John J. Murphy 3d, a Cherry Hill
lawyer representing 13 of the former detainees in a civil suit, said that his
clients' case was built not only on the horror of what they say they experienced
at the prison but on at least two independent studies of the Union County Jail
over the last six years, which criticized conditions and training at the jail.

"You have to keep in mind that there were several hundred detainees at the Esmor
center, and they were sent to places all over the region just after the riots,
and this is the only one where you had complaints of this nature and criminal
charges of abuse," Mr. Murphy said.  "It would be very difficult for the guards
and the county to claim innocence in the civil case if there is a conviction in
the criminal case, but an acquittal in this trial doesn't bar our civil case
because the standard of proof is less stringent."

The criminal and civil suits growing out of the incident have split the
community as well, some elected officials said. There is "a great confusion of
loyalty," said one, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, noting that some
consider the detainees and asylum seekers outsiders who don't belong here.
According to this view, they got what they deserved.

Still others who arrive in the courtroom to hear the poignant and horrific
accounts of some of the former detainees leave sickened by the cruelty being
described. Even though the most serious injuries sustained were a broken
collarbone and numerous cuts and bruises, it is the seeming wantonness of the
abuse the former detainees said they suffered that stands out for many.

"It's the old man's-inhumanity-to-man thing," said Henry Kurz, a former Union
County freeholder. "Residents are shocked and there is a lot of sympathy. And
when these people come from all corners of the earth and they all seem to be
telling the same story, it makes you wonder."

On trial in the assault on the 25 detainees who arrived at the jail on the night
of June 18, 1995, are Acting Sergeants James Rice, 42, a former United States
Marine who has worked in the jails for 16 years, and Charles Popovic, 35, who
has been a corrections officer for 11 years. A third officer, Michael Sica, an
official of the Policemen's Benevolent Association who was not on duty at the
time of the incidents, is charged along with the other two with conspiracy to
cover up the incident.

Anthony Pope, Mr. Rice's lawyer, said the accounts of the night the detainees
arrived were all exaggerations. His client and other guards may have been rough,
but they were called on duty on overtime that night with instructions to receive
"rioters and hostage takers" from the Esmor center, and didn't know what to
expect. He said much of the pulling and pushing was the result of the "language
barrier," which prevented the detainees from understanding orders.

George Schneider, Mr. Popovic's lawyer, said, "And there was no cover-up. Just a
lot of macho cop talk. As far as I am concerned, these detainees are here
looking to make a score, for a payday with a civil suit, and they need a guilty
verdict here for that."

In fact, the idea that they might be able to sue for damages for their treatment
was news to most of the detainees, such as Mr. Fiat, who is living in Virginia,
awaiting the decision on his asylum claim. He said the immigrants learned of the
possibility from inmates of other facilities to which they were sent after Union
County. At least two others who were deported were visited in their home
countries by lawyers who told them of the possibilities of a civil suit.

Ato Donkoh, a Ghanaian who is also living in the United States while he awaits
the outcome of his asylum claim, said that after running the gantlet of guards
when he arrived, he said he was thirsty. In response, he said, laughing guards
"forced my face inside the toilet. My nose touched the water at that time."

Anaik Singh and Harpal Singh, like other detainees, told of being forced to
strip naked several times during that first night. The searches seemed more
occasions for wild laughter from the guards than any real security measure, he
said.

"They were not strip searching me at that time," said Harpal Singh, bitterly.
"They were just insulting me and laughing at me."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alimatou Barry, left, an interpreter, helps Hamidou Sy as he
talks about abuse while he was detained at a jail in Elizabeth, N.J., in 1995.
(Pool Photo by The Newark Star-Ledger)(pg. B6)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Jury Weighs Charges Against Jail Guards

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


A jury began deliberations yesterday in the trial of three Union County
correction officers charged with abusing and assaulting more than a dozen
immigrants seeking asylum who were taken to the county jail after a 1995 melee
at a Federal detention center nearby. It marked the end of the eight-week trial
and the conclusion of two days of summations.

Two officers, James Rice, 42, and Charles Popovic, 35, are charged with assault.
They, along with Michael Sica, an officer of the Policemen's Benevolent
Association, which represents the guards, are also charged with conspiracy to
cover up the incidents. Eight other guards also face charges in the incident and
are to be tried later this month.

During the trial, 14 former detainees testified, often in halting English, of
having to run a gantlet of shouting, fist-swinging, kicking guards, having their
heads pushed into toilets, their genitals squeezed with pliers, and other
humiliations. None could identify the guards. They were among 25 detainees moved
to Union County after a melee on June 18, 1995, by aslyum-seekers who had
complained about mistreatment at a Federal detention center run by the Esmor
Correctional Services Corporation.

Anthony Pope Jr., Mr. Rice's lawyer, said the accounts of assaults were
exaggerated and resulted in no serious injuries or hospitalizations.  But Judge
Miriam N. Span, in her charge to jurors, said that to find guilt on the assault
and abuse charges, they merely had to find that "anything" was inflicted."It
doesn't have to be serious," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 7, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

3 Prison Guards Guilty of Abuse Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., March 6


Three Union County prison guards were convicted today of assaulting and abusing
more than a dozen asylum-seeking immigrants who had been brought to the county
jail on the night of June 18, 1995, after the nearby Federal detention center
was shut down in a disturbance.

The announcement of the verdicts in the nine-week-long trial unleashed a torrent
of emotions in the seventh-floor courtroom here, where more than 100 friends and
relatives of the three guards had flooded in. Some held their breath in
astonishment as the verdicts began to be read, some sobbed. That quickly gave
way to shouting of threats and gesturing toward the prosecution team.

Judge Miriam Span of Union County Superior Court had warned spectators to
control themselves before jurors entered the jury box after 13 hours and 20
minutes of deliberation over three days. Even before the completion of the
lengthy reading of the verdicts on the 27-count indictment, she had a force of
30 armed and uniformed court officers clear the room. A woman identified as a
sister of one of the defendants spat in the direction of the prosecutors as she
was being led out.

The verdicts came in the first of a series of trials of Union County prison
guards. The trials grew out of the violence at the immigrant detention center
here, which was run by a private company that investigators said hired poorly
trained and abusive guards. The disturbance by the detainees there, a protest of
their treatment, led to widespread changes in how the Federal Government
operates its detention centers and the asylum program.

Prosecutors painted a picture of the immigrants going from the abysmal
conditions of the Federal detention center to the even more abusive atmosphere
of the Union County jail, where the guards beat and kicked them and used pliers
to pull the hairs around their genitals.

Many of the former detainees, some of them deported to their native countries,
were flown in to testify against the guards.

Convicted on nine counts each of assault, misconduct and conspiracy to obstruct
the investigation of what happened at the jail in June 1995 were James Rice, 42,
a guard for 16 years, and Charles Popovic, 35, who had been a corrections
officer here for 11 years.

Also convicted on nine counts of conspiracy to cover up misconduct was Michael
Sica, 35, a Policemen's Benevolent Association official at the jail who was not
working on the day of the assaults on the detainees but who prosecutors said
coordinated a cover-up effort that included threats aimed at officers who
cooperated with investigators.

Judge Span immediately revoked bail for the three men and they were taken away
to an undisclosed jail outside Union County. The men face up to 10 years in
prison.

Thomas K. Isenhour, an assistant Union County prosecutor who was the lead
prosecutor on the case, attributed the jury's verdict to the testimony of seven
corrections officers who described the abuse they witnessed and the
conversations they secretly recorded of the defendants in which threats were
aimed at anyone who cooperated with investigators.

He attributed the emotional reaction to the verdict to the sense of personal
betrayal.

"Any time you have one law enforcement agency in a jurisdiction go after
another, there is going to be a perception of unfairness," he said, as he and
Alan Silver, another prosecutor, reacted to the verdicts.

The lawyers for Mr. Rice and Mr. Popovic did not comment on the verdicts, but
Robert Galantucci, the lawyer for Mr. Sica, vowed to appeal, saying, "We have to
move this out of Union County because from the beginning it has been lopsided."

The disturbance by detainees at the former detention center run by the Esmor
Corrections Services Corporation led to a sweeping review by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service of its policies nationwide on asylum seekers as well as
on the way the agency monitored private contractors who ran the centers. The
center in New Jersey remained closed for more than 18 months after the melee.

When it reopened in 1997 under the management of the Corrections Corporation of
America, the immigration agency announced several new measures. These included
allowing parole for some asylum seekers as an alternative to lengthy detention,
speeding hearings on their claims and better monitoring of medical, legal and
other services and management practices at the four privately run detention
centers around the country.

The Union County jail was one of a dozen prisons to which detainees caught up in
the 1995 disturbance were taken. But it was the only one where allegations of
abuse and assaults led to criminal charges as well as a civil suit by some of
the former detainees. From the beginning, lawyers for the plaintiffs in the
civil suits said their cases against the county would proceed regardless of the
outcome of the criminal trials.

The fact that civil suits had been filed was repeatedly noted by lawyers for the
jail guards as they cross-examined the former detainees and suggested that the
detainees were exaggerating the accounts of abuse and their injuries to
strengthen the damage suits.

Fourteen former detainees, some traveling back to the United States from their
home countries, to which they had been deported by the I.N.S., told stories of
being pushed, punched, kicked and knocked to the ground by shouting and abusive
guards from the time they arrived at the county prison. Their injuries ranged
from bruises and cuts to bumps and lumps, but no one was so seriously injured as
to have to be hospitalized.

But Judge Span cautioned the jurors that the inflicting of pain, regardless of
how serious the injury, was sufficient to qualify as assault and abuse under the
law. None of the former detainees were on hand to hear today's verdict.

In their own accounts, most former detainees spoke more of the fear, shame and
humiliation they felt from the experience.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Rubella Outbreak Spreads From Center

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., April 5


A rubella outbreak among 20 inmates at a South Texas immigration detention
center may have spread outside the Federal center, prompting health officials to
issue a statewide alert.

The infectious disease, which is usually transmitted by sneezing, was also
diagnosed in a worker at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center in Bayview. The employee at the center's clinic had not been vaccinated.

Rubella, or German measles, has been diagnosed in three Rio Grande Valley
residents outside the center -- including one in Brownsville. The disease has
been diagnosed in inmates at the center since Nov. 30.

Richard Campman, a state epidemiologist, confirmed there were "an unusual number
of cases" of rubella reported at the center. But he would not elaborate on the
situation.

It takes two or three weeks for the symptoms of rubella to appear. Since
November, inmates at the center have been transferred elsewhere at weekly
intervals.

Of the infected inmates, seven are from Honduras, five from El Salvador, five
from Guatemala and three from Mexico. Outside the detention center, one rubella
victim was identified in Brownsville and two in San Juan.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 29, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Verdicts Mixed in Trial Over Immigrant Beatings

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


A Union County jail guard was convicted yesterday of failing to report the
beatings of illegal immigrants brought to the jail in 1995 after a disturbance
at a detention center. Another guard was acquitted of charges that he
participated in the beatings.

The convicted guard, Joseph Werthmann 3d, is to be sentenced for official
misconduct on July 10 and faces up to 10 years in prison, said Robert O'Leary,
the first assistant prosecutor of Union County. The other guard, Edward Einhorn,
was acquitted in the five-week trial.

The two were the last of 12 guards to be charged in the beatings, which occurred
after about 300 immigrants rioted over conditions at the Esmor detention center
in Elizabeth, which reopened under new management last year. Six guards pleaded
guilty to official misconduct last month after three others were convicted. The
12th guard died in a car crash.

Mr. Werthmann's lawyer, Blair Zwillman, said the conviction would be appealed.
Mr. Zwillman said the guard who testified against his client, Sultan Holmes,
failed to file a report himself and lied on the witness stand to avoid
prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 15, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Detainee Recalls Life as Smugglers' Cargo

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., June 13


It was an odyssey, he said, that began more than a year ago, when he was forced
to leave a coastal village in China for political reasons, and ended two weeks
ago when what he hoped would be his boat to freedom ran aground on the Jersey
Shore.

In between, he said, was a desperate, often difficult passage that included a
prolonged, lonely stay in a humid country in South America and an unpleasant
voyage aboard a large, rickety ship with about 200 other Chinese men bobbing
through the rough Atlantic Ocean.

"It's been very difficult," said the man, 25, who spoke on the condition that
his name not be used. "I am lonely."

The man is one of 23 from China who tried to enter the United States illegally
on May 30 and are being held by the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service at a detention center here. The immigrants' lawyers say that the men
will seek political asylum; the immigration service, though, has begun
deportation hearings and is moving swiftly.

Information about the 23 men, whose predicament recalls that of the 286 illegal
Chinese immigrants aboard the Golden Venture, a smuggling ship that ran aground
in Queens in 1993, has been sketchy to this point. But today, one of the 23, the
25-year-old man, spoke briefly in an interview at the detention center about why
he did what he did, casting some light on the conditions and hardships he and
his fellow shipmates may have endured.

During the voyage, the man said, food was scarce. Uncertainty, however, was
plentiful: uncertainty about whether he would be able to repay the $20,000 to
$30,000 debt that his family had incurred to send him to America, whether he
would survive the trip, and whether he would be caught and sent back to China,
where his life, he said, would be in danger. "I was forced to leave China for
political reasons," the man said.  "I am afraid of being captured by the
Communist Party."

The immigration service is trying to determine whether his account is genuine or
the result of an effort to coach the man to say things that might improve his
chances of staying in the United States. On Thursday and Friday, the 23 men made
brief individual appearances before two immigration judges at deportation
hearings to determine whether they should be released on bond. The hearings are
scheduled to resume in two weeks, when relatives of some of the 23 are expected
to offer testimony in support of their release.

One of the 23 Chinese men, Wang Wu Dong, was also aboard the Golden Venture in
1993. He failed to win asylum and was deported only months before Congress
passed a law in 1996 that would have strengthened his case for asylum.

Today, Mr. Wang spoke briefly during an interview. But he politely declined to
offer any details, saying only, "I've been through many hardships." He referred
all matters to his lawyers at the Porges law firm in Manhattan. He looked
disheveled, with unkempt hair and bloodshot eyes.

But one of Mr. Wang's shipmates, the 25-year-old passenger who spoke on the
condition of anonymity, did speak cautiously about his situation.

Speaking in Mandarin, the man said that he grew up as one of three sons in the
small farming community of Minjiangko, not far from the city of Fuzhou in Fujian
Province. His father recently retired as a laborer in a shipbuilding factory;
his mother, he said, worked on a farm, planting rice and growing loquat, a small
orange-like fruit. He studied through middle school, then found work, first as a
painter, later as a clerk at a sundries store.

A few years ago, the man's older brother left home to go to United States. Why
he did so was not clear; the man in the detention center said he knew little
about his brother's current whereabouts. He also declined to elaborate on his
own reasons for leaving, saying only that the political explanations would
surface during his asylum hearings.

"I am worried about what might happen to me if I go back," he said.

He did say, however, that he was not married and that he was not a practicing
Christian or a member of the pro-democracy movement.

He said that his relatives arranged for his trip, paying $20,000 to $30,000 to a
smuggling group, and that he left home about one year ago. He traveled by plane
to South America; it was a long trip.

Earlier reports in the Chinese-language media have said that the men flew to
Suriname, in South America. The Asbury Park Press reported today that one of the
23 -- a man named Chen Da Xing -- stashed some mementos near the beach at Bay
Head where the boat sputtered to a halt. These included a pair of pants, a
jacket, a razor, a spiral-bound notebook with English phrases, and cigarettes
made in Suriname.

The 23 were apparently not the only Chinese men who were in South America,
waiting for an opportunity to sneak into the United States, the man from
Minjiangko said.

After waiting for what might have been the better part of a year, the men left
South America perhaps two or three months ago, boarding a big ship. There may
have been 200 men, most of whom were from Fujian. But the man said he did not
recognize a soul from his Minjiangko life, and he often felt lonely.

The voyage was difficult: sleep was but a dream, and food consisted only of rice
porridge. At some point, the bigger ship discharged a group of about two dozen,
who then were transferred to a smaller boat, the Oops II. But the Oops II lost
its way in heavy fog and ran aground on the night of May 30 near the New Jersey
borough of Bay Head. The immigrants jumped into the surf and headed toward the
Victorian mansions that stood sentinel along the waterfront.

At first, the Immigration and Naturalization Service captured 22 of the men; a
23d was later found wandering around the town, hungry and wet. The 23d man also
said that there were two other missing passengers who had been hiding; they have
yet to be found.

Last Monday, the United States Coast Guard took custody of a freighter that was
intercepted about 195 miles east of San Salvador Island in the Bahamas, and the
authorities have said it may have been a so-called mother ship used in the Oops
II smuggling operation. That ship, the Oriental I, reportedly discharged 24
Asian men -- 23 from China and one from Malaysia -- who were picked up by a
speedboat and taken to the Bahamas. The men were later captured and, like the 23
in Elizabeth, are being detained as illegal immigrants.

Even so, the man from Minjiangko said he hoped that he would be granted asylum.
"I've suffered a lot," he said. "I don't want to go back."


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 19, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Votes to Increase Number of Foreigners Allowed in U.S. to Fill Technology
Jobs

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18


Heeding the calls of the high-technology industry, the Senate voted today to
increase the number of foreign workers who would be allowed into the United
States to fill thousands of short-term computer programming and other similar
jobs.

The Senate approved the bill by a vote of 78 to 20 after a daylong debate that
pitted the muscle of the high-technology companies, who say they face a crisis
shortage of qualified United States workers, against the concerns of labor
unions and immigration opponents. The bill would increase the number of foreign
high-technology workers by 20,000 to 30,000 a year for five years.

"One only needs to pick up the want ads, and you will see, as these various
newspapers here suggest, the spectacular amount of jobs going unfilled," said
Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who wrote the bill.

"We need to be able to attract and find and bring to this country the highest
skilled workers we can to fill these jobs, until we can find workers in our
country to fill them," Mr. Abraham said.

Labor Secretary Alexis M. Herman indicated she would recommend a veto to
President Clinton, saying that the bill favors foreign workers over American
ones.

But the House version of the bill, which takes steps to insure that Americans
are not displaced by foreign workers or overlooked, could ease the
Administration's labor concerns. That bill is opposed by the high-technology
industry and by Mr. Abraham.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, tried to attach two
similar provisions to Mr. Abraham's bill, but was voted down.

"I'm wondering what we have against Americans and American workers that we are
so willing to turn over these good jobs to foreigners," said Mr. Kennedy, who
added that the high-technology companies needed to do a better job of recruiting
and training American workers for these jobs.

Mr. Abraham's bill, which would lapse in five years, would increase the number
of visas allocated to highly skilled workers by 30,000 for 1998 and by 20,000
each year for the four years after that. If the crunch worsens, it would likely
allow an additional 20,000 visas a year. Currently, there are 65,000 visas
available for highly skilled workers.

Contributing to the bill's momentum on the Senate floor was the fact that this
year's 65,000 visas have already been depleted, something that had not occurred
before last year. Predictions for 1999 indicate that the number could be
exhausted as early as February.

To accommodate the added high-technology workers, the legislation would cut back
on the number of health care workers permitted into the United States, placing
an annual limit of 10,000 on them and shifting them to a separate visa category.

It would also provide money to help train low-income students in high-technology
skills.

For months now, high-technology executives have been making dire predictions
about how the shortage of workers, mostly computer programmers, would hurt the
economy and help blunt the industry's competitive edge. So eager were they to
get this legislation passed that even the heavy-hitters, William H. Gates, the
chairman of Microsoft, for one, got personally involved in the lobbying.

Further complicating the problem, executives say, is that a number of workers
have been diverted to work on correcting computer programs that will be thrown
into chaos in 2000 for the simple reason that the year ends in 00.

Mr. Abraham said there were an estimated 330,000 existing vacancies for
high-technology jobs, a void that could drive American companies abroad in their
hunt for talent or could lure foreign workers to foreign competitors.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

HOMELESS HARVEST: A special report.;
As Economy Booms, Migrant Workers' Housing Worsens

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2894 words

DATELINE: SALINAS, Calif.


Inside room 39 at the Westwind Motel was an astonishing scene: 10 people bedded
down for the night.

On the right, five migrant farm workers slept on two mattresses. Straight ahead,
two were on blankets on the floor. On the left, below a television, were three
more.

There were eight migrant workers in Room 27A and seven in Room 7, six crammed in
two double beds, one on the floor. Though most motorists would hardly glance at
the drab motel, it had as many residents as a small town.

"When it comes to the rent, it's much more economical this way," said Reyna
Fernandez, a 22-year-old strawberry picker from Mexico who had opened the door
to a visitor to Room 39, which rented for $200 a week. "We really earn very
little."

Three decades after Cesar Chavez made the shocking conditions of migrant workers
a national cause, more farm workers than ever are living in squalor.

One reason is that Government efforts to build housing have not kept pace with
the growing number of migrant workers. The Federal Commission on Agricultural
Workers estimates there are 2.5 million farm workers, up from 1.8 million in
1960. About 800,000 of the current workers lack adequate shelter, according to
the Housing Assistance Council, a Washington-based consulting group that studies
rural housing.

In recent years, the agricultural work force has changed in ways that make it
much harder for the Government to improve the workers' living conditions,
whether by providing housing itself or pressuring growers to improve the housing
they provide.

The most important is that the migrant work force, once composed mainly of
United States citizens, is now largely made up of immigrants from Mexico and
Central America, 40 percent of them here illegally. And a growing number of them
leave their families behind, coming with the goal of sending home as much of
their earnings as possible.

Eager to earn as much as 10 times what they can at home, these workers are
willing to put up with living conditions and wages that few Americans would
accept. The economic imperative driving them -- that they can lift their
families out of poverty -- is so powerful that it has assured a plentiful supply
of migrants even as real farm wages have fallen by more than 10 percent in the
last 20 years.

"The root of the problem is there is an oversupply of farm workers," said Bruce
Goldstein, executive director of the Farmworker Justice Fund, a Washington-based
advocacy group.

Over the past decade, the Federal and state governments, working with growers,
have built tens of thousands of housing units for migrants. But those units
usually go to families, citizens and legal immigrants, rarely benefiting several
large groups facing the worst circumstances: single men and women, illegal
immigrants and workers who move from harvest to harvest.

And stricter Federal laws requiring growers to improve their migrant housing
have largely backfired: rather than contend with the cost and hassle of
complying, thousands of growers have stopped providing housing, since they are
not required to do so.

Some of the worst conditions result when entrepreneurs fill the void by renting
rundown housing at inflated prices. In response, migrants cram in as many people
as they can to reduce how much each pays.

"We have to put up with this because we can't afford anything else," said
Maria-Guadalupe Sanchez, a farm worker who lives with 13 other people in a
three-bedroom house in Watsonville, Calif.

Watsonville and Salinas are on California's Central Coast, a bountiful
agricultural region, but migrants earning $200 a week share little of the
prosperity.

The Central Coast is not alone, however. The housing shortage is so severe that
in harvest-time visits to farming communities up and down both coasts over the
last year, workers were found packed 10 or 12 into trailers and sleeping in
garages, tool sheds, caves, fields and parking lots.

"These people work very hard," said Moises Loza, executive director of the
Housing Assistance Council. "The tragedy is that they're out there pursuing the
American dream, and we don't treat these people, who do very valuable work, as
if they merit the conveniences and decent shelter that most of us take for
granted."

The Conditions
Different States, Same Misery

As the harvest moved from state to state, there was one common thread: miserable
living conditions.

In Orange County, N.Y., an hour from Manhattan, raw sewage formed puddles
outside migrant workers' trailers. In Mecca, Calif., more than 100 migrants
slept in parking lots and along the road.

Along the Columbia River in Mattawa, Wash., dozens of Mexicans up for the cherry
harvest slept in crude tents and lean-tos. In Belle Glade, Fla., hundreds of
decrepit shacks have been demolished, only to be replaced by ramshackle rooming
houses.

Immokalee, in the Everglades, boasts it is the East Coast's winter vegetable
capital, but it might also be the trailer capital. It is crowded with mobile
homes, many of them decades old, that absorb the population each winter when the
tomato and pepper harvest swells the town to more than 20,000 people, from 8,000
in summer.

Outside, many trailers are painted a crisp white that masks the conditions
inside. Because the trailers have few electrical outlets, wires crisscross
bedroom ceilings so the workers can plug in fans and radios. To protect their
food supplies from rats, migrants hang bags of flour and cornmeal, pinata-like,
from strings nailed to the ceiling.

Ramiro Jeronimo, a 17-year-old tomato picker from Guatemala, could not hide his
embarrassment. As he showed a visitor the trailer he shared with seven others, a
rat jumped from behind a bag of flour on the refrigerator and scooted into a
cupboard.

The bare wood around the kitchen sink was rotting. The living room had two beds,
while the 10-by-10 end bedroom had three lined up inches apart. Clothes were
slung over twine strung between the walls.

The trailer rented for $950 a month: as much as seaside apartments in nearby
Naples and twice what year-round families in Immokalee pay for three-bedroom
houses.

"It's difficult here, but it's hard to find anything better," Mr. Jeronimo said.
"When you return from work, everyone wants to use the bathroom at the same time.
And it's hard to sleep because some people want to hear music."

The trailers are rented out by entrepreneurs who take advantage of the seasonal
crush of migrants. "They can afford to keep these trailers in terrible condition
and charge abominable rents because these people have no choice," said Steven
Hitov, a lawyer with Florida Rural Legal Services.

State officials say they do not have enough inspectors to find every trailer or
house with illegally crowded or unsanitary conditions. And landlords often
maintain that the migrants create the squalor and overcrowding behind their
backs.

In the winter, Bernabe and Domingo Jacinto, brothers from Guatemala, and 10
cousins, nephews and uncles moved out of a cockroach-infested $800-a-month
trailer to a $1,100-a-month, two-bedroom house. Now five slept in one bedroom,
three in the other, three in the living room and one in the dining room. The
shower reeked of mildew; the bathroom floor was so badly rotted that weeds were
visible underneath.

The $100 a month each brother paid might seem cheap, even for such conditions,
but they called it exorbitant because it equaled a peasant's monthly income in
Guatemala.

"It's very expensive, but what can you do," Bernabe Jacinto said. "There are
nicer houses, but they're far from the center of town. We don't have cars. All
we have are our two feet."

Every morning at 5:30, Mr. Jacinto and hundreds of other migrants walked to a
parking lot where trucks took them to the fields. He usually earned $5.15 an
hour, or about $200 a week, and sent his wife and six children $250 a month.
"It's difficult thinking it might be a year or more before I see my family," he
said. "But it's good that we can earn some money here."

The Government Role
As Rules Multiply, Housing Dwindles

As early as Theodore Roosevelt's Presidency, government reports focused on the
plight of farm workers. Ever since, insuring decent living conditions for
migrants has been one of the most intractable problems facing government
officials.

Masses of migrants enter the country and circulate undetected. Many are illegal
immigrants who get hired through forged documents or growers turning a blind eye
to their illegal status. Housing inspectors are stretched thin, and politicians
and the public are hardly clamoring to spend money on housing for this largely
invisible population.

Still, state officials and farmers boast that, often with Federal subsidies,
they have built thousands of houses that have allowed farm workers to vacate the
most rundown shacks.

Government inspectors have tried to shut down the worst housing. In Immokalee,
the state has condemned all housing without electricity and closed encampments
of makeshift tents.

"We used to have people who slept on canal banks, but in Florida now, all
migrant farm workers are housed in some kind of structure," said Ken Widergren,
one of Florida's chief inspectors of migrant housing. "There's a lot of
wonderful housing that's been built and new housing is going up all the time.

"In some places, I'd still describe the conditions as deplorable."

Farm-worker advocates say far too little housing is being built. This year the
Clinton Administration will spend $27.5 million on the main Federal Government
program for farm-worker housing, which makes low-interest loans to developers.
It is requesting $45 million for next year -- still far less than the $69
million spent in 1979.

Since 1983, 7,584 houses and apartment units have been built under the program,
an average of 506 a year, and several hundred more are built yearly under other,
smaller Federal programs.

Pressured by farm-worker advocates and embarrassed by exposes, in 1986 Congress
enacted stricter rules for housing provided by growers. But instead of
complying, many farmers stopped providing housing. In California, the number of
labor camps provided by growers has plummeted to 1,000, from 5,000 in 1968.

"It got to the point where there are a lot of rules and regulations on housing
and that created a tremendous cost," said Andrew Esposito, labor compliance
coordinator at the United States Sugar Corporation, which closed a 150-unit camp
in Florida in 1994. "It just wasn't economically feasible."

"Our job is to grow sugar and citrus," Mr. Esposito said. "We're letting the
private sector take care of housing. Admittedly some of the housing isn't as
good as it should be, but it's not for us to tell a local mobile home park how
to take care of housing."

A recent legislative showdown in Washington State underlined how hard it is to
ease the shortage. In 1997, the Legislature approved a bill allowing farmers to
provide barracks without heating or hot water, but requiring central kitchens
and bathrooms.

"Some of these orchards may only have a six-day harvest," said Mike Gempler,
executive director of the Washington Growers League. "It's not economically
sensible to build a full-scale apartment house that's sustainable for full-year
living, just for a six-day harvest."

With the United Farm Workers union denouncing the bill, Gov. Gary Locke, a
Democrat, vetoed it. But this year growers pushed the bill through again, and
Governor Locke signed it after the Legislature added money for housing and
tightened rules on plumbing and electricity.

The growers say the barracks are better than sleeping in the fields. But the
president of the farm workers in Washington, Guadalupe Gamboa, said: "They're
going back to 1940's and 50's shantytowns. We're talking about barracks with 60
people in a room and no heat, even though it freezes here in April."

The Invisible
Out of Sight, Out of Mind

On either side of the stream in Southern California stood primitive huts that
seemed straight out of prehistoric times, except for their black plastic
sheeting. Nearly camouflaged under the trees and vines, the huts were built from
branches and two-by-fours covered with cardboard and the plastic sheeting that
is used to cover fields to protect young plants from freezing. Essentially crude
wooden frames wrapped with black plastic, they appeared equal parts Cro-Magnon
and Cristo.

"I live here because it's close to work, and I don't have enough money for food,
not to mention rent," said Juan Alarcon, an 18-year-old Mexican who shared a hut
with his brother. They earned about $50 for a nine-hour day picking cucumbers
and peppers.

The 50 or so hut dwellers lived around a hill from the vegetable fields they
tended, 20 miles inland from Oceanside, Calif.

"Two sheets of plastic are good for keeping out the rain," Mr. Alarcon said.
"But it's dangerous here. There are coyotes, mountain lions, and I killed a big
rattlesnake."

The hut dwellers used the stream to wash themselves and their clothes. To get to
work, many had to walk over a log crossing the stream. They live here several
months each year, migrating north in the fall to other harvests and heading to
Mexico each Christmas to visit their families.

"I don't like it here, but I have to live here," said Claudio Villa Cuevas, a
64-year-old Mexican "There is no other work."

The farm where they worked is far from any town where they could rent housing.
But there were advantages to the location: it was hard for immigration agents to
find them, hard for housing inspectors to find their huts, hard for neighbors to
complain about illegal immigrants and eyesores nearby.

"In Southern California, where a lot of houses go for $250,000 to $500,000,
people don't want to see farm workers, they don't want to see these little brown
men in their vicinity," said Claudia Smith, a lawyer with California Rural Legal
Assistance. "They want them around at 6 A.M. to bid down each other's wages, and
then they want them to disappear at 6 P.M."

The Exception
Adequate Housing Rewards a Grower

To many farm workers, there is a simple solution to the problem: pay them more.

Growers respond that competition from foreign produce makes it hard to raise
wages. Farm-worker advocates retort that growers can easily increase pay,
because wages are a small fraction of retail prices.

Growers cite another sticking point: if they raised wages, many migrants would
send the extra pay home and continue sleeping in garages or overcrowded
trailers.

Advocates contend that if Government and growers build more housing, the
increased supply would provide shelter for migrants who sleep in fields while
lowering rents for those who pay exorbitant sums.

Some growers do provide decent housing, like the rows of tidy houses maintained
by A. Duda, a Florida citrus giant. The company, unusual in its generosity,
spends $1 million a year to house almost 1,000 workers, who often sleep two to a
bedroom in four-bedroom, cinder-block apartments. Duda executives say the
housing attracts good, dedicated workers back each year.

But many growers say building such apartments for $25,000 each would erase their
profits. These growers say the free market should supply housing. But
profitability is an obstacle there because migrants rent only a few months of
the year and can afford only low rents.

An increasing, but still small, number of growers say they want to contribute to
a fund to build farm-worker housing. And advocates say the Government needs to
put up far more money. But there is little public clamor to build such housing.

Nonetheless, there are some highly promising programs, like one in Coachella,
Calif., 20 miles east of Palm Springs.

In a development called Vista del Sol, 75 families who hope to settle down
permanently spent nine months building 75 homes, with the cooperative spirit of
a barn-raising. Usually eight families cooperated to build eight homes at once,
pitching in on framing each other's walls and shingling each other's roofs,
doing their construction each day after working in the fields.

The result: handsome houses appraised at $90,000, with $20,000 of that value
coming from sweat equity.

"It's a lot of work, but it's worth it," said Juan Alvarez, a 39-year-old
vegetable worker. "It's roomy, and a lot more comfortable than the trailer we
lived in."

His mortgage payment is just $240 a month, about what he and his family paid to
rent a cramped, rundown trailer.

Vista del Sol was made possible by a $70,000 low-interest Federal loan to each
family and the patient planning of the Coachella Valley Housing Coalition, a
nonprofit group that has orchestrated the building of 500 self-help houses since
1989.

There is one snag: in the Coachella Valley alone, there is a waiting list of
2,000 families eager to build homes. That, housing experts estimate, is four
times the number of self-help, farmworker homes built nationwide last year.

Nonprofit groups say they can oversee construction of 10,000 self-help homes per
year -- if there was Federal money.

But Jill Long Thompson, Under Secretary of Agriculture for rural development,
acknowledged that the will was not there for a concerted effort.

"It's very difficult because of the limited resources," she said. "We are barely
making a dent in meeting the need."


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bed can be impossible for migrant workers to find, so Jose
Salcedo, 52, turned to his car in Mecca, Calif. (Edward Carreon for The New York
Times)(pg. 1); IMMOKALEE, FLA. -- The town's population of 8,000 swells to more
than 20,000 during the winter harvest of vegetables. Many of the migrant
workers, like these from Guatemala, live in trailers and hang their food from
the ceiling to keep it from rats. (Alan W. Weiner for The New York Times);
MECCA, CALIF. -- More farm workers than ever are living in squalor in the United
States as housing has not kept pace with migrants. Bulmaro Rodriguez, left, and
Oscar Salsero cleaned clothes and themselves in an irrigation canal. (Alan S.
Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. 14)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 16, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Why Computer Jobs Go Begging;
Hire Foreign Workers

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words



To the Editor:

"Software Jobs Go Begging, Threatening Technology Boom" (front page, Jan. 13)
explores the United States' woefully inadequate supply of computer
professionals. Demand far outstrips the supply of talent, and unless we can fill
all the positions, our industry and economy will be stifled. There is an
immediate solution to the problem. Employers can hire qualified foreign
nationals on temporary work visas.

But Congress must raise the artificially imposed cap of 65,000 of such visas
issued each year. This cap was reached last year months before the fiscal year
ended. If our Government recognized the value such foreign workers bring to our
economy, it would eliminate the cap entirely and allow American businesses and
industries the human capital they need to keep growing.

SUSAN J. COHEN
Boston, Jan. 13, 1998

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edel Rodriguez)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 1, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Tomato Pickers Take On Growers

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, Fla.


Jose Rocillo, who first came here from Mexico in 1981 to do farm work and at 67
still picks tomatoes, can look around this town of migrant workers these days
and say that things are better. The streets are cleaner, he says, and there is
less crime.

But financially, Mr. Rocillo is caught in a time warp. Seventeen years ago he
made 45 cents for each bucket of tomatoes he picked; now he makes 35 cents. He
used to save and send money back home, he says, but now the pay, less than
$10,000 a year, is barely enough to live on.

"Things are more expensive and the job pays less," Mr. Rocillo said recently as
he sat on a rock drinking juice at the store parking lot where buses let out
workers whose shirts were stained with the green of tomato at the end of the
workday. "You make enough to eat poorly."

The plight of about 2,500 nonunionized tomato pickers here -- mostly Haitian,
Mexican and Guatemalan immigrants -- is similar to that of other farm laborers
in the nation whose wages, in real or inflation-adjusted terms, have fallen over
the last two decades. But in this, the second-largest tomato-growing area in
Florida, the state that produces nearly half of the nation's winter tomato crop,
workers seeking higher wages are staging work stoppages and hunger strikes, and
meeting with public officials and concerned residents to call attention to what
they see more as a human rights issue than a pay dispute.

In mid-January, former President Jimmy Carter, whose Carter Center in Atlanta is
devoted to resolving conflicts, added his voice to that of Gov. Lawton Chiles
and Roman Catholic church officials who have urged a dialogue between growers
and workers.

Mr. Carter's intervention ended a 30-day hunger strike by six workers, but the
growers have yet to respond to demands for discussions. So far the 10 tomato
companies that operate here have maintained through their trade association that
their wages compare favorably with those of growers around the country, and they
contend that they are going through hard times because of increased competition
from Mexican tomato growers under the North American Free Trade Agreement.

The Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, which represents the farmers,
estimated that foreign competition had forced more than half of Florida's tomato
farms out of business in the last five years, shrinking the industry to 80 farms
from 200. Only since 1995, when a settlement agreement set a minimum price for
Mexican imports so that domestic growers could remain competitive, has the
industry gained some stability, the companies say.

"Farms are holding on in a very tight competitive market," said Ray Gilmer, a
spokesman for the group. "Volume out of Mexico remains very high. The only farms
that are able to survive are the very large farms that can achieve economies of
scale."

But good times and bad times in farming have made no difference to those at the
lowest rung. Agricultural economists and some surveys have found that over the
last two decades the wages of the nation's more than two million farm workers
have declined, some by 20 percent or more, after accounting for inflation. They
attribute the decline to factors like a surplus of workers and the diminishing
clout of labor unions. Also, it is estimated that 40 percent of agricultural
workers are in the United States illegally and are thus easier to exploit.

Immokalee, a town of about 20,000 people in southwest Florida with one of the
biggest and poorest labor reserves in the state, sits in sharp contrast near
wealthy municipalities like Naples. Tomato pickers in Immokalee say all
production costs have gone up except their pay, with growers covering their
higher costs by saving on pickers.

Depending on the time of the picking season, which runs from September to May,
workers can make as much as $100 a day or as little as $30, they say, but by
year's end most of them average a salary of $8,000 to $10,000, well below the
poverty level of $13,300 for a family of three. That is enough for a life style
of crowded housing conditions, often in trailers, with no telephone, no car and
no meat on the table most days. There are no health, vacation or pension
benefits, either.

Pressing their case through the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a grass-roots
group with about 750members, the tomato pickers are seeking an average raise of
20 cents a bucket, to 60 cents, which they say would have a negligible impact on
tomato prices. They also want to end a practice called "day and a dime," which
pays a flat wage for the day plus 10 cents per 32-pound bucket picked. Coalition
members say that the system encourages workers to pick more but that at the end
of the day it pays less than the piece rate.

"Our focus is to restore our salary to the equivalent of what it was 20 years
ago -- that's 20 cents more per bucket," said Lucas Benitez, 22, a former picker
who now works for the coalition. "We're not asking for an increase or any
benefits."

Last year 2,000 workers signed cards supporting the coalition's call for a
raise. In December, 700 to 1,000 workers participated in three one-day strikes,
a calibrated action that is used sparingly because most workers cannot afford to
miss a day's pay. But only one grower has even acknowledged the workers' request
to meet.

That grower, Gargiulo Inc., one of the biggest, agreed to raise the pay per
bucket by 10 cents, to 50 cents over the next year, an action the coalition says
shows that its salary demand is one growers can afford.  Gargiulo and other
tomato growers in the area contacted for comment did not return telephone calls.

Mr. Gilmer, of the growers' group, said a recent survey of tomato growers in the
area showed workers making $6 to $12 an hour, with the average worker making $8
to $9 -- higher than the national average for farm workers of $7.31. But
coalition members counter that the figures are inflated and that the implied
annual salary, more than $16,000 for a 40-hour week, 52 weeks a year, is not
representative because picking is not a regular job. If the growers wanted to
pay workers an annual salary, the coalition says, pickers would gladly accept
less, like $15,000.

Greg Asbed, a coalition staff member, said: "You can work anywhere from one to
seven days a week, for two to ten hours in a day, due to weather conditions,
crop conditions and availability of labor. But there's still an unspoken
contract between growers and workers, which is, 'You be there every day even if
I don't have work for you.' What needs to be done is to make it a viable
occupation by increasing the wage for when they do work."

The coalition, which has some victories to its credit, including exposing harsh
working conditions and dissuading a company from lowering wages by staging a
five-day strike in 1995, plans to step up actions with more hunger strikes,
boycotts and even union organizing if the growers continue to ignore them. The
pickers are also planning to send a delegation to Washington to meet with
members of Congress and the Department of Labor.

Workers like Mr. Rocillo support the coalition's work -- he participated in two
of the work stoppages -- but harbor no hope of a better life. In the end, he
said, "the ones that rule are the companies."

After trying his luck in the Carolinas picking cucumbers and earning even less
because of rains and the small size of the crop, Mr. Rocillo is staying put and
plans to work "as long as the body takes it."


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tomato pickers in Immokalee, Fla., are hoping to make 20 cents
more a bucket than they do now. The average picker makes less than $10,000 a
year, advocates say. But the workers have begun to press their case. "You make
enough to eat poorly," said Jose Rocillo, 67, a picker. (Photographs by Phillipe
Diederich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Why Must Farms Use Migrant Labor?

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 157 words



To the Editor:

Re your May 31 front-page article on migrant farm workers: The inhuman living
conditions of many migrant farm workers result from the distorted supply of
labor to United States farms. Many Americans cannot afford to accept the low
wages offered by agricultural employers because they would have to forfeit their
social welfare benefits. This creates a surplus of impoverished farm laborers,
many of whom are illegal immigrants.

To attract more citizens to low-paying jobs like farm labor, income above the
poverty level has to be assured. The Government should cash out its narrowly
defined corporate and social welfare programs and redirect that money to every
American in an annual tax rebate that, when added to the minimum wage, would
bring every worker above the poverty level.

LEONARD M.  GREENE
White Plains, June 1, 1998

The writer is the president of the Institute for Socioeconomic Studies.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Like It or Not, Germany Becomes a Melting Pot

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

DATELINE: BERLIN


Almost 30 years ago, Elbeyi Inci left his home on Turkey's Black Sea coast and
came to West Germany to work on construction sites -- one of the so-called guest
workers lured by official design to the dynamo of the postwar economic miracle.
At that time, foreigners were less than 4 percent of West Germany's population.

These days, according to his son Sabri, Mr. Inci's descendants in Berlin number
about 20. They include the four of Sabri's five children who were born in
Germany. Sabri spoke in an interview at the Inci Pizza, the family business on a
street in the Kreuzberg district of Berlin where Turkish overwhelms German.

Now, roughly 7.1 million of Germany's population of 82 million, or almost 9
percent, are foreigners, the highest proportion in Europe, far ahead of the
continental average of 5 percent and well above that of such countries as France
(5.7 percent) and Britain (3.8 percent).

The combination of numbers and stories like that of the Inci family might
suggest that Germany, whose foreign population was a negligible 1.2 percent of
the total in 1960, is being forced into an unfamiliar cosmopolitanism not only
by economic factors but also by Europe's changed dynamics after the cold war.

But if Germany is being forced to acknowledge that it has become a melting pot,
then it is doing so with extreme reluctance. When guest workers came to Germany
20 to 30 years ago, jobs were plentiful, and the expectation was that with
short-term residence rights they would disappear when they were no longer
useful.

Now, jobs are scarce, and Germany's unemployment stands at a record 4.5 million.
But many foreigners have acquired permanent residence rights in a land that is
less interested in diversity than in cohesion and that does not want to be
viewed as an immigrant nation as the United States once was.

"Foreigners seeking German citizenship must through their behavior show a
credible integration into our social and state order," said Erwin Marschewski, a
Christian Democratic spokesman on internal affairs.

And as a divisive debate over the future citizenship of foreigners born here
seems to suggest, many Germans -- particularly those close to Chancellor Helmut
Kohl -- are reluctant to abandon the principle that the nation's core be made up
of Germans who can trace the ancestral blood line demanded by a 1913 citizenship
law that still defines the essence of German nationality.

The whole debate about citizenship was incited by a proposal by the Free
Democrats, the junior partner in the coalition Government, to permit foreigners
born in Germany to hold dual citizenship until the age of 18. After that, they
would have to choose one nationality or the other.

But Interior Minister Manfred Kanther, who belongs to Mr. Kohl's Christian
Democrats, insisted, "There will never be dual nationality in Germany." Indeed,
said Finance Minister Theo Waigel, rather than devise new rules, the best
solution to Germany's problems might be "a sensible limit on immigration." The
idea is stuck in political wrangling.

Unlike the United States but like most other European countries, Germany does
not automatically grant citizenship to children born here of foreign parents.
They may only apply for citizenship under strict rules once they have reached
age 18.

Increasingly, however, the definition of who is a German is being challenged by
people like Ozlem Inci, Sabri Inci's 19-year-old daughter.  She has applied to
become German, in part because she feels remote from the land of her forebears
and has none of a previous generation's attachment to a country she has seen
only on vacation.

"I'm not thinking of going to live in Turkey; I grew up here," she said,
speaking a much more confident German than her father after her years in German
schools, which have left her far more open to mixing with Germans, even dating
them.

"People like me are foreigners in Turkey," she said. "They call us the
Deutschlanders. There you are not a real Turk, and here you are not a complete
German. We are somewhere in between."

The aim of the dual citizenship proposal is to prevent Germany's growing
population of foreigners from becoming alienated minorities. But the response to
it has said as much about the fears of many Germans as it has about the
aspirations of many foreigners.

Easing the rules on citizenship, Mr. Kohl said recently, would double the number
of Turks streaming into Germany. The remark drew widespread criticism from
Turkish groups and from Germany's Jewish organizations as likely to worsen
anti-foreign sentiment.

The urgency of the debate is a result of the startled recognition by officials
that contrary to the original vision of the guest workers' doing their bit for
Germany and then going home, and despite immigration policies that have become
more restrictive in recent years, an established immigrant population has grown
with its own youthful dynamics.

Almost one-quarter of all foreigners are under 18. And, most telling of all,
more than 60 percent of legally registered foreigners under 18 were born in this
country, a phenomenon that German officials call "immigration by birth."

"The longer-term demographic development is characterized by a reduction in the
proportion of Germans in the population and a drastic increase in the younger
age groups," said the latest report issued by officials dealing with legal
immigrants. It does not reflect untold numbers of clandestine immigrants,
largely from Africa and Eastern Europe.

Not only have the Turks, Yugoslavs and Italians imported to fuel the economic
miracle grown into a settled community of around 3.4 million -- two million of
them from Turkey -- but the ranks of Germany's foreign population have also
swollen with war refugees from the former Yugoslavia, asylum-seekers from many
parts of the world and East Europeans drawn to the Continent's traditional
economic powerhouse. Berlin alone has a Russian population estimated at 100,000.
And Italians who first arrived as guest workers now have automatic rights under
European Union rules to live and work in any of the Union's 15 member countries,
including Germany.

At the same time, the very nature of the economic pickings that drew the guest
workers here has changed. Like his father before him, Mr. Inci came to work on
construction sites. But since 1992, he and his brother have been running the
modest Inci Pizza eatery, which is just one of 42,000 Turkish-owned businesses
ranging from kebab stands to textile companies and travel agencies.

For all that, though, Germans and Turks remain keenly aware of the distinctions
between the groups.  "Even if I had a German passport, I would still feel like a
foreigner and be regarded as a foreigner," Mr. Inci said.

Indeed, Miss Inci said, even though some of her friends have married Germans,
qualifying for German passports, there are parts of Berlin where she feels
uncomfortable, even threatened, because of violent right-wing extremists who
flourished in the early 1990's and attacked Turks and other immigrants.

"I'm at home here," she said, gesturing to a part of the Kreuzberg district that
is overwhelmingly inhabited by Turks, "but there are parts of Berlin where I
don't feel at home at all."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A debate over the future citizenship of foreigners born in
Germany is dividing the country. Ozlem Inci, 19, working with her Turkish
father, Sabri, in the family's pizzeria in Berlin, has applied to become German.
(Metin Yilmaz/Paparazzi, for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL;
Nine Cuban Defectors Are Found in the Bahamas After 17 Hours at Sea

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, the Bahamas, March 22


Four Cuban baseball players and a coach were safely under lock and key in a
Bahamian detention center here tonight, confounding earlier reports that they
were either lost at sea or washed up on a Dominican Republic beach.

The five, along with four other defectors, actually did not leave their homeland
aboard a small fishing boat until two days ago and spent about 17 hours at sea,
according to Joe Cubas, a Miami-based agent who met with them today. Frantic
relatives in Cuba and Miami had passed on reports that they departed for the
open sea 10 days earlier, raising alarms about their fate when they ostensibly
failed to make a landfall within a week. But they had actually landed Saturday
on Ragged Island, a small Bahamian cay just 80 miles off the Cuban coast.

Cubas, who has helped several other Cuban defectors sign lucrative contracts
with major league baseball teams in the United States, said he could not explain
why the situation had become so garbled. Some reports, which turned out to be
without substance, had the defectors crawling ashore "barely alive" last week in
the Dominican Republic.

"The good news is that they are all alive and in good shape," Cubas said outside
the barbed-wire gates of the immigration detention center here where all nine
defectors were transported by air from Ragged Island. He said he would petition
the Bahamian Government on Monday to grant political asylum to all nine. At the
same time, he added, similar petitions would be made to two Latin American
countries -- one is believed to be Costa Rica -- that have granted asylum to
Cuban defectors before their admission to the United States.

From a distance, individual members of the Cuban group looked none the worse for
wear. One of them, Jorge Luis Toca, a balding first baseman who Cubas said was
23 years old but who appeared several years older, looked snappy in corduroy
pants and a bright, unsoiled blue sports jacket. He handed a bottle of cologne
to a Bahamian guard who passed it through the double chain-link fences to a
member of Cubas's party.

Others on the boat were second baseman Jorge Diaz, 23; catcher Angel Lopez, 25,
and the 17-year-old shortstop Michael Jova. The coach, Enrique Chinea, is
reported to be about 40.

All were banned from playing baseball in Cuba last July because authorities
there feared they planned to defect to the United States, as had Livan Hernandez
of the Florida Marlins and his brother Orlando, who joined the Yankees over the
weekend.

The four non-players were identified as Ernesto Perez and Giovanni Pena, both
28; Pedro Ferrer, 30, and Jorge Roche, 27.

Rene Guim, an aide to Cubas, seemed prepared today to accept the idea that
stories circulating in Miami's highly politicized Cuban community for the past
week had spun wildly out of control.

"I hate to say it," he said, "but at this point it looks like a comedy of
errors."

The mystery enveloping an ocean saga that perhaps never took place was punctured
when the defectors' boat drifted into a 53-foot fishing vessel anchored in
Bahamian waters on Saturday near Ragged Island. The fishing boat took the group
to the island, where an ABC television crew from Miami found them lounging in
the sun this morning, talking with the inhabitants of the sparsely populated
outpost.
 How -- or why -- the story of a one-day trip from Cuba's eastern province of
Oriente to a relatively nearby island spun so wildly out of control was not
easily answered.

Speaking later today at a news conference in Miami, Cubas said the party of
defectors had left the Cuban city of Santa Clara on March 10 and gone to the
coast. Bad weather kept them from putting to sea, he said, and they hid in the
basement of a house belonging to a relative of one of the defectors until last
Friday.

According to Guim, an employee of a Spanish-language cable television network in
Miami learned from relatives in Cuba that Toca had turned up in the Dominican
Republic, some 300 miles from where the boat was launched, dehydrated and
sunburned. The cable employee, Guim related, then told the story to the host of
a Spanish-language radio talk show in Miami who broke the "news" on the air.

English-language news media picked up the story and reported it. Meanwhile,
Jova's stepmother told Guim's office that a reporter for a Dominican newspaper
had informed her that the teen-ager had also made shore safely. But Guim said
that when he reached the reporter, the reporter said he had only been trying to
confirm -- not declare -- that the player was safe.

Cubas said he had been in touch with the players and their coach about a
possible defection since last summer.

Orlando Hernandez, who defected last December, reached a Bahamian island 10
hours after leaving Cuba and he and his companions were picked up three days
later by the United States Coast Guard. He recently signed a four-year, $6.6
million contract with the Yankees.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorge Luis Toca, one of nine Cubans being held at a detention
center in the Bahamas, talking with the sports agent Joe Cubas, in foreground.
(Phillippe Diedrich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 24, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL;
Players Foresee Release As Other Refugees Wait

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, the Bahamas, March 23


Four Cuban baseball players being held in a detention center here negotiated
with sports agents today and were told they could expect to be released after
just a few days in custody. Meanwhile, more than 100 other Cuban refugees locked
up with them, who have been held for months in the bare-bones compound, began a
hunger strike to protest their plight.

While all the refugees shared the same muddy encampment, there was a marked
division between the gaunt-eyed detainees who have few prospects and the
athletes who could think about having it all.

For the Bahamian Government, caught in the middle of high-stakes diplomatic and
business negotiations, there was little choice. If the ballplayers succeeded in
getting another Caribbean country to sponsor them, the Bahamas would release
them and put them on an airplane for that nation, presumably a stopover before
the United States and, possibly, baseball glory and riches.

Joe Cubas, a Miami sports agent who has helped other Cuban baseball players who
defected obtain major league contracts, is petitioning Costa Rica and Nicaragua
to admit the group, an associate said today. The players, a coach and four other
defectors left Cuba by boat last Friday. Before leaving, they hid for more than
a week waiting for good weather, and rumors swirled that they had been lost at
sea or washed ashore in the Dominican Republic.

The players are first baseman Jorge Luis Toca, 23; second baseman Jorge Diaz,
23; catcher Angel Lopez, 25, and shortstop Michael Jova, 17. A new team of
agents, from Total Sports International, turned up at the detention center
today, beckoning individual ballplayers from the barracks-like shelters that
house 151 Cubans and 50 or so Haitians and other illegal immigrants.

As each athlete walked to the perimeter fence to speak to the agents, the less
fortunate refugees sat stone-faced outside the barracks, their backs pressed
against the wall.

"They get a good Bahamian diet," said Arthur Rolle, superintendent of the
center, commenting on the detainees' complaint that their health was being
compromised by meals often lacking in protein. "Peas and rice and some chicken.
Maybe even some pork chops. Sometimes."

William Nottage, a Bahamian immigration superintendent, said: "I don't blame
them for being upset. Some have been held here since November. They are asking
if their cases are any less credible than these athletes."

Unless another country offers political asylum, Cuban refugees here must await
an interview by representatives of the United Nations High Commission on
Refugees, said Luther E. Smith, permanent secretary of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs. Most are judged economic refugees and sent back to Cuba, a track record
that has kept Bahamian relations with Havana cordial, he said.

If the High Commission recommends political asylum, it is usually granted, Smith
said, but the process can require months. Top Cuban athletes usually do not have
to endure normal channels. Sponsorship by a third country facilitates quick
release to that nation and makes possible relocation to the United States.

Defecting players who reach the United States after first entering another
country do not have to enter the free-agent draft and can negotiate with clubs
as free agents.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angel Lopez, left, and Jorge Luis Toca are two of the four Cuban
baseball players who are currently in a Nassau detention center. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Long Wait On the Doorstep;
At Immigration Offices, Amid Lines and Lost Time, An Old Hope Survives

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1665 words


This is where the American dream can seem both closer than ever and impossibly
out of reach -- in the endless, exhausting lines that form every day before dawn
outside the doors of immigration offices.

It is where Esteban Travieso, an immigrant from Uruguay, waited for five and a
half hours last week, in line at the immigration office in lower Manhattan to
ask how he could replace his lost residency card. Where Geordany Josselin, 21, a
Haitian, waited for more than six hours to find out what had happened to his
residency application. And where Dora Bintimilla waited for four hours to see
how she could bring her daughter from Ecuador so they can be together again
after 13 years.

"I have put off coming down here for as much as I could -- wouldn't you?" said
Mr. Travieso, 27, a truck driver who lives in Queens, pointing to the line
stretching behind him. "Everybody here wants the same thing, peace of mind. But
to get it, you have to go through hell and back. And, of course, the line."

Despite recent efforts by the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service to
cut down on the need to wait in line for routine services and queries, the
waiting persists, not only in New York but also in Newark, Houston, Los Angeles,
Miami and other cities with large immigrant populations.

The busiest offices, like the one in lower Manhattan, see an average of 1,000
people a day, and an average wait can be as much as three hours or more. When it
is finally their turn, they often encounter surly, uninterested or overburdened
workers, who hand them yet another form and tell them to stand in yet another
line, or to return another day.

While frustrating encounters with bureaucracy are not a complaint unique to
immigrants -- as anyone who has visited a motor vehicles office can attest --
the burden can be particularly heavy for newcomers. They often have unstable
jobs with no vacation time and little flexibility, so taking time off is a
hardship. And many immigrants with little education and no English find
themselves baffled by the complexity of immigration rules that can determine
their future.

Recent changes in immigration laws, which seem to create new deadlines every few
months, can make the lines even longer, as misinformed and desperate immigrants
flock to offices seeking help.

Ibrahim, 24, a native of Somalia who did not want to reveal his last name, woke
up at 4 A.M. on March 30 and rushed to the immigration office in Newark. Another
immigrant at the construction site where he works had alerted him to a new
deadline for applicants for political asylum. Under a 1996 law, all immigrants
who arrived in the United States before April 1, 1997, had until April 1, 1998,
to file claims for asylum.

At the same time, and on the same day, another deadline sent another category of
immigrants scrambling for help. Under the new law, people who have been in the
country illegally for more than a year were required to return to their home
countries before April 1 to avoid being barred from re-entering the United
States legally for 10 years.

Ibrahim, who left his country in 1996 and now lives in Rahway, N.J., said
immigration officials would grant him asylum right away, without forcing him to
stand in line or submit to an interview, if only they could see his scars.

"Look at this," he said, lifting his shirt in front of the crowd of onlookers to
expose jagged scars inflicted in Somalia and running across his chest. "Is this
enough to let me live in America, you think?"

As it turned out, he was in the wrong line. After a two-hour wait, an officer
told him that asylum applicants need not show up in person. They must file by
mail. Ibrahim left as bewildered as when he arrived.

"I don't know what happens to me now," he said, shrugging off the idea of hiring
a lawyer. "I have lived long enough here without one. Maybe I don't need help."

Even without the urgency of an approaching deadline, the lines in front of
immigration offices are fed every day by thousands of people puzzled by
mind-numbing immigration regulations and motivated by an intense desire to
become Americans.

"In the harshest day of winter, there is a line," Alan Atkinson, a spokesman at
the local immigration office in New York, said last week. "In the hottest day of
the summer, there is a line. In the prettiest day of spring, there is a line. It
just never changes."

The lower Manhattan office is the only one for general immigration cases in New
York City. In 19 working days in February, it served 10,000 people who walked in
with inquiries and 11,500 who came in to file applications for various benefits,
Mr. Atkinson said. Rob Koon, a spokesman with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Washington, said last week that from October of last year until the
end of February, at least 2.2 million people went to 79 immigration offices
asking for help.

No matter how long the lines seem, though, immigrants agree that the situation
is actually better than it was a few years ago.

In New York, people now wait their turn inside a portable structure that
protects them from the rain or cold. In Newark, officers regularly canvass the
lines trying to spot people who are misinformed and waiting in vain. And in
Miami, people are now guaranteed service if they are in line before noon,
whereas before, they could wait for hours only to be told at the end of the day
that the office was closed.

In addition, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has come up with a range
of services -- from a web site to satellite offices dedicated to citizenship
applications only -- to reduce the volume of work at the district offices and,
therefore, the waiting time.

Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the agency in Washington, said it now has an
automated toll-free number for information and another to request forms. A new
line, on which callers can speak to a person, was recently installed, but only
for the East Coast; it will be available nationwide in the summer, he said.
Citizenship forms are available on the Internet.

"We are not where we want to be yet, but we are trying to make the process more
convenient for all," Mr. Andrus said.

In addition, immigration officials recently presented Congress a proposal to
separate the enforcement division from the agency's customer service operation.
"We could then retrain our officers and offer better service, something
advocates for immigrants have been asking us to do for a long time," Mr. Andrus
said.

Despite the changes, immigrants and their relatives continue to stand in line
because, in many cases, they have no choice. Often, they are poor and illiterate
in English and have no access to a computer. Many cannot afford a lawyer but are
stymied by long, detailed forms. When they call the information lines, the wait
is long and the maze of alternatives so confusing and impersonal that many
people prefer to stand in line. They view the line as a necessary evil, one more
step in the tangled and expensive process of trying to settle, legally, in the
United States.

"You don't call," said Angie Zapitero, 27, who was standing in line in Houston
to renew her Mexican husband's work permit. "It's better just to come down here
and talk to them. It's faster. You'll be put on hold for hours if you call."

Ivo Dimov, 33, a Bulgarian immigrant, waited outside the immigration offices in
Los Angeles with his wife, Tanya, to get a special travel permit for a visit
home. Since they arrived six years ago, they have lost an uncle, an aunt, a
grandmother and a grandfather, and they want to go back to pay their last
respects.

After two hours, they moved inside the building where, after another short line,
they were assigned a number and told to wait some more. With about 50 people
ahead of them, they were sitting quietly when a woman's shriek from a window
caught everybody's attention. "Don't you have any decency here? You treat people
like cattle."

The Dimovs appeared resigned.  "It's a whole wasted day," he said. "I don't even
know if I will get what we're here for."

The answers that wait at the end of the long lines can shape the course of a
whole life. They can determine whether an immigrant becomes a legal resident or
stays underground, learns English or remains illiterate, receives welfare
benefits or peddles trinkets in the streets, travels home to see his family or
spends his salary on weekly phone calls.

Mr. Josselin, who came to New York from Haiti in 1989, was the first in line on
March 30 at the New York immigration office, arriving at 3 A.M. so he would not
have to miss much time at work. He hopes to study engineering but needs
financial aid, and to get it he has to become a permanent resident. After he
applied for a green card, he received a letter advising him that one of his
forms was missing.

The immigration officer who dealt with him when his number was called at 7:50
A.M. did not know that Mr. Josselin felt his future was at stake. The officer
took her time, unwrapping a piece of gum and carefully placing it in her mouth
before she turned to him, without a greeting. Mr. Josselin showed her the
letter. She punched his name into her computer and told him she thought his case
had been closed and that he needed to reapply.

Mr. Josselin seemed numb throughout the process. He simply moved from line to
line, floor to floor, officer to officer and did as he was told, asking few
questions. He stood in line again to get some forms for a friend. At 9:15 A.M.,
six hours and 15 minutes after he started the line, he walked out of the
building.

"I have been through this line before," he said. "And I'll do it again if I have
to."

Getting Answers

To get Immigration and Naturalization Service help:

Recorded message: 800-755-0777 (everywhere except East Coast)

Recorded mesage and live person: 800-375-5283 (East Coast only; nationwide
beginning this summer)

To order forms: 800-870-3676

Web site: www.ins.usdoj.gov


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Newark immigration office, which opens at 7:30 A.M., the
waiting lines can start forming in the middle of the night. They come wanting to
replace a lost residency card, to check on residency applications, to bring a
long-lost daughter to this country, to apply for political asylum. (Photographs
by John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 18, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Is This America?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words


John Psaropoulos is a television journalist who has worked for the Cable News
Network in Atlanta for the last three years. He has just been through an
experience that had echoes of Kafka. It is a story that he, and most Americans,
would not have believed could happen in this country.

Mr. Psaropoulos, a British subject, was in the United States on a visa that
allowed him to work here. Last winter he took a two-week vacation in Greece,
where he was born. He flew back to Atlanta on March 29, but at the airport he
was told by an immigration inspector that he was ineligible to enter. His work
visa had expired, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service had not acted
on an application filed by CNN to extend it.

He was allowed into the country temporarily, to be given a "deferred inspection"
later. He went in for that inspection on May 7. But in the meantime the
application to extend his visa had been denied because CNN's lawyers had failed
to file a required labor form with it.

Mr. Psaropoulos sat down for an interview with an I.N.S. officer, Marvin
Clinton. This is his description of what happened next:

"The door opened and two men entered the room with handcuffs. Mr. Clinton
explained that I was to be Expeditiously Removed from the United States and
barred from entering for five years."

The capitalized words referred to a provision of the severe new immigration law
passed by Congress and signed by President Clinton last year. It provides for
what it calls Expedited Removal of aliens who are ineligible to be here, with a
ban on their returning for five years. The law eliminates or severely restricts
the right to court review of orders by I.N.S. officials.

The I.N.S. officers took Mr. Psaropoulos to a detention center, where he was
held in a cell overnight. The next evening he was put on a plane back to Greece.
The I.N.S. supervisor at the airport said he would waive the five-year ban on
his return because there had been no deliberate wrongdoing, and he gave Mr.
Psaropoulos a form indicating that.

CNN's lawyers now filed the needed labor form, and the I.N.S. approved an
extension of Mr. Psaropoulos's visa. In Athens, he went to the embassy,
explained everything that had happened and was given the visa.

On June 27 he flew back to Atlanta. At the airport an immigration official
informed him that he was barred for five years. He was allowed in temporarily,
to be formally inspected for entry on July 11. When he went into the I.N.S.
office on that date, his newly issued visa was canceled. He was ordered to leave
the United States within a week -- and stay away for five years.

The blow was more traumatic for Mr. Psaropoulos than it might have been for
others because more than his job was at stake. He was engaged to be married to
an American woman, Alicia Stallings.

But it was not the end. Colin Campbell, a columnist for The Atlanta Journal and
Constitution, heard about the case and telephoned the I.N.S. District Director,
Thomas P. Fischer. "We have questions about his integrity," Mr. Fischer said.
What questions? "That's privileged information."

On July 18 Mr. Psaropoulos flew off to Greece. But the I.N.S., evidently fearing
adverse publicity, thought again. On July 21 Mr. Fischer reversed the decision
and granted Mr. Psaropoulos permission to re-apply for admission. He got a new
visa in Athens and plans to fly to Atlanta again next month.

So it seems now to be a happy ending, unless some I.N.S. official reverses it
again next month. It came at a price for Mr. Psaropoulos: $20,000 for, among
other things, lawyers' bills and plane tickets that CNN did not cover. How many
people can afford that price to fight an arbitrary immigration decision?

"It's just a huge weight off us," Alicia Stallings said. "We put off our wedding
just in case the I.N.S. somehow took it wrong."

But the real wrongs in this story are not over: the wrong of vesting in I.N.S.
bureaucrats unreviewable power to destroy people's lives; the wrong of
bureaucrats using their power to punish someone because his employer didn't file
a piece of paper; the wrong of making people subject to a five-year bar from
this country because of an innocent mistake. Hardly anyone who is the victim of
such a process will be lucky enough to have the press take up the case.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Denied Food Stamps, Many Immigrants Scrape for Meals

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1379 words


In Manhattan, a 53-year-old workfare participant from the Dominican Republic
sweeps the city streets, searching for a glimmer of silver amid the trash. And
he pockets the dirty nickels and dimes for food with a desperation that leaves
his cheeks burning with shame.

In Brooklyn, a 42-year-old mother of four from Trinidad spends her rent money on
food, buying grape Kool-Aid instead of orange juice and canned tuna instead of
fresh beef, and edging ever closer to eviction.

And in the Bronx, a 40-year-old woman from Peru rides the subway from food
pantry to food pantry, pleading for groceries to fill her refrigerator. One
turns her away because she lacks a referral. Another runs out of rice, spaghetti
and green apples while she waits in line.

"I'll keep looking," the woman, Rosa Dolone, said wearily as she walked out of
the crowded church into the cold winter morning. "My children have to eat."

In the first wave of welfare cuts to hit New York City under the Federal welfare
law, more than 50,000 able-bodied legal immigrants between the ages of 18 and 59
have been denied food stamps since September. The law, which was intended to
move foreigners off public assistance and into jobs, has pushed an estimated
770,000 immigrants off the food stamp rolls across the nation, Federal officials
say.

And as the months pass and kitchen cupboards grow barer, immigrants who earn on
average about $10,000 a year find themselves giving up fresh meat, spending rent
money on groceries, lining up at food pantries and hunting for work in a city
where the unemployment rate stands at 9.1 percent, nearly double the national
average.

Calling the situation a crisis, Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City
Council, proposed on Nov. 26 spending an extra $2 million to restock food
pantries running short of supplies. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani agreed, and
promised to have his aides survey the city's food programs to determine their
needs.

The demand for emergency food had surged even before the food stamp cuts,
although it is unclear what had driven the increase. In the fiscal year that
ended in June, the city distributed 9.3 million pounds of food to soup kitchens
and food pantries, a 52 percent increase over the previous year, city statistics
show.

But while advocates for the poor worry that hunger is on the rise in New York
City, few of the more than a dozen immigrants interviewed recently said they
were actually going hungry. Instead, they appeared to be sliding deeper into
poverty, joining the long line of needy people forced to devote more time and
more energy into stretching food dollars and filling stomachs.

Single adults and immigrant families, in particular, are struggling to survive
with less. State officials have agreed to finance food stamps for the elderly,
the disabled and children, with the city contributing $26 million, but
able-bodied adults no longer receive those benefits. And Houth Leng of Cambodia
now gets $127 a month in food stamps instead of $354 for himself and his six
children.

In a shabby brick tenement in the Fordham section of the Bronx, Mr. Leng can
still afford to make chicken soup for his children, but he has eliminated snacks
and has fallen a month behind in the rent.

In Flatbush, Brooklyn, Nicole Joseph of Trinidad crawls into bed some nights
with a cup of Maxwell House coffee and a growling stomach while her two boys
dine on leftover chicken stew. "It makes the food last a couple more days," she
said.

And in Washington Heights, Elisa Osorio of the Dominican Republic waited an hour
last Wednesday in a line that began in a dimly lighted church basement on
Broadway and spilled into the street, joining a queue of grizzled men, wrinkled
women and young mothers, all hoping for a bag of groceries, including powdered
milk, a can of no-name tomato juice, an 18-ounce box of Kellogg's cornflakes,
white rice and some sweet potatoes.

"I have nothing at home, just some water, milk and rice," said Ms. Osorio, 22,
who lost $214 a month in food stamps and sends her three children to her
mother's apartment to eat.

But while the jostling crowd peered anxiously at the white plastic bags filled
with groceries, the Washington Heights Ecumenical Food Pantry ran out of tomato
juice and cornflakes.

"We'll just have to give them more rice," sighed Oswaldina Carrillo, the
pantry's coordinator, as she packed the grocery bags.

Some local merchants say they also feel the sting of food stamp cuts. And in the
Fordham section of the Bronx, where some Cambodian immigrants now buy chicken
wings instead of fresh fish, and in the Inwood section of Manhattan, where
Dominican mothers cook more rice and beans than beef, some store owners say they
see fewer customers.

Ramon Hernandez, manager of Los Prados Meat Market in Inwood, often stands in an
empty shop these days, his white apron bloodied by the meat his customers can no
longer afford. He used to take in $600 a week in food stamps. Now, it is only
$200.

"It's hard on them and it's hard on us," said Mr. Hernandez, who was forced to
lay off one of three employees, but still gives his customers orange juice and
sweet sausages on credit. "Everyone is suffering."

But the impact of the cuts seems to vary neighborhood by neighborhood. Some food
pantries, including Washington Heights Ecumenical, say they have benefited from
holiday largess. The Northern Queens Family Center in Astoria, for instance, was
well stocked last week. And the Coney Island Gospel Assembly pantry in Brooklyn
fed only three families last Wednesday.

In a random survey of 42 food pantries conducted by the city several weeks ago,
none reported having to turn away anyone, said Anthony P. Coles, a senior
adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. The city is currently conducting a broader
survey of hundreds of emergency food providers to better assess the need.

In March, the city filed a lawsuit against the Federal Government to prevent the
cuts in food stamps and other benefits to immigrants, saying the loss of Federal
food dollars would cause "extreme hardship, hunger and malnutrition."

The city lost that legal battle, but advocates for immigrants and city officials
say the situation is less dire now that state officials have agreed to cover the
most vulnerable immigrants, about 67,000 people across the state. "That has not
solved the problem, but it has certainly ameliorated it," Mr. Coles said.

But advocates for the poor say it is not enough. The New York City Coalition
Against Hunger, an association of food programs, has reported a growing crisis,
with 73,000 families and individuals turned away from emergency providers when
food runs out each month.

But Mr. Coles, who noted that city spending on food programs has increased
steadily over the last four years, said the city's preliminary surveys did not
yet support that.

But no one denies that thousands of immigrant families are now struggling.
Janice Arrieta, the 42-year-old Trinidadian mother of four who buys Kool-Aid
instead of juice, lies sleepless most nights as she frantically calculates her
shrinking budget.

She used to receive $248 each month in food stamps. Now she receives $179. She
has fallen behind on her rent and her electric bill. A widow and a welfare
recipient for several years, she is now looking for work.

That is exactly what the Republican Congressional authors of the Federal welfare
law hoped would happen: that the new law would force immigrants on public
assistance to move into the work force. And Ms. Arrieta, who used to be a cook
in a restaurant, says she would welcome the opportunity to work.

But she has yet to find a permanent job. A temporary position as a home health
aide paid $5.75 an hour, but lasted only four days. So she continues to scrimp
and scrape, baking her own bread, going without meat and telling her children
she can no longer afford fancy cereals like Froot Loops.

"Sometimes you feel like giving up," Ms. Arrieta said wearily. "The kids want
this, the kids want that, and you just get depressed thinking about how life
is."

But with four children to feed, she has little time for depression. So she
whispers a prayer and gets back to the business of getting by. "I cook rice,"
she said. "Rice will always fill you up."


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bags of groceries being distributed at the Washington Heights
Ecumenical Food Pantry. On a day last week, the demand was so great that the
pantry ran short of tomato juice and cornflakes and had to supplement the
packages with extra rice. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 23, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Fair Treatment for Haitians

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 206 words


President Clinton's decision to shield thousands of Haitian refugees from
immediate deportation gives them the protections that Congress recently granted
to refugees from Central America. Congress left the Haitians out last month when
it corrected overly stringent provisions in the 1996 immigration act that made
it much harder for Central Americans who had fled civil wars to fight
deportation even though many had lived in this country for years. Those harsh
rules, which increased residency requirements from 7 to 10 years and eliminated
hardship to the immigrants themselves as a basis to challenge deportation, could
have pushed out hundreds of thousands of refugees.

Congress reversed some of those rules by granting permanent residency to 150,000
Nicaraguans and 5,000 Cubans. It also allowed Salvadorans, Guatemalans and
Eastern Europeans to apply for permanent residency under more lenient pre-1996
rules. But Congress ignored the plight of thousands of Haitian refugees.

By invoking authority to exempt some 20,000 Haitians who have sought asylum from
deportation for at least a year, Mr. Clinton corrects that error. Congress
should use the time to enact legislation to eliminate inequities toward the
Haitians.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 24, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Protects Haitians From Deportation Rules

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23


President Clinton acted today to delay for a year the deportation of up to
40,000 Haitians who fled to the United States while an abusive military junta
ruled their island nation.

Mr. Clinton also promised to work with Congress to provide the Haitians
long-term legislative relief of the kind provided earlier this year to Central
Americans who also fled civil strife in their homelands.

"Haitians deserve the same treatment we sought for Central Americans," Mr.
Clinton said in a statement. "Like Central Americans, Haitians for many years
were forced to seek the protection of the United States because of oppression,
human rights abuses and civil strife at home."

Noting that the situation in Haiti remained fragile despite the replacement of
military rulers by a democratically elected government, Mr. Clinton said he
believed he was justified in using his executive authority to permit Haitian
exiles to remain in the United States.

"Staying the deportation of these Haitians and obtaining for them permanent
legislative relief will help support a stable and democratic Haiti, which, in
turn, is the best safeguard against a renewed flow of Haitian immigrants to the
United States," the President said.

There have been reports for the past week that Mr. Clinton might exercise a
President's rarely used executive authority to spare some Haitians from harsh
new deportation rules, although initial estimates had put the number of those
affected at only 15,000 to 20,000.

The White House said the President's action applied to Haitians who were
admitted to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba after the 1991 overthrow of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide; those who reached United States shores and
were permitted to remain; and those who applied for asylum before 1996.

Haitians convicted of serious crimes or designated by the Department of State
for removal will not be eligible for the relief, the White House said.

In a battle between the White House and the Republican-controlled Congress over
immigration policy, the Haitians were omitted from legislation exempting
hundreds of thousands of refugees from civil wars in Nicaragua and El Salvador
from deportation rules under the strict 1996 immigration law.




LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 2, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL;
Cubans Could Benefit By Staying in Bahamas

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 557 words


The road to the major leagues for the latest pair of Cuban defectors may go
through the Bahamas and none of the Latin countries their predecessors have
used.

Joe Cubas, an agent for many of the Cuban players, said yesterday that Orlando
Hernandez, half brother of the Florida Marlins' Livan Hernandez, and Alberto
Hernandez, no relation, have requested asylum in the Bahamas, where their escape
from Cuba led them last weekend.

Just in case their request is not honored, Cubas said, he is working to get the
players into another country. He did not say which one, but he has most recently
used Costa Rica as the way station to the majors.

The Bahamian decision, Cubas said, may hinge on what the United States does. He
said he inferred that from comments made by the Bahamian immigration director at
a news conference Wednesday.

"That told me they were considering the U.S. side before they would consider the
Bahamian political asylum side," the agent said by telephone from Miami.

The State Department has already said that the Hernandezes and Orlando's
companion, Noris Bosch, whom Bahamian officials referred to as his wife, can
enter the United States. While that may be a humanitarian gesture toward two
players who were barred from playing baseball in Cuba, it would not be an
economically wise step for them.

If the pitcher (Orlando) and the catcher (Alberto) become residents of the
United States, they would be subject to the major league draft of amateur
players in June or to a special draft that the commissioner's office could
arrange. In either case, each player could negotiate only with the team that
drafts him.

If, on the other hand, they remain in the Bahamas or go to Costa Rica, they
would be free agents who could negotiate with any number of teams and sign with
any one.

Cubas, who has represented all of the recent defectors but has no arrangement
with the Hernandezes yet, has set up workouts and even games for his clients so
that major league scouts can get a first-hand look at them. But baseball in the
Bahamas?

"They do play baseball in the Bahamas," Cubas said. "I don't know the level of
play."

The Hernandezes and Orlando's companion were among eight people who fled Cuba in
a small sailboat last Friday. The other five, Cubas said, were the two captains
of the boat, the wife of one of the captains, a cousin of Orlando Hernandez and
the pitcher's best friend.

The group was initially held in a detention center in Nassau, but Cubas said the
players and Orlando's companion had been allowed to leave the center and were
staying elsewhere in the Bahamas.

Reuters reported yesterday that the three Cubans were staying on the island with
Gerardo Capo, a Cuban-American developer and representative of the Miami-based
Cuban American National Foundation who owns two resorts in the Bahamas. The
foundation, a powerful lobbying group, has interceded on behalf of all eight of
the Cubans who arrived in the Bahamas.

"My goal was to prevent any possibility of a deportation back to Cuba," said
Cubas, who was in the Bahamas and returned to the United States on Wednesday
night. "That was the purpose of my trip. I will say the Bahamian Government
officials have handled this extraordinarily well with a lot of human interest in
it."

Cubas said he plans to return to the Bahamas next week.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 2, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Used Special Authority to Admit Cuban Ballplayers

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1


The authority that Attorney General Janet Reno invoked on Wednesday to clear
three Cubans, including two star baseball players, into the United States is
rarely used and was the subject of lengthy debate within the Administration this
week.

The Government's generosity did not extend to five other Cubans who fled with
the ballplayers, and who also spent 10 hours in a leaky boat and four days
stranded on a remote sliver of land in Bahamian waters near Cuba.

While Orlando Hernandez, one of the best pitchers ever on the Cuban national
team; his wife; and Alberto Hernandez, another ballplayer who is no relation to
Orlando, are ready to fly to the United States, the fate of their five
companions lies largely with the Bahamian Government.

Today, Administration officials sought to justify the disparate treatment,
saying the ballplayers not only faced certain persecution if returned to Cuba,
but also would have qualified for special visas given to immigrants with
extraordinary skills had they been from almost any country but Cuba.

"The combination of factors made it a reasonable justification," said Phyllis
Coven, the director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
international affairs office.

Ms. Reno's decision on Wednesday capped a flurry of legal, political and
diplomatic activity that involved senior Justice Department, State Department
and White House officials, and underscored the complex relationship between the
country's foreign policy and its immigration code.

Under pressure from the politically influential Cuban-American community, the
Administration made a high-profile exception to its policy of resettling most
Cuban refugees with well-founded fears of persecution in third countries.

In doing so, the Government is bringing Orlando Hernandez one step closer to
joining his half brother, Livan, a pitcher for the Florida Marlins and the World
Series most valuable player, in the Major Leagues.

There was never much doubt that Orlando Hernandez faced almost certain reprisal
if he were forced home. He was banned from the national team in August 1996
because the Government believed he was about to defect and that he had aided in
the defection of other players, including his half brother. Alberto Hernandez, a
catcher, was also banned from the team.

Administration officials said today there was no evidence that the five other
Cubans who fled suffered comparable hardships in Cuba.

For most Cubans who flee their homeland, the threat of harassment or worse if
repatriated is not enough to win entry into the United States.  The
Administration fears such a policy would trigger a repeat of the flood of
refugees who fled Cuba for American shores in rickety boats in the early 1990's.

Under the Administration's policy, most Cuban refugees picked up at sea who can
demonstrate a well- founded fear of persecution are resettled in a third
country. In addition, a 1994 accord with Cuba allows up to 20,000 Cubans a year
to be legally paroled into the United States.

But the Cuban ballplayers had a big advantage over their compatriots. They can
pitch, catch or hit a baseball really well. And that made them eligible, at
least in principle, for a tiny category of visas that the State Department
issues to gifted artists, musicians, scientists and athletes, and their
families.

Technically, Cubans do not qualify for this visa because the United States does
not have normal diplomatic relations with Havana. But the fact the players
landed in the Bahamas made it easier for Administration officials to bend the
rules. "Neither element by itself was sufficient, but when combined they became
sufficient reason," said one Administration official involved in the decision.

Officials from the United States Embassy in the Bahamas interviewed the players
for two hours on Tuesday, hearing their request for political asylum in the
United States.

In a series of conference calls on Wednesday, Administration officials debated
which aspect -- the fear of persecution or the ballplayers' skills -- to
emphasize in their public pronouncements. They settled on the combination, and
Ms. Reno invoked her power to clear in the players and Mr. Hernandez's wife for
humanitarian reasons. The Attorney General grants about 2,000 such requests a
year, Ms. Coven said.


LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Neediest Cases;
Immigrant's Medical Career Is Now Just a Memory

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words


George Petrenko comes from a long line of doctors. His grandfather was a
surgeon, his grandmother was a psychiatrist and his mother was a dermatologist.
Most of his relatives in Ukraine are physicians, as well.

"Being doctors, you could say, is in our blood," said Mr. Petrenko, 36, a
trained physical therapist who shares a Rego Park, Queens, apartment with two
other generations of his family.

But since they emigrated from the former Soviet Union in 1990, none have been
practicing medicine, their credentials deemed worthless in their adopted
country. Mr. Petrenko earns minimum wage as a part-time home health-care
attendant and his mother works in a beauty salon.

"We wanted freedom, so we made sacrifices," said his mother, Eteri Barbakadze,
62, whose family endured years of state-sanctioned anti-Semitism. "For this, I
have no regrets."

Her son, however, does not swallow his pride so easily. "In Russia, I had
status, I had respect," he said, sucking hard on a Marlboro. "Here, I am
nothing."

In many ways, the Petrenko family's story is a familiar one. They spent years as
refuseniks -- Jews punished by the Government for requesting permission to
emigrate. They lost their jobs, and Mr. Petrenko's father, Igor, 60, a renowned
Soviet gymnast, was thrown off the nation's Olympic team. They moved from
Ukraine to the republic of Georgia, thinking that exit visas could be obtained
more easily there. But this self-imposed exile lasted a decade, while the family
suffered frequent harassment by Georgians who resented Russian-speakers.

Like many immigrants, they arrived in New York with nothing and started over
from scratch. George drove a limousine, his father found work as a handyman and
his mother was hired as a cosmetologist by a salon on West 57th Street. Within
eight months, the entire family was speaking passable English.

"In the beginning, we did quite well," said Mrs. Barbakadze, a whirlwind of a
woman, as she plied a visitor with warm borscht. The family vacationed in
Florida, bought a large-screen television set and sent their youngest son,
Boris, to New York University. "Of course he was premed," Mrs. Barbakadze said.

But the family's flush of good fortune has since faded. George Petrenko's wife,
Galina, died of breast cancer last January; then he suffered a heart attack. He
and his two sons, Igor, 18, and Daniel, 8, moved into his parents' two-bedroom
apartment.

Mr. Petrenko remains hobbled by his heart condition and weighed down by
depression. Daniel is so traumatized by his mother's death that he cries every
time her name comes up in conversation.

"If he hears the word 'dead' or if someone dies on television, he runs into the
other room," Mrs. Barbakadze said as she fought back tears.

Because Mrs. Barbakadze and her husband have three extra mouths to feed, money
has become extremely tight. George's heart surgery has left him with more than
$10,000 in medical bills. Neither he nor his children have health insurance. "I
am not used to such a life," he said. To help his family, Boris postponed
medical school and took a job as an office manager.

Fira Furman, a social worker at the Rego Park Counseling Center, has tried
unsuccessfully to persuade Mr. Petrenko to apply for public assistance. "He says
he did not come here to be on welfare, to give up," she said.

The family, however, has reluctantly accepted help from the center, which serves
the area's large Russian population. Mrs. Furman makes sure they have enough
food and clothing, and she is trying to arrange therapy for Daniel. "Everything
we have, it is because of them," Mrs. Barbakadze said, gesturing to living room
furniture donated by the center, an affiliate of the UJA-Federation of New York
and a beneficiary of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

On New Year's Eve, the family gathered around the television set while Mrs.
Barbakadze showed off her husband's gymnastics medals. Although he would prefer
to work as a coach, Igor Petrenko says he is grateful to have steady work as a
handyman. His wife, too, is content just to have a job, especially as economic
conditions in Russia have gone from bad to worse. Mrs. Barbakadze's elderly
mother, who stayed behind, has no heat in her apartment, and many other
relatives are struggling to feed themselves. "We would like to bring my mother
here, but we cannot afford to," she explained."

Although Mrs. Barbakadze remains optimistic, her son finds hope more elusive.
"The only thing worse that could happen to me is -- " he stopped in mid-sentence
as Daniel came into the room carrying Bim, the family's cocker spaniel.

George Petrenko tried to maintain his smile as Daniel, his eyes heavy with loss,
clung to his leg. He also fears for young Igor, who has been doing poorly in
school.

Later, as he took Bim for a walk, George offered his own analysis of why Igor
was not living up to his potential. "How would you do," he asked, "if you had a
nothing for a father?"

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O.
Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the
charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded -- $3,591,938.12
Recorded Friday -- 214,473.11

Total -- $3,806,411.23

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Igor Petrenko and his wife, Eteri Barbakadze, with their
grandsons Daniel, left, and Igor. Mr. Petrenko was a renowned gymnast in Ukraine
and his wife was a dermatologist. They are struggling in Rego Park, Queens.
(Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 6, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
A Proud Day on Island of the People

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 744 words


IF you're a Buchananite or some other type who thinks the gangway to America
should have been yanked from under immigrants a long time ago, don't waste your
time reading any further. You're going to hate hearing about how Marise Elibert
from Haiti became an American yesterday, and was so moved by the naturalization
ceremony that about all she could say was, "I feel proud."

You won't want to know about Annalisa Tanato from the Philippines, who took part
in the same ceremony and found it "really exciting." Or about the young woman
from Ecuador who said, "I'm so happy I'm here." Or about Alina Swacha from
Poland, who called it "the best day of my life." Or about Marek Chwajol from the
Czech Republic, who had joined the United States Army even before taking the
oath of citizenship yesterday.

"It touched my heart," Mr. Chwajol said after the ceremony. "Many people think
that to become naturalized is just another step in their careers, in their lives
in America. Many people don't realize what an important moment it is. It is a
solemn, crowning moment."

It certainly was that for 43 new Americans from 25 lands who swore allegiance to
the United States yesterday on Ellis Island, the old immigrant gateway turned
museum, where millions of Europeans first set foot on American soil. The oath
they took was as familiar as the immigrant flow itself, an endless river that --
need the obvious really be restated? -- created the United States and made
possible the very Americans who now want to forget that they or their parents or
their grandparents were once hopeful newcomers, too.

Ellis Island is not often used for such ceremonies. This one was tied to a
campaign by the United States Postal Service, which is issuing 30 new stamps
over the next month to commemorate important moments and major figures of this
fading century.

"Immigrants Arrive" was the first stamp. What better way to unveil it than with
a naturalization ceremony in the Great Hall of Ellis Island? And for this
immigrant son's money, what better inspiration than Ray Charles on hand to sing
"America the Beautiful," which some wish were the national anthem?

It might be noted that a Postal Service news release about the event began with
the dateline of Ellis Island, New York, N.Y.

This is pointed out in connection with the continuing territorial dispute
between New York and New Jersey over whose island it is. Last spring, a special
arbitrator for the United States Supreme Court awarded most of the 27.5 acres to
New Jersey but left the museum and major monuments in New York's hands, a
Solomonic ruling that pleased neither party. New York still wants it all, and
New Jersey wants a piece of the museum action.

ON Monday, lawyers for the two states will duke it out before the full Supreme
Court. New York has plenty of preservationists and historians on its side, but
some legal experts are not confident it will have the Justices as well.

The postal authorities' assignment of Ellis Island to New York, N.Y., is
submitted here as an amicus brief in New York's behalf (see, People v. Kringle
in "Miracle on 34th Street"). If a court could accept the Post Office's delivery
of letters to a fellow calling himself Kris Kringle as proof that he was Santa
Claus, why not give a Postal Service news release the same probative value?

Of course, one could always follow the lead of Armande Roc, who sat in a back
row watching her niece, Ms. Elibert, take the oath of allegiance. Ownership? "I
think it belongs to all of us," said Ms. Roc, who came to America from Haiti 39
years ago and never looked back.

There is no turning back either for Khaled Galawanji, a roofer who came from
Syria 10 years ago and calls himself Mike. He, too, became an American
yesterday, with his American-born wife, Sandi, and their 6-year-old twins
watching and waving little American flags. "When he came here he found that
restaurants paid one dollar to clean the toilet," Mrs. Galawanji said. "He went
from restaurant to restaurant cleaning toilets."

Yes, Ms. Roc agreed, an immigrant's life can be difficult.

"But you work hard, and you feel you've done something," she said. "This
country, I am so proud of it. I am so proud of the law of this country. This is
something you can fight for. Without the United States, believe me, I don't know
what will happen to the world. The land of opportunity."

"I am," she then said, "maybe talking too much."

No, ma'am, not at all.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new stamp honoring immigrants. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 7, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Message by Pataki to Outline Proposals to Improve Schools

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 6


Gov. George E. Pataki's annual address to the Legislature will offer an array of
proposals intended to improve the academic performance of students, including
intensive English courses for immigrants and remedial summer classes for
low-achieving fourth-grade students, according to his aides.

He will also use his fourth State of the State Message on Wednesday to emphasize
many of the major educational initiatives adopted during last year's legislative
session, including some proposed by his Democratic rivals in the Legislature.
They range from increasing financing for textbooks and computers to expanding
the number of prekindergarten slots.

By focusing on education in his election-year address, the Republican Governor
appears intent on deflecting some of the criticism he has endured over his
efforts to cut funds for schools during the early days of his administration. It
also may help him moderate an image that he has built with an agenda that has
largely stressed cutting taxes, toughening penalties on criminals and putting
welfare recipients to work.

He will also use his address to the Legislature's 211 members to propose
initiatives covering a variety of other topics, from crime and taxes to economic
development, his aides said. Mr. Pataki has spent the last week writing the
speech, which lays out his legislative agenda for 1998.

Among his more ambitious educational proposals is a plan to offer a financial
incentive for school districts to provide fourth-grade students remedial
instruction in English during the summer. Though aides gave few details, they
said the plan would generally compensate school districts for 80 percent of the
cost of running a six-week summer program for students who do poorly on
standardized English tests.

Mr. Pataki is also expected to make a pitch for a proposal to require the state
to give school districts more money for remedial instruction for students who
show limited proficiency in English between kindergarten and the second grade.
His aides did not provide an estimate of the program's cost. Nor did they say
how many students they expect to qualify for the program.

In his message, the Governor will also promote a plan that would establish
after-school programs at schools for students in kindergarten through 12th
grade. The program, which would run between 3 P.M. and 7 P.M., would be paid for
through a combination of state, local and private financing. Pataki aides did
not say how much the plan would cost.

Mr. Pataki's aides said he would also push for two pieces of legislation that he
has proposed in the past. The first would allow parents, teachers and community
groups to create so-called charter schools that are financed by taxpayers but
operate independently of local school boards.

The second would give teachers more control over their schools by allowing them
for the first time to suspend disruptive children from their classrooms for up
to 10 days. The suspension initiative did not survive the 1996 legislative
session; the charter proposal failed last year.

Mr. Pataki's package of proposals drew qualified support from Sheldon Silver,
the Democratic-led Assembly's Speaker. Patricia Lynch, a spokeswoman for Mr.
Silver, said he would take a serious look at the proposals once they were
drafted in bill form. "But we will have to see more details," she said.

The Governor's aides said he would again call for overhauling the
special-education program by eliminating financial incentives that have
encouraged schools to place mildly disabled students in expensive segregated
classrooms. That program has been widely criticized for years as an inefficient
bureaucracy that shunts too many children, a disproportionate number of whom are
black and Hispanic boys, into separate classrooms with virtually no prospect of
returning to regular classes.

The Governor's aides said he intended to hammer out a plan with Richard P.
Mills, the Education Commissioner, who has proposed his own plan for improving
the program.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 8, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 58 words


An article on Dec. 26 about the effect of South Korea's economic turmoil on
Korean immigrants in New York referred imprecisely to costs at Columbia
University's American Language Program, where students from Korea form the
largest group. A full year's tuition is $12,693; the $30,000 figure represented
not only tuition but also room and board.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 10, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Again Proposes Raising Fees

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 265 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9


The Clinton Administration refloated a plan to raise immigration fees today,
including more than doubling the $95 charge for a citizenship application. The
move came just months after the withdrawal of an earlier proposal that led to an
outcry on and off Capitol Hill.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is proposing to increase 30 fees.
Heeding earlier criticism, the agency promised that the increases would not take
effect until officials could demonstrate that service to customers was improved.

Under the proposals, the fee for applying to become a United States citizen
would climb to $225 from $95, a 137 percent increase. Replacing a green card
would rise to $110 from $75, while the fee to become a legal permanent resident
would go to $220 from $130.

The full list of higher fees will appear on Monday in the Federal Register, and
the immigration service is soliciting public comments for 60 days. Agency
officials do not expect any of the higher fees to take effect for at least six
months.

The Government's inability to deal with the huge crush of citizenship
applications has caused the wait for naturalization to balloon from a six-month
average several years ago to more than two years.

. "We want to improve our services," Doris M. Meissner, who heads the agency,
said, "and we know our customers deserve better service, but in order to get
there, we have to charge what it costs."

Immigrant-rights advocates bristled when the proposal emerged last September,
questioning the timing in pushing for higher fees while having a tarnished
service record.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 15, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Won't Solve the Child Care Crisis;
Family Role Is Lost

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 155 words



To the Editor:

Both the President's plan to subsidize day care (front page, Jan. 8) and your
suggestion to swell the supply of child care workers by changing immigration law
(Week in Review, Jan. 11) support the agenda of the workplace and are nails in
the coffin of the American family.

Parents should be given the first opportunity to care for their children, and
our national policies should encourage this ideal by offering incentives to the
family unit itself. High-quality day care should be a less attractive
alternative. Grant programs, tax breaks or plans to increase access to immigrant
labor that propose to shore up the day-care system presuppose that the fight to
preserve the primary role of a father or mother to care for his or her child is
lost.

MICHAEL SILBERBACH, M.D.
Portland, Ore., Jan. 12, 1998

The writer is an associate professor of pediatrics, Oregon Health Sciences
University.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 18, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JERSEY;
On Trial: Three Officers, and U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 783 words


NEW JERSEY and New York are involved in an intense, breathlessly publicized and
utterly irrelevant legal battle over boundary claims to Ellis Island. Last week,
when Governor Whitman addressed the State Legislature, she drew thunderous
applause by coyly alluding to this dispute over "the entrance to America --
Ellis Island, New Jersey."

Ellis Island is certainly a comforting way to reflect on immigration to America:
Disneyfied in stone tabernacles on an island in the Hudson, a Hallmark greeting
postmarked from the mists of history.

Back in the real world, though, less warm-and-fuzzy images of immigration are
about to emerge from a trial in Elizabeth. There, three county jail guards --
Sgt. Charles Popovic, Sgt. James Rice and Officer Michael Sica -- face charges
that they engaged in the beating, torture and sexual abuse of immigrants during
what one guard later called a four-hour "blood bath" inside the Union County
Jail in Elizabeth.

The ugly incident occurred on June 18, 1995, when 25 detainees awaiting
immigration hearings were hurriedly transferred to the county jail for
safekeeping after a riot broke out among more than 300 detainees protesting
inhumane conditions at the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
Center, also in Elizabeth.

Four months later, 12 jail guards were named in an indictment for "inflicting
bodily harm and other forms of abuse" on the immigrants. The abuse "includes,
but is not limited to, plucking detainees' body hairs with pliers, forcing
detainees to place their heads in toilet bowls, encouraging and ordering
detainees to perform sexual acts upon one another, and forcing detainees to
assume unusual and degrading positions while naked," the indictment said. Some
guards even gleefully took photographs of the naked men in humiliating poses,
prosecutors said.

The three guards now on trial -- one of whom, Officer Sica, is president of the
guards' union local -- are also charged with using threats to discourage
colleagues from telling the truth about what happened that night. All three
defendants deny the charges. They say they are dedicated corrections officers
who did their jobs under difficult circumstances and were victimized by a
prosecutor who coerced incriminating grand jury testimony from fellow guards.

According to the indictment, the three guards made it clear there would be
repercussions for colleagues who talked to investigators. For example,
prosecutors charge, Sergeant Popovic told colleagues that he had "a crossbow and
rifle," that "people who talk will not make it to trial" and that "if the
Prosecutor's Office has a rat that causes him to be indicted . . . we will take
the rat out with a scoped rifle or blow up his house."

Last week, the trial was still mired in disputes over jury selection and the
admission of evidence like audiotapes, that the prosecutors contend, show
defendants conspiring in the alleged cover-up.

Once the trial gets rolling, however, a very nasty spectacle will play out in
the Union County courthouse. You will hear, for example, allegations that the
jail guards forced the humiliated detainees to kneel on the floor and chant,
"America Is No. 1."

This trial belongs on Court TV. That's because what happened at the Union County
Jail was not an isolated event, say people active in the forlorn work of
protecting the rights of immigrants. As Congress and talk radio echo with
anti-immigrant howling, and the I.N.S. cracks down harder on those trying to
enter the country without papers, abuses are growing, they say.

Federally supervised facilities can no longer accommodate the sharply increasing
numbers of detained immigrants. All over the country, county and local jails are
being paid to handle the overflow. There are now an estimated 15,000 detainees
-- a number that is expected to double within three years. More than half are
now being held in county and municipal jails, rights workers say.

The I.N.S. is "relying more and more on the kinds of facilities -- some of them
out in the middle of nowhere -- that have the least accountability," said Judy
Rabinovitz, a senior staff counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union's
Immigrants Rights Project. "It's a vicious circle because Congress is saying:
'We want these people out, so lock them up to make sure they don't get loose.
Just find someplace to put them.' "

With immigrant-bashing at full throttle, abuse is "a very predictable response,"
she said. "If Congress can do it, if politicians can do it, detainees are sort
of fair game" in jail.

The Union County horror story "is a window into what I am sure is happening in
other places," she added. "It's very scary right now."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 19, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

California Stumbles On Bilingual Classes;
Immigrant Pride

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words



To the Editor:

It is interesting to note that 6 of the 13 students Brooklyn's Midwood High
School posted as semifinalists in the Westinghouse Science Talent Search (news
article, Jan. 13) were foreign born. In fact, two of the students arrived as
refugees from the former Soviet Union less than seven years ago.

The vision, hard work and determination of these students reflect the spirit
that so many newcomers share when they arrive on our shores. Many of these
youngsters had to learn a new language and adjust to a different home, culture
and community, yet still they have excelled in school. These students are
exemplary and remind us of the merits of maintaining reasonable and generous
immigration policies in the United States.

Winning a place in the Westinghouse competition is just the first step of what
promises to be a shining future for these students and us. They will help make
America even brighter.

NORMAN D. TILLES
Pres., Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society
New York, Jan. 13, 1998

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 23, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Deport Saudi Who Balked in Bomb Inquiry

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


A Saudi dissident who backed out of an arrangement to help investigate a bombing
that killed 19 American airmen in Saudi Arabia has been ordered deported on the
ground he is a terrorist.

But officials with the Immigration and Naturalization Service have not yet
decided where to send the man, Hani al-Sayegh. Their first choice would Saudi
Arabia, but he has said he fears for his life if sent there. Mr. al-Sayegh is a
member of the Shiite minority in Saudi Arabia and has been a politically active
opponent of the monarchy there.

An I.N.S. spokesman, Russ Bergeron, said that Mr. al-Sayegh can ask to be sent
to any country that will accept him, but that the Government is not bound by his
wishes. Saudi Arabia has asked for him.

Mr. al-Sayegh had agreed to cooperate in the investigation of the truck bombing
at the Khobar Towers military housing project near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, in
June 1996. He pleaded guilty to taking part in an unrelated plot against
Americans in Saudi Arabia that was never carried out.

Last June Canada expelled him for suspected terrorist activity; the allegation
was that he drove a car that signaled the driver in the truck carrying
explosives when to pull up to Khobar Towers. He was sent to the United States to
be prosecuted, but never was granted formal entry into the United States.

Upon arrival, he reneged on the agreement to avoid prosecution, saying he had
not understood it, knew nothing about the Khobar attack and was out of Saudi
Arabia when the bombing occurred.

In October, a Federal judge dropped the American charges, saying prosecutors did
not have enough evidence. Mr. al-Sayegh's lawyer, Frank Carter, said the
Government only had his client's statements about the aborted plot and could not
use them once the deal fell apart.

The deportation order was made by William Yates, the I.N.S. eastern regional
director, in Burlington, Vt., Mr. Bergeron said. Mr. Yates concluded that Mr.
al-Sayegh had engaged in terrorism, Mr. Bergeron added.

Because the order is based on national security, Mr. al-Sayegh has no right of
appeal, the spokesman said. That prohibition, part of a new immigration law, has
not yet been tested in court.

Mr. Bergeron said Mr. al-Sayegh would remain in custody. If the Service fails to
deport him within six months, the law says, he must be released, or the
Government must again demonstrate that he is a threat to keep him in custody.

For months American officials have tried to corroborate Saudi assertions that a
Shiite group carried out the bombing. Saudi officials have several dozen
suspects in custody but have not given the United States access to them.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 25, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Help for the Neediest Newcomers

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words


New York City is enriched by people from every part of the globe who come
bringing their energies, entrepreneurship and optimism. Half of the residents of
this city are foreign born or have a foreign-born parent. But some immigrants
are also among the poorest and most vulnerable in the city. The social isolation
is especially hard on families escaping war or persecution in their native
lands. Any crisis, like the loss of a job or a child falling ill, can be
devastating for people without English language skills or community contacts.

The seven private charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund
offer these newcomers a lifeline. The need is particularly evident this winter
now that 50,000 immigrants in the city have been cut off from food stamps under
the Federal welfare law. While the state offers some food assistance to children
and the elderly, many hungry immigrant families have turned to food pantries,
supported by the fund, for help. In addition to providing emergency food and
shelter, bilingual workers in these agencies form a critical link between these
families and public services.

The UJA-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, a beneficiary of the
fund, has assisted thousands of families from Russia, Ukraine and other parts of
Eastern Europe. A recent report in The Times chronicled the tragic killing of a
19-year-old Ukrainian livery-cab driver who supported his parents and was their
only connection to the English-speaking world. His murder left his parents
desperate and utterly alone. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services,
a UJA-Federation agency, is there with rent money, translation services and
counseling to help them survive their grief.

The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, another fund beneficiary,
provides English and citizenship classes and job-readiness workshops for
thousands of newcomers, along with emergency aid. More than 40 percent of the
people helped by the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens,
another beneficiary, are foreign born. Its staff runs day care and Head Start
classes for immigrant children and job-training programs for their parents.

These charities help immigrants adjust to life in a new society so that they can
become productive, self-reliant citizens. A donation to these agencies honors
New York's immigrant history and is a wise investment in this city's future.
Contributions are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. None of the
money donated is diverted for administrative expenses. Checks should be made
payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and mailed to P.O. Box 5193,
General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 28, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Bonuses for Teachers

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words



To the Editor:

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's proposal to separate high school students who do not
graduate within five years would unfairly penalize many immigrants (news
article, Jan. 26). Research shows that it takes about six years for these
students to compete with native English speakers. Furthermore, many foreign-born
youngsters lose academic credit in transferring to New York City's public
schools. As a result, it is not unusual for them to be one or two years older
than their grade-level placement, making graduation at 18 unlikely.

In the past, Mr. Giuliani has acknowledged the value of new Americans to the
vitality of our city. I hope that he re-evaluates this plan with the same
insight.

ERIC NADELSTERN
L.I. City, Queens, Jan. 27, 1998

The writer is principal of the International High School.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 2, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A New Health Risk for Immigrants;
Pharmacies' Sales of Unprescribed Drugs Arouse Doctors' Concern

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1548 words


For more than a year, doctors at the Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens have
puzzled over a minor medical mystery: Why was a standard antibiotic not working
on people suffering from urinary tract infections? The infections seemed to
develop a troubling, unexplainable resistance.

Doctors now believe they have figured out part of the answer -- and it is found
in some of the emergency room patients, like one man who showed up earlier this
month with the flu.

When asked if he had been taking medication, the man, an illegal immigrant from
Latin America, produced a brown bottle with a label handwritten in Spanish
identifying the drug as amoxicillin, a common antibiotic. Asked where he got it,
he drew a map to an unremarkable pharmacy that he said had given it to him
without a prescription.

As the number of patients with unprescribed medicine increases, doctors at
Elmhurst have begun to worry about a drug trade they have not seen before: legal
pharmacies that illegally dispense not controlled substances like morphine, but
drugs to treat more common maladies like the flu or ulcers.

On one level, the phenomenon has fascinated the doctors. For more than a decade,
health experts around the nation, and in New York particularly, have been
concerned about a general rise in bacterial resistance to antibiotics, partly
because of overprescribing. Could local pharmacies, the Elmhurst doctors wonder,
be causing even greater resistance?

But more immediately, the doctors fear that the pharmacies, often the first
place that poor immigrants turn for cheap medical care, are endangering those
same immigrants' health. Aside from developing sometimes fatal allergic
reactions to antibiotics, patients who rely on illegally dispensed drugs arrive
sicker and harder to treat, the doctors said.

"That is our concern: that patients will require more specialized or more
expensive antibiotics to treat what might have been a minor problem," Dr. Ernst
Paul Jr., an attending physician in the Elmhurst emergency room, said.

Although state and city health officials say the problem of pharmacies selling
medicine without prescriptions does not appear to be widespread, doctors and
advocates for immigrants say it is common, particularly in neighborhoods with
immigrants from countries, like Mexico or Pakistan, that have few rules on
buying medicine.

In Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a lawyer who represents immigrants said the worst
offender among local pharmacies appeared to be especially popular with
immigrants from the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Mexico.

"In many countries, they have no public health care," said the lawyer, Anne
Pilsbury, a lawyer for Central American Legal Assistance, a private
immigrant-rights group. "And a lot of people can't afford doctors. So the
pharmacy acts as your doctor. You go in and tell him your problem and he gives
you some medicine. So people want to do the same thing here and, unfortunately,
some unscrupulous pharmacists are going along with it."

Along Roosevelt Avenue in Queens, which buzzes with immigrant commerce, legal
and otherwise, people who work at pharmacies said illicit sales are an open
secret.

Sheldon Perl, a Roosevelt Avenue pharmacist who has been in the business for 22
years, estimated that at least one person a day came into his store trying to
buy drugs without a prescription. "They say, 'Give me something,' " he said. "I
say, 'You have to go to the doctor and find out what's wrong with you.' "

Mr. Perl, like all the six pharmacists interviewed, said he would never risk
selling regulated drugs without a prescription. "Penicillin is really a
crapshoot," he said. "They could take it and drop dead in five minutes."

Pharmacies are regulated by the State Board of Pharmacy, whose executive
secretary, Lawrence H. Mokhiber, said few pharmacists were caught selling drugs
without prescriptions. Those who are, he said, can lose their licenses and be
fined up to $10,000; for selling controlled substances, they can also face
criminal charges, he said.

The Elmhurst doctors said another worry was that pharmacies tended to sell only
as much of a drug as the patient could pay for at the time, regardless of
whether that was enough to clear up the infection.

And they have also seen a growing trade among pharmacists in quack medicines.
The man with the flu at Elmhurst spent a total of $80 on three medicines, one of
which claimed that it not only "destroys bacteriums and fungus and virus" but
also "fortifies teeth."

"It doesn't smell like anything," Dr. Paul said one recent morning at the
hospital, unscrewing the cap and taking a whiff. "Looks like water. It doesn't
look like medicine at all."

About a year and a half ago, doctors and nurses in the hospital's emergency room
began to notice an unusual number of people -- perhaps four or five a month,
almost all of them women -- who did not respond to the basic antibiotic used to
treat urinary infections, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, known most commonly as
Bactrim.

Slowly, they began to connect the trend to something else: that many patients,
most of them illegal immigrants from Latin American or Asian countries, would
say they had gone to a pharmacy rather than a doctor when they were sick, and
were sold medicines without prescriptions.

The doctors said they have mostly seen antibiotics, but patients have also told
them they have bought ulcer medicine, Valium and drugs to control anxiety or
depression.

Margaret A. Fister, an emergency room nurse at Elmhurst, recalled one woman in
her 40's who arrived with what seemed like the flu, and admitted to having taken
penicillin that a local pharmacist had sold to her, in a liquid she had to
inject with a syringe herself.

"I asked if she had a private physician or had gone to any of our clinics," Ms.
Fister said. "She said, no, she had gone to a pharmacy, which had given her the
medicine, needles and syringes."

Dr. Paul and Ms. Fister have begun a study to determine whether the illegal
prescriptions are causing a rise in resistance, and they have asked District
Attorney Richard A. Brown of Queens to investigate the pharmacies.

But a general rise in antibiotic resistance around the nation is well
documented. A report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta said that in the early 1980's, about 5 percent of the bacteria that
cause pneumonia and meningitis showed some resistance to penicillin, and less
than 1 percent were considered highly resistant. Now, about 20 percent of those
bacteria show some resistance, and about 10 percent are considered highly
resistant, the report said.

The levels of resistance have also risen in New York City, according to the City
Health Department. In 1993, 1.5 percent of those same bacteria were considered
highly resistant. That figure had risen to just under 6 percent in 1996, the
last year for which data are available.

"It is a great concern to everybody," said Dr. Benjamin A. Mojica, the acting
health director in New York City.

The immediate worry among health officials is that infections once easily cured
with cheap penicillin will require more powerful, expensive treatments. Several
years ago, studies in New York City jails found strains of the bacteria that
causes tuberculosis that were highly resistant to two or more drugs. In New
Jersey last September, a strain of the bacteria that causes staph infections
showed partial resistance to the most powerful antibiotic available.

There are several theories about why resistance is growing, and all of them
center on greater exposure to antibiotics, either because doctors prescribe them
too often or because people eat meat from animals treated with the drugs.

Several specialists in infectious disease said it was plausible that the
pharmacies around Elmhurst might be responsible for some local rise in
resistance, and the Centers for Disease Control said this would not be the first
case in which antibiotic resistance could be tracked geographically or by ethnic
group.

In 1996, Federal researchers studied two Baltimore areas, its poor inner city
and two affluent suburban counties.

They found that in the inner city, populated mostly by ethnic minorities, 4
percent of the bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis were highly
resistant to penicillin. In the suburban counties -- where people were more
likely to have taken antibiotics before -- the result was 17 percent in Howard
County and 21 percent in Anne Arundel County.

"This is one of the few diseases where poverty and being African-American
actually protects rather than being a risk factor," said Dr. Benjamin Schwartz,
an epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control.

But that might be less true in Queens, if the Elmhurst doctors' suspicions are
right.

Another doctor, Dr. Martiza Archibold, a pediatrician in Jackson Heights, said
she believed that poverty is the reason many of her patients turn first to
pharmacies for care. She, too, said she has been surprised by the level of
resistance some children are showing to antibiotics.

"I guess they do it because it's cheaper than going to a doctor or the
hospital," she said. "Some of them are illegal. I would do the same if I were in
their position. It's a necessity."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doctors checking drugs at Elmhurst were, from left, Saquib
Ibrahim, Ernst Paul Jr. and Andrew Greenberg. Immigrants often turn to
neighborhood pharmacies rather than doctors for treatment of their medical
problems. Some of the medicine that doctors said had been sold without
prescriptions. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B1)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 9, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Deport the Bear!

BYLINE: By Edmund Morris;  Edmund Morris's biography of Ronald Reagan will be
published this fall.

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As an immigrant of British ancestry who has gone through all the processes of
naturalization, I was dismayed to hear that my childhood compatriot, Mr. Pooh
Bear, has been compelled to stay in the United States, despite evidence that he
was brought here illegally in 1947. (By a publisher, no less -- clear proof of
moral turpitude.)

American though I am, I sympathize with the British M.P. who has plaintively
asked that Mr. Pooh and his floppy companions, Piglet, Tigger, Kanga and Eeyore,
be returned to their country of origin after half a century here. Likewise I
deplore the refusal by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of New York to grant an exit
permit, and Prime Minister Tony ("More Important Things to Talk About") Blair's
craven willingness to let them languish on deposit at the Donnell Library in
Manhattan.

Mr. Pooh, being a Bear of Very Little Brain, is unable to state what he feels
about being incarcerated in an airless glass box, under harsh library light,
with four even dumber detainees. He is still a victim, as he was back in
plumper, fuzzier days, when Christopher Robin dragged him around by the leg.

I confess that much as I loved Winnie-the-Pooh in childhood, I never could stand
C. R., with his pudding-bowl haircut and irritating habit of skipping whenever
he saw a copse or a spinney. His fundamental frivolity was evident in the way he
had of peeking when he should have been praying:

If I open my fingers a little bit more

I can see Nanny's dressing-gown on the door.

It's a beautiful blue, but it hasn't a hood . . .

 Enough, young pervert, we've quite understood!

Apparently it was the middle-aged C. R. -- Christopher Milne, as he then styled
himself -- who encouraged the deportation of Pooh et al. We should allow him, I
suppose, a certain degree of disenchantment with their company. It cannot have
been easy to have to live with a stuffed toy whose extraordinary popularity
outweighed his own.

Weight, indeed, was key. Wherever the poor blighter went, Pooh or the specter of
Pooh was always lumpishly there, a ponderous piece of baggage, quashing his
attempts to be perceived as an independent person, man not boy. I've often
wondered with what emotion Mr. Milne must have read Delmore Schwartz's poem:

 The heavy bear who goes with me,

A manifold honey to smear his face,

Clumsy and lumbering here and there,

The central ton of every place.

Schwartz, of course, was writing about the "withness" of his own body. But I do
not doubt that Mr. Milne, by 1947, felt that Pooh had grown too close, too
corporeal for comfort. So he elected to have major surgery.

Today Pooh, notwithstanding the apathy of Mr. Blair, remains as immutably
English as Raggedy Andy is American. As long as Mr. Giuliani insists on
retaining the Milne menagerie stateside (where's Owl, by the way?) there will
remain some corner of a foreign library that is forever England. There shall be,
in the dust of that glass box,

 . . . a richer dust concealed

A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware,

Gave, once, her flowers to love, her ways to roam,

A body of England's, breathing English air,

Washed by the rivers, blest by suns of home.

 I say repatriate the Donnell Five, and pronto. Otherwise we'll end up paying
their Social Security.

Delmore Schwartz excerpt © 1959 reprinted by permission of New Directions
Publishing Corporation.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rob Shepperson)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 10, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Facing Critics, I.N.S. Unveils Modernization

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9


Under intense pressure from Capitol Hill, officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service today unveiled a plan to impose tighter control on the
process of obtaining United States citizenship, a system that has been so sloppy
and error-prone that in 1996 at least 369 convicted criminals became citizens
unlawfully.

The new controls will rely on a computerized approach at the sprawling agency,
which until now has conducted its business on paper. The controls also promise
speedier service. Officials said today that before the end of 1999, the
application process could be reduced to six months or less, from two years.

One of the most innovative steps will be the computerization of fingerprints,
which can be transmitted between agencies for background checks and can be
verified instantaneously, with the applicant on hand.

The new system, recommended by the consulting firm of Coopers & Lybrand, will
also allow applicants to screen themselves, by computer and telephone, to see
whether they meet the eligibility requirements for citizenship. Now, some
applicants go through the lengthy process and pay fees without knowing that they
have not met the fundamental requirement of having lived in the United States
for five years.

Language and civics tests might be rewritten and conducted by the agency itself
to avoid fraud. In 1991, the agency contracted with private organizations to
conduct the tests to try to cope with a surge in applications. As of now, about
1.7 million immigrants are waiting to become citizens; some completed their
applications two years ago. The cities with the biggest backlogs are New York,
Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Miami.

The Clinton Administration has budgeted an additional $211 million for the new
system, but the agency also plans to increase the application fee to $235 from
$95, once the process is improved.

An audit of the current system revealed that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service made at least one processing error in more than 90 percent of its cases.
Immigration officials conceded that the system was inefficient and error-prone.
But Doris Meissner, the commissioner, said today that the agency was "well on
our way" toward improvement. She spoke briefly at a news conference here
announcing the changes, but left without taking questions about the embattled
agency and its efforts to deflect an attempt by some in Congress to abolish it.

Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of a
subcommittee on immigration, said on the Senate floor today that he was
"generally pleased" with the overhaul plan. But he said that the error rate was
"alarming and appalling" and called for a system that did not allow for errors.

Mr. Abraham said he would soon hold hearings on the redesign.

Republicans were infuriated by reports that before the 1996 Presidential
election, the agency had rushed thousands of immigrants through the process
without criminal background checks, in the expectation that they would vote for
Democrats.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 12, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Even as Economy Booms, More People Are Going Without Insurance

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words


The number of people without medical insurance is rising far faster in New York
State than in the rest of the country, a jump that has left nearly one in five
New Yorkers under age 65 uninsured, several new studies show.

The increase has come despite a robust economy that has created hundreds of
thousands of new jobs in the region. In fact, the new data suggest a dark side
to New York's economic resurgence: many of the new jobs are in small, low-wage
service or retail businesses, which because of the high cost have become less
and less likely to offer their workers health benefits.

Moreover, one-third of the uninsured in New York are legal or illegal
immigrants, who are more likely to take those same low-paying jobs, experts say.

The data also reveal a problem for politicians eager to move people on welfare
into work. Most of the people without insurance in New York actually have jobs.
In fact, people in low-paying jobs are more likely to be uninsured than people
without jobs, who generally can qualify for Medicaid.

"This is not a crowd that is living at the margins of society," said James R.
Tallon Jr., president of the United Hospital Fund, a private philanthropic and
policy group. "This is a crowd that is playing by the rules but is finding that
there is a different set of rules than in previous generations."

Health experts say they are especially alarmed by how quickly the number of
uninsured is rising, even as the economy thrives. In 1991, about 2.2 million New
Yorkers under age 65, or 13.9 percent, were uninsured, below the national
average of 15.9 percent, according the census data analyzed by Mr. Tallon's
group.

In 1996, the last year for which data are available, the number of uninsured New
Yorkers had risen to 3.1 million, or 19.1 percent, creeping above the national
average of 17.6 percent. In the past, health experts say, New Yorkers were more
likely to be insured than people in other states because of several forces now
largely in decline: powerful unions, manufacturing jobs in big companies that
offered insurance and a healthy market for individual policies.

The problems are far greater in New York City, where 28 percent of the
population under 65 was uninsured. At the same time, health insurance offered by
employers has declined dramatically in the city, from covering 58.2 percent of
all people insured in 1991, to 49.1 percent in 1996. Nationally, private health
coverage dropped much less, from 72.2 percent in 1991 to 69.1 in 1996, according
to the Hospital Fund study done by Kenneth E. Thorpe, a Tulane University
professor and a former health official in the Clinton Administration.

Concern about the problem of the uninsured has been growing in recent months
among a wide range of groups, from public policy organizations to advocates for
poor people to the hospitals that would be hardest hit financially.

The uninsured in New York City rely largely on the 11 public hospitals, which
have seen a sharp rise in the number of patients without insurance, according to
a study released yesterday by the Commonwealth Fund, a large private
philanthropic organization in New York. The city reports that in 1997, 20,458
people were admitted to public hospitals without insurance, up from 15,855
people two years before.

"We worry about this trend," said Dr. Luis R. Marcos, president of the city's
Health and Hospitals Corporation. "For public hospitals to survive, we cannot
simply treat patients who cannot pay. In the end, it will be more inefficient
and costly to the taxpayer. We cannot go back to the days of the almshouse."

Private hospitals say they, too, are worried because they already pay the bulk
of the cost of treating uninsured people, and are reimbursed by the state about
38 cents for every $1 of care they provide.

"You are talking about people who are edging up into the middle class but can't
afford to buy insurance themselves," said Rima J. Cohen, a vice president at the
Greater New York Hospital Association, the trade group for the region's
hospitals. "This really is an issue that is dynamite waiting to be ignited."

On Tuesday, Gov. George E. Pataki underscored the worry among the state's
politicians by proposing a broad expansion of a health plan that would cover
some 420,000 uninsured children.

But many health experts say that although providing for children is important --
and a much easier task politically than covering the masses of the working poor,
who are largely immigrants and minorities -- they are only part of the problem.

"These kids have parents, and the parents are struggling to get the health care
they need," said Karen Davis, president of the Commonwealth Fund. In a survey of
4,013 adults in New York City conducted by Louis Harris & Associates, the
Commonwealth Fund found that the uninsured had a much harder time getting
medical care, were much less likely to have a regular doctor and found it harder
to pay their medical bills.

At a forum in Manhattan yesterday attended by the leaders in public health
policy, Ms. Davis noted that insurance for a family of four costs an average of
$6,000 in New York -- or about 20 percent of the salary of someone making
$30,000 a year.

"In many ways, health care is a bit of a luxury," she said.

The largest drops in private insurance came in small companies with fewer than
25 employees, according the Hospital Fund study, and many of the new jobs
created in New York have been in low-wage jobs in small companies, like
restaurant workers, shop clerks or workers in small manufacturing plants.

Mr. Tallon said he thought there were several reasons fewer employees were
insured through their work: the costs and and the paperwork associated with
health insurance are rising; more young people may be going without insurance
because of the higher costs, and many of the uninsured are immigrants who may be
more likely to take jobs that do not include insurance.

David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society of New York, said he
worried that the problem would only get worse.

"If it's even a little blip, these kinds of problems are going to explode on
us," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New York's Growing Ranks of the Uninsured"
The percentage of people under 65 without health insurance has been increasing.

NEW YORK STATE

1991
Uninsured: 13.9%
Private insurance: 70.8%
Medicaid: 13.7%
Medicare*: 1.6%

1996
Uninsured: 19.1%
Private insurance: 69.1%
Medicaid: 16.3%
Medicare*: 1.5%

UNITED STATES

1991
Uninsured: 15.9%
Private insurance: 72.2%
Medicaid: 10.3%
Medicare*: 1.6%

1996
Uninsured: 17.6%
Private insurance: 69.1%
Medicaid: 11.4%
Medicare*: 2.0%

*People under age 65 may qualify for Medicare if they are disabled or suffer
permanent kidney failure.

(Source: United Hospital Fund)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

About New York;
A New Nation May Not Mean A New Home

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 752 words


MIREILLE came to this country last June 16 with a forged passport and fresh
memories of her father's assassination by political opponents in Zaire. She
spent five months and a day in detention while immigration authorities reviewed
her claim for political asylum. They ruled in her favor and released her.

She has since learned that having asylum doesn't mean she has refuge.

Weeks before her release, she and her lawyer scrambled to find a place for her
to live while waiting for the working papers that would allow her to support
herself. They made dozens of unsuccessful calls to charitable and government
groups. For six weeks she stayed with a pastor in Brooklyn, where she wound up
sleeping in a chair in a playroom in a day care center, where she helped to look
after 16 children. For a while, she crashed on the living room sofa at the home
of one of her only two friends. Frustrated, she left for Washington, where a
countryman volunteered to take her in. Her work permit, mailed by the
authorities weeks ago, has yet to catch up with her.

"If I did not have my friend from Zaire, I would have no option at all," said
Mireille, 22, who spoke on the condition that her last name not be used. "When I
came here, I had no idea where I was going. It's not like I thought through this
whole thing."

Increasingly, lawyers and advocates for asylum seekers say they are having to
figure out last-minute living arrangements for their clients because of changes
in immigration laws that have resulted in more of the asylum seekers being
detained while they await a decision. In some cases they have had to refer
clients to city shelters or to homes out of state.

"These are people who have been in control of their lives and now they're living
with people they don't know very well and being a burden on people who took them
in," said Tara Shafer, the asylum program officer for the Lawyers Committee For
Human Rights. "For those coming out of detention, like Mireille, the U.S.
Government is offering legal protection, but without long-term shelter, it
doesn't mean as much."

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the New York district of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the Government would not release anyone who did not
have a place to stay. But he added that he was not aware of any difficulties
finding housing among those granted asylum.

Yet lawyers for the immigrants were nearly unanimous in bemoaning a situation
they say has put an extra burden on them, forcing them at times to rely on
friends and colleagues to donate money or a place to stay. They say they
sometimes had located emergency shelter for someone about to be released, but
lost it when hearing dates were postponed. Some groups have resorted to sending
clients to Pennsylvania, where charitable groups are used to working with asylum
seekers detained in the region. They contrasted that with New York, where they
say detention of asylum applicants is a relatively new policy that has yet to
spur systematic housing assistance.

"This is an acute problem in the New York area, because a large number of
international arrivals intending to travel on to the other states or Canada get
caught in the immigration web here," said Aaron Gershowitz, an immigration
specialist with the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. "They're detained here where
they have no family ties or support network. Yet, with the new law we have to
deal with the situation here."

THE situation can be extremely critical for asylum seekers who, unlike refugees
who arrive here through some orderly process, come here with no money, plans or
contacts. Dr. Jack Saul, the clinical director of a program for torture
survivors at Bellevue Hospital Center, said because they often were more
traumatized than other refugees, they needed stable long-term housing as soon as
possible.

He said the housing crunch was among "the most serious problems" facing asylum
seekers. Yet he has had little luck in finding groups that would help house and
feed them. Tired of relying on ad hoc stopgaps, his group has decided to raise
money to build a residence for asylum seekers.

"If they have been tortured or suffered some form of organized political
violence, the first thing they need is a safe and secure environment in which
they can feel a sense of protection," he said. "We have to have some way to
identify those who deserve asylum and offer assistance early. That is what
happens in other advanced countries. Somehow, it doesn't seem to happen here."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Accuses Foreigners of Aiding Rebels

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 18


The Government is clamping down on foreigners in the troubled state of Chiapas
who show support for the Zapatista guerrillas or monitor events in Indian
regions where the rebel movement is active.

In recent days, the Mexican immigration authorities have ended a longstanding
tolerance for foreigners who travel to Chiapas with tourist visas and then take
part in Zapatista meetings or marches, or visit villages where the tension
between rebel and pro-Government factions is active.

On Tuesday immigration officials deported Robert Schweitzer, 47, an art curator
from Factoryville, Pa. The authorities accused him of violating his tourist visa
on an earlier visit because he attended and photographed peace talks between the
Government and Zapatista leaders in a Chiapas village 18 months ago.

Another American with a tourist visa, Maria Darlington of Etland, N.C., was
deported on Feb. 9, accused of joining a Zapatista demonstration last year.

Immigration officials said they were investigating dozens of other tourists in
Chiapas, looking for possible visa violations. In the last month, President
Ernesto Zedillo and other top officials have repeatedly charged that some
foreigners have overstepped their bounds to meddle on the side of the
Zapatistas. The Constitution bars foreigners from taking an active part in
Mexican politics.

"They don't help us to achieve peace and only obstruct our efforts to lower
tensions," Emilio Rabasa Gamboa, the Government's negotiator for Chiapas, said
on Sunday.

At the same time, Mexico has issued special observers' visas to more than 200
human rights activists from Europe and Canada who are on a fact-finding mission
in Chiapas this week.

A furious national debate about foreigners' role in the state was sparked by a
television program broadcast on Sunday night on the TV Azteca network. Lolita de
la Vega, a well-known news anchorwoman, reported on a helicopter voyage she had
made to La Realidad, a tiny Indian community deep in the Chiapas canyons that is
the gateway to jungles where Zapatista guerrillas are camped.

Ms. de la Vega's videotape showed that she and her crew had been greeted by
several people -- who looked non-Mexican -- who demanded to see their press
credentials, photographed them, took one of their tapes and asked them to leave.

In an interview, the newswoman said she felt that she had been kidnapped by the
strangers, who she concluded were foreign members of the Zapatista army. "We saw
that it wasn't an Indian movement," she said. "Foreigners were in command of our
Indians. It brought back memories of the Spanish conquest."

Another Mexican journalist, Hermann Bellinghausen of the newspaper La Jornada,
which is sympathetic to the Zapatistas, also happened to be in La Realidad at
the time.

Challenging Ms. de la Vega, he wrote that the helicopter's unannounced arrival
had frightened the staunchly pro-Zapatista residents, who believed that it was
part of a Government attack. He reported that the villagers had asked several
foreigners who were part of a "peace camp" of international observers in the
community to mediate for them with the television crew.

Some Mexicans who followed the high-profile duel between the two reporters were
annoyed that foreigners had impeded the work of a Mexican journalist. Others who
wrote letters and phoned radio stations accusing the Government of trying to
force foreign witnesses out of pro-Zapatista communities that the army would
like to attack.

In a telephone interview today from the border town of McAllen, Tex., Mr.
Schweitzer, the Pennsylvanian, said he had never taken part in any Zapatista
political activities. He covered the peace talks in 1996 as an independent
journalist using official press credentials issued by the agency of the Mexican
Congress that organized the negotiations.

"I don't carry banners," Mr. Schweitzer said. "I'm taking photographs and trying
to learn more about the situation. It seems the Government wants someone to
blame for its failed peace policies, and we foreigners are the only ones left to
blame. But we as much as anyone would like to see this thing resolved."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A European human rights observer took photos yesterday near a
mural in the village of Polho in the state of Chiapas showing a Zapatista rebel
solder. Mexico's Government says foreigners have been aiding the rebels.
(Associated Press)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Island Life Not Idyllic For Youths From U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Dominican Republic


Drugs. Gangs. Guns. Like many other Dominican immigrants in the New York
metropolitan area, the parents of Lizza Santos were distressed by what they saw
going on around them. So just before their daughter started high school in
September, they sent her to live with her grandparents here while they remained
in the United States.

At first, the 14-year-old from Yonkers wasn't sure what to expect. But she soon
discovered that at least 20 percent of her 425 classmates at the Santiago
Christian School are American-born reverse immigrants like herself, part of a
rapidly growing group of what are known as "Dominican Yorks" in local parlance.

"I don't want my kid growing up in a drug-infested area where I am always
worrying that somebody is going to drive by and shoot him any time he goes out
on the street," said Betty Cruz, a vacationing resident of Sunset Park in
Brooklyn who was visiting her son Carlos, also a student here. "I wanted him
away from all of that, and that's the reason every parent moves kids here."

The New York City Board of Education said it has not compiled figures on the
number of students who have transferred to Dominican schools. But educators and
Government officials here estimate that as many as 10,000 students from public
and parochial schools in the United States, most of them from the New York City
metropolitan area, are now enrolled in the country's schools.

Officials also say that the phenomenon, though not new, has grown markedly in
the last two or three years. They attribute the increase in part to reforms made
to the Dominican Constitution in 1994, broadening the concept of dual
citizenship to include people of Dominican ancestry born in the United States,
and to a spurt of economic growth that has created new opportunities here.

But they say the example of the country's 44-year-old President, Leonel
Fernandez Reyna, also seems to be a factor. Born in the Dominican Republic, Mr.
Fernandez was taken to New York by his immigrant mother, a seamstress and
nurse's aide, as a third grader, and studied at Emily Dickinson Elementary
School, Joan of Arc Middle School and Brandeis High School in Manhattan.

When he was a teen-ager, however, his mother sent him back home to finish high
school. The success he has achieved, parents and educators suggest, has
encouraged other families to follow suit.

Many of the teen-agers themselves, however, describe the return to their
parents' homeland as a wrenching experience. Some do not speak fluent Spanish
and many find the food and culture unfamiliar, feel they are missing out on such
institutions of American high school life as proms and sports teams and long to
return to their families.

"I know I'm getting a better education here, but I really don't get to see my
parents, and that makes me feel like moving back up there again," Miss Santos
said.

In addition, some chafe at stricter rules imposed by the grandparents, aunts and
uncles and godparents with whom they now live. Furthermore, outside the family
circle, they are often viewed with suspicion.

"A significant percentage of parents here are afraid to let their children
associate with these kids," said Pedro Juan del Rosario, director of the Center
for Urban and Regional Studies at the Pontifical Catholic University here.
"Parents associate New York Dominicans with social problems such as drugs and
with fashion styles that are not accepted here, such as strange haircuts and the
use of earrings by boys."

Some schools here openly discriminate against the Dominican Yorks. At the
Colegio Padre Fortin, for instance, the handbook spelling out admission
requirements states that "students who have lived in the United States in the
last three years will not be accepted."

"We have wonderful discipline here, and we don't want them coming from the
United States to disrupt things," said Sister Josefina de Jesus, principal of
the school's elementary division. "We'll take in the little ones, up to fifth
grade, but not the teen-agers, because they don't adapt, don't want to accept
the rules of the school, and give us a lot of work."

Even among their peers, the Dominican Yorks encounter some resistance. Many
Dominican teen-agers argue that by the nature of their upbringing, the New
Yorkers are simply louder, brasher and more menacing than everybody else.

"They think they're better than everybody else just because they have the blue
passport," complained Karina Benitez Galindo, a 16 year old sitting with two
friends at a Burger King here.

The comments of many of the Dominican Yorks suggest that they view their time
here as merely an interlude. "I'd like to go back," said Luis Tavares, 17, who
attended Public School 65 in Brooklyn before being sent here for high school.
"The day after I graduate, I'm outta here."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 1, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Russian Immigrants At Home on East End

BYLINE: By MERYL SPIEGEL

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words


IN the summer of 1991, Leonid and Larissa Mouzykine and their two daughters
packed their bags in their apartment in Russia for a trip to eastern Long
Island. While they were excited about experiencing the American way of life,
they did not realize that they were leaving Russia for good.

At the time, the family owned a two-bedroom apartment in St. Petersburg, a new
car and a small dacha in the country. "Things were not so bad," Mrs. Mouzykine,
a middle-aged woman said in broken English in an interview partially translated
by her 17-year-old daughter, Nadia.

In the former Soviet Union, the couple earned a good living. A pentathlete with
a master's degree in sports, Mr. Mouzykine was the director of swimming at St.
Petersburg University and managed a large swimming pool, while Mrs. Mouzykine
worked as an electrical engineer, a career she had pursued for 23 years.

However, while visiting Polish friends on the North Fork, the political
situation deteriorated as the Communists fought to regain power after Boris
Yeltsin had been elected president of the new republic of Russia.

In August, when the Communists staged a coup and a state of emergency was
declared, the Mouzykines decided to stay on Long Island temporarily. Today,
seven years later, the family remains on the North Fork, she working long hours
as a house cleaner and he as a winery worker. They live in a modest rental home
in Mattituck.

The Mouzykines are typical of a small but growing number of Russian immigrants
who have settled in and around Riverhead and on the North Fork amidst the
rolling farmland and vineyards in pursuit of a peaceful, healthy new life.

In many cases, they have discovered the bucolic region through a network of
Polish friends from Eastern Europe who have connections to the large Polish
community centered in the Suffolk County seat and extending to Orient.

Typically, these immigrants are highly educated or skilled workers who have
reluctantly left their homeland and traded their careers and middle-class life
for manual work, hoping to build better lives first for their children and
secondly for themselves.

Donna Fry, former administrator of Literacy Volunteers of America's East End
office, who taught tutors to teach English as a second language, said she had
noticed more and more Russian newcomers attending classes in recent years.

Although she is not aware of huge numbers, and could not provide exact figures,
she said that there were pockets throughout the East End, especially in
Riverhead, Mattituck and Southold.

"They start out in service areas in the tourism industry working behind the
scenes in hotels and restaurants," she said . "They also find work in
agriculture, on the farms and at vineyards. Usually, they have Polish friends.
It is rare that they arrive without some support network in place."

She added: "They are not uneducated and are coming over with university degrees.
Some are teachers and there are a lot of engineers. Everyone is an engineer in
Russia.

"It's very different from the Hispanics, where we are dealing with illiteracy in
their native language."

There has been a large influx of Hispanic immigrants on the East End in the
1990's.

When the Mouzykine family first settled on the North Fork, Nadia said, they
seemed to be one of the only Russian families in the area; but recently, the
community of immigrants from the new republics seem to be growing. "Probably
because it's so easy to leave now," she added.

Although her grandparents remain in Russia, saying they are too old to start
over, Nadia's uncle has also emigrated to Mattituck and the family knows a
handful of people with similar backgrounds who attend their small Russian
Orthodox Church in Shirley on the South Shore.

Mother and daughter also said that sometimes when they shopped in Riverhead they
often overhear Ukrainian conversations and do not recognize the people speaking.
To them, that is a sign that their community is growing.

In Riverhead, a Polish-Russian restaurant called Polonez opened a year ago on
Main Street. Offering an array of Slavic delicacies, the restaurant is owned by
Elizabeth Sorokal, a Polish-American, and Alla Kovznetsova, a Russian newcomer.

Talking over coffee in the cafe about why she left her country five years ago
and relocated to Flanders, near Riverhead, with her husband, Alex, and daughter,
Natalie, who was 12 at the time, the Russian-born woman said there were
political problems, no work, and her husband suffered from asthma.

In St. Petersburg, air pollution is a serious health problem, said both
families. Since moving to the East End, Mr. Kovnetsov feels much better, he said
in a later interview at his home.

"After living in the big city, I like the country. This place is the best," said
Ms. Kovznetsova.

A computer programmer for 12 years who was also trained as a nurse, the
restaurateur said she could not continue her profession in the United States
because "my level is too low for this country and I have to study English."
Because she is a perfectionist, she said, she did not want to be a bad
programmer.

Therefore, when she first arrived, Ms. Kovznetsova started a cleaning service
while Alex, a railroad engineer, became a contractor doing small construction
jobs. Then, in 1995, she met Ms. Sorokal at a New Year's Eve party at Polish
Hall. Because she had attended a professional cooking school in St. Petersburg
and had always enjoyed cooking, she decided to open her own restaurant with her
Polish partner last year.

During the spring and summer, the cafe attracted tourists from Manhattan and
Nassau County, where there is a large enclave of Russian-Americans in Glen Cove.

Although several families interviewed for this article appear fond of the United
States, where work can be found and people are optimistic, smiling and friendly,
the choice to leave the land they love and their familiar surroundings has been
heart wrenching.

"When the turmoil began, it triggered my parents to wait and see how it goes, at
least until the next summer," Nadia explained. At that point, the family hoped
things would stabilize over the winter and they could return within a year.

"There is no future for my children in Russia," Mrs. Mouzykine said. In other
words, the new economic system has wiped out the large middle class and spawned
a society of haves and have nots. A small percentage of the people, about 5
percent, are very rich, she said, while the remaining 95 percent are growing
poorer and poorer.

In the Russian newspapers, there are many advertisements for jobs, she went on.
But the new entrepreneurs, who opened small businesses 10 years ago under
Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika, are looking for young people only, those under
35, and they must speak English, she said.

Indeed, English proficiency appears to be the key to success for Russians in
America as well. When Nadia entered the country at the age of 11, she was just
learning the language. Seven years later, she speaks seamless English without a
trace of an accent, is second in her class at Mattituck High School, has won
state vocal competitions, and hopes to attend Georgetown University and
eventually work for the United Nations.

Learning English has been harder for her mother, who relies on the young woman
to translate and be "the secretary of the house" regarding all important
matters. Moreover, Ms. Mouzykine explained that she had been unable to find a
job in electrical engineering on Long Island because she is not fluent. And,
employment in the field in America requires computer skills that she does not
possess.

Two years ago, Ivan and Maja Brativnyk, arrived, leaving their two sons, aged 12
and 13, behind until they could afford to bring them here. An architect and
landscape designer in their country, they now work as a painter and house
cleaner.

In an interview translated by Alla Kovznetsova in her four-bedroom rental home,
the Bratinvnyks said that they now made more money at their current menial jobs
in the Riverhead area than they did in their professions in the Ukraine.

"Simple workers make more money than people with higher educations," Mr.
Kovznetsov explained. For example, he said that driving a train, he earned five
times the salary that his wife made as a computer programmer.

However, the Ukrainian couple said the transition had not been easy. They are
homesick and miss their children, whom they have not seen since emigrating.

One of the hardest things, said Evan, 37, has been the lack of conversation. "We
don't know the language, can't read the newspaper, and can't talk to anyone in
the street," he said in his native tongue.


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 1998, Sunday

CORRECTION:

An article on March 1 about Russian immigrants settling on the East End
misspelled the names of several new residents. They are Alla Kouznetsova, Alex
Kouznetsov, Ivan Brativnyk and Maja Brativnyk.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leonid and Larissa Mouzykine and their two daughters, extreme
top, have been on the North Fork since 1991. Alla Kousnetsov with Tom Krigier, a
chef, at her restaurant in Riverhead. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 1, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants in Prison Are There for a Reason

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 364 words



To the Editor:

I read with interest "On Trial: Three Officers and U.S. Policy" by Joe Sharkey
(Jersey, Jan. 18), about three officers charged with beating and abusing
immigrants in the Union County Jail. Mr. Sharkey seems very concerned about the
treatment of immigrants and assumes that these people are merely trying to enter
this country without papers. He said the incidents took place when 25 detainees
awaiting immigration hearings were "transferred to the county jail for
safekeeping after a riot broke out among more than 300 detainees protesting
inhumane conditions at the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
Center, also in Elizabeth." Many would agree that it's a little more than
"protesting" when criminals riot and destroy a multimillion dollar Federal
facility.

While I have no particular ax to grind with immigrants in general, I do have a
big problem with people entering the country illegally and destroying a facility
paid for with my hard-earned tax dollars. What do they have to gain by lying,
you might ask? The ultimate lottery ticket -- a free ticket back the the U.S.A.
or political asylum and a civil suit, the payment for which will also come from
American tax dollars.

Being under arrest is just that: you don't have the same rights as someone who
is not accused of a crime and it's a crime to enter this country without the
proper paperwork. You don't get a room in a five-star hotel.

Immigrant bashing? How about cop bashing, which is becoming a national pastime,
aided by prosecutors who in their own misguided way think they are somehow
serving the public by pitting officer against officer.

Mr. Sharkey is right on on one point: This case does belong on Court TV. The
public should see just how their tax money is being spent on inept, misguided
public servants who believe almost anything coming from the mouths of criminals.
The public would also get to see another story: one of corruption of small-time
politicians and their appointed prosecutors, who are promoting this made-for-TV
novel and becoming just as corrupt as the politicians who appointed them in the
first place.

KATHLEEN G. BARNA
North Plainfield

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 3, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Russian Falls to Death in an Apparent Suicide

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 304 words


A 50-year-old Russian immigrant seeking to be deported by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service because he had lost his job jumped to his death yesterday
from a ninth-floor window at the Federal Office Building in lower Manhattan,
officials said.

The man fell to the ground around 1:30 P.M., as hundreds of people sat eating
lunch on benches outside 26 Federal Plaza and as hundreds more milled through
the area, witnesses said.

"We thought it was some construction work," said Brigette Chessa, who was having
lunch with her sister and niece before the incident. "We looked up and here he
came."

Ms. Chessa said the man fell out of the window backward as if he had run
backward into the quarter-inch glass of the 42-story building.

Besides the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the building, the largest
Federal building outside Washington, houses dozens of Government offices,
including the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The man's name has not been released, pending notification of relatives. He
apparently walked into the offices of the ninth-floor investigative section
asking to be deported and saying he had overstayed his one-year visitor's visa,
according to Michael W. Gilhooly, a spokesman for the immigration service.

An officer gave the man an appointment for another day, causing him to become
despondent, Mr. Gilhooly said. He went to unoccupied offices on the same floor
and leaped to his death, officials said.

It was unknown how long the man had stayed beyond the one-year limit of the visa
and what kind of job he had held, immigration officials said. A visitor's visa
does not allow employment.

"He was asking us to send him home, and it's not clear if he was under any sort
of immigration action," Mr. Gilhooly said. "He was told it's not something we
could do today."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Head of I.N.S. Program Is Removed From Post

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3


A Justice Department official assigned by Attorney General Janet Reno last year
to fix the immigration service's error-riddled citizenship program has been
removed from his post because of an investigation of work he was involved in
before taking the position.

The official, Robert K. Bratt, was removed Monday night as head of
naturalization operations at the Immigration and Naturalization Service at Ms.
Reno's direction and is returning to the Justice Department, an agency
spokeswoman, Carole Florman, said today.

Mr. Bratt's removal may only be temporary. The Commissioner of the immigration
service, Doris K. Meissner, today named another Justice Department official on
loan to her agency, James Angus, as acting executive director of naturalization
operations.

A spokeswoman for the Justice Department's inspector general, Michael Bromwich,
declined comment. But an official who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the
investigation was not centered on Mr. Bratt.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 9, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hundreds Lose Food Stamps in Error Under U.S. Welfare Change

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words


Since sweeping Federal welfare changes went into effect in New York more than
six months ago, hundreds of the city's poorest immigrants have seen their food
stamps cut off or sharply reduced because they were mistakenly ruled ineligible,
according to welfare officials, immigrants and advocates for the poor.

The problem apparently stems from confusion over the new patchwork of Federal
and state rules, which often require welfare workers to make complicated
calculations to decide a family's eligibility for stamps.

State and city officials said that most people who have lost benefits simply no
longer qualify under the stricter rules. But advocates said many eligible
immigrant families, including some United States citizens, lost food stamps
because of bureaucratic errors. And some families said they had to endure months
of hardship before benefits were restored.

"I have never seen so much confusion," said Liz Krueger, associate director of
the Community Food Resource Center, which helps families receiving welfare or
food benefits. "People are losing food stamps -- some of them correctly, some of
them incorrectly. And it's almost impossible for them to figure out which is
true."

The changes began with a 1996 Federal law that barred legal immigrants from
collecting Federal food stamps, with narrow exceptions for some refugees and
other categories. Concerned that those new rules would hurt some of the most
vulnerable New Yorkers, state lawmakers and Gov. George E. Pataki agreed to use
state funds to continue food stamps for immigrants who are under 18, over 60 or
disabled.

But implementing the state program has proved difficult. Local welfare workers
must not only determine who is eligible, but also calculate food stamp
allotments of the eligible individuals based on their share of the family's
total income and expenses.

Between October and December, after the new laws went into effect, 1,170 people
in the city whose food stamps were cut or reduced because they were considered
"ineligible aliens" appealed to a state administrative judge. In 231 cases, the
judge ordered benefits restored, according to state records. In addition, 721
cases were withdrawn, mostly because the city agreed voluntarily to restore the
benefits, state officials said.

One who was mistakenly cut off was Maribel Rivera, a former garment worker from
Mexico, whose $205 in food stamps for her 2-year-old twin boys was suddenly
eliminated in October. Although the twins were born in this country -- meaning
they are citizens and still eligible for benefits -- a letter from the city said
simply, "You do not meet the criteria of the new food stamps rules."

With the help of Make the Road by Walking, an advocacy group based in Bushwick,
Brooklyn, Ms. Rivera, who lives in neighboring Ridgewood, Queens, appealed and
had the benefits restored a month later.

State welfare officials acknowledged that some people had been cut off by
mistake and that some families' benefits had been miscalculated. State officials
said they expected the kinks to be ironed out soon, when they modify the
agency's computer program to help local workers with the new, more complicated
calculations. Welfare workers, they said, can now do calculations by hand.

"Yes, some of that is happening," said Daniel D. Hogan, executive deputy
commissioner for the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, which
administers state food stamps. "This is a massive new program."

Despite the problems, state officials are quick to point out that Albany's $83
million program has maintained benefits for about 67,000 immigrants who
otherwise would have lost them entirely when the Federal law went into effect in
August.

"We put a huge program in place in a very short period of time because the
Federal Government cut them off," Mr. Hogan said, adding, "If there are
mistakes, we do and will correct them."

Altogether, the number of people receiving food stamps in New York City through
the Federal and state programs fell by about 130,000, to about 1,120,000 in
December 1997 from 1,250,000 in January 1997. Mr. Hogan said he did not know how
much of that decline reflected the tighter Federal rules, but he said a more
robust city economy and efforts to crack down on food stamp fraud accounted for
some of it.

Statewide, food stamps were cut off to about 70,000 immigrants because of the
new Federal law, officials in Washington estimate.

The most widespread problem to result from the new laws, advocates for the poor
say, is mistakes in the amount of food stamps allotted to immigrant families.

For instance, when, Jose Dominguez went to pick up food stamps in January for
his family of four, he was told they had been cut to $16 from $309 a month.
"They say because of the new law," recalled Mr. Dominguez, 37, of Park Slope.

Although the new welfare law bars Mr. Dominguez and his wife, legal immigrants
from the Dominican Republic, from collecting food stamps, their two children,
also legal immigrants aged 4 and 16, are entitled to state-financed food
benefits because they are under 18.

Fred Arriaga, a lawyer at South Brooklyn Legal Services, said he believed the
family's benefits were miscalculated and that they should now get $180 in stamps
every month.

The Dominguez family's predicament, Mr. Arriaga said, is not unique. "I have yet
to see anyone" whose benefits have been calculated properly, he said.

In the past, local welfare workers allocated food stamps to a household based on
its size, the total household income -- from work or welfare -- and expenses.

Now, food stamps for each member of the household must be calculated separately,
first based on individual eligibility for the Federal or state program and then
figuring the individual's share of the total household income and expenses.
(Illegal immigrants were never eligible.)

City welfare officials said the sharp drop in food stamp recipients reflected
the decline in the number of people on welfare. Still, like the state officials,
the city authorities acknowledged that mistakes had been made. Renalda Higgins
Walker, a spokeswoman for the City Human Resources Administration, said,
"Someone will fall through the cracks, but nowhere near the numbers that could
have."

But for the city's poor, falling through the cracks can have grave consequences.
When Rhonda Sancho's food stamp checks dwindled to $55 a month in January, from
$171, she stretched it to buy enough milk and juice for her two children.
"There's nothing left," said Ms. Sancho, 25, an immigrant from Guyana, as her
4-month-old son, Ancil, gurgled on her lap. "There's no money to buy meat, rice
-- nothing."

Starting this month, Ms. Sancho has been told, her food stamps will be reduced
to $10.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 9, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Aren't the Problem. We Are.

BYLINE: By Bill McKibben;  Bill McKibben is the author of "The End of Nature"
and the forthcoming "Maybe One: A Personal and Environmental Argument for
Single-Child Families."

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

DATELINE: JOHNSBURG, N.Y.


In the next few weeks, the half million members of the Sierra Club will vote to
set the club's policy on the issue of immigration. Since the Sierra Club does
not exactly control Congress, the final count won't much matter, but the debate,
which has already been spirited, represents an invaluable chance to raise the
issue of how many people this country can and should contain.

Immigration is about as difficult a moral subject as one can imagine, so even
the proposed change in Sierra Club policy -- in favor of an unspecified
"reduction in net immigration" -- has ignited controversy. In a world of
desperate poverty, it is hard for citizens of the richest nation to argue that
the door should be closed, especially since nearly all of us can recall our
immigrant roots.

Not only that, too many people who support tighter controls on immigration are
racists of various types. I got a letter last month from a board member of one
national group working on population issues in which he complained about
"barbarians" who littered the subways and played "ugly" music. (He professed to
prefer that all-American composer J. S. Bach.) So it is no surprise that most
wise people, including most wise environmentalists, simply ignore the matter:
currently, the official Sierra Club policy is to "take no position on
immigration levels or on policies governing immigration into the United States."

Environmentalists have focused on living more simply and more efficiently as the
keys to our problems here at home, but many, myself included, have largely
overlooked the messier and more divisive question of our sheer numbers. While
our birth rate is just below the replacement level of 2.1 -- the number of
children each mother would need to bear to keep the population constant -- our
total population continues to grow quickly compared with that of other developed
nations. Part of this is because of our longer life spans and the echoes of the
baby-boom bulge -- even at two children apiece, we'll be increasing our numbers
for decades to come. But our population is also growing because we have by far
the world's highest level of immigration -- something like 800,000 legal
immigrants take up residence here each year (not to mention illegal immigrants,
estimated at 300,000 a year). Natural increase and immigration, the Census
Bureau projects, may combine to swell our population by as much as 50 percent in
the next 50 years, bringing it to nearly 400 million; by even the most
conservative estimates, there will be 30 percent more Americans by the middle of
the next century.

That's a problem for two reasons. The first, and most obvious, is that this
country, so seemingly empty when Europeans initially arrived, is by some
definitions becoming crowded. It's true that the Plains remain sparsely
populated, and probably always will. But the places Americans want to live are
jammed. The Northeast corridor of suburbs and cities is already more densely
populated than Haiti or El Salvador; California's 30 million may become 50
million by 2050. With each year, the ring of suburbs spreads a little farther
out, the roads become a bit more crowded, the margin for wildlife becomes
slightly smaller. That endless growth places real stress on our supplies of
everything from water to silence, from farmland to solitude. Such growth even
strains our democracy. When the Constitution was ratified, each member of
Congress represented 30,000 voters; now it's 570,000.

But there's a bigger problem still. Americans, as the world's most voracious
consumers, contribute far more per capita to the world's environmental problems
than anyone else. So an extra hundred million Americans means, for instance, a
staggering amount of carbon dioxide entering the atmosphere and warming the
climate. It's true that we could alleviate some of that problem if each of us
consumed less and consumed more efficiently -- if we lived in smaller homes
heated by the sun. I've spent most of my career writing about just such ideas,
and believe in them wholeheartedly.

But at the moment, we're building bigger homes and driving bigger cars. And even
if we came to our senses, the momentum of natural increase and immigration would
render most of our changes meaningless. As the President's Council on
Sustainable Development pointed out in 1996, domestic population growth means
we'll need to increase our energy efficiency 50 percent in the next half century
just to run in place.

This is a very different argument from the traditional
"they'll-take-our-jobs-from-us" lament. Economists by now have mostly concluded
that immigrants actually create wealth, which should come as no surprise to
anyone who has visited Brooklyn or Queens in recent years. If those who wanted
to immigrate here stayed instead in Juarez or Shanghai or, for that matter,
Dublin, they would do far less damage to the planet precisely because they would
not be as rich. That's the point, and that's also the rub. People want to come
here for a better life with more opportunities, and who are we to deny them that
chance?

We of course already deny plenty of people that chance -- even our current,
historically generous immigration ceiling means many people aren't allowed in.
Of the world's huddled masses, only the tiniest fraction will ever come here
even with existing laws. And while some population-control advocates want to see
immigration all but stopped, most whom I've talked to would prefer to see the
limits cut roughly in half, to about 400,000 annually, with special provisions
for asylum seekers. At that rate, if our birth rate simultaneously fell to the
European average of 1.5 children, we could see our population stop growing
within a generation.

Still, such a policy would be harsh. It would mean 400,000 more people a year
who would be turned away at the door -- people with particular hopes, particular
sorrows. And all in the name of as-yet fairly abstract problems like global
warming. Such restrictions would come at real cost to the American dream, too;
in most cities I know, New York included, immigrants best exemplify the kind of
citizenship and community spirit increasingly absent from the nation's
mainstream.

So I think we have no right to pass such laws, or even to support them in
nonbinding forms like Sierra Club referendums, unless we also take serious steps
in our own lives to lessen our impact on the environment. If we're not willing
to reduce the size of our families or the size of our sport utility vehicles,
then cutting immigration is piggish scapegoating; it may save some of our
landscape, but at the price of our national soul. If, however, we are willing to
take some painful steps ourselves, then we earn the right to tell some tough
truths to others -- chief among them that even this rich land can't grow
forever. Numbers count.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 10, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Trouble-Shooter Lands in Inquiry's Cross Hairs

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9


When Attorney General Janet Reno dispatched Robert K. Bratt last April to
straighten out the Government's beleaguered citizenship program, he faced a
daunting task.

Congress was furious that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had
naturalized 180,000 immigrants without proper background checks. Independent
auditors found only 1 of 23 field offices under review was following new orders.

Since then, Mr. Bratt, one of the Justice Department's top trouble-shooters for
more than a decade, has tightened safeguards against fraud, revamped how the
agency fingerprints citizenship applicants and championed computerization of the
department's millions of paper files.

Mr. Bratt's efforts came to an abrupt halt on March 2 when Ms. Reno yanked him
from his assignment, stripped his top-secret security clearance and assigned him
to a desk job at the Justice Department until the matter was resolved.

The Attorney General removed Mr. Bratt hours after the Justice Department's
inspector general, Michael R. Bromwich, told her new details about his
investigation into Mr. Bratt's activities from a previous assignment. Officials
familiar with the inquiry said it focused in part on accusations that Mr. Bratt
had improperly used his influence to secure visitors' visas for two female
Russian translators he employed during an assignment in Moscow.

A Justice Department spokeswoman, Carole Florman, said she could not discuss
details of the inquiry but insisted that Mr. Bratt had not been demoted. "The
decision by the Attorney General was not based on any adverse findings against
him," said Ms. Florman.

Many of Mr. Bratt's colleagues at the immigration service and the Justice
Department support him. And in an unlikely twist, two of the immigration
agency's harshest critics in Congress have also lined up to defend Mr. Bratt.

"This is someone who we can trust and who has always been a straight-shooter,"
said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who heads the House
immigration subcommittee. "Bratt's been making a good effort to restore
integrity to the citizenship process."

Representative Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican whose House appropriations
subcommittee controls the immigration service's financing, went out of his way
at a recent hearing to praise Mr. Bratt.

Lawmakers have been told few details of the inquiry, lending a mysterious air to
the whole matter. "I find this frustrating and extremely difficult to figure
out," Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who heads the Senate
immigration subcommittee, said last week.

Mr. Bratt, a 20-year Justice Department official, denies he did anything wrong.
Nonetheless, he finds himself in the cross hairs of an inquiry by Mr. Bromwich,
perhaps the most aggressive inspector general in the Government, with no end in
sight.

"I'm more stunned than anyone about what happened," Mr. Bratt said in a
telephone interview from his house in Fenwick Island, Del., where he is taking
time off before reporting to his new, and as yet undetermined, job.

At issue is an investigation the Inspector General began last April into the
Justice Department's International Criminal Investigative Assistance Program,
which provides training to police officers in dozens of countries, including the
former Soviet Union.

The inquiry focuses on accusations about disclosure of classified information by
the program's managers in Moscow to contractors; questionable contract awards,
sexual harassment and favoritism in hiring.

Mr. Bratt oversaw training programs for Russian police officers and prosecutors
from October 1996 until he was picked to lead the citizenship overhaul in April
1997.

Mr. Bratt said investigators interviewed him for three hours last October about
the visas and a contract awarded to a former employee, Joe Lake. Mr. Bratt
acknowledged that he befriended two female Russian translators while on
assignment in Moscow, and paid a $40 processing fee for each of their visas. The
visas were approved, but the women never used them, he said.

Mr. Bratt denied using his position as a senior Justice Department official to
obtain the documents. "If I'm guilty of anything, maybe it's not knowing all the
rules," Mr. Bratt said. "But I did not direct anyone to do anything illegal."

Similarly, Mr. Bratt said the consulting contract for Mr. Lake was legitimate.

Mr. Bratt said the accusations stemmed from disgruntled former employees in the
police training program whom he dismissed or transferred to less desirable jobs.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 12, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
I.N.S. Planning to Raise Foreign Adoption Fees

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 239 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to raise fees for foreign
adoption by more than 160 percent, a move that has drawn sharp criticism from
officials of American adoption agencies, who say the increase is unfair and
unjustified.

The immigration service wants to raise fees for 22 types of applications and
petitions, but the increase for adoptions, to $530 from $235, is by far the
highest. Visa and other fees paid to the State Department bring the total bill
to nearly $1,000. That is in addition to the average $13,000 to $20,000 paid to
adoption agencies and foreign countries.

The new fees were proposed after the agency conducted a study to determine the
actual cost of processing each type of application, said Michael T. Natchuras,
chief of the fee policy branch of the service's budget office.

The study showed that adoption applications consumed more time than other types
of applications because they required one-on-one dealing with prospective
parents.

But officials of adoption agencies said they doubted that explanation. In most
areas of the country, they said, the parents never meet with immigration
officials.

They also complained that the increases included disproportionately high charges
to pay for asylum and other charity cases that the service processes at no
charge.

The public comment period for the new fees ends tomorrow, and they could be put
in place in several months.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Plan on Immigration Misses Point;
Thinking Globally

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words



To the Editor:

We can, as the Sierra Club proposes, limit immigration in the hopes of
decreasing the United States population, the number of people with access to
wealth and hence the number who inflict planetary harm (Op-Ed, March 9). But
what about an individual who might have five children in his or her native
country but only two in the United States because of easy access to birth
control? This is one situation in which "think globally, act locally" just
doesn't cut it. Not acting locally can sometimes be in the best interest of
everyone.

Also, in order for people to be able to think globally, they must live a global
experience in their own cities and neighborhoods. Limiting immigration would
make this more difficult. Observing an older man study his English flashcards on
the subway inspires me to care for this country and world more than anything.

JESSICA MC CANNON
Brooklyn, March 10, 1998

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Fuchs)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Plan on Immigration Misses Point;
Time to Act Now

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

As one of the national leaders of the Sierra Club effort to restore an
immigration component to the club's population policy, I agree with much of what
Bill McKibben writes (Op-Ed, March 9).

We stress that only a comprehensive approach to environmental problems can
succeed. We must reduce United States consumption by making our economy more
efficient in its use of resources; reduce population growth, birthrates and
immigration rates, and support aid that slows worldwide population growth and
promotes sustainable development.

Where we disagree with Mr. McKibben is in his notion that efforts to address
immigration must wait until the other factors are tackled.

DICK SCHNEIDER
Oakland, Calif., March 9, 1998

The writer is chairman of Sierrans for U.S. Population Stabilization.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Fuchs)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Plan on Immigration Misses Point

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 109 words



To the Editor:

Bill McKibben (Op-Ed, March 9) argues that in the Sierra Club's environmental
debates over immigration, "numbers count." True, but he overlooks an important
aspect of the issue: population numbers count not just in the United States but
also in the countries from which immigrants come.

As we debate the question, let's also address the need for adequate United
States support for international family planning programs. Those programs have
been under attack in recent years. Ninety percent of the world's population
growth is occurring in developing countries.

OLIVIA M. SUSSKIND
Harrisburg, Pa., March 9, 1998

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Fuchs)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

7 I.N.S. Employees and 26 Others Are Charged With Selling False Immigration
Papers

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 889 words


Federal prosecutors in Manhattan announced yesterday that seven employees of the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service and 26 others had been
charged with selling fraudulent immigration papers for more than $100,000 in
bribes.

The case, the third similar scheme in recent years, continues to raise questions
about how well the agency is addressing its vulnerability to corruption. The
scheme grew so brazen, prosecutors said, that some cash bribes were exchanged
right inside the I.N.S. offices at 26 Federal Plaza in downtown Manhattan.

The immigration employees accused in the case included five officers who
interview immigrants and have the power to approve applications for green cards,
which confer permanent legal status as a United States resident and are granted
only in limited circumstances. Two lower-level employees were also arrested.

Others accused included brokers who charged the immigrants for their services,
using some of their money for the bribes.

"This is a corruption case based on the simple concept of greenbacks for green
cards," said Louis D. Schiliro, assistant director of the F.B.I. in charge of
the New York office, which investigated the scheme for about a year, using
wiretaps and I.N.S. employees who worked undercover.

Edward J. McElroy, district director of the immigration service in Manhattan,
said this was the largest number of I.N.S. employees arrested in such a scheme
in New York, although similar schemes have been uncovered in Manhattan and
elsewhere in recent years.

The Commissioner of the I.N.S., Doris M. Meissner, acknowledged in an interview
in 1994, shortly after taking office, that the agency's low pay, antiquated
computer systems, and broad power over immigrants' lives set up the potential
for abuse by dishonest employees. There was "a climate for abuse" that did not
exist in other agencies, she said.

Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney in Manhattan, who announced the
charges, said that in exchange for the bribes, one immigration employee removed
an applicant's criminal record from the official file. In other cases, she said,
officers agreed not to verify claims made by applicants seeking to qualify for
green cards, including whether their marriages to American citizens were
legitimate or not.

The bribes averaged about $1,000, and ranged from $300 to $12,000, Ms. White
said. The salaries of the accused immigration workers were $25,000 to $50,000 a
year, she said.

It was unclear yesterday how many of the immigrants knew that bribes were being
paid for them, or how many of them would have legally qualified for residency
status.  Ms. White said that the investigation was continuing. Officials did not
say yesterday whether they would charge any of the immigrants or seek to deport
them.

Prosecutors also described the murky world of immigration brokers in New York,
and the indictment noted that at least three of them operated out of travel
agencies.

The brokers even arranged sham marriages to secure eligibility for green cards,
Ms. White said, and used code words like "skirts" and "pants" to refer to the
men and women involved. In January, one man in a sham marriage called his broker
to ask for the name of his "wife," the indictment said.

Yesterday, 23 defendants were arrested and taken to Federal District Court in
Manhattan on charges including conspiracy, bribery, and immigration fraud. Two
of the immigration employees named in the indictment, which was unsealed
yesterday, had pleaded guilty earlier, officials said, while five defendants had
not yet been taken into custody.

One broker, Maria Diaz, who operated out of Gemma Travel in the Bronx, was
accused of paying about $60,000 in bribes on nine separate occasions, officials
said.

Ms. Diaz did not return a phone call seeking comment early in the day. In court,
she did not make bail and could not be reached.

The indictment also charged an immigration lawyer, Francois Au of Manhattan,
with bribery. Mr. Au, who was released on bond, did not return a call for
comment.

Nelson A. Boxer, an assistant United States attorney, said that some of the
brokers were overheard on wiretaps making threats about an immigration employee
whom they believed was cooperating with Federal investigators.

Mr. McElroy said the case began after co-workers reported suspicious activity at
the agency -- people coming in without appointments, being bumped ahead of other
applicants and other irregularities.

Officials said that yesterday's case was not connected to one in 1995 in which
four immigration clerks in the Manhattan office were charged with taking
hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to issue employment authorization
cards to thousands of illegal immigrants.

Some time earlier, eight employees of the Washington district office were
convicted in a scheme to accept bribes to sell legal residency to 1,000
immigrants who did qualify and to give another 4,000 people permission to work,
according to news reports.

Yesterday, a spokesman for Ms. Meissner, Eric C. Andrus, said the agency was
continuing to improve internal auditing and computer systems to prevent such
abuse. He said the fact that co-workers had made the initial reports showed that
"progress is being made and recognized within our own work force."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 14, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Food and Population

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 149 words



To the Editor:

Re "Plan on Immigration Misses Point" (letters, March 13): The debate on how
many people this country can and should contain assumes that there is a limited
supply of natural resources and some maximum number of people that can share
them.

Both food resources and population are potentially unlimited. For
anthropologists, increases in population are the measure of progress. History
testifies that the invention of new and better ways of doing things allows a
greater number of people to survive, and survive longer.

Over the past two centuries in this country, the number that can be supported by
a square mile of land has risen from 6.1 in 1800 to 25.6 in 1900 and reached 64
people per square mile in 1980. It makes no sense to assume that resources are
limited and that population growth is cancerous.

MYLES J. DUFFY
Somerville, Mass., March 13, 1998

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JERSEY;
Revisiting the Refugee 'Problem'

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 781 words


A couple of months ago, this column described a spectacle of abuse that some
guards at the Union County Jail in Elizabeth inflicted on a group of terrified
asylum-seekers who were transferred temporarily to the jail on June 18, 1995.

The prisoners were sent there because of a riot that day among some inmates
protesting poor conditions at the nearby Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center. None of the 25 men transferred to the jail had been among the
rioters. They were sent there only for safekeeping.

Rather than providing that safekeeping, some jail guards decided instead to
whoop it up with an Anti-Immigrant Field Day.

According to a criminal indictment, as many as two dozen Union County jail
guards went on a bloody spree "plucking detainees' body hairs with pliers,
forcing detainees to place their heads in toilet bowls, encouraging and ordering
detainees to perform sexual acts upon one another" and "forcing detainees to
assume unusual and degrading positions while naked." Some detainees also were
ordered to kneel and chant, "America is No. 1!"

Unluckily for those guards, the former county prosecutor responded like
gangbusters to an episode that could just as easily have been swept under the
rug, considering the delicate politics involved in going after fellow county
law-enforcement workers.

The prosecutors got the job done. On March 6, largely on the basis of courageous
testimony from innocent guards who were horrified by the actions of their
colleagues, two of the guards were found guilty of abusing the detainees, and a
third was convicted of participating in a conspiracy to cover up the crimes by
threatening potential whistle-blowers. Meanwhile, eight more Union County jail
guards are about to go on trial on charges stemming from the same incident.

After that column was published, I was very surprised by the furious response it
provoked. Some of the objections were well-reasoned; others bordered on the
clinically psychotic. The gist of the criticism was: Why should we care about
what happens to illegal immigrants, some of whom are probably terrorists? Didn't
they simply get the bruising they were cruising for?

O.K., time out for some numbers, followed by a positive suggestion to cut
through the rhetoric over a very emotional topic.

Social service workers estimate that on any day, 13,000 detainees seeking
political asylum are being held behind bars, awaiting Federal hearings on
whether they have credible cause to be admitted as political refugees who would
face persecution or death if they returned home. Few have committed crimes. Some
stay in detention for years.

As political strife wracks the globe, their numbers are going through the roof.
In 1995, about 85,000 detainees passed through the detention centers. In 1996,
it was 109,000. Because some I.N.S. facilities are overcrowded, about half of
the detainees are now held in county and local jails, where guards are less well
supervised than those at Federal facilities, and sometimes reflect the ugly
anti-immigrant rhetoric you hear on talk radio.

Meanwhile, there is a gaping disconnect in public perception between the
television images of, say, a political blood bath in West Africa and one of its
trivial consequences, a terrified refugee stumbling off a plane at Newark
airport and being hustled to a cell.

Relief workers struggle to provide legal services. But some religious groups
also think that stubborn perceptions can be alleviated the old-fashioned way --
by personal contact with detainees themselves.

The Rev. Richard Ryscavage, the national director of the Jesuit Refugee Service,
supervises a pilot project at I.N.S. centers in Elizabeth and Los Angeles that
encourages members of the public to sit down with detainees and, in the most
basic human interaction, "connect their world to your world." In at least a
small way, this adds individual understanding to help ameliorate a serious
political dilemma in our emotional policies toward refugees.

Political and ethnic persecution is "something that happens somewhere out there,
and you see it on television," said Father Ryscavage. "But everywhere you see an
upheaval, you'll soon see refugees coming into Kennedy and Newark airports.
Liberia, China, Sierra Leone, the Congo, you name it."

The flood of human misery follows the headlines. "This week, it's people from
Kosovo," said Will Coley, a worker with the Jesuit project who is helping
churches and others to get involved in the visiting program at the I.N.S.
Detention Center in Elizabeth.

His phone number is (973) 733-3516, extension 207. Visiting hours are on
weekends. He said they'll be glad to see you.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Six Iraqis, Unfairly Judged

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words


Imagine a trial in which the prosecution secretly presents evidence that the
defendants and their lawyers have no right to see. The judge's ruling against
the defendants is disclosed, but the details are kept classified. The government
will only say that the men are considered a danger to national security and must
leave the country. It sounds like the former Soviet Union, but the rough
equivalent of this case just happened in the United States.

It involves six Iraqis who worked with the Central Intelligence Agency several
years ago in failed efforts to unseat Saddam Hussein. When the covert operations
in Iraq collapsed in 1996, the six men were among 6,500 Iraqis and others the
United States moved to Guam to protect them from retaliation by Baghdad. Most of
those people have since been resettled in America. But for these six, and a
handful of others, the experience has turned into an Orwellian ordeal that is
unfair and possibly unjust.

Even by the cramped due process standards of the immigration court system, which
is managed by the Justice Department and not part of the independent Federal
judiciary, this case seems grotesque. It may well be, as the Government implies,
that these six Iraqis infiltrated the C.I.A. operations and served as double
agents, actually working for Iraq. If there is convincing evidence of that, they
should not be allowed to settle in the United States.

But they and their lawyers deserve a chance to review and to contest the
evidence against them. It may be impeachable, and traceable to feuding within
the Iraqi opposition. In criminal cases handled by Federal courts, there are
procedures for dealing with classified information that let defendants examine
sensitive evidence in an edited form that would not compromise intelligence
gathering.

No such rules exist in immigration courts, and in this case the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and an unidentified intelligence agency rejected a request from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to provide a declassified summary of
the evidence. Foreigners seeking asylum do not have the same legal standing as
American citizens, but that is no reason for an immigration court to operate
like a Star Chamber. Since it is possible these men worked honorably alongside
the C.I.A., Attorney General Janet Reno should insure that they are given a fair
chance to defend themselves before they are deported to Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 16, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Striving to Muster Political Clout

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words


Meeting recently in a private home in Uniondale on Long Island, a group of
Haitian clergy members, radio personalities and grass-roots organizers set for
themselves a simple but momentous goal: electing the first Haitian-American to
political office.

The dozen or so community leaders, who discussed three potential candidates that
day, also pledged to pursue an ambitious campaign to organize candidate forums,
step up Creole-language radio programs that explain the political process and
increase efforts to naturalize Haitian immigrants and register them to vote.

In part, the meeting was a moment of political opportunism -- an attempt to
capitalize on the recent uproar over allegations of torture of a Haitian
immigrant, Abner Louima, in police custody in Brooklyn. A prominent name that
emerged from the meeting was that of Samuel Nicolas, Mr. Louima's cousin and
spokesman, who has just announced a bid for the 42d Assembly District seat in
Flatbush and East Flatbush in Brooklyn.

But participants said it also reflected a much larger phenomenon -- the growing
desire among New York's Haitian immigrants to become a force in the city's
ethnic politics.

Achieving that goal, they said, would represent a significant shift in attitude
for many of New York's roughly 300,000 Haitians, who have traditionally focused
their political attentions on their homeland, out of the deeply held belief that
the United States is simply a temporary shelter from the Caribbean political
storms continually enveloping Haiti.

"For a long time, we have been outside, playing Haitian politics," said Tatiana
Wah, chairwoman of the Haitian American Alliance, a community group, who was an
organizer of the Long Island meeting. "We're behind, but it's not too late."

Haitian-American leaders credit the activism surrounding Mr. Louima with helping
to move the spotlight away from the latest political stalemate gripping Haiti
and toward the more immediate concerns of Haitian enclaves throughout the
region.

At the core of the new political awareness, many Haitians say, lies a desire to
have a voice on American foreign policy toward Haiti, just as American Jews do
with Israel. Haitian-Americans grumble that they are not consulted when
decisions about their country are being discussed in Washington. For instance,
in 1994, when the Clinton Administration sent 20,000 troops to Haiti to restore
the ousted President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, to power, few, if any,
Haitian-American community leaders were asked to weigh in with their views.

But there are also scores of frustrations to be dealt with at home. Many
Haitian-Americans say their local concerns have not been adequately addressed by
elected officials. They note that while there are more than 100 Haitian-owned
businesses in central Brooklyn, no business development corporation helps those
merchants with loans, marketing ideas or other management strategies. Haitian
immigrants also face a severe housing crisis, they say, with many of them
crowding in small apartments, with no one to turn to.

"We're trying to have a Haitian community that is more active and involved,"
said Netlyn Bernard-Samedy, a community organizer with the National Coalition
for Haitian Rights, a Manhattan-based organization. "We have a community that in
the past has lived in the margins. Now, we are starting to focus on our lives
here and how everything affects us."

The new awareness is not confined to New York. In the last five years,
grass-roots organizations in other cities with large Haitian populations, like
Miami and Boston, have also been conducting civic awareness classes, as well as
citizenship and voter registration drives.

"The Haitian community is maturing," said Rubain J. Dorancy, a 26-year-old
social worker who is a member of Brooklyn's Community School Board 17. "We're
realizing the inextricable relationship between how we live, and are treated,
and the degree of our political clout."

Haitian leaders in New York have zeroed in on Brooklyn's 42d Assembly District,
which includes Flatbush and East Flatbush, for their quest. They are pinning
their hopes on Mr. Nicolas, a 39-year-old analyst for the city's Human Resources
Administration, who gained prominence as the ubiquitous spokesman for his cousin
Mr. Louima.

In that district, Haitian leaders have identified more than 20,000
French-sounding names from the voting rolls, people presumed to be of Haitian
ancestry. They say that with an intense door-to-door and mass-mailing campaign,
a Haitian candidate would stand a good chance of winning a seat in a district
where the current representative, Rhoda S. Jacobs, won the 1996 primary by 2,740
votes.

But it still appears to be an uphill battle. Ms. Jacobs's vote total represented
more than two-thirds of the 3,700 primary ballots cast. And she is a
well-entrenched incumbent, having served 18 years in the district, which is 70
percent black, 14 percent Hispanic and 10 percent white. One in four adult
residents is not a United States citizen.

As with other immigrant groups, the number of Haitians becoming American
citizens has increased sharply in the last decade. In 1986, 2,000 Haitians
became citizens, compared with 24,000 in 1996, the last year for which complete
figures are available.

Many Haitian-Americans who have recently been naturalized say they are doing so
not only because of the turmoil back home, or tougher immigration laws in the
United States, but also because they have slowly realized that becoming an
American citizen does not mean giving up visceral ties to their homeland.

"I have no choice," said Jean Ernst Bruno, a taxi driver who took his wife and
three New York-born children with him to fill out a citizenship application
recently at St. Jerome Roman Catholic School in Flatbush. "My country is a mess.
I came here 17 years ago to work and then go back. Now, I can't. I want to vote
to improve my life here."

As a relatively new group, with a large number of refugees, Haitians have made
considerable inroads in New York and are well positioned to articulate their
concerns forcefully, said Mary Ellen Ros, assistant executive vice president for
community development at the New York Association for New Americans.

"Even in their early years here, they were vocal," Ms. Ros said. "Once a number
of them have decided they want to stay here, then you will have the seed for the
possibility of real power."

On a recent Saturday, Marie Jose Auguste, a 50-year-old mother of three
Brooklyn-born children, was one of about 100 people who descended into the
basement of St. Jerome School to fill out citizenship applications. Volunteers
from the national coalition answered questions about the length of the process,
which can take up to two years, the $90 application fee and places to be
fingerprinted.

"I think it's about time," said Ms. Auguste, who was finally becoming a citizen
after living in Brooklyn for 27 years. "I really don't know why it took me so
long to become one. It just did not seem to be that important. You know, for me
this is the best country. You suffer but you have hope."


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Samuel Nicolas, Abner Louima's spokesman, plans to run for an
Assembly seat. (Chris Maynard)(pg. B1); At St. Jerome's School in Flatbush,
Brooklyn, Haitians attended a recent clinic to prepare for the process of
becoming American citizens. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

Map showing the location of the Flatbush section of Brooklyn: A Haitian-American
is seeking an Assembly seat from Flatbush. (pg. B4)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 17, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The View From Space Won't Teach Us Much

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words



To the Editor:

Dick Schneider (letter, March 13), chairman of Sierrans for U.S. Population
Stabilization, wants to add an immigration component to the Sierra Club's
population policy. He does not speak for the club's national board, which favors
an alternative ballot proposition that takes no position on immigration policies
but focuses instead on addressing the root causes of global population problems
and migration. For example, the proposition emphasizes universal maternal and
reproductive health care, human rights, economic security, sustainability and
environmentally responsible consumption.

This proposal is also supported by the leadership of the Sierra Club New York
City Group, the Atlantic chapter and nearly all the groups and chapters that
have taken a position on the issue. In the view of many of us, further
restrictions on immigration into the United States (or any other country) would
do little to address the global environmental problems that are the Sierra
Club's focus.

ROSALIND ROWEN ROSSI
New York, March 13, 1998

The writer is a member of the executive committee, Sierra Club New York City
Group.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 18, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Population Of New York Rises Slightly

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17


More than a million New Yorkers moved out of the city during the 1990's, but new
immigrants and children born to them have more than replaced those who left,
according to Federal Census figures released today.

The city's total population in 1997 reached 7,342,636, half a percentage point
higher than the lowest point of the decade, in 1991, the Census figures show.

But the mostly static total figures for the 1990's mask huge flows of people:
1.07 million New Yorkers left the city; 677,000 foreigners moved to New York;
there were 937,000 births and 516,000 deaths.

The slight growth, in large measure, helped push New York State's population to
18 million last year, giving it a 0.8 percent growth rate since 1990.
Neighboring New Jersey saw the greatest growth in the region, with its
population expanding by 4 percent, taking it slightly over eight million.

Overall, states in the Northeast and Midwest continued to lose ground to the
booming growth centers of the South and West, the Census report showed,
sustaining the steady trend that is inexorably shifting the nation's political
and economic might toward the Sun Belt and Rocky Mountains.

"What we're seeing is the Northeast and Midwest losing its political clout,"
said Richard Munson, executive director of the Northeast-Midwest Institute, a
bipartisan research organization for members of Congress. "The leadership of
this Congress is decidedly Southern. And they are doing a pretty good job of
getting dollars for their states."

The survey of population changes in the country's 3,142 counties showed that
while the country grew by 0.9 percent last year, the Northeast's population
increased by only 0.2 percent and the Midwest by 0.6 percent. At the same time,
the West's population grew by 1.6 percent and the South by 1.3 percent.
 The one-year increase in New York City's population was small according to the
Census Bureau's estimate: 7,812 people, or barely a 0.1 percent increase over
1996. But it was symbolically important for the city and its Mayor, Rudolph W.
Giuliani, who has been trumpeting the city's revival across the nation.

But demographers said the rapid turnover of New York City residents documented
in the Census Bureau report could also create problems for the city. New
immigrants are likely to need more services, taxing overstretched city
resources. They will also be unable to vote, leaving them with little voice over
government. And the swift in-and-out migration of people does little to bring
stability to city neighborhoods.

"It makes New York look more like a jumping-off spot," said Andrew A. Beveridge,
a professor of sociology at Queens College. "Turning over a seventh of your
population in seven years is a very big shift."

The figures were part of a survey of population changes in the nation's counties
that were based on estimates and not an actual accounting of the nation's
population.
 The changes were most starkly evident in a roster of the country's fastest
growing larger counties between 1990 to 1997. The first three slots were held by
communities just south of Denver, where the sprinting growth of high-technology
industries and the charm of Rocky Mountain living has attracted a flood of
transplants from California and the East.
 But at the other end of the spectrum, the list of counties that lost the most
population since 1990 was laden with Northeastern urban areas, including
Philadelphia, which was at the top; Hartford, Brooklyn, and the Bronx. New York
City's population grew overall because of growth in Manhattan, Staten Island and
Queens.
 The political implications of the Census Bureau's new report, which was based
on estimates of population growth, are potentially immense. A broad range of
Federal policies are based on census statistics, from apportioning seats in the
House of Representatives to allocating Federal money for hundreds of programs.
 Since today's report offers the closest thing to a preview of the Census in
2000, which is intended to be the most accurate accounting of the nation's
population, it also foreshadows losses in Federal aid and Congressional seats
for the Northeast and Midwest come the new millennium.
 The statistics also have broad implications for each state's internal politics.
Significant growth in the metropolitan region's suburbs will give them
increasing power in state legislatures and over gubernatorial elections.
 Demographers and economists cited a host of reasons for the national trends in
the new population figures, including a tide of immigrants from Latin America
and Asia to the South and West, stronger economic growth in those regions and
the continued allure of warm climates for retirees from the frigid North. They
also said that rapid growth in rural areas of the West and South has created a
demand for new jobs building roads, sewers and houses, which in turn has
attracted even more people to those regions.
 "It's sort of a chicken-and-egg thing," said Rae Rosen, the senior economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "If there were jobs, counties wouldn't
lose population. And on the other hand, a growing population also creates more
jobs."
 Between 1990 and 1997, New York State's population increased by 0.8 percent, or
146,448, to 18.1 million. New York City grew by 0.3 percent in that time, with
Manhattan, Staten Island and Queens all growing while the Bronx and Brooklyn
lost people.
 Ms. Rosen noted that population growth in New York City seemed in large part
fueled by the booming stock market, which has brought thousands of new jobs to
Wall Street. But the upstate region saw significant population losses, a result,
she said, of a shrinking industrial base and the continued exodus of people from
farm regions.
 New Jersey, which was the first state in the region to have replaced all the
jobs lost during the last recession, showed the strongest population growth in
the New York metropolitan region, according to the report. The state's
population increased by nearly 4 percent, or 305,099, to just over eight million
between 1990 and 1997. That was still below the national average of 7.6 percent,
and far below such rapid-growth states as Georgia.
 Only two counties in New Jersey lost population between 1990 and 1997: Hudson,
which dropped 0.3 percent, and Essex. Essex includes New Jersey's largest city,
Newark, where the population dropped 3.5 percent to 750,842.
 The national pattern of cities losing people to the suburbs was particularly
pronounced in Connecticut, where the population declined by 0.6 percent, or
17,258, to 3.3 million.

Modest growth in most of the state's counties was completely offset by the
shrinkage of three urban areas: Hartford, New Haven and New London.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Table: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Shifting Population"
How the New York region's population has changed in the 1990's.

NEW YORK
1997 population: 18.14 million
'90-'97 Change: +0.8%
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
Bronx                    1,187,984      -1.3
Brooklyn                 2,240,384      -2.6
Manhattan                1,536,220      +3.3
Queens                   1,975,676      +1.2
Staten Island              402,372      +6.2
NYC Total                7,342,636      +0.3


Biggest gains
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
Putnam                      92,382     +10.1
Saratoga                   196,584      +8.4
Greene                      47,853      +7.0
Wayne                       95,293      +6.9
Orleans                     44,734      +6.9


Biggest losses
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
Seneca                      32,819      -2.6
Brooklyn                 2,240,384      -2.6
Clinton                     80,659      -6.2
Broome                     198,734      -6.3
Oneida                     233,187      -7.0


NEW JERSEY 1997 population: 8.05 million '90-'97 Change: +4.0%

Biggest gains
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
Somerset                   276,826     +15.2
Hunterdon                  120,578     +11.9
Ocean                      480,721     +11.0
Sussex                     142,057      +8.5
Monmouth                   596,250      +7.8


Biggest losses
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
Hudson                     551,451      -0.3
Essex                      750,842      -3.5


CONNECTICUT 1997 population: 3.27 million '90-'97 Change: -0.57%

Biggest gains
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
Middlesex                  149,010      +4.1
Litchfield                 181,082      +4.0
Windham                    105,129      +2.5


Biggest losses
                                      % Chg.
County                       1997*   '90-'97
New London                 252,958      -0.8
New Haven                  792,200      -1.5
Hartford                   825,141      -3.1


*Estimates as of July

(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 19, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

An Assault on Open Admissions

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 420 words


The City University of New York is in an uproar over a proposal to eliminate
remedial courses at the public senior colleges, making it more difficult for new
immigrants and minority students to get the education they need to succeed.
Complaints from State Comptroller Carl McCall and members of the State
Legislature have forced the trustees to delay a vote on the plan until its
potential impact can be examined. Meanwhile, CUNY's own experts have released
data suggesting that abolishing remedial courses at the four-year colleges might
depress graduation rates for all ethnic groups, including whites and Asians.

The rush for a new remedial policy began last month, when Mayor Rudolph Giuliani
threatened to withdraw money from the system, charging that remediation was
being sloppily handled. CUNY's interim chancellor responded with a sensible plan
that required remedial students to attend concentrated summer programs and
limited remedial classes in the senior colleges to a single year. But the board
members controlled by Mr. Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki are trying to ram
through a plan that bans remediation at four-year colleges.

A recent study of CUNY graduation rates by two CUNY sociologists, David Lavin
and Elliot Weininger, shows that the need for remedial courses is so widespread
that confining them to the junior colleges would almost certainly reduce the
number of minority college graduates, further whitening New York's professional
work force. Students who begin at junior college are far less likely to receive
four-year degrees. Tracking freshmen who entered CUNY in 1988, Mr. Lavin and Mr.
Weininger found that most students who graduated from the four-year colleges did
so only after taking at least one remedial course. Among those who received
degrees, 37 percent of whites, 67 percent of African-Americans, 70 percent of
Latinos and 71 percent of Asians needed at least one remedial course. Even so,
remedial instruction at the senior colleges makes up only about 10 percent of
all courses, well in line with public universities elsewhere.

Critics see the remediation ban as a way to cut enrollment -- and undermine open
admissions, which was created to steer minorities, immigrants and the poor into
the American mainstream. Trustees like Herman Badillo and John Calandra argue
that limiting remediation is necessary to insure high standards. But anything
that discourages poor students and immigrants from attending college damages the
city's long-term prospects.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Among Young Of Immigrants, Outlook Rises

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1638 words


A multiyear survey that is the largest ever of the children of immigrants -- who
now account for almost 1 in 5 American children -- found that they
overwhelmingly prefer English to their parents' native tongues and have higher
grades and steeply lower school dropout rates than other American children.

While a majority of those surveyed, adolescents who were of predominantly
Hispanic, Asian and black descent, said they had personally experienced
discrimination, an even larger majority of them said they still believed that
the United States was the best country in the world to live in.

The lead researchers on the study describe these findings as reassuring
indications that the children of immigrants are unlikely to form a new
multi-ethnic underclass, as some experts fear, cut off from the mainstream by
academic failure and an inability to speak English.

But the researchers also say it is still an open question how well these young
people will do in college and the job market, a caution shared by other experts.
The researchers said the survey brought into sharp relief the extraordinary
diversity of the children of immigrants, not only by national origin, but also
by social class. It reaches from the young of Chinese and Indian couples from
highly educated, upper-middle-class backgrounds to Mexicans and Dominicans from
the humblest origins.

"What can certainly be predicted now is that the destinies of these youth will
diverge," said Prof. Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociologist at Michigan State
University. "Some will go up, and some will go down."

The survey, which shows that the children of immigrants outperform their
American peers and that those from more advantaged backgrounds do better than
poorer children, will inevitably become fodder for the larger debate about the
nation's immigration policy.

Supporters of the current high levels of immigration will cite the achievements
of these young people, while critics may find reinforcement for their view that
national policy should be tilted to favor more highly skilled and educated
immigrants.

The research team, led by Professor Rumbaut and Prof. Alejandro Portes, a
sociologist at Princeton University, first interviewed 5,200 youngsters in
Southern California and South Florida in 1992 when the youths were in the eighth
or ninth grades and tracked down 82 percent of them for a second interview in
1995 and 1996 when most were high school seniors.

This fall, another team of sociologists will begin a large-scale survey of the
grown children of immigrants in New York City and its suburbs, focusing on
adults 18 to 32 years old, rather than adolescents.

The number of children who are either immigrants or the American-born offspring
of immigrants grew to 13.7 million last year, from 8 million in 1990, making
them the fastest-growing segment of Americans under the age of 18, according to
a new analysis of census data by Professor Rumbaut.

The $1 million survey of the children of immigrants was financed by the Russell
Sage, Andrew W. Mellon, Spencer and National Science Foundations. The
researchers provided their findings to The New York Times.

Among the most striking findings of the bicoastal survey of children from San
Diego and Miami-Dade and Broward Counties in South Florida have to do with the
contentious issue of language. While 9 out of 10 of the youths surveyed spoke a
language other than English at home, almost the same proportion, 88 percent,
preferred English by the end of high school.

Professor Rumbaut wrote, "The findings suggest that the linguistic outcomes for
the third generation -- the grandchildren of the current wave of immigrants --
will be no different than what has been the age-old pattern in American history:
the grandchildren may learn a few foreign words and phrases as a quaint vestige
of their ancestry, but they will most likely grow up speaking English only."

And the professor also pointed to the ascendancy of English as evidence of the
irrelevance of a California ballot initiative that could end bilingual
education, which has been depicted as an impediment to the acquisition of
English.

"English is triumphing with breathtaking rapidity," he said.

The study presents a generally upbeat portrayal of the children of immigrants as
ambitious, hopeful and resilient in the face of discrimination. In San Diego,
the children of immigrants had better grades than their American peers in every
grade. The gap narrowed over time, largely because the poorly performing
children of immigrants were more likely to stay in school than their peers who
were not the children of immigrants, the researchers say. In South Florida, the
school districts were unable to provide the researchers with grade point
averages for the district as a whole.

But when the researchers analyzed how the children of immigrants were faring by
national origin, they found that levels of scholastic success diverged sharply.
Generally, the children whose immigrant parents had better educations and jobs
and who came from stable, two-parent families were predictably more successful,
with a few startling exceptions.

The children of Chinese, Indian, Japanese and Korean parents had the highest
grade point averages, A's and B's. English-speaking West Indians had lower
grades, C's and C+'s. Latin American and Haitian youths performed poorest, with
averages that were slightly higher or lower than a C.

But a few groups defied what would have been expected, based on their
socioeconomic status. The children of Southeast Asian refugees, who came from
the most impoverished backgrounds and whose parents were among the least
educated, were also among the least likely to drop out of school and had
above-average grades. They did it by studying for longer hours and watching less
television than many of the other children of immigrants, the study found.

And the children of Cuban immigrants, who were from average to above-average
socioeconomic backgrounds, had the highest dropout rates and among the lowest
grades (an average of C or C+), the survey reported. The Cuban children, who
belonged to the dominant group in metropolitan Miami, faced less discrimination
than any other group in the survey, the researchers said.

The children of Cubans did worse academically than the children of Mexicans, who
are one of the poorest immigrant groups in the United States and by far the
largest immigrant group.

The findings about Cubans were among the survey's most startling to Professors
Rumbaut and Portes and their colleague, Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuban
Research Center at Florida International University. All three are Cuban
immigrants themselves.

Professor Portes had hypothesized that Cuban youths would use their economically
powerful ethnic enclave as a springboard to higher education and the middle
class, much as Eastern European Jews did in an earlier wave of immigration.

He said that the new survey data showed that while some Cuban youths, especially
those in private schools, were continuing on an upwardly mobile path, the ones
in public schools were facing more difficulties.

And Professor Perez said that for some, "the enclave may not be a springboard,
but a cushy net that means you don't have to depend exclusively on education for
a job."

"It may be that Cubans are right, and will do better going to work at an uncle's
factory in Hialeah," he said. "We're not certain how it will translate
economically."

The survey also found some intriguing changes in the way the children of
immigrants identified themselves, possibly reflecting their altered relationship
to the rest of American society or perhaps just adolescent rebelliousness.

When the youths were first interviewed, more than half labeled themselves as
hyphenated Americans or as plain Americans. That sounded like old-fashioned
assimilation, and it might have been expected that, three years later, even more
of the youths would have chosen an American identity.

But the results of the second interview, conducted in the months after
California's passage of Proposition 187, the initiative that called for
restricting social and educational benefits to illegal immigrants, turned those
expectations on their head.

Only a third of the youths in Southern California picked an American identity
the second time around, while almost half identified themselves by their
national identity, especially youths of Mexican and Filipino descent, who belong
to the two largest immigrant groups in the United States.

The researchers interpreted the change as part of a backlash among these youth
against what they perceived as immigrant bashing that surfaced in the campaign
for Proposition 187.

In South Florida the pattern was different, but equally striking. The proportion
identifying themselves by some kind of American label dropped to about a third,
while the share who chose ethnic identities like Hispanic or black doubled to 38
percent, mainly among Latin Americans and Jamaicans.

The more militant, nationalistic identities assumed by Mexicans and Filipinos in
California, and the minority identities chosen in Florida, Professor Rumbaut
wrote, reflected the youths' rising awareness "of the ethnic and racial
categories in which they were persistently classified by mainstream society."

In one of the more troubling findings of the study, the researchers said, the
young people who identified themselves by ethnic categories like Chicano or
Latino in junior high had lower grades and somewhat higher dropout rates than
the other children studied.

This finding, they said, lends support to analysts who have suggested that
children of immigrants who come to identify with American minorities may take on
"oppositional" identities and see doing well in school as "acting white."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE: Coming to America, and Fitting In"
Findings of a study that tracked children of immigrants from 1992 to 1995-96,
when most were high school seniors.

English Spoken Here
In 1992, English was spoken in few of the children's homes. But by 1995, most
said they preferred to speak it.

MEXICANS
English spoken at home ('92): 2.5%
Preferred English ('95-'96): 73.1%

CUBANS
English spoken at home ('92): 3.2
Preferred English ('95-'96): 94.7

HAITIANS
English spoken at home ('92): 3.0%
Preferred English ('95-'96): 93.3

VIETNAMESE
English spoken at home ('92): 0.3
Preferred English ('95-'96): 74.5

TOTAL*
English spoken at home ('92): 6.1
Preferred English ('95-'96): 87.8

Dropout Rates: Lower
In Miami and San Diego, where the study was conducted, Immigrants' children were
far less likely than others to quit school.

MIAMI-DADE COUNTY
All students: 17.6%
Children of immigrants: 8.9

SAN DIEGO
All students: 16.2
Children of immigrants: 5.7

Immigrant Stock
First- and second-generation+ immigrants as a percentage of the population.

MIAMI-DADE COUNTY: 71.5%
SAN DIEGO COUNTY: 43.0

* All nationalities in the study +Al least one foreign-born parent
(Sources: Children of Immigrants Longitudinal Study; Census Bureau)(pg. A11)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Hong Kong Bars U.S.-Based China Dissident

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 21


A United States-based Chinese dissident, Wang Bingzhang, said today that he
believed that Hong Kong immigration officials were carrying out high-level
orders when they refused him entry on Friday.

Mr. Wang, 50, was detained late on Friday as he entered Hong Kong from the
Portuguese territory of Macao and was released early today. He then returned to
Macao and went on to Taiwan. A spokesman for the Hong Kong Security Bureau said
Mr. Wang had been refused entry because of a suspected forged travel document.

But Mr. Wang said he had not had any problems when he first entered Hong Kong on
Monday using the same travel documents.

Mr. Wang was detained in China in February after entering the country illegally
to try to set up a political party to challenge Communist rule. He was quickly
expelled.

Mr. Wang, who was sent to Canada in 1978 to study medicine, later moved to the
United States, where he founded the Alliance for Democracy.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 34 words


An article on March 1 about Russian immigrants settling on the East End
misspelled the names of several new residents. They are Alla Kouznetsova, Alex
Kouznetsov, Ivan Brativnyk and Maja Brativnyk.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Candidates Use Conference To Court the Hispanic Vote

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 22


Amid workshops on subjects like immigration, welfare reform and the status of
Puerto Rico, there was the unmistakable, ever-present undertone of election-year
politics during a statewide gathering of Hispanic elected officials here.

For many politicians, it was an opportunity to court the Hispanic vote. There
was Peter F. Vallone, the New York City Council Speaker and gubernatorial
candidate, walking from cocktail party to corridor, shaking hands and slapping
backs.

There was Richard Kahan, a former state economic development official who is
seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, standing in the lobby of the
Omni Hotel, greeting the politicians, students and business leaders who came to
the conference.

There was Representative Charles E. Schumer, a candidate for the United States
Senate, speaking to a dinner crowd of more than 1,000, presenting a framed copy
of remarks reprinted in the Congressional Record in which he lauded the
conference.

Clearly, recent census and election data pointing to the growth in New York
State's Hispanic population and political influence were not lost on the many
candidates who attended this year's conference of the New York State Assembly
and Senate Puerto Rican and Hispanic Task Force. The conference, known as Somos
el Futuro (We Are the Future), has become something of a pilgrimage for the
politically ambitious.

In a rousing banquet speech Saturday night, Representative Nydia M. Velazquez of
Brooklyn spoke of the growing importance of the Hispanic vote in New York State,
suggesting that it could provide the margin of victory in many of this year's
contests. "We know that we've got the numbers and we can take the power," she
told a cheering audience. "Decision makers who ignore us do so at their own
risk."

Not all the major candidates attended, however. More than a few politicians at
the conference commented on the absence of former Representative Geraldine A.
Ferraro, a Democratic candidate for the United States Senate, and District
Attorney Charles J. Hynes of Brooklyn, who is running for governor.

Still, all manner of political aspirant attended the conference, which ends
Monday, from candidates for Congress to those hoping to be elected to a district
leader spot. Those running for statewide office seemed to attract the most
attention. And if the presence of political buttons was any gauge of popularity,
Mr. Vallone seemed to be doing best.

Whether any of the candidates for statewide office made headway in garnering
support was unclear. Many of the elected officials suggested that, at least
among the politicians in attendance -- all Democrats -- no candidate seemed to
have developed anything approaching momentum.

"So far, I don't get the sense that any of the Senate candidates are speaking to
issues affecting Latinos," said Robert Quintana, a City Councilman from Buffalo.
"But it's good for them to be here."

Representative Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx said: "There is a lot of jockeying
going on here. But I don't get the sense that any one of the candidates has
developed any degree of momentum yet."

The conference brought together not only virtually every Hispanic elected
official in the state, but also a large number of candidates who are trying to
replace them.

At Saturday night's banquet, for example, Mr. Serrano found himself seated with
Luis Sepulveda, a Democratic district leader who has formed an exploratory
committee to weigh a run against the Congressman. With Mr. Schumer between them,
the two uttered not a word to each other.

Ms. Velazquez said she never actually saw New York City Councilman Martin
Malave-Dilan of Brooklyn, who is considering opposing her in the Democratic
primary. But the Councilman was nonetheless there.

Adriano Espaillat, a Democratic Assemblyman from the Washington Heights section
of Manhattan, found himself repeatedly running into Victor Morisete-Romero,
executive director of the Community Association of Progressive Dominicans, who
is considering opposing the Assemblyman in the Democratic primary. In a
continuation of an intense Washington Heights political feud, Guillermo Linares,
the first Dominican-born City Councilman, said he would support Mr.
Morisete-Romero should he run against Mr. Espaillat, the first Dominican-born
member of the Assembly.

"You never know who you're going to run into here," Mr. Espaillat said.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

State Moving to Stop Deportation of Some Major Drug Offenders

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 869 words


The Pataki administration is moving to disqualify most drug offenders from a
program that speeds up deportation of illegal immigrants convicted of nonviolent
crimes, officials said. The proposed changes followed published reports that
several major drug traffickers had been paroled and deported long before
completing even their minimum sentences.

The program, begun in 1995 in conjunction with Federal immigration authorities,
is intended to clear prison space for more-violent offenders and is one of
several in the country. In New York, by the end of January it had led to the
early release of 1,277 prisoners, more than half of them drug offenders.

But state officials said yesterday that "a handful" of the prisoners released
and deported under the program did not belong back on the streets, of this or
another country.

"It's been a successful program that has allowed us to keep violent felons in
jail for longer periods to keep our streets safer," said James M. McGuire, chief
counsel to Gov. George E. Pataki, "but it's clear that there were isolated
instances in which individuals were paroled who should not have been paroled."

Among those who would no longer be eligible are Javier Rodriguez, 39, a
Colombian national who was arrested with 40 pounds of cocaine in his car. He was
sentenced to eight years to life in prison in April 1995, only to be paroled and
deported, despite the objections of prosecutors, less than two years later, in
January 1997.

The early release of several major drug dealers was reported yesterday in The
Daily News.

Under the proposed changes, which would have to be approved by the State
Legislature, illegal immigrants convicted of selling more than two ounces of
hard drugs like heroin or cocaine, or of possessing more than four ounces, would
not be eligible for early release and deportation at all.

Illegal immigrants convicted of selling more than half an ounce or of possessing
more than two ounces -- about 500 in this category have been granted early
parole and deportation so far -- would be eligible only if prosecutors did not
object. And prosecutors often object, said Mary DeBourbon, a spokeswoman for the
Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown.

"In the past, in the vast majority of cases -- and by that I mean 99.9 percent
-- unless there's some extremely extenuating circumstance, we have generally
opposed early release, whether for deportation or for general parole," Ms.
DeBourbon said. Mr. Brown welcomed the proposed changes, Ms. DeBourbon said.

The 1,277 prisoners granted early deportations were released an average of 32
months before they were eligible for parole, state officials said. Releasing
them saved the state more than $85 million over two years, state officials said,
money that otherwise would have been spent housing prisoners and building more
cells.

Michael F. McKeon, a spokesman for the Governor, said he did not think the
changes would seriously worsen overcrowding in the state's prisons.

Under the existing deportation program, inmates' cases are reviewed by the
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service as soon as they enter prison, a
process that can take years. If the agency ultimately issues a deportation
order, a hearing is ordered before the State Parole Board.

In defending the intent of the program yesterday, Mr. McKeon said that most of
the early deportations were granted by the board while it has been dominated by
members appointed by Mr. Pataki's predecessor, Mario M. Cuomo.

In 1995, 1996 and 1997, Mr. Cuomo's appointees made up the majority of the
members, who are appointed to six-year terms.

Some other states' early deportation policies are more restrictive. In Florida,
inmates are not eligible until they are within two years of their actual release
date, said Mark R. Schlakman, special counsel to Gov. Lawton Chiles.

Robert H. Silbering, the former chief prosecutor in New York City's Office of
Special Narcotics, said he complained to officials in the State Division of
Criminal Justice Services when the law was being drafted because it gave the
State Parole Board too much leeway.

"They said, 'Well, we'll take a look at it and see,' " said Mr. Silbering, who
left his post in November and now runs a private company.

Mr. Silbering said the parole board usually agreed to deny parole in the cases
to which he objected.

But, he said, he was angered in 1996 when an Israeli heroin trafficker, Ziv
Oved, was paroled and deported after serving two and a half years of a
six-years-to-life sentence.

Mr. Oved had fled the United States shortly after his 1986 conviction on
smuggling charges, and the authorities spent more than five years tracking him
down.

"There was a lot of money and effort put into getting this guy back here," Mr.
Silbering said, "and to release him once we get him back, to me doesn't make
sense."

Yesterday's proposed changes were also praised by State Senator Roy M. Goodman,
a Manhattan Republican who had twice introduced a bill to restrict early
deportation, only to be told, he said, that the state needed the program to free
up prison cells.

"At this point we're in perfect harmony with the Governor," Mr. Goodman said.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 25, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

In Legal Limbo, Central Americans Are Rallying for Residency

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words


Sometime this afternoon, Guillermo Turcios, 38, plans to stand with hundreds of
Guatemalan and Salvadoran immigrants in front of the Capitol building in
Washington to demand that he and others like him, refugees from Central American
wars in the 1980's, be granted a legal status in the United States.

Mr. Turcios is not a political activist. He is a maintenance worker whose job is
to fix the leaks, manage the heat and wax the floors of a rundown motel in
Bushwick, Brooklyn. But Mr. Turcios, a survivor of a 36-year civil war in
Guatemala, decided to go to Washington because, he said, this is one of the few
times in his life when he has faced a political issue that he thinks he can do
something about.

"It's important enough for my family," Mr. Turcios, a shy man, said. "And in the
United States, when you take a stand, people listen."

The only other political act Mr. Turcios ever undertook was to leave his country
in 1989 and head for the United States. Every week at that time, hundreds of
Central Americans like him sneaked across the border, fleeing political violence
in their countries.

Today, even as the conflicts that pushed them out of their countries have ended,
hundreds of thousands of Nicaraguans, Guatemalans, Hondurans and Salvadorans
remain in the United States. For almost two decades, they have established
families, learned English and paid taxes. Yet, many of them, Mr. Turcios
included, are not legal residents of the United States. They live one day at a
time, not making plans for the future for fear of deportation.

Their political push for amnesty was ignited in November, when President Clinton
signed a law granting Nicaraguans, but not any other Central Americans, the
automatic right, on request, to stay in the United States as legal residents.
That same right is exactly what Salvadorans and Guatemalans have wanted for a
long time, and it will be the focus of demands in today's march.

Advocates for Central American immigrants say the law won support for foreign
policy reasons: the Nicaraguan refugees fled a Communist regime and the United
States was on the side of the insurgents in that country. The United States was
on the side of the government in the wars in El Salvador and Guatemala.

But there are also national political considerations: many Nicaraguans are
concentrated in Miami, in one Congressional district, represented by Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, a Republican, who pushed for their special status. Other Central
Americans have spread out, many of them across the New York region.

"The problem is that Salvadorans and Guatemalans don't have any political
clout," said Ann Pilsbury, the director of Central American Legal Assistance, a
center in Brooklyn that helps Central Americans with immigration issues. "They
don't have any powerful Republican Congressman going to bat for them as the
Nicaraguans did."

The push for legal status has led Guatemalan nannies to march outside
immigration offices in downtown New York, Salvadoran gardeners to take a day off
to attend a rally in Washington and Honduran housekeepers to knock on doors,
urging people to attend community meetings.

Guillermo Chacon, an advocate for Salvadorans, said that in the last four years,
dozens of Central American groups have popped up in the New York region.
Salvadorans alone have 10 groups in New Jersey, three in Long Island, and a
couple in New York City. Mr. Chacon said a leadership class he teaches in New
Jersey is so popular that he plans to expand it to Long Island and Queens.

So many people are hungry for information, that Jesus Pena, an immigration
lawyer in Jackson Heights, Queens, said he had to take his office on the road.
Every weekend, Mr. Pena visits a different church, the only institution many
Central Americans trust, and dedicates a few hours to answer questions. "People
want to know what they can do to help themselves," he said.

And at a meeting about two months ago, the Salvadoran American National Network,
a group created two years ago, decided to seek alliances with other national
organizations of immigrants to help them advance politically. A national
chairman, Oscar Chacon, was named and the date for today's march was set.

It will not be the first time that Central Americans have taken their plight to
Washington, but, with 16 buses scheduled to leave from the region this morning,
it could be one of the largest gatherings of Central Americans in the nation's
capital. About 1,500 people are expected, most of them from New York and New
Jersey. "People have realized that if they don't speak up, someone else will
decide their fate for them," Mr. Chacon said.

The recent law, known as the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief
Act, does help Guatemalans and Salvadorans somewhat because it restores some
benefits they had lost with the enactment of the immigration law of 1996, but it
excludes them from its most generous provision -- the automatic granting of
residency status.

That exclusion has been interpreted by Guatemalans and Salvadorans as a measure
of just how far they lag politically and how dispersed their communities have
been.

Technically, most Salvadorans and Guatemalans are war refugees entitled to work
while they apply for political asylum. But there is a huge backlog of political
asylum claims at the offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. When
the cases are reviewed, the numbers are not encouraging to the applicants. Only
9 percent of the people whose cases have been reviewed since April 1997 have
been granted political asylum, immigration officials said.

Without assurance that they can become residents and, eventually, citizens of
the United States, Guatemalans and Salvadorans continue to live in limbo.

On the surface, their lives seem like everybody else's. They send their children
to school, speak English with their bosses, and join friends in the park for
soccer games. But they cannot vote or, more important for them, visit their
relatives back home for fear of not being allowed to return.

Mr. Turcios, his wife, Alberta Carrera, and their four children, ranging in age
from 4 to 14, have managed to save enough money to dream of a different life.
They live free on the ground floor of the motel where Mr. Turcios works. He
dreams of opening a bakery. She, of having their own cozy home with white lace
curtains and enough rooms for all the members of the family.

"But life is so uncertain," Mr. Turcios said. "We just don't know what is going
to happen with us. I'm eager to get out of this apartment. The banks are ready
to give us credit, but we wait, just in case."

Immigration officials in Washington have said that they are not going to deport
law-abiding Central American immigrants who are applying for political asylum.
But many Central Americans cannot shake the unsettling feeling of living in a
country that does not seem to want them.

Santos Escobar, a 28-year-old hotel maintenance worker who lives in Port
Chester, N.Y., came from El Salvador 10 years ago. He is now married and has a
6-year-old child. He has learned some English, but tries not to speak in front
of strangers for fear that his accent would give him away and get him deported.

"The accent I can control," said Mr. Escobar, who says he tries to avoid walking
in front of a Federal building or a police station. "I can simply refuse to
speak. But what do I do with my face? I can't hide that."

When he sees a police officer, he said, he crosses the street or tries to hide
his face in the thick collar of his winter coat.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a church in Baldwin, N.Y., Central Americans recently sought
answers from an immigration lawyer, Jesus Pena, on how a 1997 law granting
Nicaraguans residency will affect people from other nations in the region.
(Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Far From Home"
The number of Guatemalan and Salvadoran-born people living in New York, New
Jersey and Connecticut has increased.
             TOTAL
              POP.   BORN IN   BORN IN
        (MILLIONS)     GUAT.  EL SALV.

1970
N.Y.          18.2     3,805       900
N.J.           7.1       401         0
CONN.          3.0       100         0

1980
N.Y.          17.6     7,447    10,169
N.J.           7.4     1,540     2,443
CONN.          3.1       200       100

1990
N.Y.          18.0    17,994    39,183
N.J.           7.7     5,517    14,223
CONN.          3.3     1,287     1,211

(Source: Susan Weber, Queens College Sociology Dept., from Census data)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 27, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Asylum Pitch: Persecution Or a Curveball

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 739 words


HOW improvident it was of Abdirizak Mumin Ibrahim not to learn to play baseball
while growing up in Somalia.

He might then have been snapped up by the New York Yankees, as a refugee pitcher
from Cuba named Orlando Hernandez was this month. Instead, Mr. Ibrahim has sat
in American jails for more than three years while seeking asylum from death or
torture in his homeland.

To back up for a moment, Mr. Ibrahim, now 31, landed at Kennedy International
Airport in December 1994 after fleeing his basket case of a country. There, this
farmer has testified, he watched as militiamen from the powerful rival clan then
headed by Mohammed Farah Aidid murdered his father, mother, two brothers and a
sister. Another sister was raped, and he himself was badly beaten.

With the help of a neighbor, he managed to escape to Kenya. But when the Kenyan
authorities were about to force him back into Aidid-controlled territory, he
took off again, making his way to New York and, he hoped, a safe haven.

"If he went back to Somalia, he'd be killed," said Katherine Mulhern, a lawyer
representing Mr. Ibrahim. "The merits of his case are clear-cut. We have experts
who say he shows all the signs of someone who'd been subject to these horrors."

Unfortunately for Mr. Ibrahim, the merits of his case have not been sufficiently
clear-cut to United States immigration officials. His appeal for asylum has been
heard and reheard, while he has bounced from one jail to another, from
immigration detention centers in Queens and New Jersey to county prisons in
Pennsylvania.

This languishing behind bars was but one example cited by the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, based in New York, when asked why it is that some
asylum-hunters are decidedly less equal than others. The simple answer from the
lawyers: Because. Life, you may have noticed, can be unfair.

Even so, the eyebrows arch over how some foreigners seeking freedom are locked
up for long stretches while others zip right into the United States. And the
odds of success seem to soar for someone who happens to have a wicked curveball,
a gift not likely to fall many Somalis' way.

This past week, four Cuban baseball players and a coach escaped by boat to the
Bahamas, which is expected to be merely a stopover on a journey to America and,
quite possibly, the major leagues. After all, they have other Cuban players as
guides, most recently Mr. Hernandez of the Yankees, half-brother of the Florida
Marlins' pitching whiz Livan Hernandez.

New York's Mr. Hernandez fled from Cuba to the Bahamas in December. He could
have gone straight from there to the United States, which was offering an
arms-open-wide welcome called "humanitarian parole." Nope. This refugee
country-shopped. He went first to Costa Rica, where he spent two months before
moving on to America on a Yankee-obtained visa.

He was well aware that as a United States resident he would have been subject to
baseball's regular draft. Far more lucrative was to sit in Costa Rica and
negotiate with ball clubs from there as a free agent. Sure enough, the Yankees
gave him a four-year contract worth $6.6 million.

"What greater freedom is there than to be a member of the New York Yankees?" Mr.
Hernandez said after arriving on these shores last week.

Mr. Ibrahim might suggest a freedom or two even more precious. So, presumably,
could many of the 14,000-plus foreigners being held in immigration detention
centers or jails around the country, a figure that has jumped from about 11,000
a year ago.

OBVIOUSLY, circumstances vary from case to case and from country to country.
Refugees from Castro's Cuba, whether they play ball or not, have long enjoyed a
special status denied people fleeing more distant trouble spots.

But as he watches ballplayers breeze into the country, Bruce Hart, a Manhattan
lawyer, can't help shaking his head over the case of a Congolese man he
represents. Tortured by successive governments because of his politics, this man
fled to America last year. He was granted asylum in December. But it is worth
noting that even though he had a solid case, and even though the immigration
authorities agreed right away that he had a "credible fear" of persecution if
sent home, he was held for three months at a detention center in Queens.

"One guy plays ball and he's let right out, and others stay in jail, some for
over a year," Mr. Hart said. "It's really an abuse of the process."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 28, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Woman Testifies in a Reopened Rape Case

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 450 words


A Korean immigrant who claimed that she was raped by her employer last October
testified before a Queens grand jury this week in a case that has raised
questions about how prosecutors handle the rape complaints of women who do not
speak English.

Over the last few weeks, several Queens politicians and community groups have
commented on the case, which investigators had closed shortly after the alleged
incident in October. Advocates for immigrants said that prosecutors dropped the
case when the woman, who spoke only Korean, declined to tell two investigators
the details of what had happened because they were both men and because she did
not have a court-appointed interpreter.

The case has since been reopened, resulting in the woman's appearance before the
grand jury this week. No one has been charged in the case, but the woman's
supporters are hopeful that an indictment will be handed down in the coming
weeks.

The woman told the police that she had been raped last October at the Anchor
Motel in Bayside by her then-employer. The man, also a native of Korea, had
filed sponsorship papers on her behalf, but she had not yet obtained a green
card, said Hyun Lee, an organizer with the Committee Against Anti-Asian
Violence, a Manhattan-based advocacy group that has rallied to the woman's case.

"He used that relationship as a threat," Ms. Lee charged, but declined to
elaborate, saying she feared that it would jeopardize the grand jury
investigation.

Later that same night, the authorities said, the woman reported the incident to
the police, who in turn arrested the man she accused of being the rapist. It is
not clear whether the woman used an interpreter to make the report. The next
morning, accompanied by a male co-worker, the woman went to the Queens District
Attorney's Office to talk to investigators but left without saying much, said
Mary de Bourbon, a spokeswoman for the District Attorney, Richard A. Brown.

Her supporters said she asked the investigators to bring a woman into the room,
and requested a court-appointed interpreter. They said the investigators urged
her co-worker to translate, but that the woman was embarrassed.

Ms. de Bourbon contradicted that account, saying that the woman requested
neither a female assistant district attorney nor an interpreter. Her co-worker,
she said, served as an able translator. Ms. de Bourbon said that the woman would
have been aided by a female assistant district attorney if one had been
requested.

The case has drawn the attention of Queens politicians, including the Borough
President, Claire M. Shulman; the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, and
the Councilwoman from Flushing, Julia Harrison.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Mystery Behind a Public Death;
Feeling Unwelcome, Russian Wanted to Go Home

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1512 words


Trained as an engineer in Russia, Michael Kurchak mopped floors and cleaned
toilets in America. He slept in a small room at the private Hasidic academy
where he worked in Monroe, N.Y., hoarding his weekly $184 janitor's check,
telling at least one student that he would soon be going home.

And so he will, though not as intended.

Mr. Kurchak committed suicide earlier this month after three confusing days in
which he abruptly left his job and fled to New York City. Because there was not
enough money for a coffin, Mr. Kurchak was cremated, and his ashes were
delivered last week to the Russian Consulate in New York, which will soon
forward them to his wife in St. Petersburg.

His death, so public and desperate, evoked the tragedy and bitter irony of a
Russian novel: Mr. Kurchak, 51, threw his body through a plate glass window at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in lower Manhattan on March 2. He
fell nine stories as office workers from Federal Plaza ate lunch outside on an
unseasonably mild day. As immigrants inside the building were navigating the
paper trail toward citizenship, Mr. Kurchak apparently jumped because agents
would not deport him home.

"Why did he do this?" his wife, Zinaida, asked pleadingly in a telephone
interview from St. Petersburg. "Why? Why? Why?"

Perhaps, as his wife believes, Mr. Kurchak was simply not hardened enough for
America, a place Mrs. Kurchak regards warily. In New York City and its environs,
where officials estimate the number of illegal immigrants at 450,000, Mr.
Kurchak survived beneath the safety net, however flimsy, of private agencies and
Federal benefits available to legal immigrants. Police officers found less than
$80 in his pockets. They also found crumpled receipts from a deli at Kennedy
International Airport, suggesting that perhaps he had tried to catch a flight
home.

Only a momentary blip in the media swirl of New York City, Mr. Kurchak's death
has attracted greater attention in the Russian press. The Moscow newspaper
Izvestia covered the story, while the Russian-language newspaper in New York,
Novoye Russkoye Slovo, published an appeal for funeral donations as Mr.
Kurchak's body lay for days in the city morgue.

Citing privacy concerns, immigration officials will say little publicly about
the case. Privately, they say they knew nothing about Mr. Kurchak when he
appeared at the offices.

Though rumors occasionally circulate among new immigrants that the I.N.S. will
fly someone home free, officials say only seven people nationally have been
granted such deportations in the last two years.

"This poor fellow showed up and said, 'Send me home,' " said Maria
Mejia-Opaciuch, a New York immigration lawyer. "He may have been given the wrong
impression by someone out there like, 'Oh, go to Immigration, and they'll send
you home.' "

Inconsistencies exist between accounts of what happened inside the I.N.S.
building in the minutes before Mr. Kurchak slipped into an empty room and jumped
through the window. Agency officials said Mr. Kurchak complained that his
passport had expired and that he needed to return home. They also acknowledged
that a Russian-speaking agent told Mr. Kurchak that he must schedule a later
appointment to discuss deportation.

"There was some indication of stress, though that is not unusual for anyone
coming into this building," said Mark Thorn, an I.N.S. spokesman. "But there
were no signs of any abnormal behavior. He was quiet."

But a city police detective who investigated the case, Alfred Schille, said the
I.N.S. agents had told him that Mr. Kurchak had been upset, complaining that
"people were after him."

"He sounded very disturbed to the agent," Detective Schille said. "He told them
a story that he was on a train, and somebody showed him a picture of some dead
acquaintances in Russia."

Detective Schille said one I.N.S. agent "kind of inferred that this guy was
going through some kind of dementia."

"He said he wasn't making sense," the detective said. He said that Mr. Kurchak
told the Russian-speaking agent that someone had wrongly accused him of stealing
$5.

Pat Singer, a civic leader in the Russian immigrant enclave of Brighton Beach,
Brooklyn, blamed the immigration agency for failing to recognize Mr. Kurchak's
distress. In a building that sees 1,200 immigrants every day, Ms. Singer said,
Mr. Kurchak was overlooked.

"They didn't have time to deal with him," she said. "He fell through the cracks.
They didn't look into his eyes and see that this man was hurting. He was
disturbed."

Mr. Kurchak came to New York in November on a tourist visa that he quickly
violated by taking a job with United Talmudical Academy, a private school
operated by the Satmar sect of the Hasidic Jews in Monroe, in Orange County. In
order to get a legal job, he would have needed a work visa.

In 1994, Mrs. Kurchak said, she came to New York looking for work after she lost
her job at a Russian defense company, Construction Design Institute. She found
work in Monroe through an advertisement in Novoye Russkoye Slovo, and her
husband joined her in 1995, taking a cleaning job at the school.

Mrs. Kurchak said they never intended to stay in America. They saved enough to
return in 1996 to Russia, where both found work. But Mrs. Kurchak said her
husband's family in Ukraine began to pressure him for money. The standard of
living in Ukraine is well below that in Russia, where the average monthly salary
is only about $150.

Mrs. Kurchak said her husband returned reluctantly to America and found work at
the same school. "I tried to convince him and begged him not to go," she said.
"For him America was not a welcoming country. It was very hard for him when he
went there."

Mr. Kurchak's only friend in New York was Nikolai Minkin, a Russian immigrant
who had known the Kurchaks for 20 years. Mr. Minkin, who lives and works in
Queens, said Mr. Kurchak would occasionally call from Monroe, complaining about
harassment from other janitors, many of them Polish immigrants. After Mr.
Kurchak's death, Mr. Minkin began calling people in Monroe.

Mr. Minkin and a Russian immigrant working in Monroe, though not at the school,
said that several Polish employees, eager to replace Mr. Kurchak with a friend,
repeatedly hazed him. On the Friday before his death, they finally packed his
belongings and ran him off. "They tried to perceive that he did something wrong,
something bad," Mr. Minkin said.

The Russian immigrant, who spoke on condition on anonymity, said Mr. Kurchak
told him: "It's like a national hatred. They cannot accept a Russian among
them." He said Mr. Kurchak was depressed but not out of his wits. "Delirious?"
the man said. "That's impossible."

Aaron Berkowitz, who oversees maintenance workers at the school, said he knew of
no conflicts among his employees. He said he had hired Polish immigrants but
also Russians other than Mr. Kurchak. "I didn't have any complaints," he said.

He said he did not see Mr. Kurchak after Friday, Feb. 27. "He didn't tell me
nothing," he said. "I was wondering if in fact he disappeared."

Mrs. Kurchak, who has remained in regular telephone contact with Mr. Minkin,
also blamed her husband's co-workers. "They were trying to frighten him out of
work," she said. "There is a very serious fight going on there for a place of
work. Everybody wants to get a job for their own people."

Fleeing Monroe, Mr. Kurchak made his way to New York City.

After searching Mr. Kurchak's body, detectives found calling cards, deposit
slips from a bank, a receipt for exchanging money at the Russian Consulate in
St. Petersburg and a Jan. 23 pay stub for $184 from the school.

Investigators also learned that Mr. Kurchak wired $600 in February to his family
in Ukraine. Detective Schille said Mr. Kurchak's passport expired on Feb. 8, but
his visa was valid until Sept. 22.

Detective Schille also said that Mr. Kurchak told I.N.S agents that he had tried
to call a "a friend in Queens" over the weekend but without luck. That friend
was most likely Mr. Minkin, who was out of town on the weekend of Feb. 27. "I'm
sure 100 percent that I could have prevented this," Mr. Minkin said with
anguish. "I could have given him money, I could have given him support."

Mr. Minkin paid the $900 cremation fee and persuaded officials at the Russian
Consulate to ship Mr. Kurchak's ashes home.

In St. Petersburg, Mrs. Kurchak waits and worries. She had not heard from
Russian officials in several days. She described her husband as a quiet man, an
introvert who collected books and loved classical music.

Though she now makes only $60 a month working at a factory, she said she did not
intend to return to the United States. "America is a cruel and tough country,"
she said. "It is a place where only the very strong can survive. Those who are
emotional are not able to survive."

On the telephone, her voice cracked when she said she and her husband never had
children. They were married for 20 years. She is now alone. "And just like
that," she said, "my life has fallen apart."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Kurchak in St. Petersburg, Russia, in January 1997. The
window at 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan from which Michael Kurchak, 51, a
Russian national working here illegally, jumped to his death on March 2, after
asking the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport him. (David
Handschuh/The Daily News)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Heated Hearing Over the Fate Of an Agency

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31


A senior House Republican accused the White House today of manipulating a
Government review to insure the survival of the beleaguered Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The lawmaker, Representative Harold Rogers of Kentucky, heads a House
Appropriations panel that controls the immigration service's financing and
supports a Federal advisory panel's recommendation to disband the immigration
service and assign its duties to other Federal departments.

A White House-led review this year rejected that idea and hired a consulting
firm, Booz-Allen & Hamilton, to help revamp the agency.

The Commissioner of the immigration service, Doris M. Meissner, presented Mr.
Rogers's panel today with the results of that effort: a reorganization plan that
would separate the agency's service and law-enforcement functions, but keep the
agency intact.

Mr. Rogers and other Republicans immediately denounced the plan as a
"papered-over reorganization attempt."

The rancorous two-hour hearing saw Mrs. Meissner's first testimony before
Congress since the advisory panel made its recommendations last fall, and
heralded what is likely to be several confrontations between the Republican-led
Congress and the Clinton Administration over the fate of the immigration
service.

Senior Republicans say the immigration service is collapsing under the weight of
its conflicting missions: service and enforcement. Immigrants applying to become
citizens have to wait up to two years in large cities, while Government
officials express alarm at the boldness of immigrant-smugglers, particularly in
the country's interior.

Under the Administration's plan, the agency would scrap its longstanding
organization by geographic districts and regions and would create separate field
offices that would deal with enforcement or services.

The proposal has drawn opposition from many of the agency's field directors,
who, predictably, view the plan as impinging on their authority.

Mrs. Meissner said the plan, which would take three years to carry out,
"untangles I.N.S.'s overlapping and frequently confusing organizational
structure and replaces it with two clear chains of command."

Mr. Rogers said the consultant was directed by the Administration "to consider
keeping the I.N.S. intact" and never seriously considered the proposal to divide
the agency.

The deputy assistant to the President for domestic policy, Elena Kagan, disputed
that, saying: "We took the commission's report and recommendations very
seriously. We did decide the commission had recommended a solution that was not
the best solution."

Even though many senior Republicans, and some Democrats, express frustration
with the immigration service, most do not go as far as Mr. Rogers in seeking to
abolish the agency.



LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 10, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cases of TB Increase Among Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 9


Tuberculosis cases in the United States dropped over all in 1997 for the fifth
year a row but climbed 6 percent among immigrants.

The five-year overall drop came after a dramatic surge in TB cases from the
mid-1980's through 1992.

The disease control centers said 19,855 TB cases were reported in the United
States in 1997, a 7 percent decrease from 1996 and a 26 percent drop from 1992.

But the number of cases among foreign-born people increased to 7,735 last year
from 7,266 in 1992, and that represents 39 percent of the national total.
Tuberculosis among immigrants accounted for only 27 percent of the cases in
1992.

The centers said most immigrants were infected while living outside the United
States, and the disease became active after they moved here.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 11, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

World News Briefs;
Indonesians Take Refuge In Embassies in Malaysia

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, April 10


More than 30 Indonesian immigrants forced their way into embassies in Malaysia's
capital today in a desperate effort to avoid deportation, and eight who entered
the United States compound were being allowed to stay the night.

Those who entered the other embassies were quickly removed by the Malaysian
police, who said they were being held in a nearby police station.

The immigrants were all from Aceh province in northern Sumatra and feared
persecution if sent back to Aceh, where a separatist revolt peaked in the early
1990's, an Acehnese leader said.

At least 33 Indonesians burst into the Bruneian, French, Swiss and United States
compounds, some of them scrambling over high walls, others dashing through
gates, in a synchronized move at about 7:30 A.M., diplomats said.

The police quickly removed the immigrants from the French and Swiss embassies
and Brunei's office in Kuala Lumpur's diplomatic enclave after diplomats called
in authorities.

But eight were still inside the United States Embassy compound 11 hours after
they had scaled a wall to get inside.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 12, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Border Crossers

BYLINE: By Jonathan Rieder;  Jonathan Rieder, the chairman of the sociology
department at Barnard College, is co-editor of "Common Quest: The Magazine of
Black-Jewish Relations."

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words



STRANGERS AMONG US
 How Latino Immigration
 Is Transforming America.
 By Roberto Suro.
 349 pp. New York:
 Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.

In the midst of the 1992 Los Angeles riots, a Latino heaved a Molotov cocktail
and cried, "This is for Latasha," referring to the black girl killed by a Korean
grocer at the time of the Rodney King beating. That spectral image of immigrants
joining the rainbow coalition of the aggrieved represents the darker side of
"Strangers Among Us," Roberto Suro's quietly urgent journey through the Latino
United States. Suro worries that millions of Latinos will be trapped in poverty,
although the fate of the nation is entangled in their presence. We depend on
them to tend our gardens and children, to sweat and smile for us, to pick fruit
and hand over Big Macs. And to do this cheerily on the cheap, in jobs we don't
want. But our dependency is deeper still: how we treat these strangers is a test
of who we are as a people and a nation.

Latinos are the largest segment of the rushing stream of new immigrants who are
reconfiguring American politics and culture, not just in California, Texas,
Florida and New York. Soon after the year 2000, they will outnumber
African-Americans. To many they remain among us but not of us -- mysterious
phantoms, like the deaf Mexican trinket vendors in the subway, or icons of
menace, like the Los Angeles gang members who shot up an Anglo family who
happened to make a wrong turn.

Suro, a former correspondent for The New York Times who now writes for The
Washington Post, is the son of a Puerto Rican father and an Ecuadorean mother
who instructed him as a child never to yield up "Roberto" to the chummy
Americanism of "Bob." He dispels the alien aura that surrounds Latino immigrants
with crisp, unadorned prose.

It's hard to lump Latinos together, he reminds us, since the different
nationalities vary. The Puerto Ricans teetered on the edge of success in the
1950's, only to implode into poverty as factory jobs disappeared. Miami Cubans,
haunted by their obsession with Castro, have built a vibrant enclave out of
dense ethnic connections. The rich civic life of New York's Dominicans, played
out in bodega chatter and hometown soccer leagues, struggles against the crack
economy.

Suro's ambitions, however, are greater than just evoking Latin humanity. He
knows his social science and deploys it surely. If the book slows at times, it
is because he aims to give us not just a good read but a good analysis of the
larger forces that shape the intimate portraits. Suro's triumph here is to
satisfy these contrary impulses while documenting one of the monumental dramas
of our time, how Latinos have become central to America's struggle with poverty
and race.

The Latinos, more than other immigrants, are frequent border crossers.
Mexican-Americans dart back to Mexico for first communions; Guatemalans head up
and down the Central American highway. The real highways, though, are the
channels formed by nodes of human connection, through which movement and memory,
rumor and remittance, drugs and shortstops flow north and back again. All kinds
of choices are shaped by a transnational reality of jet planes, wire transfers
and fax machines. The result is a jumbled world, where the lines of nation give
way to something more fluid, like politicians from Santo Domingo campaigning on
upper Broadway in New York City. The word "border," then, suggests too much
fixity to capture this simultaneous dwelling in two worlds. The Chicana poet
Gloria Anzaldua speaks of the "borderland," and Latinos remain in-between
people.

The borderland of identity is no less dangerous for being less tangible than a
physical border. Migration makes you vulnerable. You and your children may
become unrecognizable -- even to yourself. Resentful Imelda, a 15-year-old
"dime-store Madonna" who is unmarried and pregnant, tells Suro: "We'd get into a
lot of yelling and stuff at home because my parents, they'd say: 'You're
Mexican. Speak Spanish. Act like a Mexican girl,' and I'd say, 'I'm here now and
I'm going to be like the other kids.' " This is not what her parents had in
mind. They thought you could pick and choose, American dollars but not its
corrosive culture.

But if immigration has long meant loss and yielding, it also remains a story of
opening up and self-making. This is why those who fumed at the Mexican flags
waved by teen-agers protesting California's Proposition 187 (which restricted
benefits to illegal immigrants) got it wrong. Far from wanting to " 'remember
the Alamo' in reverse," Suro shrewdly observes, they were attesting to their
Americanism in the very act of claiming a place for Latino Los Angeles. This
exuberant process of cultural creation is embodied for Suro in banda music: "the
sound of immigrants who skip across national borders, picking up music --
corridos, hip-hop, rock-and-roll -- wherever they go."

Sometimes the Latinos of the day clash with the Latinos of the night. One early
riser says, "There is always work here, at least for those who have come to
improve themselves." But a nearby street tough dismisses the day people as
mojados (wetbacks) and retorts that work "don't interest me much."

More than a righteous struggle between character and its absence, such clashes
are rooted in the economic fates of different portions of the Latino community.
True, there has been much progress; but it seems the second generation is
faltering. Suro invokes a law of perpetual motion: Keep moving, or slip into
decline, into an underclass of sullen alienation. Ironically, the risks of
failure mount the more migrants embrace American culture, its streets and
television. Mexicanness gives immunity, which is why some Mexican parents worry
that their kids are becoming Chicanos. The Rev. Virgil Elizondo, the rector of
San Fernando Cathedral in San Antonio, elegiacally defines this slippage for
Suro: "I can tell by looking in their eyes how long they've been here. They come
sparkling with hope, and the first generation finds that hope rewarded. Their
children's eyes no longer sparkle."

The tensions of class and identity collide in another borderland, of race.
Latinos are neither black nor white, although some are always sliding into one
or the other. Thus they challenge cherished dichotomies. In south Texas, Chicano
politics has followed the race-based civil rights model, but Latinos lack the
moral stature of victims claimed by American blacks, while the specificity of
being Mexican or Salvadoran, say, beguiles many more than does a pan-Latino
vision of La Raza.

Some of the most poignant moments of "Strangers Among Us" recount the painful
abrasions between "black" and "brown" peoples. To many American employers (and
to immigrant Korean greengrocers as well), Latinos are what poor blacks are not:
willing workers. A Guatemalan, Juan, tells how he and his Mayan coterie
supplanted blacks at a Houston supermarket after a fight involving black
workers: "We do not argue with people, we do not fight even among ourselves and
we do not make demands. It was the only thing we had to offer." (This preference
for nonblacks, it should be noted, is not exactly a racial preference; in
Brooklyn, employers have flipped entire factories from African-American to West
Indian, darkening the complexion of the work force.)

Latinos dwell in one final borderland, in the American imagination, between
repulsion and attraction. They thus have the power to expose what is repulsive
and attractive in us. No sentimentalist, Suro argues that if we don't control
the flood of illegals, it will touch off a nativist recoil and hurt everybody.
While the nation has absorbed a huge migration with a fair degree of grace,
tolerance has its limits. Proposition 187, Suro says, unearthed a nasty streak,
among blacks, whites and even Mexican-American citizens, that would trim both
rights and respect.

In a world in which exchanges of capital and culture are global, much has
changed. But much has not. This is why Suro's opening quotation from Leviticus
is more than a piety: "And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye
shall not vex him." That puts it too simply, as if the demons all lie beyond the
self: the wanderer, after all, may vex himself with his own yearning. But the
rest of the passage quoted by Suro -- "But the stranger that dwelleth with you
shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself, for
ye were strangers in the land of Egypt" -- puts the host on notice: if foreign
hordes can make us feel like strangers in our land, we can make ourselves
strangers, with hard hearts and failed memory that estrange us from the meaning
of our ancestors' sacrifices and the best of our democratic impulses.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 14, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

World News Briefs;
Central America Leaders Plan Appeal to Clinton

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras, April 13


Central American Presidents plan to petition the United States not to deport
illegal Honduran immigrants, officials said today.

The Honduran President, Carlos Flores, said his counterparts in Costa Rica,
Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic would sign a letter
to President Clinton, to be delivered April 19 at a summit meeting in Chile.

Honduras has complained that Washington grants permanent residency status to
Nicaraguans without visas, and that it allows Salvadorans and Guatemalans to
stay in the United States for short periods. It says Hondurans, on the other
hand, are summarily expelled.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 22, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Sponsor of Immigrant Charged With Raping Her

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 250 words


A Pennsylvania man surrendered to the authorities yesterday after a Queens grand
jury charged him with raping an immigrant from Korea whom he had sponsored into
the country, the Queens District Attorney's office said.

The suspect, Joon Ho Chin, 46, of Dresher, Pa., is accused of raping the former
employee at the Anchor Motel in Bayside one night last October. Mr. Chin was
arrested that night, but was released a day later, when the employee, who speaks
only Korean, failed to explain to investigators with the Queens District
Attorney's office exactly what had happened.

The case drew the attention of local politicians and Asian-American advocacy
groups, who raised questions about how prosecutors handle rape complaints from
women who do not speak English.

At the time, the woman's advocates argued that she declined to tell two
investigators the details of the incident because they were men and because she
did not have a court-appointed interpreter. However, a spokeswoman for the
District Attorney's office, Mary de Bourbon, said the woman, whose name is not
being released, had not requested a female investigator or a translator, but had
instead brought along a fellow worker who appeared to be an able interpreter.

In an indictment last week, Mr. Chin, who is also a native of Korea, was charged
with rape, sexual abuse and assault.

Mr. Chin's lawyer, Paul W. Siegert, declined to comment on his client's
relationship to his accuser, except to say that he was innocent.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 23, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Metro Business;
Garment Group's Site Is to Provide Training

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 219 words


In an unusual project to provide job training to recent immigrants and others in
the garment industry, the Garment Industry Development Corporation, a nonprofit
group, said it would open a training center in Chinatown tomorrow.

The Fashion Industry Modernization Center, at 193 Centre Street, a half block
north of Canal Street, will be equipped with computerized sewing machines,
pressing machines and other technologically advanced garment manufacturing
equipment, the group said. It said the machinery, worth $1 million, has been
donated by equipment manufacturers.

Seminars and demonstrations for employers and workers in the industry will cover
such topics as management, workplace safety, machinery maintenance and computer
aided design. The center will be available to people throughout the city, and
many of its services will be aimed at people who speak little or no English, the
group said.

The Garment Industry Development Corporation is a 13-year-old group that is
financed by labor unions, clothing manufacturers and government agencies. Bruce
Herman, a spokesman for the group, said the project in Chinatown is being
supported by government grants, including $100,000 from the National Institute
of Standards and Technology, an office of the Department of Commerce.   THOMAS
J. LUECK

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Sierra Club Rejects Move To Oppose Immigration

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


Members of the Sierra Club, one of the nation's largest and most influential
environmental groups, have voted by a wide margin to reaffirm the club's policy
of taking no position on immigration into the United States, its officers
announced today.

Officials of the club reacted with relief that bordered on glee to the outcome
of the annual mail balloting, in which members turned aside an anti-immigration
proposal mounted by an insurgent faction.

The board of directors, made up of the leaders of most chapters, and its
professional staff had worked to defeat the ballot proposition, which called for
immigration controls as one way to halt population growth. The proposal's
supporters argued that the increasing population of the United States would
intensify environmental damage.

About 84,000 of the club's more than 550,000 members cast ballots, considerably
more than the 60,000 or 70,000 members who usually vote, club officials said.

Of those who marked the immigration question on the ballot, 31,134, or 39.9
percent, voted in favor of the anti-immigration position, while 46,935, or just
over 60.1 percent, voted for a competing proposal that reaffirmed the club's
existing policy.

Carl Pope, the club's executive director, who is appointed by the board, said
the results amounted to a landslide endorsement of the management's position by
the most active of the club's members.

"The Sierra Club cannot protect our environment by building a wall around our
borders," he said. "The common-sense solution to reducing our population is
birth control, not border patrols."

But Leon J. Kolankiewicz, a Sierra Club member and vice president of the
Carrying Capacity Network, a group that advocates a moratorium on immigration,
said that unless population growth is slowed, the Sierra Club's "many laudable
environmental initiatives will amount to little more than mopping the floor
while leaving the spigot on."

For the past several months, vigorous campaigning on the question split the
club. The organization's magazine had devoted large amounts of space to the
debate, and both sides had established Web sites to detail their arguments.

The club's leaders warned that a vote to take a stand against immigration would
drive away minority groups, especially Hispanic and Asian people in the club's
traditional stronghold of California.

Although most current and past officials of the club favored the position of the
board, as did many local chapters of the club and leaders of other environmental
organizations, the call for immigration restrictions drew the endorsement of
many prominent figures from the environmental movement, including Lester R.
Brown, president of the Worldwatch Institute.

And Sierra Club leaders accused outsiders of interfering in the club's internal
politics by drumming up support for the anti-immigration initiative. Those
outsiders, they said, opposed immigration for reasons that had nothing to do
with the environment.

The Political Ecology Group, which is based in San Francisco and advocates
environmental protection in addition to immigration rights, produced a study
showing how several anti-immigration groups had worked on behalf of the ballot
proposal to restrict immigration.

"These organizations are generally known for extremist, anti-immigrant work,"
the report said. It cited positions taken by groups like the Federation of
American Immigration Reform and Californians for Population Stabilization.

The Sierra Club is unusual among major environmental groups in allowing its
members to vote by mail every year, electing the board of directors and
directing the club's policies through ballot initiatives.

Five of the fifteen board seats were contested this year; the winners of those
races were David Brower, Chuck McGrady, and Michelle Perrault, all of whom were
seeking re-election, and Jennifer Ferenstein and Veronica Eady.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Teen-Ager Accused Of Beating Man, 46

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 183 words


A Brooklyn teen-ager was facing assault charges yesterday after the police said
he beat and yelled racial slurs at a 46-year-old Chinese immigrant who was
sweeping leaves in front of his apartment building Friday.

The teen-ager, Christopher Pinco, 18, also faces a harassment charge in the
beating of Lin Hong Zhang, said Tracy Manley, a spokeswoman for the Brooklyn
District Attorney's office. She said three other teen-agers who witnesses said
were with Mr. Pinco have not been charged because of a lack of evidence.

The beating occurred shortly before 8 P.M. in Dyker Heights, a neighborhood in
Brooklyn that has attracted a large influx of Chinese and Middle Eastern
immigrants over the last decade, the police said.

Mr. Zhang, who has lived at 1142 64th Street since emigrating from China four
years ago, said he had been cleaning up the sidewalk when four teen-agers
approached, then hit him and repeatedly pushed him into an iron fence.

Mr. Zhang said he passed out, awakening only after paramedics had taken him to
Maimonides Medical Center for treatment of cuts and bruises.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pressing European Union to Be More Friendly to Turkey

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, April 30


Senior diplomats from the United States are engaged in an intense effort to
persuade the European Union to adopt a more conciliatory policy toward Turkey,
diplomats involved in the effort say.

The diplomats said Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright had made a series of
telephone calls to her European counterparts in recent days, urging them to
soften their attitude toward Turkey. Among those whom she has called are Foreign
Minister Hubert Vedrine of France, Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel of Germany and
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook of Britain.

The effort is growing as an American mediator, Richard C. Holbrooke, is about to
visit Cyprus for a new round of talks with Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders.
His visit to the island four weeks ago ended without visible progress, in part
because Turkish Cypriots and their patrons in Ankara were angry at the way the
European Union was treating Turkey's application for membership.

Ms. Albright reportedly made some progress in her calls, but also found that
fierce anti-Turkish sentiment in Greece and the national election campaign in
Germany were major obstacles to changing the European Union position on Turkey.

Greece is Turkey's principal rival in Europe, and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of
Germany is facing an uphill fight for re-election. He does not want to be seen
as supporting steps that could bring more Turkish immigrants to Germany, which
is already home to the world's largest Turkish immigrant community.

"This Turkey question is probably the most serious disagreement we have with
Germany," said a State Department official who has worked closely with German
leaders.

At a summit meeting in December in Luxembourg, leaders of European Union
countries decided to proceed quickly with talks aimed at admitting six
additional countries and to place five others on a waiting list. The 12th
applicant, Turkey, was effectively rejected.

That set off a storm of protest in Turkey, highlighted by emotional
denunciations of Europe and suggestions that Turkey should look for friends
elsewhere. American leaders, including President Clinton, criticized the
European decision and urged that Turkey not be made to feel unwelcome in the
West.

After the Luxembourg meeting, Turkish leaders took a series of retaliatory
measures, including asking their Turkish Cypriot clients to stiffen their
negotiating stance in long-stalled talks with Greek Cypriots. Mr. Holbrooke said
after his latest visit to Cyprus that Turkish Cypriots were refusing to consider
serious compromises as long as Europe treated Turkey in a manner that they
considered unfair. He is scheduled to return to the island on Saturday.

The next European Union summit meeting is set for June in Cardiff, Wales.

American diplomats across the continent have been instructed to urge European
leaders to issue a new statement in Cardiff declaring their desire for better
ties with Turkey.

"We are now engaged in a full-court press to get the E.U. to ease up on Turkey,
to make the Turks feel more welcome in Europe," said a United States diplomat
involved in the effort. "There are intense negotiations going on aimed at
getting the E.U. to improve the terms of its offer.

"The European countries have accused us of not understanding their problems. We
do recognize that it will be a long time before Turkey is ready to join."


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 11, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Haiti, Not All Gifts Well Received

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words


When Fritz Martial left Haiti in 1969 to immigrate to the United States, his
hometown of Tiburon had one elementary school, no hospital and no potable water
to serve the town's 50,000 or so residents. Today, Tiburon, a dusty outpost
about 100 miles southwest of the capital, Port-au-Prince, boasts of six schools,
including two high schools and one of the best irrigation systems in Haiti.

"It would have remained a backwater," said Mr. Martial, of Uniondale, N.Y., who
in 1976 helped create the Committee to Help and Develop the Parish of Tiburon, a
New York-based organization with chapters around the country. "We could not stay
here, live well and let that happen to the place of our ancestors."

The story of Tiburon has been repeated across Haiti as Haitians in the United
States, Canada, Europe and Latin America have banded together in regional
associations to finance small but critical projects to keep their impoverished
country of seven million afloat.

The aid is crucial: money wired from the United States, estimated at $3 million
a day, is considered the largest source of hard currency in Haiti, the Western
Hemisphere's poorest country. Without it, Haitian economists and central bank
officials say, the country's dire financial straits would be far worse.

The Mayor of Tiburon, Adrien Jeanty, said: "Tiburon is a place that has been and
continues to be ignored by the central Government. Without the help of the
diaspora, I don't know where we would be. They do almost everything."

Still, many in the Haitian diaspora -- particularly those in the United States,
where roughly one million Haitians live -- express a deep sense of rejection by
the same people they are helping. They say they are constantly reminded that
their contributions, however welcome, are largely insignificant. And they say
their loyalty to Haiti has come under attack because they are seen as having
carved out a comfortable life style overseas, far from the dust-filled cities of
their homeland, with their constant power shortages and poor telephone lines.

So when a group of Haitian mayors met to discuss economic development with
roughly 40 Haitian-American business and regional leaders -- about a dozen from
New York -- in the southern coastal city of Jacmel for three days in late April,
the Americans grumbled over and over that the country did not appreciate their
contributions.

Organizers held the meeting in Jacmel, a picturesque city whose streets are
lined with gingerbread colonial-era homes, in part to coincide with the
celebration of its 300th anniversary.

The meeting, the first of its kind, was held outdoors at a large beachfront
restaurant, and was significant in bringing together the mayors,
private-business owners and potential investors from overseas.

Organizers said that one of the meeting's goals was to help bolster the power of
the elected mayors, whose positions have been rendered largely ceremonial
because officials in the capital make important decisions without consulting
them. Economic alliances with Haitians living abroad, they said, would give the
mayors the financial clout to direct aid to their municipalities as they saw
fit. Such arrangements would allow organizations like Mr. Martial's to build not
only schools but also factories.

Indeed, several mayors brought proposals for projects like restoring maritime
ports and building food-processing plants that would not only help meet the
domestic need for food, but begin exporting it, particularly tropical goods like
mangoes and avocados. Many of the Americans present said they welcomed the
proposals.

"What is most important is for us to provide the diaspora a structure to work
within," said Gary Mazile, the mayor of Miragoane, a city about 40 miles west of
Jacmel. "People can say all they want about them, but they are our best and
brightest. Furthermore, because of their strength, they won't accept the
perverse exploitation that exists right now."

But other Haitians have a less favorable view of the Haitian-Americans' largess.
The stream of cash from the United States, they say, has created a welfare state
in which millions of people simply wait for their relatives abroad to wire
money. They argue that the money, which could go toward building factories and
other job-creating enterprises, is largely squandered. And at times, they add,
the Haitian diaspora tends to be condescending and patronizing, acting like
foreigners insensitive to the realities of the country.

"The diaspora does care about the people here," said Danielle St. Lot, who
organized the meeting. "But they tend to be emotional. They land at the airport
and immediately they start handing out money left and right."

Haitians living abroad say that such comments miss the point and at the same
time intensify the psychological wounds in a group that has always felt a sense
of guilt over the country's pitiful condition. The immigrants, many of them
members of the middle class, chose to move away rather than stay to fight the
brutal 29-year rule of Francois and Jean-Claude Duvalier, which ended in 1986.
It is a fact that many in Haiti are quick to remind them of.

"I hate being called diaspora," said Stanley Barbot, co-host of "Moment Creole"
on WLIB-AM, one of the most popular shows in New York. "Because in most circles
it is a put-down. It means a lower class of people."

Mr. Barbot and others attending the meeting said that Haitians treated them with
the same coldness that Africans often reserve for American-born blacks who flock
there for spiritual and cultural connection.  Their ties, unlike those of black
Americans, are not purely visceral, Haitian-Americans said. "Their attitude is,
give us your money and go back home," Mr. Barbot said.

"The absurd part about it is, they know we're not that dumb and they know that
the country cannot move forward without us," he said.

Frantz Verella, a former World Bank official and a professor of economics at the
State University of Haiti in Port-au-Prince, conceded Mr. Barbot's point.

"If we're able to convince the Haitians overseas that they should invest here,
we will create an important synergy," he said. "It will bring a big boost to the
Haitian economy. We have one of the largest diaspora in the Caribbean. The
possibilities are endless."

But Mr. Verella, a former Minister of Public Works, said that the fundamental
question remained: whether Haitians living overseas had the patience and the
will to uproot a small clique of businessmen who have monopolized just about
every enterprise in the country.

The central Government, while pledging its support to privatize moribund state
enterprises and decentralize its bureaucracy in the provinces outside
Port-au-Prince, has taken few concrete steps in those directions.

"The democratic process is elitist," Mr. Verella said. "It is being played out
in small circles. What the Haitians living abroad can do is to widen that
circle."


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haitian-Americans in Jacmel, Haiti, where they met last month
with Haitian mayors to discuss economic development. Some investors say they are
criticized for their middle-class lives far from their troubled homeland. (Garry
Pierre-Pierre/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 13, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Nassau Police Lead a Drive to Stem Growing Gang Violence

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., May 12


Six weeks after a 21-year-old immigrant from El Salvador was shot and killed
here in a confrontation with a rival Salvadoran street gang, Nassau County
officials announced today that they were forming a rare partnership with Federal
and local agencies to stem the growing problem of gang crime.

The County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, said that Nassau County would
coordinate the activities of agencies including the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the New York City
and Suffolk County Police Departments. He said Assistant Chief Herbert R. Faust
of the Nassau police, a graduate of the F.B.I. National Police Academy who has
been studying the growing problem, would direct the new effort.

Police Commissioner Donald F. Kane said the Nassau Police Special Investigations
Squad would centralize the collection and dissemination of gang-related
intelligence and information.

The murder of the Salvadoran immigrant, Rogoberto Reyes, a warehouse worker, was
the most serious crime in a growing pattern of gang violence in Nassau, said
Commissioner Kane, and it prompted county officials to move aggressively. He
said Mr. Reyes, whom he identified as a member of a gang called Salvadorans With
Pride, died on March 29 of gunshot wounds during a gang confrontation with
members of a rival gang in front of the Church of the Nativity on Willis Avenue
here.

Within hours of the Sunday morning shooting, the police arrested Miguel
Guardado, 21, of Glen Cove, a member of a gang called Mara Salvatrucha, or
Salvadoran Club. The gang is known on the street as MS-13.

Both groups fought several hours earlier outside a Hempstead night club. Mr.
Guardado, a former friend of Mr. Reyes before he joined MS-13, was charged with
murder and is being held without bail in the Nassau County Jail.

Chief Faust said MS-13, the largest street gang in Nassau, has been active on
Long Island for about four years and is known for its violence.

He said the gang was born in El Salvador, spread to Los Angeles, then across the
country. The number 13, he said, stands for an initiation ritual, the 13 seconds
during which new members must undergo a beating inflicted by other members.

"The problem of gang violence was not taken seriously when it first started to
emerge on the West Coast," Commissioner Kane said, "and we don't want to make
the same mistake. We want to act now before it becomes a major problem here."

He said gang-related arrests in 1996 accounted for less then one-half of one
percent of all arrests in the county. He said they grew to a full one percent
last year and were continuing at a similar pace this year.

Mr. Gulotta said that in 1996, there were 110 arrests related to gang activities
in the county. In 1997, that number grew to 227. So far this year, there have
been 60 arrests, he said.

"When you look at the entire picture, it's a small number," Mr. Gulotta said.
"But we want to nip the problem in the early stages. Recent statistics indicate
that our crime rate is at its lowest level in 27 years, and we want to continue
to drive that rate down."

Commissioner Kane said that in addition to the murder of Mr. Reyes, there have
been numerous gang-related assaults, drug and gun offenses and many
misdemeanors.

"The Villages of Hempstead and Freeport have had more of a serious problem with
this than other villages around the county," Commissioner Kane said.

Chief Faust noted that many of the crimes were against Salvadorans or members of
other Hispanic groups.

"We can go through a whole sociological, economic explanation of why gangs
exist," he said. "But basically, the gang activity that we've seen preys upon
people in their own ethnic group. They are their own victims."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 15, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

HAILING DANGER: A special report.;
Behind the Wheel: Long Hours and Hard Feelings

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3614 words


Like generations of poor immigrants before him, the Bangladeshi Mamun Masud
sought to fulfill the sunny promise of America behind the wheel of a yellow
taxi. Each day spent amid Manhattan's potholes and gridlock was a gift to his
young daughters, whose lives, he said, "should be better than mine."

Mr. Masud and a friend had teamed up in a common arrangement. They leased a taxi
medallion from a broker for $685 a week, adding an extra $250 toward the
purchase of the cab itself. One man worked a 5 P.M. to 5 A.M. shift, the other 5
A.M. to 5 P.M. Taking but a single day off, they each made about $800 a week,
though repair bills for the overburdened vehicle often gnawed into the profit.

Then, late last year, the friend moved away. Mr. Masud, 40, either had to
quickly find another driver for the second shift or default on his car loan.
Anxious weeks passed until, one afternoon, someone gave him the address of Naeem
Akhter, a Pakistani cabby who lived in the North Bronx.

Mr. Akhter, 27, comes from a reverent Islamic family. Mr. Masud asked him if he
had driven for a long time, and Mr. Akhter assured him that he had. More
questioning would only have been an embarrassment, Mr. Masud said, so he did not
learn of his new partner's 11 license suspensions and 6 moving violations until
after the accident.

On Jan. 15, Mr. Akhter was at the wheel when the taxi jumped a curb on the Upper
East Side, pinning Sachiko Kiyabu against a light pole and tearing off her right
leg. Scattered about were the items she had just purchased at lunch time, among
them a pair of sneakers still swathed in white tissue. Nearby, a baby stroller
lay crumpled. A little boy with broken legs wailed in pain.

Something has gone wrong with taxi safety, and many New Yorkers, most
prominently Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, believe the solution rests with getting
tougher on cabbies. His proposals for harsh new penalties against drivers this
week caused cabbies to stay home on Wednesday and left the Mayor to counter: who
needs you, anyway?

But the gloomy tale of Mr. Masud and Mr. Akhter speaks of deeply embedded
problems in a complicated $1.5 billion industry: unforgiving arithmetic in the
leasing of taxis and medallions; inadequate scrutiny in the hiring of drivers;
grueling 12-hour shifts, and high turnover in what is now largely an entry-level
immigrant industry, likened by some to a sweatshop on wheels.

"What the city has created is a system with demeaned, poorly paid drivers who
work under conditions of maximum stress," said Edward G. Rogoff, a professor of
management at Baruch College who has studied the taxi industry.

"There are already so many rules and regulations, that any taxi stopped at any
time can be found to have something wrong that can lead to a fine. The long-term
solution is not more nit-picking with more rules, but reducing the pressures
that cause some drivers to drive like madmen."

The leasing system -- and its underlying economics -- is often thought to be the
pathogen for much of what ails the business. Before 1979, when leasing became
legal, most cabbies were simply employees, driving for large fleets and sharing
a percentage of their day's receipts with the company. Many drivers had health
insurance and a retirement plan.

But as powers within the industry favored leasing, most cabbies, out of
necessity, became small-business operators bedeviled by big overhead. Typically,
they pay lease fees up front, starting each 12-hour shift about $90 to $135 in
the hole. What sometimes follows is a frantic quest for fares. "It's a different
mind-set," said Mike Snaky, a cabby. "Drivers get a little crazy until they
break even."

Whatever the causes of taxi accidents, the numbers have been climbing
alarmingly. Between 1990 and 1996, accidents involving "taxis" -- yellow cabs,
car services and other liveries -- shot up 41 percent, according to police
statistics.

But, oddly, the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission does not keep track of
accidents. It does not know which of its drivers were involved in the 12,557
accidents that occurred in 1996, how serious each one was or whether a cabby was
at fault.

Edward McGettigan Jr., head underwriter for the industry's largest insurer,
thinks the T.L.C.'s emphasis has been cockeyed: "If I'm driving 40,000 miles a
year, does that mean I'll get a lot of tickets? Probably. Does it mean I'm a bad
driver? No. If I get into six accidents a year, does it mean I'm a bad driver?
Probably."

To discipline cabbies, the commission has relied on its own judicial system of
summonses and hearings. Hack licenses can be taken away after a combination of
violations, big and small, such as reckless driving, discourtesy to a passenger
or the improper operation of a roof light.

The Mayor's new proposals call for higher fines by the commission, more
insurance coverage, mandatory drug testing and other measures. The plan would
also make mandatory the reporting of taxi accidents to the T.L.C.

Cabbies approve of some of these measures, though they regard the plan as
something out of kilter, a proposed overhaul that involves profound overkill.

For instance, taxi drivers would be suspended for 30 days if they compiled six
penalty points on their driver's licenses during an 18-month period, something
achievable with only two illegal turns and the obstruction of one intersection.

Would that take good cabbies off the road as well as bad? they ask.

"To pull out a few weeds, they are mowing down everything," said Vijay Bali, a
leader of the United Yellow Cab Drivers Association, one of the few cabby groups
in an industry that is hard to organize.

"Thousands will lose their licenses, and who will replace them? I ask you: Is
this being done because the driver today is basically a minority person? Is this
because of bad publicity and politics and a city that has a bull's eye on the
driver's back? Has the taxi driver been made an object of hate?"

The Accidents
An Injury Unleashes Anger and Blame

Sachiko Kiyabu, 51, a buyer for a cable TV station, was once a nimble woman who
easily skipped up the 35 steps to her office. Now, a wrap of bandages covers the
stump where her knee ought to be. She mostly stays at home in a wheelchair.

"She's like an injured animal, afraid to go out in the world," her husband, Jim
Ward, whispered when his wife was wheeled out of earshot.

The couple had agreed to speak of their personal calamity. Two cabbies were
involved in the accident on the Upper East Side, and the police have concluded
that both were at fault. To Ms. Kiyabu, these men -- Naeem Akhter and another
Pakistani, Jillani Ghulam -- are nothing more than "assailants."

Mr. Ward, an airline pilot, was reserved as his wife talked in their apartment,
but then he suddenly detonated with wrath. "Take their money, take their
livelihood or, better yet, throw them in jail," he said of the drivers.

"These taxis go careening about the city. Running people down. Killing them.
Gaggles of cars careening down the streets, a horde of kamikazes!"

His wife corrected him. "Kamikazes also kill themselves," she said softly.
"These people just kill other people."

Given their hurt, it may be understandable for Ms. Kiyabu and Mr. Ward to
demonize the two cabbies, to say they never want to meet them or to know of
their lives. Their rancor is also a concession to a New York myth: the rude,
half-mad cabby darting for openings in a frenzied hopscotch through Manhattan.

The facts of the accident, however, are too ambiguous to reek of malice or
recklessness. And the drivers involved, flaws and all, are hardly demons.

Jillani Ghulam came to America 12 years ago from the historic city of Lahore. He
was 27, and wanted to go to college. Back home, he had worked in animal
husbandry, on livestock farms. That job paid $150 a month, he said. Here,
mopping tables was paying $60 a day. He forgot about college.

In the late 80's, Mr. Ghulam, like many Pakistanis, acquired a hack license. But
without knowing the city, he found the work too stressful and quit after a few
days. When he began again in 1993, he was more comfortable at the wheel, if
still unhappy with the wages. The fleets charged $100 a day to lease a car, but
he often took home only $70 in profit after a 12-hour shift.

His younger brother was also a cabby, and the two decided to get a stake of
their own. With what they could save and borrow, they made a $40,000 down
payment on a medallion, that vital piece of tin whose price had already
hyper-inflated past $170,000. Their math was sound. What they saved from paying
the usual lease fees was enough to get them through the inevitable calamities:
the engine breakdowns and the torn upholstery and the occasional summonses.

At the time of the Jan. 15 accident, Mr. Ghulam had a son just starting to walk
and a pregnant wife. He lives in a small home in Long Island City, Queens. A
polite, earnest man, he seems to have surrendered himself to oncoming doom.

"Fate has seized my neck," Mr. Ghulam said, subduing sobs. "There will be
lawsuits, and I will lose the medallion and my life will be a ruin."

He mentioned pity for Ms. Kiyabu, but that concern seemed outweighed by his own
lamentations about a livelihood in jeopardy.

"People think all taxi drivers are animals," he said, first angrily, then
defensively. "I am always a clean-shaven man in clean clothes."

For four months, the hack licenses of Mr. Ghulam and Mr. Akhter have been under
suspension. A hearing was held on April 1, and the two men are awaiting the
decision of an administrative law judge. Diane McGrath-McKechnie, the T.L.C.
Commissioner, will have final say about whether the two will drive a cab again.

Blame has been hard to apportion. Neither was speeding, investigators say. Mr.
Ghulam initiated the tragedy when he improperly strayed from his lane and grazed
the other cab, which then veered into the sidewalk. But Mr. Akhter was at fault
as well, detectives concluded. Though his side mirror was sheared off, the
bumping of his taxi was deemed far too slight for him to lose control.

"I am the latest taxi trophy for someone," Mr. Akhter said bitterly, suggesting
that high-profile accidents require a cabby as sacrifice.

He is an affable man with bushy eyebrows that hang like archways above his eyes.
He lives among a large extended family in the Westchester Square area of the
Bronx. His sister married a lawyer and she was the first to emigrate from the
small town of Gujarkhan. One by one, 10 other siblings followed.

Mr. Akhter arrived at age 17. He would become a vendor, selling fruit at 44th
Street and the Avenue of the Americas and later hot dogs in Battery Park.

"I am not skillful," he said. "My best skill is driving."

There are managers at taxi garages who assess applicants before leasing them a
cab. By their standards, Mr. Akhter would have been considered a high risk.

Some drivers who are in debt take more chances on the road, and Mr. Akhter,
divorced, was $2,700 behind in his child support payments. Though licensed since
1993, he was still a novice cabby, having driven for less than six months. In
December, 1997, he received two tickets, one for stopping in a bus lane, the
other for a hasty dash across four lanes of traffic.

Recently, at home, Mr. Akhter talked about himself as some members of his family
listened. When asked if he felt badly for Ms. Kiyabu, he said yes, but added: "I
think I am just as much a victim as she is."

Others agreed, though several in the family said Ms. Kiyabu's tragedy was to
them an ongoing torment.

"We have been praying for that woman who was hurt," said Mohammad N. Rahim, a
taxi driver and Mr. Akhter's brother. "We wanted to visit her and tell her about
us and tell her that we are not criminal people. This was an accident.

"We discussed it and then asked the man at the taxi broker's office. He said,
'They'll just be more upset and probably take a swing at you.' "

The Drivers
Facing an Exam, And Then Passengers

Most every New Yorker has a cabby horror story, and these usually involve long
journeys to short destinations, and the screech and blur of a wild ride.

But life from the front seat, while no less forbidding, has a transposed view of
good and bad. Cabbies say this high-strung, thin-skinned city is abundant with
riders who malign immigrant drivers, stiff them on fares and leave behind
keepsakes of spilled cappuccino, muffin crumbs and masticated gum. At night come
the drunks, moodily wading out of their scotch and water.

For every breakneck cabby, there are a dozen behind-schedule big shots who
demand to go faster, like cowboys whipping a stallion into a gallop. People like
to flag a taxi in a crosswalk, where picking up passengers is illegal. They like
to be dropped off exactly at their door, whether this requires double parking or
not.

New Yorkers grumble about cabbies who scoot across the avenue to vie for a fare,
and yet cabbies complain about people who, without fail, get into those same
taxis, seemingly glad to get a bold driver who can out-run the lights.

"It's a disgusting job," said one cabby, Mehmood Khan, 32. "People curse you,
don't pay you, call you a damned Paki and tell you to go back home."

To drive a cab, a person must be at least 19, hold a chauffeur's license,
possess "good moral character," be a United States citizen or a legal resident
and pass two tests, the first of which demands a minimum ability to read --
though not necessarily to speak -- English. Passing that exam leads to 40 to 80
hours of class work in etiquette, map-reading, geography and defensive driving:
What is a blind spot? Where is Yankee Stadium?

About 70 percent of the students pass the final exam.

The city-licensed Master Cabbie Taxi Academy is a grim, three-story walk-up in a
warehouse district of Queens. Twenty-three men were recently in attendance,
almost all of them immigrants who, during break time, spoke of the usual
trapdoors into joblessness. To them, a yellow cab seemed a vehicle of financial
rescue, though few knew much more about the cars than their color.

At one point, the instructor asked: "How many of you have been -- and I didn't
say drive -- I ask, how many of you have been inside a taxi?"

Only 11 raised their hands.

As the lesson went on, only two items dominated students' concerns: fares and
tips. This prompted the teacher to ask another revealing question: How much of
what you make off the meter is taxable?

"Zero," one man answered as the others nodded agreeably.

The Incentives
Pushing the Limits To Make a Profit

Drivers don't like the job. The backaches, the worry, the lip. They are bouncing
down city streets, needing to use the bathroom. Some passenger orders them into
a traffic jam, then says, "Driver, I'll just get out right here."

Money is the magnet that keeps a cabby in a car, though the earnings of a
typical driver are hard to determine. Winters pay more than summers, night
shifts more than days. Some cabbies vastly out-hustle others.

These days, most cabbies talk of averaging $70 to $90 a day, and blame lean
earnings for the rise in accidents, favoring the theory that unpaid bills can
tempt a driver into unsafe turns. Fleet owners put the numbers at $100 to $200 a
day, and wonder why there is a shortage in so lucrative an occupation.

A total of 45,266 cabbies have up-to-date hack licenses for the city's 12,187
medallion taxis, but owners always say they are short of drivers.

Most cabbies begin their careers leasing on a daily or weekly basis from one of
the larger fleets, which have 100 or so cabs. These operations are self-insured,
and, consequently, their owners claim to have a greater stake in safe driving.
Managers give applicants a road test before leasing them one of their precious
taxis, and, alarmingly, report that 35 to 50 percent are turned away.

Parked cabs earn no money, of course, and some fleet owners report that 15
percent of their shifts are idle in any given week. How often, then, do they let
their standards slide and let a greenhorn have a go at it? Brokers have the same
economic pressures. Do they let medallions sit unused in a drawer?

"No matter what they say, nobody's that picky when they really need the
drivers," said Fidel F. Del Valle, the T.L.C. Commissioner from 1991 to 1995.
"It's a balance of the finances against the risk. Some owners couldn't give a
damn about who they put on the street."

Joseph C. Hennessy, in the taxi business for 34 years, gives the road tests at
the Team System Corporation, one of the bigger fleets. He tests plenty of people
who can't even make it off the lot without bending a fender. Still, Mr. Hennessy
cannot be too picky. Since leasing took root, a cabby who wants to drive for a
fleet is as much a customer as a job applicant. Fleet owners or brokers: they
are a lot like Hertz. They need people to lease their cars.

One morning, a tall Albanian immigrant, laid off from a construction job, walked
into Team System. Mr. Hennessy entrusted him with a taxi, and the man could
handle a car superbly. But he also one-handed the wheel, rolled through stop
signs and jackknifed ahead of oncoming traffic to complete left turns.

The derring-do made Mr. Hennessy flunk him.

"But in a taxi, you need to make money, you go fast," the Albanian man said
crossly.

He walked off angrily, and as Mr. Hennessy watched him go, he knew some other
fleet would lease the man a car.

"Drive for someone else for three or four months," Mr. Hennessy called after him
hopefully. "Then come see me again."

The Penalties
Cabbies Say Scrutiny Feels Like Persecution

Fines, suspensions, revocations: these always have been the ways to punish
rule-breaking drivers. The Giuliani administration turned up the heat.

In 1995, the Police Department was ordered to form a special unit to enforce the
host of T.L.C. regulations for medallion taxis. These rules run the gamut:
running a red light, giving incorrect change, tampering with a fare meter,
refusing to pick up a passenger, not taking the shortest route.

Dozens of uniformed officers focus their attention on yellow cabs. By 1997, the
total number of commission summonses against drivers had risen by 115 percent,
according to city statistics.

Drivers have taken note. "War has been declared on the taxi driver," said Lesly
Princival, 39, a cabby since 1982. "They have taxi inspections where they pull
you over and harass you. The car is dirty -- a summons. This light is out -- a
summons. There is a receipt hanging from the meter -- a summons."

Capt. Walter Smith, who runs the unit, said these inspections are needed to
maintain credibility. "If a driver thought all he had to do was drive safely in
order to never be pulled over, then he wouldn't have to take care of his cab,
would he? He could put a zapper on the meter or take out the seat belts."

But taxi enforcement, important as it is, may well be having a perverse effect,
cabbies say. It begins to seem like persecution.

"They make it too tough to make a living," said Balvinder Singh, a driver. "You
pay on the medallion, the car, the repairs, the fines: it's too much."

It would be helpful to know how many summonses are being written for each
particular violation. But, during a two-month period, Deputy Commissioner Allan
J. Fromberg was unable to produce any such breakdown. He did, however, admit to
a serious problem of overcrowding in the Taxi and Limousine Commission's court.

"The system really puts a lot of people through the wringer," Mr. Fromberg said.
"I mean that in the context of an emotional situation. It's not a very nice
thing to have to go through."

The main taxi court, in Long Island City, Queens, is a shabby old structure with
a small elevator that inches its way up the three floors to the commission.

On busier days, lines begin forming at 5:30 A.M. for a 7 A.M. opening of the
doors and an 8:30 start of proceedings. The line outside leads to the line to
the elevator. Once upstairs, the line for registration then leads to the
hours-long wait in a waiting room for a hearing, which is followed by another
wait in the waiting room for the judge's decision, and then the line to pay the
fines.

Only tempers seem short, as drivers strain to hear their names called in a
hivelike atmosphere abuzz with mumbles and cursing. Guilty or not, a cabby is
likely to lose a day's pay as he tarries. There are no pay phones -- no way to
tell a boss that things are taking longer than expected or to check up on the
child care situation at home. The paperwork befits Kafka, with several
mind-boggled cabbies reporting only to pay fines for their "failure to appear"
at hearings for which they have already appeared and paid earlier fines.

"This is torture, this is anti-human, this is anti to anything decent to
humanity," groused Ali G. Darabi, 57, one recent day, well into his 10th hour of
waiting. A cabby since 1971, he was wise enough to bring along a large volume of
Persian poetry by the great Jalal ad-Din ar-Rumi, but even the spiritual
couplets of a sufi mystic could not calm his soul for so long.

"This is fascism to the extreme point," he said, vowing he had finally had
enough. He would turn in his hack license as soon as he paid his $80 in fines
for a burned-out bulb in his off-duty light, a receipt found hanging in his
meter, a trip card that had his name written in pencil, not pen.

In court, he told the judge, "I am sick and tired. I want out. Here, please take
my license."

She sympathized, but, obeying protocol, told him: "This is not where you submit
your license. You know that. Go to the second floor and wait in line."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "War has been declared on the taxi driver," said Lesly
Princival, seen reflected in the mirror of his cab. He has been a cabby since
1982. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A1); REVERBERATIONS -- Jillani
Ghulam, above, was the driver of one of two taxis involved in an accident on the
Upper East Side on Jan. 15, right. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times);
Sachiko Kiyabu, a pedestrian, was pinned against a wall and lost her right leg;
a baby's stroller was crumpled and the child's legs were broken. (Fred R.
Conrad/The New York Times); HARD TIMES -- The taxi business in New York has
become largely an entry-level immigrant industry, likened to a sweatshop on
wheels. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

In New York, Emotional Fallout From India's Nuclear Tests

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 852 words


In the week since India's Hindu-nationalist Government staged five nuclear
tests, the discussion among Indian and Pakistani immigrants in the New York area
has sounded at times like debate over a high-stakes soccer match, with a mix of
pride, excitement and rivalry.

Among some Pakistanis, there was a heady rush of competitiveness. After an
Urdu-language newspaper reported that a nuclear test by Pakistan in response was
imminent, a steady stream of immigrants filed into the whitewashed booths of a
phone center in Jackson Heights, Queens, calling home to make sure they had not
missed the news. (Pakistan so far has not conducted a test.)

"They're keeping in touch with their families, to find out if there's been a
test," said Ali Hyder, as he presided over the stream of 59-cents-a-minute calls
during the weekend from behind a glass booth. "There's no fear, no nervousness.
Just excitement. Pakistan people, they have been waiting for this test from long
ago."

Among some Indians, there was the giddy pride of expatriates -- delight not only
at the news of their country's having joined the world's elite nuclear club, but
also at having outsmarted American intelligence in the process. "That makes us
feel very, very good," said Arish Sahani, an insurance salesman from Corona,
Queens. "That's smart, you know?"

In many ways, the debates among Indian and Pakistani immigrants in the New York
metropolitan area -- home to more than 200,000 immigrants from the two countries
-- have mirrored the discussions on the subcontinent itself. Many Indians,
echoing the sentiments of India's Government, the Bharatiya Janata Party, speak
of the need to guard against potential aggression from China and Pakistan, while
Pakistanis complain about Indian aggression in the border state of Kashmir.

On both sides, there are voices of dissent. Itty Abraham, a native of India and
the author of a forthcoming book on the making of the Indian atomic bomb, said
he hoped that Pakistan would conduct its own tests soon. "As much as I find that
a mad way of looking at the world, that's the dominant logic of the current
moment," he said. "The B.J.P. doing it really should cause a lot of concern to a
lot of people."

A protest demonstration is planned in front of the Indian Consulate in New York
on Friday.

In the New York area, Indian and Pakistani immigrants sometimes live and work
side by side. They shop at the same markets with familiar awnings that boast of
Indo-Pak specialties. Many of their American children now refer to themselves as
South Asian, rather than being from one country or another.

Still, the divisions of the subcontinent remain a powerful force among the
immigrants. Love or even close friendship across national lines is relatively
rare. And the latest atomic enmities have not exactly brought the two immigrant
groups closer together.

Mohammed Bashir, a Pakistani bodega clerk in Midwood, Brooklyn, said he simply
avoids the topic in conversations with his Indian acquaintances. "We have good
relations," Mr. Bashir, 52, said, sitting behind the counter of a deli called
Kashmir. "I don't talk about this at all."

But for immigrants who, for years, have been far removed from the subcontinent,
the nuclear question is more about symbols than about the tangible questions of
peace, security and sanctions. For Indian immigrants who complain of being
maligned as natives of a poor, illiterate nation and who feel marginalized in
the public culture of the United States, the success of India's nuclear tests
last week seemed to offer a sense of vindication.

"Many of the average Americans, they do not know what is India," complained
Shanker Shetty, a commodities trader from Massapequa Park, N.Y. "All this time
they thought India is of no consequence. Now, they know. India belongs to the
nuclear club. They'll think differently about Indians. They'll think differently
about Indian-Americans."

But what about economic sanctions from abroad? "Even though the people are
starving, to some extent," said Mr. Shetty, 59, "national security is very, very
important."

But there were also dissenters on both sides. At Butala Emporium, a Jackson
Heights shop that specializes in books and religious items, the owner, Bhadra
Butala, 54, shook his head at talk of bombs and bravado. He described himself as
a follower of Mohandas K. Gandhi's principles of nonviolence and said he was
opposed to nuclear weapons anywhere, including in his native India.

"People are proud of this?" he said of his compatriots. "They don't know what is
the result of the bomb. They don't care."

His thoughts were echoed by a Pakistani immigrant waiting for a booth at Call
Time, the international calling center down the street. Akhter Shamshair, 34,
did not call himself a Gandhian. But he said he hoped that Pakistan would
refrain from conducting its own blasts and use Indian tests instead as leverage
to demand economic and political aid.

"India made a mistake, so why should Pakistan do the same?" asked Mr. Shamshair.
"This is the best chance for us to make America a friend."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Akhter Shamshair, 34, a Pakistani immigrant, said he hoped that
Pakistan would refrain from conducting its own nuclear tests. "India made a
mistake, so why should Pakistan do the same?" Mr. Shamshair asked. (Rebecca
Cooney for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 22, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Thousands Face a Delay For Residency Interviews

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 820 words


Thousands of immigrants in New York City will have to wait another year before
they can become legal residents of the United States because the local
immigration office is so understaffed that it can no longer handle the volume of
applications, immigration officials said yesterday.

More than 4,000 residency interviews that had been scheduled for the next three
months have been postponed until next spring. The interview is crucial in the
process of obtaining a residency card.

If the local immigration office does not receive an immediate increase in
personnel, thousands of additional interviews could be delayed, said Mark Thorn,
a district immigration spokesman.

The office is understaffed, he said, because in the last two months many of its
employees have been reassigned to work in what has become the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's top priority: reducing the large national backlog in
citizenship applications.

"Our responsibility is so great to reduce that backlog that we feel we have to
do some reassigning of tasks to get that backlog moving," said Eric Andrus, an
I.N.S. spokesman in Washington. "We understand that it may lead to problems in
other areas, but we are trying to minimize that."

Mr. Andrus said the pressure to reduce the citizenship backlog had forced the
agency to reassign employees in immigration offices all over the country. New
York, however, is the first district to report that the measure is causing a
residency backlog, he said.

About two million people around the country are waiting to become American
citizens, 280,000 of them in New York. The waiting time to be sworn in as a
citizen now hovers around two years in the busiest immigration districts. In
years past, when fewer people were seeking citizenship, the wait was barely six
months. Mr. Andrus said the agency's naturalization workload was four times what
it had been five years ago.

At the same time, an additional 111,625 people in New York are waiting to become
legal residents, also a higher number than in years past. The waiting time --
about 15 months -- and the backlog are likely to increase as the process slows
down because of the reassignments. In the past two months, the residency staff
in New York has lost 19 employees to other assignments while many others have
been sent to Georgia for training.

Immigration lawyers and advocates for immigrants said this new delay for
immigrants was just the latest misstep by an agency notorious for its
inefficiency.

"It is like robbing Peter to pay Paul," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the
Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union. "It's an
indication of I.N.S.'s inability to do even the most basic operation and, of
course, it's another delay for people who are in limbo."

Without residency status, immigrants who travel abroad cannot return to the
United States without a special permit. They cannot legally bring a relative
from another country into the United States, become eligible for most loans and
Government benefits or get a permanent work permit. Without a work permit, an
immigrant cannot work legally, though in practice, many do.

The delay will probably ruin Christmas plans for Maria de los Angeles Alberto,
an immigrant from El Salvador who was scheduled to be interviewed in August. The
agency is postponing appointments that were to have taken place from May 26 to
Aug. 17 and rescheduling them for next year, from March to June.

Ms. Alberto, a 30-year-old nanny who lives in the Bronx, was counting on being
granted permanent resident status on the day of the interview. She had already
planned to spend Christmas with her mother and brothers in El Salvador. By
yesterday, she had not yet received a note of postponement.

"Oh, my God!" she said. "I hope I'm in. I just could not bear another year
without them."

Jesus Pena, an immigration lawyer in Jackson Heights, Queens, said many of his
clients had already been notified and were heartbroken.

"The bottom line is that I.N.S. has forgotten about part of its title," Mr. Pena
said. "They are supposed to be a service agency, but they are abusing the people
who seek their help and no one can complain."

Mr. Andrus, the I.N.S. spokesman, said the agency would take steps to send more
employees to the New York office in lower Manhattan, but he did not offer
details.

"We have to take a look at our resources and see what we can come up with," he
said. "We know there is inconvenience and some anxiety."

Andrew R. Lerner, a Manhattan immigration lawyer who is vice chairman of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, said it was difficult to understand
the logic behind taking staff members away when the volume of applications had
grown.

"We don't even feel antagonistic towards the New York office," Mr. Lerner said.
"We share a common problem and there is nothing they or us can do. It's
Washington's call."


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 25, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Bear H.I.V. Alone, Waiting for Word on Asylum

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1938 words


When Amos Dacy fled his native Haiti in a wobbly boat, he had a simple goal: to
live. But though he left behind the political persecution he says could have
killed him, his ordeal continues.

Every day, Mr. Dacy sits in a Brooklyn apartment, alone and sick.  "I spend many
sleepless nights," he said, his eyes staring aimlessly. "I think that if I had
stayed in Haiti, I would have been killed. Now I wonder if it's worse to die
alone."

Five years have passed since Mr. Dacy and 200 other Haitian refugees with
H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, were confined in a camp at the American
naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Under a judge's order, they were finally
allowed into the United States. But most of them still have not won the
political asylum they seek. Some have sickened and died; others are poor and
unable to get work.

And like Mr. Dacy, most are struggling alone: They find themselves cut off from
fellow Haitian immigrants, bereft of the community support that sustains many
newcomers far from family and home. The stigma of AIDS runs so deep among many
Haitians that most of the H.I.V.-positive refugees hide their condition, and few
fellow Haitians have extended open arms to them.

Revealing her plight "would be like a death sentence," said a woman in St.
Albans, Queens, who, like most of a dozen refugees interviewed, agreed to speak
only on the condition of anonymity. "This is something that my family and only
close friends know about. I can't deal with that kind of publicity."

For a brief moment, back in 1993, the refugees' struggle had flared into public
view. As they languished at Guantanamo -- held far longer than their fellow
refugees who did not carry the AIDS virus -- they became something of a cause
celebre, with vocal support from AIDS groups and celebrities like Bruce
Springsteen and Susan Sarandon rallying to their side.

Eventually, they were permitted to enter the United States as they awaited a
final ruling on their requests for political asylum, and about 150 came to New
York City. But settling here proved to be just the beginning of their battle.

As their cases crawl through the immigration bureaucracy, most have been unable
to get work permits, and hold menial jobs at best. And as attention has turned
to other causes, financing has largely dried up for the nonprofit groups that
were helping them resettle.

They are still haunted by their time at Guantanamo, confined in what a Federal
judge called "an H.I.V. prison camp." Some still seem unable or unwilling to
believe that they are infected with a deadly virus. At the same time, many are
growing sicker, and about 20 have died of AIDS, including three in the last few
weeks.

On top of everything has come the cold reception from their countrymen here. For
many Haitian immigrants in New York, the refugees represent all the worst
stereotypes Haitians have fought to overcome: impoverished, AIDS-carrying boat
people. Some of the stigma lingers from the early days of the AIDS epidemic,
when Haitians in general were mistakenly classified as a high-risk group. Now,
some social workers say, it is almost as if Haitians are not allowed to have
AIDS.

When the organizations aiding the refugees were in danger of losing public
financing, pleas to organize against the cutback failed to galvanize the usually
vocal community. And no one has raised any private money to offset the loss.

In February, three social service agencies lost the Federal grants -- roughly
$200,000 a year for each group -- that they had used to find housing for the
refugees, provide health care and counseling, and assist with immigration
issues. A fourth organization had its grant sharply reduced.

City officials who dole out the Federal money, which is intended to help people
with H.I.V., said only that they had received 400 applications and could only
finance about 100 programs this year. "It was a competitive process," said John
Gadd, a spokesman for the city's Department of Health. "There were a lot of
worthy applications."

Most of the refugees still get welfare benefits and housing subsidies. But with
money for additional services cut off, Haitian social workers warned that the
refugees could face growing isolation and depression. They could also find it
harder to get medical treatment, even as new drugs are allowing people with
H.I.V. to live longer and stay healthier.

While the stark images of confinement at Guantanamo galvanized outrage and
support for the refugees, their silent ordeal here has left them and their
social workers wondering whether people still care. "I don't think they're
totally forgotten," said Gabrielle Kersaint, executive director of the Haitian
Women's Program, one of the organizations whose financing was eliminated. But,
she added, "The pie is getting smaller, and people are less sympathetic toward
refugees and immigrants."

Although the refugees came from every region of Haiti, the broad outlines of
their stories are similar. In October 1991, after a bloody, military-led coup
that overthrew Haiti's elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, soldiers
hunted down many Aristide supporters. About 40,000 went into hiding and
eventually fled in dangerously overcrowded sailboats, many of which were
intercepted at sea by United States Coast Guard cutters.

The refugees were held at the American base at Guantanamo as officials reviewed
their accounts of political persecution. Most were eventually determined to have
fled for economic, rather than political, reasons, and were returned to Haiti.
But about 15,000 were found to have strong claims for asylum, and were allowed
into the United States while their applications were processed. Even now,
however, fewer than 2 percent have formally been granted asylum.

Refugees who tested positive for H.I.V. at Guantanamo were detained longer,
under immigration rules that generally denied entry to the United States for
people with the virus. But in June 1993, Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. of Federal
District Court in Brooklyn, calling the detention "a tragedy of immense
proportion," ordered that the camp be closed and all the remaining refugees
allowed into the country.

Among them was the woman who now lives in St. Albans, who settled into a
comfortable three-bedroom home with her sons and other relatives. But she said
her uncertain immigration status had left her unable to find a decent job. Like
most of the others, she gets by on public assistance, which pains her, she said.

"I don't want them," she said, stroking her thick corn braids and referring to
food stamps and Medicaid. "I didn't come here to live off the state. But I don't
have asylum."

One man refused to be interviewed at his home because he said it was not fit for
a guest. Standing on a street corner along Nostrand Avenue in Flatbush,
Brooklyn, he described the routine of loneliness his life has become -- days
spent wandering aimlessly around town, with an occasional trip to see his social
workers or lawyers, who are themselves overloaded with cases.

Like the others, he has no green card and has not held a job in more than four
years. Experts say there is little likelihood that the refugees will be
deported, even if their asylum applications are for some reason rejected, but
the legal limbo they live in wears on them.

"I'm constantly reminded that I'm not home," he said, a cigarette dangling
between his fingers as it slowly burned. "When I walk down the street, I don't
know when they're going to come and send me back. So I'm always on edge."

Getting asylum and finding work have been the most pressing goals for most of
the refugees. Many left spouses and children behind in Haiti, and still hope to
bring their families here one day. For some, the fact of their illness seems to
be pushed to a dark corner of a mind preoccupied with more immediate problems.

"I don't think it's as much denial," said Dr. Marie Carmel Pierre-Louis, program
director with the Haitian Coalition on AIDS, which is based in Brooklyn. "It's a
complete disbelief."

She said the refugees' treatment at Guantanamo had left them confused and deeply
suspicious.

The refugees, who were apparently mostly infected through heterosexual contact,
said they were not clearly informed of their status at Guantanamo. Instead, they
said, they were told that they had a "problem with their blood" and would be
kept apart from the thousands of their countrymen for a while. But they remained
isolated for more than a year and said they were beaten and abused.

"To them, being labeled H.I.V.-positive was part of a large conspiracy against
them," said Dr. Pierre-Louis, who worked with most of the refugees when they
were at Guantanamo. "Their thinking was that, 'If I was as sick as they said,
how come they didn't release me so I can get help?' "

Now, some are fatalistic about their situation. "I don't even think about it,"
said one man who now lives in East Flatbush with his wife and son. "We're all
going to die one day. So I take care of myself."

Mr. Dacy spends his days watching television and listening to a Creole-language
radio station in his bedroom, which also serves as a makeshift living room. He
rarely goes out and has no friends besides his social workers, he said. Mr.
Dacy's life is not here, in the fifth floor walk-up in Crown Heights. It lies in
the little plastic photo album perched at the edge of his bed, next to the
remote control.

In the album are images of the family Mr. Dacy left behind, and every day he
wonders whether he will see them again, or die first. He knows that he is in a
race against time, although he has not shown any symptoms of his infection. Mr.
Dacy, a small, stocky man, takes a daily cocktail of four medications in the
hope of keeping his illness at bay.

"They are awful," he said.

Mr. Dacy gets $615 a month to pay his rent, $120 in food stamps and Medicaid
coverage. He rents out a back room in his apartment for $215, some of which he
sends back to his family in Haiti. Despite his loneliness, Mr. Dacy said he
could not return to his home in "Cite Soleil," a vast expanse of cardboard huts
widely considered the most wretched slum in the Western Hemisphere. His home was
recently burned, he said, and his tormentors are still around.

Benedict Jean will not return home to Haiti either. His body lay peacefully last
month in the Gomez funeral home at the edge of Park Slope, Brooklyn, his coffin
surrounded by a wreath and two small potted plants.

The gathering was unusually small for a Haitian wake. There was no wailing, no
widow, no relatives; Mr. Jean's family members are all in Haiti. Those who came
to the wake -- the preacher, social workers and a couple of church members --
were all recent acquaintances, people whom Mr. Jean had met in the last days of
his life. They spoke of his courage, his determination until the very end to win
asylum in the adopted country where he died alone.

Although some of Mr. Jean's fellow refugees from Guantanamo have stayed in touch
with one another, none of them were at the wake either. "It is a reminder of
their own mortality," said Ronald Aubourg, a policy analyst with the Haitian
Centers Council in Brooklyn, who met the refugees at Guantanamo and has attended
nearly every wake and funeral. "They don't want to face that."

And as the refugees' cause has faded from public notice, most of the supporters
who once flocked to their defense have moved on.

"No one is around anymore," said one refugee, a woman who lives in Flatbush.
"When I'm hungry, there's no one to give me a dollar. I realize I have to help
myself."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amos Dacy, a Haitian refugee with H.I.V., spends his days alone
in his apartment in Brooklyn. "I think that if I had stayed in Haiti, I would
have been killed," he said. "Now I wonder if it's worse to die alone." (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 26, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Becoming An American

BYLINE: By John J. Miller;  John J. Miller is a political reporter for National
Review and the author of "The Unmaking of Americans."

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


At a soccer game against Mexico in February, the American national team listened
in frustration as a chorus of boos erupted during "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Thousands of fans threw cups and bottles at the United States players, often
striking them. They also attacked someone in the stands who tried to unfurl an
American flag.

The match didn't take place in Mexico City but in Los Angeles. Most of the fans
were Mexican or Mexican-American. The extreme reactions to their behavior were
disheartening but predictable. On one side, the columnist Pat Buchanan declared
that "the Melting Pot is freezing over." On the other, a Los Angeles Times
editorialist said that critics of the fans were "xenophobic, nativist,
protectionist and isolationist."

The United States is in the midst of an assimilation crisis -- one inspired not
by immigrants but by an American intelligentsia that has abandoned the struggle
to help newcomers assimilate. Neither left nor right knows how to respond to a
troubling incident like the Los Angeles soccer match.

On the right, nativists argue that immigrants are not capable of becoming
American. "Immigration is a failure because assimilation, contrary to national
myth, never really occurred," Chilton Williamson wrote recently in the magazine
Chronicles. Mr. Williamson, an editor and writer for the conservative monthly,
claims that the Ellis Island generation of immigrants never actually became
American.

On the left, multiculturalists say that immigrants should not have to become
American. As Juan Perea, a law professor at the University of Florida, says,
"Americanization must either be completely reworked or abandoned as a premise of
American identity." For many in the academic world, assimilation is nothing but
a gentrified form of ethnic cleansing.

Both sides have unfortunately ceded a sensible middle ground that supports some
level of immigration but also insists on assimilation. As a result, many
native-born Americans are confused about what, if anything, they should ask of
immigrants.

The Americanization movement of the early 20th century provides an effective
blueprint for how the United States should greet today's immigrants. The
original Americanizers believed that newcomers and natives would have to reach
an accord. Immigrants needed to become part of American society, rather than
mere sojourners in it. They had responsibilities to their new home, like
learning English, living by its laws and earning citizenship. Ultimately, they
were to dedicate themselves to the principles embodied in the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution that define American nationhood.

Natives had to keep their end of the bargain. "From the moment the immigrant
arrives in America, he needs the creative, aggressive attention of American
institutions," wrote Frances Kellor, a leading Americanizer, in 1916. She and
others set up classes and lectures and wrote publications on the English
language, American history and naturalization. They used various private and
public institutions, including corporations, schools and government offices, as
engines of assimilation. They gave speeches and held parades.

Many immigrants encountered severe discrimination, and in the 1920's nativist
groups like the Ku Klux Klan helped pass restrictive legislation that slowed
immigration to a trickle. For two decades before that, however, the original
Americanizers strove for the immigrant's full acceptance in and of American
society.

Today, Americans no longer know how to pass on the ideals that bind us together.
A mishmash of public policies actively inhibit the Americanization of
immigrants. Public schools engage in the charade of bilingual education, which
rarely teaches children to speak, read and write in English as well as they
could. Often it leaves them illiterate in two languages and fluent in none. That
failure is the reason that so many Hispanic and Asian parents in California
support Proposition 227, a state initiative that would get rid of bilingual
education and replace it with English-language immersion classes.

Government racial-preference policies treat people as members of groups rather
than as individuals, classifying them by the color of their skin. The
overburdened Immigration and Naturalization Service flirts with the idea of
eliminating the mandatory test on American history and government for new
citizens -- a change that threatens to lower the standards of naturalization so
far that the only requirement for full citizenship could consist of filling out
an application form, as if becoming an American were on a par with getting a
driver's license. The State Department looks the other way as more countries
encourage dual loyalties by enacting dual-citizenship laws that extend political
privileges, including the vote, to select American citizens.

In a remarkably short period, the United States has forgotten what to ask of its
newcomers. We must rediscover the lost idea of Americanization. Whether we
welcome few immigrants or many, we should give every stranger a chance and a
reason to become a patriotic American.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lars Leetaru)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 26, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Tarnished Golden Door: The Hidden Side of Ellis I.

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 735 words


ANY day now, the United States Supreme Court is expected to decide whether
jurisdiction over most of Ellis Island should go to New York State or to New
Jersey.

It isn't looking good for New York. A Court-appointed arbitrator has sided with
New Jersey, and while it is foolish to predict what the justices will do now,
they were clearly skeptical about New York's arguments when they heard the case
in January.

This is the New York-New Jersey dispute that really matters, not the spitball
fights across the Hudson over who can provide a better playground for bumptious
ball-club owners and pampered athletes. This struggle is over the very soul of
America, a country that was once so self-confident that it welcomed the
stranger, and even nursed him to health, at the immigrant way station that Ellis
Island was for 62 years.

But maybe it is time to forget about the Supreme Court, which will do what it
will do, and to turn instead to a place where the public can still be heard: to
Congress, which is mulling over a new financial plan to stop the appalling
deterioration of the island's south side.

This is not the side tourists see, the north side, whose main immigration
building was restored a decade ago and turned into an inspiring museum. The
south side is often called the sad side, and with good reason.

Until the island stopped receiving immigrants in 1954, it was a hospital complex
of 29 buildings and connecting corridors: laboratories, isolation rooms and
contagious-disease wards (and, yes, a morgue) that took care of foreigners who
were too sick to be let into the United States right away.

What has happened to this vital piece of America's past is a disgrace. There's
no other word for it.

Decades of neglect have made it a shambles. Rain pours in through broken
skylights, and bird droppings carpet stairways. Thick weeds burst through floors
and walls. Veils of ivy cover the windows. Steel beams are so rusted that the
National Park Service, the administrator of the site regardless of which state
has jurisdiction, warns that buildings could collapse in 5 to 10 years.

"It looks like a rain forest over there, and it didn't have to happen," said Peg
Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy. Her group spent $39,000
last year to fix up a single building and show the Government what a little
money can do. "If someone had only shut the windows, pulled away the vegetation
and cleaned the gutters, the whole complex would have been in better shape," Ms.
Breen said.

Representative Nita M. Lowey, a New York Democrat who has been pressing her
House colleagues to protect what is really a national shrine, added this
reminder: 40 percent of Americans trace their roots to someone who passed
through Ellis Island. "We're all immigrants," she said, "and this neglect is a
national tragedy."

WHY the south side was allowed to fall apart is hard to understand. But Congress
now has a chance to make amends.

Nobody is talking about a glorious restoration on the order of the $150 million
remodeling of the main immigration hall. The Park Service's goal is modest: to
stop the deterioration from getting any worse and to remove hazardous materials
like asbestos. Its request is a mere $6.6 million. That's chump change, enough
to keep the Federal Government running for two minutes.

The trick is to persuade Congress, which does not usually smile on New York,
that this rescue operation is for a landmark that "belongs to all America," as
Ms. Breen put it. To make its task somewhat easier, the Park Service has not
asked for a nickel in new spending.

Instead, it proposes tapping franchise fees that the Government already collects
from operators of the ferryboats and concession stands at Ellis Island and the
Statue of Liberty. That money, $4.5 million a year, would go specifically to
stabilize the Ellis Island buildings instead of landing, as now, in the general
treasury. Once the emergency work is done, the south side's ultimate fate can be
debated.

Preservationists in both New York and New Jersey support the plan, and Ms. Lowey
says the response thus far on Capitol Hill has been very positive.

But nothing is certain. Meanwhile, time continues to chip away at the south
side, where you walk the empty corridors and wonder what that sound is blowing
through the broken windows. The wind? Or is it America's heritage, whispering in
your ear?

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A building on the south side of Ellis Island.

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 27, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

THE ELLIS ISLAND VERDICT: THE RULING;
High Court Gives New Jersey Most of Ellis Island

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


New Jersey won the battle of Ellis Island today.

Five years after New Jersey sued New York in the Supreme Court to establish
sovereignty over the largely artificial mixture of rock and landfill in New York
Harbor, the Justices swept aside New York's appeal to history and sentiment and
ruled by a vote of 6 to 3 that the entire landfill part, nearly 90 percent of
the island, is New Jersey territory.

New Jersey even won a piece of the historic main immigration building, now a
museum run by the National Park Service, through which the ancestors of 40
percent of the country's current population passed on their immigrant journey to
a new world.

The fact that many of these immigrants thought -- indeed, were told -- that they
were arriving in New York carried no weight with the Court's majority today. The
Court based its decision on an 1834 compact between the two states, negotiated
at a time when Ellis Island was a three-acre Army fort, some six decades before
it became the Federal Government's main processing center for immigrants.

The 1834 compact provided that "New York shall retain its present jurisdiction"
over the island while New Jersey got the surrounding waters and submerged lands.

That meant, according to Justice David H. Souter's majority opinion, that the
subsequent more than 24 acres of landfill, added in stages from the 1890's until
1934, became part of New Jersey -- every inch of that landfill, the Court
emphasized in a part of the opinion that probably inflicted the most bitter blow
to New York's pride as well as to its hope of salvaging something from a case
that had gone badly from the start.

Because the Federal Government actually holds title to Ellis Island, as distinct
from the question of state jurisdiction, visitors are unlikely to notice any
difference. At issue is the allocation of a relatively small amount of sales tax
revenue and, farther down the road, possible development plans.

Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, who was in Washington to attend an unrelated
meeting, appeared on the Supreme Court steps several hours after the ruling to
declare victory. The decision showed that "New Jersey's place in history
shouldn't be questioned by anybody," she said. The Court ruled that Paul R.
Verkuil, a law professor whom the Justices had appointed as a special master to
conduct a hearing and make a recommendation in the case, had been too generous
to New York, even though his 168-page report last year favored New Jersey in
most major respects and left New York with a relative crumb.

Mr. Verkuil had concluded that while New Jersey was entitled to the landfill
part of the island, the resulting boundary line that ran through three of the
historic buildings should be adjusted in the interests of arriving at "the most
practical, convenient, just and fair" solution.

He proposed that New York be permitted to retain the entire main building as
well as a strip of landfill between the building and the ferry slip at which
tourists arrive on boats from the Battery in lower Manhattan.

That proposal, to which New Jersey had strenuously objected, was in error,
Justice Souter said. Once the Court decided that the 1834 compact dictated the
result, he explained, the Court had no jurisdiction to make further adjustments.

"We appreciate the difficulties of a boundary line that divides not just an
island but some of the buildings on it," Justice Souter said, "but these
drawbacks are the price of New Jersey's success in litigating under a compact
whose fair construction calls for a line so definite."

While Ellis Island has been a source of tension between the two states since
time immemorial -- New Jersey first sued New York in 1831 in a Supreme Court
case that was made moot by the 1834 compact -- New Jersey was prompted to file
the latest suit by a seemingly mundane Federal appeals court ruling in 1992.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan, ruled
that New York's law, and not New Jersey's, should apply to calculate an award
for damages sustained on the landfill part of the island.

The appeals court rejected the Federal Government's argument that New Jersey law
should apply because, the Government said, New Jersey had jurisdiction over the
landfill.

The next year, New Jersey revived the old dispute by suing New York directly in
the Supreme Court, as the Constitution provides for boundary disputes and other
cases between states.

Asked at a news conference today whether New Jersey might now relinquish
jurisdiction over the portions of the buildings that are in both states,
Governor Whitman said: "Of course we're not going to give them back to New York.
We've been 160 years in this battle and the Supreme Court has spoken pretty
clearly."

On the New York side, Gov. George E. Pataki and Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco
reached for poetry where legal arguments had failed them.

"Ellis Island will always mean more than boundaries drawn by men or by courts,"
the Attorney General said, adding, "Her future belongs to all Americans."

Governor Pataki said: "Ellis Island will always be part of New York in the
hearts and minds of the millions of immigrants who came to America seeking
freedom and liberty. This decision can never change that fact."

In fact, in a dissenting opinion, Justice John Paul Stevens emphasized the
belief not only of the 12 million immigrants who passed through the island from
1892 to 1954 but of the thousands of people who worked there that Ellis Island
was part of New York. His opinion included a facsimile of an identity card,
given to each immigrant and referring in eight languages to "landing at New
York."

Justice Stevens said that leaving New York's part as "an enclave within New
Jersey's share of the island" was a bizarre decision that was not only unfair to
New York but that failed to draw the "common-sense inference" that the entire
island should be considered part of New York. Justices Antonin Scalia and
Clarence Thomas also dissented.

Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M.
Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer joined Justice Souter's
opinion, New Jersey v. New York, No. 120 Original.

In a concurring opinion, Justices Breyer and Ginsburg, noting that "many of us
have parents or grandparents who landed as immigrants at 'Ellis Island, New
York,' " said they had assumed when this case was argued that the island would
prove to be "part and parcel" of New York. But the record proved otherwise, they
wrote with evident regret.

In his opinion, Justice Souter deprecated the historical evidence put forward by
New York and endorsed by Justice Stevens as "closer to famine than feast" and
"simply a grab bag of opinions shifting back and forth."

While the museum part of the main immigration building is on the original three
acres and is thus in New York, the building's kitchen and laundry are in the New
Jersey portion. The boathouse and a structure known as the baggage and dormitory
building will also be split between the two states.

Governor Whitman said today that she would appoint a commission to make
recommendations for preservation, renovation and development. There would be no
New Yorkers on the panel, she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: New York will retain 3.3 acres of Ellis Island under
yesterday's decision. Twelve million immigrants passed through the island from
1892 to 1954. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); Ellis Island as seen from New
Jersey. The Supreme Court awarded the landfill part of the island, or nearly 90
percent, to New Jersey yesterday. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

Map: The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that New Jersey owns the landfill part of
Ellis Island, leaving New York with only the 3.3 original acres.

NEW JERSEY -- 24.2 acres (landfill part; everything that is not orange)
NEW YORK -- 3.3 acres (orange; the original shape of the island)

Map highlights:
Morgue
New immigrant building
Powerhouse
Hospital
Administration
Ferry slip
Museum
Baggage and dormitory
Special master's recommendation for New York portion
(Source: National Park Service)(pg. A1)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Deported Killer Returns to U.S., Kills Brother Of First Victim

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 440 words


A Dominican immigrant, convicted for the 1991 slaying of a Brooklyn man and
deported last year after serving a prison term, sneaked back into the country
and killed his victim's brother, the police said yesterday.

The authorities said the immigrant, Eddie Nunez, 29, was paroled and immediately
deported to the Dominican Republic after serving five and a -half years for the
killing of Juan Suriel, 29.

Early Monday morning, Mr. Nunez, who was not supposed to return to the country,
authorities said, walked into Melinda's Restaurant in the Sunset Park section of
Brooklyn with two men.

A man was eating at a table. His name was Pedro Suriel, 30, the police said. He
recognized Mr. Nunez and approached him, witnesses told the police.

"I know you," Mr. Suriel said in Spanish. "You killed my brother."

"Yeah," Mr. Nunez answered. "Now, I'm going to kill you."

Mr. Nunez, his companions and Mr. Suriel filed outside, and Mr. Suriel, like his
brother, died at the hands of Eddie Nunez, the police said.

Mr. Suriel was left to bleed on the sidewalk with stab wounds to the head,
chest, neck and hands, said Detective Joseph Pentangelo, a spokesman for the
Police Department. He died at Methodist Hospital, the detective said.

Mr. Nunez, whose address was not known, is still at large. Investigators said
that one of his accomplices may have been his brother, Juan Carlos Nunez, who
was a co-defendant in the 1991 killing of Juan Suriel.

In that case, the Nunez brothers were arrested and originally charged with
murder, the authorities said. The charges against Juan Carlos Nunez were
dropped, and Eddie Nunez plead guilty in January 1991 to a reduced charge of
manslaughter. He was sentenced to 32 months to 8 years in prison for the crime.

Last October, after serving more than five years in prison, Mr. Nunez was
paroled directly to the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which deported him to his home country of the Dominican Republic.

Immigrants who are convicted of violent felonies are immediately deported after
serving their prison terms.

It was unclear last night whether Mr. Nunez was ever a legal resident of the
United States.

In the last few years, with increased financing from Congress, stricter laws and
better organization, the I.N.S. has been able to keep track of people like Mr.
Nunez, so that they can be deported as soon as they have completed their
sentences. But Mr. Nunez's case lays bare a problem with the deportation system:
the criminals who are deported find it easy to return.

Authorities believe Mr. Nunez may have re-entered the country through Puerto
Rico.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Bilingual Education Is Facing Push Toward Abandonment

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2191 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif.


Bilingual education, once widely hailed as a humane and sound method of
immigrant assimilation, has fallen into disfavor, disparaged as a bureaucratic
boondoggle, even by many of the people it was primarily designed to serve: the
nation's increasing Hispanic minority.

On June 2, California voters are expected to endorse Proposition 227, which will
eliminate the hundreds of bilingual programs in a state that is home to nearly
half of the pupils in the United States with limited English proficiency,
setting the stage for similar attacks on such programs nationwide.

If it passes, Proposition 227, which essentially limits help for non-native
speakers to a year of intensive English instruction, will mark an extraordinary
intervention by voters into classrooms to mandate teaching methods, a sign of
the growing importance of education in the nation's political debate.

The shift in the fortunes of the nation's bilingual education system has been
pronounced, the result of flagging support among its main constituents, Hispanic
Americans, a growing political resistance to education bureaucracies, and the
sense that, despite many studies, there was no conclusive evidence that it
worked. Behind that erosion of support is a stubborn statistic: the high dropout
rate of Hispanic youths.

According to the National Center for Educational Statistics, the school dropout
rate recorded in 1995 for Hispanic students born in the United States remained
at 17.9 percent, but that of Hispanic immigrants was 46.2 percent. This compares
with a drop-out rate of 12.2 percent of blacks and 8.6 percent of whites.
Foreign-born blacks and whites had lower drop-out rates than those who were born
in the United States.

Because three-quarters of schoolchildren nationwide who speak limited English
are Hispanic, and because bilingual education is often made to stand for the
whole question of educating foreign-language children, the failure of the
schools to educate Hispanic youths is often discussed interchangeably with
bilingual education as if they were the same thing. But in fact, most Hispanic
students do not study in bilingual classes because there are simply not enough
classes to accommodate their rapidly growing numbers.

Moreover, most bilingual classes take place in underfunded school districts,
adding to the difficulty of assessing their effectiveness. In California, only
30 percent of the students with limited English ability are in bilingual classes
because there is a shortage of about 20,000 bilingual teachers in the state. And
there is no known difference in dropout rates between those in bilingual classes
and those of similar background studying only in English.

Crucial Division On Supporting Plan

While the California initiative is the work of a white Republican Silicon Valley
millionaire named Ronald K. Unz, it is backed, according to repeated opinion
polls, by at least half of the state's Hispanic voters.

In fact, Mr. Unz said his interest was prompted by a strike in 1996 by
Mexican-American parents who protested that their children were forced into
bilingual education classes.

Another Hispanic American against the initiative is Virginia Martinez, a former
bilingual education teacher in Santa Ana, a town an hour south of downtown Los
Angeles with the largest concentration of Hispanic immigrants and their
offspring in the country, according to national census data.

Here, where the issues of immigrant absorption and bilingual education are
particularly pronounced, Ms. Martinez tests for English competency at Taft
Elementary School, which has foregone bilingual education for the past 13 years,
favoring English immersion, the aim of Proposition 227.

"I kept seeing kids doing poorly in the upper grades after they had gone through
bilingual education," Ms. Martinez said. "There was no transition to English. I
felt that bilingual education was holding them back."

In the school, Hispanic and Asian children learn in English from the first day,
with the occasional translation help of teacher aides. High scores reflect clear
success, although Taft serves a more middle-class and ethnically mixed
population than many other schools with bilingual programs.

At the same time, Pio Pico Elementary School, just a few miles away, is a
reminder of what bilingual education was supposed to be. Built on a lot once
overrun by gangs, now an oasis of learning and community involvement, Pio Pico
serves a uniform population of low-income Mexican and Central American
immigrants who believe deeply in bilingual education.

"With bilingual education, I am involved with my daughter's schooling," said
Martha Leon, a housekeeper whose daughter, Lizeth, is in fourth grade. "My
daughter is learning English, but because of the Spanish, I feel the school is
mine."

Limits Were Enacted In Some Other States

 This issue is not confined to California. Backed by a broad range of
politicians, including then-Gov. Ronald Reagan, today's bilingual education
emerged from the civil rights era and was supported by its own Supreme Court
decision, the 1974 Lau v. Nichols ruling. The court ordered states to give
special help to students who did not speak English, but did not specify what
remedy the states should use.

Aside from California, 10 states mandate bilingual education and most others
permit it. Since 1968, when Congress first passed the Bilingual Education Act,
the Federal Government has helped fund it. And while not one of those programs
yet faces a broad initiative like that in California, all are under debate if
not outright attack and curtailment.

In Chicago and Denver, school boards have recently limited bilingual classes to
three years; in Arizona, the legislature has voted to limit funding for them to
four years. In Albuquerque, N.M., parents are suing the school system, asserting
that bilingual classes segregate their children, an accusation that had been
leveled at New York State by Brooklyn parents three years ago. This followed a
Board of Education report asserting that bilingual programs had failed to teach
children as effectively as those in English-only classes.

Extra Factors Skew Statistics, Some Say

Supporters of bilingual education contend that the programs have never been
adequately supported or implemented, and are thus unfairly blamed for the
shortcomings of Hispanic education in this country. What is clear is that
demographics will only add urgency to the debate. In California alone, 100,000
Mexicans arrive legally each year, a vast immigration from a single country that
is slowing the Mexicans' assimilation. Within half a century, Hispanic Americans
are expected to constitute 25 percent of the United States' population, making
their education an issue of enormous long-term consequence.

Among scholars, views on bilingual education remain largely positive but even
there, disillusion can be felt over the sloppiness of research and the
difficulty of drawing conclusions. The programs' failings are acknowledged
though they are not attributed to any theoretical weaknesses.

"I am fairly certain that if you control for all other factors -- rates of
poverty, teacher training, school climate -- and just study the process of
language acquisition, you have a slight edge for bilingual education. But that
edge is extremely small," said Kenji Hakuta, professor of education at Stanford
University and chairman of a panel that produced a recent National Research
Council report on educating children with limited English.

"People are genuinely and appropriately dissatisfied, but they are misdiagnosing
the problem," Professor Hakuta said. "The kids are learning English. The problem
is that they are not progressing in school subject matters."

Professor Hakuta, like other opponents of Proposition 227, say that because it
forbids bilingual education except under exceptional circumstances and requires
all children to fit into one unproven method of educational transition, it is
poorly conceived and dangerous.

Mr. Unz and his supporters counter that their plan is based on European models
that do work.

Too Little Progress In Too Much Time

One problem in the debate is the varying definition of bilingual education and
the many programs that come under its rubric, from English as a second language
to so-called structured immersion, which is mostly English instruction with some
subject content thrown in -- to true bilingual teaching.

In its most widely understood form, bilingual education teaches academic
subjects to immigrant children in their native languages while, at the same
time, gradually instructing them in English so that after a few years they join
regular classes.

The idea is that instead of losing time learning English before entering school
or having to struggle in English before they are ready, these children can keep
up with their grade levels while gradually transferring into mainstream classes.

Important elements of the theory behind this plan were provided in the last
quarter-century by Jim Cummins, a professor of education at the University of
Toronto. He argued that learning to read in one's native language makes it
easier to read in a second language and that the more children master in their
first language, the more they will be able to master in the second.

Practical experience backed these theories in part. When children arrived in the
United States well-schooled, they made the transition to English classes easily.
They understood how a language worked and were able to transfer their skills.

The problems occurred mostly with children who were either born in the United
States to Spanish-speaking households or had received inadequate schooling
before immigrating. Teaching those children for years in their native language
before allowing the transition to English seems to have done them little good.

As Charles L. Glenn, professor of education policy at Boston University, put it:

"Someone who plays soccer will learn to play American football faster than
someone else who has never played a sport. But that does not make it efficient
to teach soccer first if the goal is football. We should build on academic
skills if a child already has them in another language but we should not make
developing new ones in that language a priority."

Still, the research on bilingual education is notoriously inconclusive, and
studies often seem to be done by scholars seeking to bolster their own views.
The original theory of bilingual education was that students would move out of
their native languages as rapidly as possible into English, normally in one to
three years. But that approach has lagged, with many students staying six to
seven years in primary language classes both because they were not yet fluent
enough in English and because of more complex reasons.

Some Spanish-language teachers felt protective of students and feared that they
would be mistreated in mainstream classes. Others simply found it easier to
instruct pupils in Spanish and thus made insufficient effort to teach in
English.

Still others believed that the longer native speakers were taught in their
language, the more easily they would learn subjects in English.

For the backers of Proposition 227, the dragging transition to English is what
is wrong with bilingual education. They also say it has developed its own
bureaucracy and budgets -- replete with extra money for schools with students
who stay in bilingual education and salary bonuses for bilingual teachers. They
say it has lost sight of the children's welfare and that the country has
historically, and successfully, relied on quick assimilation through English.

The truth is more complicated. Richard Rothstein, a researcher at the Economic
Policy Institute in Washington has written a book called "The Way We Were?"
(Century Foundation Press, 1998) in which he demonstrates how poorly immigrants
from Italy, Poland and Russia did in school in the early part of the century
without bilingual education. For example, in 1931, only 11 percent of the
Italian students who entered high school graduated compared with 40 percent for
all students.

When bilingual education was established in the 1960's, it was boosted partly by
the assertion that the American economy depended on its citizens' ability to do
business abroad.

Today, English is the international language, far more dominant than it was 30
years ago. Parents across the globe are demanding more and earlier English
instruction for their children and many foreign-born parents here consider
mastery of English to be fundamental for their children. This, too, has weakened
the case for bilingual education and driven voters toward Proposition 227.

But at Pio Pico, there is a feeling that all they have worked toward is
endangered. When asked what they would do if the initiative passed, Judith
Magsaysay, the principal, half joked that she would go to jail rather than stop
using Spanish to help her pupils. When the parents around the table heard her,
they said in chorus, "Don't worry. We'll bring you tortillas in prison."


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Veronica Lares, an instructional aide at Taft Elementary School
in Santa Ana, Calif., teaching English words to her pupils in an immersion
class. Thais Sainz using an English-as-a-second-language class to help pupils
like Juanita Quintana at Pio Pico Elementary School in Santa Ana, Calif.
(Photographs by Kim Kulish for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What Shall We Ask of Immigrants?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 121 words



To the Editor:

Regarding John J. Miller's May 26 Op-Ed article, it seems to me that by offering
bilingual classes to immigrants and not requiring literacy in English when
naturalized citizens vote, we are debasing the value of citizenship.

Furthermore, the task of perpetuating foreign cultures should be the job of each
ethnic group and not of the educational system.

As a refugee from Nazi Germany in 1938, I made it my business to learn English
as quickly as possible, as did every member of my family. When I reached voting
age, I would have found it an insult if I had been permitted to exercise my
franchise using instructions in my native language.

HERMAN SCHLOSS
Tucson, Ariz., May 27, 1998

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What Shall We Ask of Immigrants?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 124 words



To the Editor:

John J. Miller (Op-Ed, May 26) paints an inaccurate picture of the early
20th-century movement of Americanization, which was not simply helpful classes
and encouraging speeches and parades. It was a complex movement whose members
sometimes did as much harm as those who advocated assimilation through programs
that funneled immigrants into low-wage jobs and segregated neighborhoods.
Institutionalized Americanization in the 1990's would probably be pretty much
the same.

The United States is a country of people of all ethnicities. The integration of
people of different cultures and the flux of cultural characteristics constitute
the strength of American society.

REBECCA GARDEN
Brooklyn, May 27, 1998

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration. (Michael Morgenstern)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What Shall We Ask of Immigrants?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words



To the Editor:

John J. Miller's claim that "the United States is in the midst of an
assimilation crisis" (Op-Ed, May 26) ignores the distinction between
"assimilation" and "acculturation."

Assimilation refers to the loss of ethnic identity, the old "melting pot" ideal.
Acculturation refers to the process whereby immigrants and their descendants
learn the basic language, norms, values and skills in the new culture. European
immigrants in the late 19th and early 20th centuries wanted assimilation.

More recent immigrants, mainly from Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, take
more pride in their ethnic origins and culture.

Mexican immigrants have come mainly from less affluent origins than immigrants
from, say, Cuba and India, and have not had the necessary outside educational
support essential for success, as Mr. Miller observes. They have experienced
serious declines in family life experiences over three generations -- higher
rates of single parenting, divorce, delinquency and drug addiction. There is
widespread frustration and anger in the community, and they are less likely to
feel "patriotic."

BETTY YORBURG
New York, May 27, 1998

The writer is a professor of sociology at City College, CUNY.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What Shall We Ask of Immigrants?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 190 words



To the Editor:

John J. Miller's exhortation for every immigrant to "become a patriotic
American" is troublesome in its insistence that the Americanization movement of
the early 20th century "provides an effective blueprint for how the United
States should greet today's immigrants" (Op-Ed, May 26).

Far from benignly insisting on immigrants learning English, living by American
laws and earning citizenship, the Americanization movement was nativist and
coercive. Central to the movement were an insistence that immigrants speak no
language other than English, a wholesale assault on immigrants' culture and
customs, and the deportation of alien "radicals" who expressed unpopular views.

Today we live in a far more complex society, and the question of assimilation
becomes more difficult. There is a lack of agreement on what immigrants should
be assimilating to. Research by the sociologist Ruben Rumbaut shows that as
immigrant students assimilate to the American norm, they spend less time on
homework and more time watching television and have higher dropout rates.

ANNA O. LAW
Austin, Tex., May 26, 1998

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Presbyterians Devise Plan To Diversify Denomination

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 729 words


In response to changing immigration patterns, officials of the Presbyterian
Church (USA) have created a plan to help the 2.6 million-member denomination
raise the proportion of members who belong to ethnic minority groups by half, to
10 percent by 2005.

A detailed report to be presented to the church's General Assembly, its top
policy-making body, which meets June 13-20 in Charlotte, N.C., cites news
reports and population statistics that immigration from Asia, Africa and Latin
America is increasing the nation's ethnic diversity, and declares that "a
predominantly Anglo, suburban and middle class denomination like the
Presbyterian Church" needs a strategy to account for that.

The report said that "any institution with intentions to grow must make
provisions to attract and enlist an overall membership that is diverse in
nature."

Reversing a membership decline has long been a concern among Presbyterians, who,
like several other Protestant churches, have suffered a loss of members since
the 1970's. Lately, that trend has shown signs of moderating within some
denominations. Presbyterians reported that they lost about 22,000 members last
year, after losing about 33,000 in each of the two previous years.

"The church recognizes it needs to grow," said the Rev. Jovelino Ramos,
associate director for racial and ethnic ministries, "and the church recognizes
here's an area that could provide a major part of that growth."

Currently, blacks, Hispanics, Asians and American Indians account for less than
7 percent of the denomination. African-Americans have been most visible, if only
because the General Assembly has twice since 1989 elected black ministers to
one-year terms as moderator, one of the denomination's top two offices. Among
them is the current moderator, the Rev. Patricia G. Brown.

In 1996, the assembly voted to set a goal of raising Presbyterians' minority
membership to 10 percent by 2005 and 20 percent by the decade beginning 2010.

In recommending that the denomination help predominantly minority congregations
to grow and start other congregations, the report, Mr. Ramos said, offers a
theological statement that native-born and immigrant minority members are
"partners in mission" with the larger church.

Because growth will require more ministers, church officials recommended in
their report that the denomination's seminaries have faculty members who know
minority communities and that recruitment of minority students be increased.
They also recommended that the church foster fellowship groups among immigrants
as a step toward forming congregations.

Of the denomination's approximately 11,300 congregations, about 450 are
predominantly African-American, 320 are Korean-American and 150 are Hispanic.
But in recent years, the church has added congregations whose members represent
immigrant groups: Mexicans, Brazilians and Taiwanese, as well as Iranians,
Sudanese and Ghanaians, among others.

"That's been happening gradually," said Rosalie Potter, associate director of
evangelism and church development, "and it's very easy to overlook what's been
happening gradually."

The immigrants who have affiliated with the denomination are often from
communities in their native countries that were converted years ago by
Presbyterian missionaries. "For years, the churches have sent out missionaries,"
Ms. Potter said. "And people are coming to this land and looking to be connected
to" the religious group that dispatched the original missionaries, she said.

In adding immigrant congregations, the Presbyterians have not been alone. In
May, the news office of the United Methodist Church reported that the number of
Korean-American congregations within that denomination had grown from fewer than
20 to more than 280 since the mid-1970's.

Ms. Potter and other Presbyterian officials said that in reaching out to
immigrant groups, the church recognized it could play a greater role in helping
immigrants adjust to the United States, in part by being connected to other
immigrant congregations.

In trying to achieve their membership goal, the Presbyterians may benefit from
ongoing talks between their denomination and the 30,000-member Korean
Presbyterian Church in America. "They are not merger talks at this point, but
both sides are leaving the door open," said Jerry Van Marter, a Presbyterian
Church spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends: Leaving America;
Ireland, New Promised Land

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

DATELINE: YONKERS, N.Y.


BETWEEN retrieving thrown juice cups and cleaning up crushed cookies, the moms
in the mother-toddler group at the Irish Community Center here talk about home.
But unlike generations of homesick Irish women before them, many of them aren't
just talking. They're going.

With the Irish economy thriving and now an agreement for peace in the
long-bloody North -- resoundingly ratified in a referendum last weekend -- the
motherland's pull on its exiles in America seems more powerful than ever. Many
young Irish adults are breaking with earlier generations of Irish immigrants who
settled in the United States for good: The Irish Government reports that over
the last two years, 13,000 more Irish moved back to Ireland from America than
went the other way.


Reversal

That reversal breaks with previous decades of Irish immigration to the United
States, one of the oldest, largest, most sustained and most culturally
influential migration flows of American history -- reaching nearly a million in
the 1850's after the Irish potato famine, but dwindling lately to just a few
thousand a year.

For a few years now, the Irish have been celebrating the surprising return of
their countrymen from England and Australia as well as America, a trend that the
peace agreement seems sure to accelerate. Now the Irish in America, who once saw
little choice but to come here, are confronted with a happy dilemma: choosing
between this land of opportunity and a land more familiar to them that has been
newly vested with promise.

To economists, Ireland is now "the Celtic tiger." Thanks largely to American and
other foreign investments in high-tech manufacturing plants for computers,
pharmaceuticals and other products, newly created jobs have brought unemployment
in Ireland down to 9 percent from nearly 16 percent in 1993. Investors, in turn,
are bullish largely because next year Ireland (unlike neighboring Britain) will
adopt the European Union's unified currency, the euro. Participation in the euro
imposes economic discipline on countries using it and is expected to reduce the
cost of doing business within the European Union.

Jerry J. Sexton, a labor-market specialist for the Economic and Social Research
Institute in Dublin, said most of those returning from the States are in their
mid-20's to mid-30's, and usually have some education or skills.

Across the Atlantic, his assessment is affirmed in interviews with Irish
immigrants. James Dalton, an Irishman who owns Dublin Construction Inc. in
Woodside, Queens, said he typically employs 20 of his countrymen as carpenters
or laborers -- and typically one leaves for home every week. After spending the
day refitting a pub in mahogany, two of his 20-year-old carpenters -- both out
of Ireland just two months -- ordered a round of Guinness and confided their
dream: saving enough money to start a construction business back home.

In many of the Irish bars that dot New York, similar stories are being told,
some that sound much like the fantastic tales that envious dreamers in the Old
World once told about America. Seamus Gillespie, a 44-year-old asbestos remover
who was sharing a pint and a cigarette with a co-worker and his fiancee at
another bar in Woodside, leaned in to give the news about the Irish economy.
"They're not building houses," he said. "They're building mansions!"

Whole Households

Historians of American immigration say revolving-door migrations like this one
are nothing new, despite popular myths about America as the promised land. But
they note that the Irish exodus is unusual in that it seems to involve whole
households (as opposed to men without families), making the departure of the
Irish more noticeable.

Dr. Kerby A. Miller, a history professor at the University of Missouri who
specializes in Irish immigration, calls the turnabout simply astonishing for a
people long motivated by starvation and political and religious repression to
forsake their homeland. In the past, he said, "Irish immigrants longed to
return, at least sentimentally, but they realized it was impractical or
impossible."

Among the factors motivating the new Irish returnees, Irish immigration
counselors say, are frustrations and delays in winning American citizenship,
given the United States' current anti-immigrant political climate. Lately,
though, the peace agreement for the British province of Northern Ireland
provides another incentive for those already weighing a decision to return.

Arriving at the Irish Community Center in Yonkers to pick up his wife and young
son, Andrew J. Convery, a taxi driver from the Bronx, said the prospect of peace
was a big factor in their decision to return. A Catholic from Northern Ireland,
he came here six years ago in search of the American dream, and met his future
wife, Kerry, a Catholic from Dublin, when he picked her up as a fare. Now they
are moving back so their 1-year-old, Ciaran, can be raised the way they were.
But without the bombs. "Before, there wasn't much to go back to," Mr. Convery
said.

The Irish exodus raises as yet unanswerable questions about the subtler cultural
effects on two countries that have long drawn on each other's richness. Several
neighborhoods in Queens and the Bronx look like Potemkin Irish villages:
Newsstands sell papers from each Irish county, convenience stores carry ox-tail
soup mix and butcher shops offer grouse. Lately in the United States, Irish
culture, once shunned by the upper crust, has enjoyed a broad revival. "Angela's
Ashes," Frank McCourt's Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir of growing up poor in
Limerick (interestingly enough, after his family returned from America), has
been on The New York Times Best-Seller List for 89 weeks. And in recent years,
"Lord of the Dance," the choreographed extravaganza created by Michael Flatley,
an Irish-American, has made Irish folk-dancing almost hip.

The Irish cultural vibrancy here could be diluted by Ireland's new drawing
power, says Dr. Timothy J. Meagher, the director of the Center for Irish Studies
at Catholic University in Washington.

"If you lose the immigrant base, it threatens the culture," he said.

The flow of Irish from the United States can be expected to increase as the
Irish Government and business groups rev up the welcome wagon. Ireland's
Department of Social Welfare, which earlier published "Thinking of Going to
London?" and "Thinking of Going to the United States?" last year switched gears
and put out "Thinking of Returning to Ireland?" -- a guide to housing, pensions
and workers' rights. A hopeful headline asked, "Home for Good?" A private group
called Returned Emigrants was started last year and has grown to 180 members in
three chapters; they gather to vent shared frustrations, including their
experiences with the pokey Irish telephone service.

To other returnees, however, such flaws are quaint reflections of a more
leisurely pace of life, which to them is one of Ireland's big draws. Pauline A.
McGovern, who moved back to County Kerry in May with her husband, Brendan, and
their son, said that within days of returning, her husband found work as a
plumber. When they lived in Yonkers, he had to leave every workday at 6:45 A.M.
to catch a train and then the subway for work in Manhattan. Now, he hops on his
bike at 8:55 and rides 20 blocks to work -- and comes home at noon for dinner.
Their 3-year-old son, Ryan, sleeps three hours later. "I think it's in the air,"
Mrs. McGovern said.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A reverse migration from the U.S. back to Ireland has affected
businesses like Dublin Construction Inc., which loses an employee a week.
Working in Queens last week were from left, Raymond Cox, Mike Browne, Paul
Rafferty and Paul Tynan. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

Chart: "The Irish Are Coming, and Going" shows number of Irish natives who have
moved to America and those who have returned to Ireland, from 1992 through 1997.
(Source: Central Statistics Office, Irish Government)(pg. 4)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 1, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Crackdowns Have Smugglers Trying New Routes, Officials Say

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 820 words


The startling news that a small white powerboat ran aground yesterday at a
resort town on the Jersey shore, spilling nearly two dozen immigrants from
China, came almost exactly five years after a shipwrecked freighter named the
Golden Venture dumped nearly 300 Chinese men and women into the sea off Far
Rockaway, Queens.

As familiar as it appeared, the journey of the Oops II -- as the boat that
landed at Bay Head in Ocean County on Saturday night was improbably named -- has
become a rarity in recent years, immigration officials and specialists in the
smuggling of Chinese immigrants said yesterday.

Now that American intelligence officials are scrutinizing smuggling rings
overseas and Coast Guard vessels are prowling the seas looking for ships packed
with human cargo, smugglers who once sailed directly from the coast of China to
the East or West coasts of the United States seldom dock on American shores.

Instead, smuggling rings from all over the world have diversified their routes.
Would-be immigrants are now more likely to board a ship from China to any one of
a number of ports around the world, including Bombay and Santo Domingo in the
Dominican Republic, said Peter Kwong, a historian who has written extensively
about Chinese immigration.

In those alternative ports, Mr. Kwong said, the smugglers are able to procure
fraudulent documents and send the immigrants to the United States on a
commercial flight. He said the smugglers, known as snakeheads, often chose ports
where "the possibility of corruption and evasion is high."

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington,
Russell A. Bergeron, said smugglers also sailed from China to South and
Southeast Asia before boarding planes to Eastern Europe, the Middle East and
Central America. From there the immigrants fly to the United States.

In the last five years, Border Patrol agents have reported about 1.5 million
arrests at the country's Southwest border. The vast majority involve Mexicans
and Central Americans, but immigration officials have seen a gradual increase
there in the number of Chinese, Indians and Pakistanis -- "nationalities whom we
would not typically see at the Southwest border," Mr. Bergeron said.

In the last year, Federal Border Patrol agents caught about two dozen Chinese
immigrants trying to cross the border illegally from Mexico to Arizona, Federal
immigration officials said. In 1996, two Pakistani men were drowned while
swimming across the Rio Grande to Texas.

The price that Chinese immigrants pay to be smuggled has climbed, Mr. Kwong said
-- to about $45,000 today from $30,000 in the days of the Golden Venture, five
years ago. The young men who came ashore Saturday night, including one
17-year-old, told the authorities in New Jersey that they paid $40,000 apiece.
It is not clear whether they made the entire journey by sea. The authorities
said it was possible that they sailed from China on a larger ship and switched
to the 28-foot powerboat close to the New Jersey shore.

Only the most desperate people, Mr. Kwong observed, would be willing to make the
entire journey by sea. "There are so many bad stories about the horrendous
conditions on these ships," he said. "It is not the preferred way. This could
have been an inexperienced smuggler."

Federal immigration officials said yesterday they did not know why the smugglers
relied on this unpopular mode of transportation, or where the immigrants boarded
the Oops II, which is registered at the Wright Island Marina in New Rochelle,
N.Y.  But the officials credited stepped-up intelligence and enforcement efforts
for having stanched the flow of shiploads of smuggled immigrants.

In June 1993, when the freighter Golden Venture, packed with 286 Chinese
immigrants, ran aground on a sandbar off Far Rockaway, 10 passengers died after
jumping into the cold, black sea below.

Since then, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have been
posted in several cities around the world, including three in China, to
investigate international smuggling rings. Coast Guard cutters have stopped
ships packed with smuggled Chinese immigrants near Mexico and Central America.
And Congress has stiffened penalties against those convicted of alien smuggling:
last month, for instance, the leaders of a ring that smuggled deaf Mexican
immigrants into the United States and held them in lives of servitude were
sentenced to 13 years in Federal prison.

At the same time, smugglers, using a global web that often involves
organized-crime groups of several nationalities, have grown increasingly
sophisticated, shifting routes and vessels as swiftly as they are discovered by
American authorities.

"The smugglers have attempted to diversify their method as much as possible,"
Mr. Bergeron said. "They have the organization and finances and resources to
change their routes" when enforcement shifts.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 1, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Landing Creates Stir in a Seaside Town

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: BAY HEAD, N.J., May 31


Residents of this wealthy seaside community reacted today with a mixture of
sympathy and flippancy as they learned that 22 Chinese immigrants landed here on
Saturday night.

"It's so sad," said Kim Morris, owner of a fashion boutique that sells Lilly
Pulitzer clothes. "They spend their life savings to get here, they survive weeks
on a boat -- not that I approve of illegal aliens, but it's sad."

Michelle Hoy said that the immigrants had probably paid thousands of dollars to
be smuggled into the United States. "You know how long it took them to make that
money?" Ms. Hoy said.

Others, speculating that the boat named the Oops II, which was carrying the
immigrants, had made a wrong turn, noted the irony of economically desperate
immigrants washing up in the borough of Bay Head, where expensive cars are
parked in nearly every driveway. "It's just perfect," Katie Dempsey said. "This
is probably the most affluent town on the Jersey Shore."

Bay Head, in Ocean County, is about 50 miles south of New York City. It
encompasses 1.3 square miles and has a population of 1,300. Many residents
referred to the immigrants' landing as the "Chinese invasion," and news of it
swept through town faster than word travels when the sea bass are biting.

By early afternoon, residents and tourists who stayed behind were doing their
best to come up with a good rumor to explain the immigrants' arrival.

Clayton Smith, whose house sits atop the dunes at the foot of Mount Street a few
yards from where the Oops II ran aground, said he was sure the immigrants must
have come from a "mother ship" somewhere offshore. But he had another theory for
why the boat ran so far up the beach. "They must have been chased by someone,"
he said.

"No, here's what happened," said Boyd Fletcher, visiting from Portsmouth, Va.
"They were supposed to be going on to New York. They paid $5,000 a person to get
here. They had a contact on shore somewhere.

"I'm making it up," he added, "but I also think it's true. I think it happens
all the time."

Wyndham Anderson of Princeton Junction, who had brought the Fletchers to Bay
Head, agreed. "They were looking for the subway," he said.

Holding her beach bonnet with both hands in the wind, Lorraine Nowicki of
Whiting said she was glad all 22 immigrants had been detained, but surprised
that they had made it ashore. "Where are all the patrol boats that are supposed
to be patrolling?" she said. "I think it's unfair that they should come here,
make our money, and send it back to China, while we're here starving anyway."

Tim Fitzgerald, 15, said he thought the whole thing was "pretty crazy -- but
it's exciting. Nothing much ever happens in this town."

To Harold Seickendick, enjoying a Budweiser at Marlins, a restaurant on the edge
of town, the landing of the Oops II was just a bother. "I fish off the Mount
Street jetty. That's my spot. And they ruined it," he said. "I went up to check
the fish at 7:30 this morning, and it was all closed off with police tape."


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 1, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians and H.I.V.

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words



To the Editor:

Re "Haitians Bear H.I.V. Alone, Waiting for Word on Asylum" (front page, May
25):

Amos Dacy, a Haitian refugee with H.I.V., may be jobless and homesick, but he is
not destitute. He is also receiving the most up-to-date treatment, which is
keeping him and tens of thousands of other immigrants in the United States in
good health. In contrast, the typical H.I.V. or AIDS patient in the Caribbean at
best has access to a couple of drugs -- certainly not the advanced treatment
program Mr. Dacy is receiving.

In his own country, access to this kind of treatment is unlikely.

This disparity in care is an international disgrace. And while it is true that
some in the United States face similar problems, Amos Dacy is comparatively well
off considering his medical condition.

BERNARD S. ROY
Miami, May 25, 1998

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 4, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 38 words


An article on Tuesday about illegal Chinese immigrants who were smuggled into
New Jersey misspelled the name of the executive director of the Chinese Staff
and Workers Association in New York. He is Wing Lam, not Wang Lim.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Refugees, Musicians and Ferries;
Displaced on Stanton St. Were Treated Callously

SECTION: Section 14; Page 17; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 254 words



To the Editor:

I was shocked to read about the callousness and cruelty with which Mayor
Guiliani and the city treated the residents of 172 Stanton Street ("The Angry
Urban Refugees," May 10). For a city that prides itself on its immigrant
history, this is a flagrant slap in the face to this tradition, as the city's
moves have deliberately and unjustly wrecked the lives of these residents.

The city's taking such a thoughtless approach against a building full of
immigrants, poor and elderly is even more disturbing. For a middle- or
upper-class family, the loss of one's home and possessions would be a blow. But
for those who are marginalized from society, the same experience can crumble
their fragile social stability, leaving them little to fall back on, and pushing
them further into poverty and reliance on government support.

Mr. Guiliani has repeatedly emphasized his desire to cut back welfare, food
pantry, public housing, rolls and budgets. However, allowing these people to
quickly return to their apartments to retrieve the things they needed and valued
the most, could have saved money in both aid to the homeless families and
pending lawsuits now levied against the city. If Mr. Guiliani truly values the
immigrant tradition as much as he claims, and cares to raise the "quality of
life" for all, he should place as much value on the lives of the poor, foreign,
elderly, as he does on the business, Upper West and Upper East Side interests.

ANNA SEGUR
Prospect Heights, Brooklyn

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Factory Chief Faces Charges Of Labor Abuse

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 568 words


Over the last two years, 100 Chinese immigrants toiling in a small garment
factory in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn produced as many as 30,000 pieces
of girls' sportswear a week for a Manhattan-based clothes manufacturer, workers
said. They routinely logged 12-hour shifts, seven days a week, and in a handful
of cases worked 24-hour shifts filling orders from the manufacturer, Street Beat
Sportswear.

Yesterday, State Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco announced the filing of 31
criminal charges against the general manager of the Sunset Park factory, Jian
Wen Liang, including violating state minimum wage laws, illegally firing
employees and failing to pay wages. No charges were filed against Street Beat.

State officials said the case was one of the worst examples of exploitation of
workers in the city's garment industry in recent years. Lawyers representing the
workers said the case illustrates how labor violations continue in the industry,
and how larger manufacturers like Street Beat avoid direct responsibility for
their subcontractors' working conditions.

State officials said Mr. Liang was arrested yesterday at his home in the Bay
Ridge section of Brooklyn and pleaded not guilty to the charges in Brooklyn
Criminal Court. His lawyer, Marvin David, did not return calls requesting
comment.

Gary Lewi, a spokesman for Street Beat, said yesterday that the larger
manufacturer did not know of any illegal practices in Mr. Liang's factory. He
blamed Mr. Liang and said Street Beat would strengthen the monitoring of its
subcontractors.

"Our relationship with that contractor will not be resumed," Mr. Lewi said. "He
clearly violated the law and he clearly violated the trust of employees and
customers."

Last night, Clifford Atlas, a lawyer representing Street Beat, said that it had
not been proven that Mr. Liang engaged in anything illegal. If he did, Mr. Atlas
said, Street Beat was in no way responsible for it.

Ken Kimerling, a lawyer with the Asian American Legal Defense and Education
Fund, said Street Beat's denials were not plausible. "They had people in those
factories every day," he said. "They had to know that these conditions existed."

In April, Mr. Kimerling's group filed a civil lawsuit in Federal District Court
in Brooklyn against Street Beat and Mr. Liang. The suit, the first of its kind
filed in New York, seeks to have the factory owner and Street Beat held equally
responsible for the treatment of workers in Mr. Liang's factory. It demands
$280,000 in back wages and damages for eight workers.

At a news conference with state officials yesterday, factory employees said they
routinely worked seven days a week and were not paid overtime. A worker recalled
orders for Street Beat goods arriving on Monday and workers toiling as long as
necessary -- including through the night -- to fill the orders by Tuesday. A
49-year-old man from Canton, China, said there was "no human kindness" in
American factories.

David F. Corvette, a spokesman for the Attorney General's office, said Mr. Liang
faces up to two years in prison and a 150,000 fine if he is convicted of failing
to pay wages. He also faces three months in prison and a $500 fine if he is
convicted of failing to pay New York's minimum wage.

Mr. Corvette said state investigators are now handling 26 sweatshop prosecutions
involving 250 workers owed roughly $500,000 in wages.




LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

When War Visits the Classroom;
Children of Balkan Immigrants Share Stories of Death

BYLINE: By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1567 words


The assignment was a simple classroom exercise on immigration, one given to
every third grader at P.S. 290, the Manhattan New School. Each child was to
trace his or her family's arrival in America.

Some children told their family stories by drawing trees, letting the names of
relatives dangle from every branch. Others plastered brightly colored poster
board with family photos.

But no one was prepared for 8-year-old Leonela Rodoncic's picture. On a large
white poster board, she drew a diagram with the names and birth dates of her
brother, parents and grandparents in rectangles along the top. A second row of
rectangles she reserved for her uncle and five distant cousins. Beneath their
names, she scrawled: Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead.

When classmates asked why so many of her relatives were dead, Leonela offered an
answer as stark as the drawing: "There was a war in my country," the former
Yugoslavia.

Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the Upper East
Side school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in drawings and in
essays, these children recount stories of death and destruction in the former
Yugoslavia.

The children are a generation removed from the fighting, first in Bosnia and now
in the Serbian province of Kosovo. And that is the way many of their parents
want to keep it. At home, the emphasis is on living a normal American childhood.
But at school, the tales of a war-torn land flow casually in the context of the
classroom routine.

When Paula Rogovin, who teaches first grade, invited a guest speaker to talk
with her class about the rigors of living with a disability, nothing illustrated
the hurdles as vividly as a 7-year-old girl's tale of how a bomb in Bosnia had
taken her teen-age aunt's eyesight and nearly wounded her mother. The girl
explained how her family had brought her aunt to the United States to care for
her.

"The story was so sad, but the class listened so carefully and they showed her
so much compassion afterward," Ms. Rogovin said. "She really made them
understand."

And just as their classmates typically respond matter-of-factly to tales of war
told in grade school tones, these children of Yugoslavia start to come to terms
with a history they can neither escape nor truly understand.

"Before I was so sad that I don't have an uncle," Leonela said recently,
recalling the death three years ago of her mother's brother, a Bosnian soldier
whose body was never found. "I told my friends, and they said he was brave and I
could play with their uncles."

At many schools, such powerful accounts might be left at the front door. But at
the red brick school on East 82d Street, a wide range of cultures and
experiences cross and collide daily. The evidence is everywhere: in the drawings
and stories taped on nearly every wall, on a bulletin board displaying the more
than 30 languages spoken and on the bookshelves, where textbooks have been
replaced by popular children's stories written in a host of languages.

Of the school's 525 students, 41 consider themselves Yugoslav, Serbo-Croatian or
ethnic Albanian. Their families began moving into the area about six years ago,
largely to keep watch over the buildings and babies of Lenox Hill and Yorkville.
While no one is certain how large their presence is, statistics suggest it is
growing. Between 1990 and 1995, the city's Department of Health reported 108
children born to native Yugoslav mothers living on the East Side, between 59th
and 96th Streets.

Encouraging children to bring their lives and their cultures to class is one of
Principal Shelley Harwayne's unwritten rules.

"You can't dismiss what goes on inside the child who is grieving for lost loved
ones or the child who has to miss school to attend a rally about their homeland
and then expect that child to do well in math and reading," said Ms. Harwayne,
who is known throughout the school as Shelley. "We try to encourage our kids to
talk honestly and humanely about what happens in their lives."

Mixing the children's school lives and home lives is not always a seamless
proposition.

The school is where Nazmi Oshlani hopes to create a normal childhood for his
sons, Mirgim, 10, and Luan, 8. His voice swells as he talks about his efforts to
spare them the fear and violence that he knew growing up an Albanian in
Yugoslavia.

"God bless the people at that school," said Mr. Oshlani, 38, who works 16-hour
days as a building engineer. "They teach my boys how to grow up normal, not
afraid somebody is going to beat them or kill them. I don't want them to know
what I know."

One thing he is coming to understand is how hard it is to shield them from what
he knows.

Thinking it would help the boys with school, he bought a home computer last
year. At first, they used it for homework and to play video games. Then two
months ago, they wandered onto the Internet searching for information about
relatives in Kosovo, where Serbian soldiers are fighting Albanian separatists.
Since March, at least 250 people have been killed. On one Web page, the boys
found pictures of soldiers slitting the throats of children who looked a lot
like them. Concerned about their cousins, they rushed to show their discovery to
their father.

The family computer has been locked away in a closet ever since.

"Every day they want to talk about it," said Mr. Oshlani, who now rarely allows
the boys to talk to relatives in Kosovo and has also stopped bringing home
newspapers about his homeland.

Mr. Oshlani has yielded to their curiosity only twice. Last summer he allowed
them to travel with their mother to Kosovo for a month. And in March, after
fighting broke out in Kosovo, the boys joined their mother at a protest in New
York.

The boys talked with classmates and teachers about their adventures for weeks.
Back at home, Mr. Oshlani said, they wrote stories and drew pictures, imagining
what it would be like to live in Kosovo instead of on the Upper East Side.

"It's so different in our country," Mirgim said. "You can find any animal you
can imagine in the streets, and the ketchup tastes so weird."

"But," Luan added, "you can't get mail and they kill little kids. It makes me so
sad."

While most of these children do not have a firsthand experience of war, some
experts contend that growing up in a home where the conversations usually turn
to the war can be as troubling as having witnessed the death and destruction.

"They carry around a tremendous sense of loss and turmoil because they watch
their parents in pain and they hear every day what it did to their families,"
said Noreen Garmen, co-director of the University of Pittsburgh's Institute for
International Studies in Education. "Many parents don't realize all the
confusion it creates for the children, how they are supposed to deal with
feelings that many adults can't overcome."

Ms. Garmen spent two and a half years teaching Bosnian educators how to use art
and drama to reconnect with children traumatized by the war.

She said the confusion can intensify at school.

"There is a tendency to think these children's problems will be solved by
teaching them to celebrate various other cultures, but the irony is that while
they are being celebrated at school they go home and listen to their parents
take sides."

When Vildana Rodoncic's brother was killed three years ago fighting as a Bosnian
soldier, her only joy came from looking into the faces of her daughter, Leonela,
and her son, Yasmine. But even around them she wept, cursing his killers with
every breath.

It was not until she got a call from her son's kindergarten teacher that she
realized he had taken her pain to school. The teacher wanted to know why the boy
was so angry and why he had begun to yell out the words, "I hate Serbians."

"He would see me cry all the time for my brother when we watch the news
reports," Mrs. Rodoncic said.

It took months to convince her son that she did not hate Serbians and that he
should not hate them either. At the time, he had begun to draw pictures of
burning homes and men dressed as soldiers massacring a man who was supposed to
represent his uncle.

"I try to tell him that I am angry Serbians killed my brother, but I don't hate
Serbian people," Mrs. Rodoncic said. "It's not all Serbian people's fault."

Finally, she took him to Yugoslavia. "On the streets," she said, "I try to show
him Serbian people and I say, 'See Yasmine, they are the same like we are.' "

Yasmine's outbursts eventually ceased, and so did questions from classmates who
wanted to know why Mrs. Rodoncic dressed in a white gown and veil, the
traditional mourning garb of some Muslim women.

Like many of their classmates, Leonela and Yasmine are usually eager to share
what they have learned about the country they came from.

But their confusion is sometimes as evident as their pride.

"My dad is from Yugoslavia and my mom is from Bosnia," said Yasmine, trying to
unravel his family's tangled roots.

"Yasmine, don't say that," Leonela said, first in Serbo-Croatian, then again in
English. "It's all the same place."

Yasmine responded: "Then how come there was war in Bosnia and no war in
Yugoslavia?"

Watching his smile dissolve into a scowl, an exasperated Leonela said: "I don't
know, Yasmine. But I told you, we are all the same."


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at P.S. 290,
the Manhattan New School, where among 525 students, more than 30 languages are
spoken. Leonela Rodoncic, with her hands cupping her ears, has told classmates
at P.S. 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war. (Photographs by Philip
Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Left, Nazmi Oshlani (Chester Higgins
Jr./The New York Times), who knew fear growing up an Albanian in Yugoslavia,
hopes to create a normal childhood for his sons, Mirgim, 10, and Luan, 8. The
kindergarten teacher of Yasmine Rodoncic, right, once called his home to ask why
he had begun to yell, "I hate Serbians." (Philip Greenberg for The New York
Times)(pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 15, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Bullies At the Border

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words


Zdenek Geres is a young Czech who for years wanted to visit the United States.
He managed to save about $2,000, got a U.S. visa and joined two acquaintances
who were going to Florida for a holiday. In March they flew to Atlanta. There an
officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service took Mr. Geres to a room
and questioned him.

"The name of the officer was 'Clinton,' " Mr. Geres said in a statement. "He had
a badge with that name. He told me that he was the brother of President Clinton,
that he was speaking in the name of the American people and that he had the
right to lock me in prison if I were to lie to him.

"I answered every question honestly. I had nothing to hide. But no matter what I
said, he said 'the computer' told him I was lying. I told him I would go to New
York to visit an American friend, Donald Oliver, rejoin my Czech friends in
Florida and return to our country. The 'computer' told Officer Clinton this was
a lie. I asked if I could call Donald in New York so he could confirm what I was
saying, but I was refused this request.

"Mr. Clinton accused me of coming to the U.S. to look for work. He told me that
because he already 'knew' the truth, I had only two options: to confess,
whereupon I would be free to go back home on the next flight, or not to confess,
whereupon I would be put in jail for three years.

"I tried to tell him that I had a job in the Czech Republic, that my job awaited
my return and that I was on vacation and really wanted a vacation. Mr. Clinton
told me he knew 'for sure' that I was going to work in the U.S.  cleaning the
floors of some big store or warehouse."

Under what they said was similar pressure, Mr. Geres's two companions
"confessed" -- falsely, they maintain -- that they wanted to work in the United
States. Mr. Geres did not yield. He was a tourist, he said, and that's all.

The immigration officer canceled Mr. Geres's visa, barred him from the United
States for five years and put him on a plane back to Europe.

All that happened under the "expedited removal" provision of the 1996
Immigration Act. It gives immigration agents at our border the power to bar a
person who has a valid U.S. visa but who the agent believes will violate the
visa's terms -- and to exclude him for years. There is no appeal.

"Expedited removal" occurs beyond the view of the courts, the press or the
American public. I know about this case because Mr. Geres's American friend,
Donald Oliver, was in Slovakia three weeks ago and met him there.

Mr. Oliver wrote to the District Director of the I.N.S. in Atlanta, Thomas P.
Fischer, about the case. Mr. Fischer replied that he had reviewed the case file
and, "suffice it to say, there were sufficient grounds to refuse entry." Mr.
Geres and the other two, he said, "were not clearly admissible to the United
States as visitors for pleasure."

Mr. Oliver also wrote to his Congressman, Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York.
Representative Nadler wrote to the Commissioner of Immigration, Doris Meissner.
She and her staff did not just brush off the complaint. They referred the case
to the internal audit bureau of the I.N.S., which is conducting another review.

Could Mr. Geres have invented the account of his treatment? I think that is
highly unlikely. For one thing, there is a Clinton on the I.N.S. staff in
Atlanta -- Marvin Clinton -- and he was the agent who questioned Mr. Geres. He
has denied to his superiors that he boasted of being the President's brother.
But again, is it likely that Mr. Geres could have made that up? Or the threat,
with no legal basis, to imprison him?

This is by no means the only case of alleged abuse by I.N.S. agents under the
new law. Representative Nadler said 20,000 people with visas had been turned
away under the expedited removal provision. A number have told ugly stories.

"During our debate on the bill," Mr. Nadler said, "everything was directed at
people who came with forged documents or none. It is bizarre to apply the
provision to someone who went to an American consulate, answered the questions
and got a visa. It is bad for our tourist industry. And it is a terrible abuse
of power. This country should at least stand for due process."

Mr. Geres ended his account by saying he would still like to visit America some
day soon. "I hope that once these facts become known," he said, "the American
system of fairness and justice, which I studied in school, will ultimately
prevail."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Better Job Benefits Mean Lower Wages

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words



To the Editor:

Re "Benefits Dwindle Along With Wages for the Unskilled" (front page, June 14):
Mandating that employers provide a full range of benefits to low-skilled workers
will merely widen the gap between high- and low-skilled workers -- employers
will cut wages and eliminate low-skill jobs. Wages and benefits for low-skilled
workers could be improved by decreasing their numbers -- through changes in our
immigration policy.

Over the past three decades the increased number of low-skilled immigrants to
the United States has helped depress wages and job benefits for all low-skilled
workers. This has been encouraged by lax enforcement of immigration law and the
distribution of immigrant visas primarily on the basis of a person's relation to
a resident alien or United States citizen rather than his likely contribution to
the economy.

BARRY R. CHISWICK
Chicago, June 15, 1998

The writer is a professor of economics at the University of Illinois at Chicago.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Trading Fame for Freedom;
Chinese Opera Stars Find Haven, and Hardship, in U.S.

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1800 words


Down a cascade of steel steps in the half-basement Chinese video store in
Elmhurst, Queens, Shi Jiehua methodically glued labels onto black plastic cases
one recent afternoon as a Chinese soap opera murmured on a small television.

Suddenly, her husband, Cai Qingling, burst through the door, joking, chatting,
then pausing a moment before breaking into song -- a short, shivery aria from
the 16th-century opera "The Peony Pavilion."

This shoe box of a store has become a gathering place for some of the greatest
Chinese opera stars -- part of a growing diaspora of opera performers who have
come to the United States from China, often initially to perform, but then to
stay.

They come seeking freedom for themselves and opportunity for their children. But
unlike many artists from Western countries whose celebrity follows them here,
the performers from China find themselves plunged into the austere world of new
Chinese immigrants, a world of menial jobs, Spartan housing and little contact
beyond the immigrant community.

For many Chinese, the sight of Shi Jiehua shelving videotapes or Cai Qingling
delivering takeout food is akin to the notion of Luciano Pavarotti scrubbing
pots at a pasta joint in Little Italy. But virtually no Chinese opera star in
this country can survive on performing and teaching alone.

Still, in the last 10 years, a network of opera societies, workshops and private
patrons has evolved in cities across the United States, especially in New York.
Amateur opera buffs can study with master teachers. Legendary singers from
Shanghai, here at the invitation of local Chinese arts centers, spend afternoons
mingling with opera greats who have immigrated. One group scours China for
talented performers, trying to lure them to live in the United States.

Some wealthy Chinese here, evoking the practice in the late Ming Dynasty of
having individual opera troupes attached to great households, even sponsor stars
from China to come and sing for them and their friends in intimate gatherings.

On Friday night, Anna Yip, a native of Hong Kong who has been in the United
States for decades, hired Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center to stage three
scenes from Beijing operas, performed by opera stars living here and one flown
in from Beijing -- as well as by Mrs. Yip herself. "I'm an opera nut," she said,
adding, "You come to America and you start to get homesick."

When opera resumed in Shanghai in the late 1970's, after the decadelong
devastation of the Cultural Revolution, Mr. Cai and Ms. Shi returned to the
stage as two of the "10 pillars" of the city's celebrated Kunqu Theater Troupe.
But in 1988, while on a tour of this country, they decided not to return to
China.

A colleague, Chen Zhiping, who has most recently worked in a Chinese-owned
garment factory and who also passes time at the Elmhurst video store, followed a
year later. "People have a lot of individual reasons for coming," explained Mr.
Chen, who spent three and a half years in prison during the political terror of
the Cultural Revolution. "Children, marriage, political reasons. Today, if I say
I want a day off because I'm tired, I take a day off. On the mainland, you can't
do that.

"But the basic reason," he added, "is we don't want our children to be raised in
that repressive atmosphere."

Year after year, opera stars from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and dozens of
other cities across China filter into the United States, some through
performing-artist visas, others through defecting from visiting opera companies.
So great is the influx of talent that, unlike anywhere in China, New York
regularly has performances of China's four major opera traditions by stars of
the first magnitude.

"We have 21 professional resident artists," said Anna Chen Wu, the president of
the Kunqu Society. "But none of them are full-time. Some don't even speak any
English. Many of them work in garment factories, restaurants, small jobs like
that. But they are some of the best opera musicians and singers in the world."

For Ms. Shi, 51, whose name was known in every Shanghai household during the
peak of her career, leaving China meant forsaking fame and entering an unknown
world. "What did we know about the U.S.?" she said. "When we came, there was
almost no one here. But we had to do this for our son. So what if we are not
famous here?"

In Flushing, Queens, Agnes Ho and her husband, Steve, have turned their
red-brick house into a nerve center of Chinese opera. A dining table is heaped
with immigration documents for opera singers, grant applications to Federal and
state arts agencies, invitations to opera troupes in China. A basement walled in
mirrors serves as a practice room.

From here, Mrs. Ho, 61, runs the Tung Ching Chinese Center for the Arts, a
nonprofit group that has sponsored more than 50 opera stars to come to live in
the United States.

"All these opera stars stay here because in China they neglect culture," she
said. "We're trying to keep this alive. We devote all our time to this."

Mrs. Ho, who emigrated from Hong Kong in 1968, said the effort began almost by
chance in 1984, when she and her husband met a Chinese musician who had played
the erhu -- a long-necked, two-string instrument with a slightly nasal tone --
in opera orchestras in China. "He said he wanted to stay here," Mrs. Ho said,
"so we helped him."

Behind the brick house, Mrs. Ho and one of her boarders, a newly arrived opera
performer named Xie Dong, opened a shed filled with costumes and props. Silk and
satin robes, densely layered with gold and silver embroidery, sat on shelves
carefully labeled with the names of individual operas. A steamer trunk
overflowed with swords in elaborate scabbards. Mrs. Ho bought the collection,
which she thinks may be the largest of its kind, with money she earned here as
an insurance agent.

Last year, a 40-member opera troupe from the northern Chinese city of Shenyang
went to Berkeley, Calif., to perform. Three of the leading performers, all award
winners in China, fled the troupe and sought help from Mrs. Ho. All three now
live in Queens, around the corner from the Hos' house.

Not far away, on two Saturdays each month, the annex of St. George's Episcopal
church in Flushing echoes with the wail of the kundi, the bamboo flute that is
at the center of kunqu (pronounced KUN-CHEW) opera. Slumped in a leather
armchair one recent Saturday, Mr. Chen waited for his students at the Kunqu
Society workshop.

"I came to the United States in 1989, just when Tiananmen took place," he
explained, referring to the Chinese Army's killing of pro-democracy protesters
around Beijing's Tiananmen Square on June 3 and 4, 1989. "I love freedom. That
is why I am here."

On that day, 20 members of Shanghai's most prominent opera troupe were in Los
Angeles to perform; as pictures of the massacre filled television screens at the
troupe's hotel, eight of them sought asylum. Nearly all of them are now in New
York.

The workshop in Flushing offerssix hours of courses embracing the elements of
kunqu opera -- first flute, then singing, followed by movement and acting and
concluding with percussion -- and all classes are led by kunqu masters who
learned their art in China.

"This is a way to meet with other Chinese and to do something cultural," said
Shen Kuo-chen, a Taiwanese immigrant who is working on a master's degree in
Chinese art history. "For me, it is a way to learn it. I couldn't afford it in
Taiwan, but I can here."

All four principal genres of Chinese opera can be seen in New York: Cantonese
yue, popular in Hong Kong and Guangdong province; Beijing, now known as the
national opera form; Shanghai yue, heard predominantly in central China, and
kunqu, the most prized among many cognoscenti.

"It's a much more refined tradition," Isabelle Duchesne, a French scholar of
Chinese opera who works in New York, said of kunqu. "It has much stricter rules
on rhyming and pronunciation."

Kunqu, like the other genres, is a musical drama, but it is also a stage
performance that combines ballet, poetry recital, opera and music; classical
poetry and literature, sung and recited, form the basis of the drama itself. The
performers dance and act in highly stylized manners, each gesture carrying a
precise meaning understood by knowledgeable audiences. Elaborate and complex
costumes, many with long "water sleeves" that are repeatedly folded and released
in gentle movements, accord not with a historical period but with roles played
by a character in the opera.

At the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, kunqu was
gradually displaced by the less sophisticated Beijing opera, which embraced
showy acrobatic and martial scenes that proved more popular to less literate
audiences. Today, Beijing opera receives the most Government support in China.

Mr. Cai and Ms. Shi were among the stars of Shanghai's kunqu opera troupe, with
Mr. Cai playing the physically arduous role of the "chou," or clown, in each
opera.

"When I was in primary school," he recalled, "some people from the Shanghai
Theater School came to the school asking for applicants. I wasn't chosen, but I
snuck in anyway. As it turned out, I was the only one who made it. We were
really poor, and the school took care of all our expenses.

"When I was that little, I didn't look too good," Mr. Cai said, laughing. "I was
ugly. I was small. I behaved terribly. So the professor said, 'You be a chou.'

"It's much easier to produce a lot of Ph.D.'s than one artist," Mr. Cai
insisted, slapping the glass counter with his palm at the Elmhurst video store.
"We have a saying: '10 years of training and three seconds on stage.' Our whole
lives are opera."

When he is not helping his wife at the video shop, Mr. Cai pilots a small van
around Queens, delivering Chinese food. "Yes, it is very difficult here," he
said. "In China, we didn't have to do anything except put on makeup and perform.
There were even people to put on our hats. The Communist Party called us
'engineers of the human soul.' But still, we had to come here to be free, to
raise our son here."

Earlier this month, Ms. Shi returned from an opera tour in Austria. While she
was gone, Mr. Cai and Mr. Chen performed at a gala opera with two visiting stars
from Shanghai before several hundred kunqu aficionados at the Taipei Theater, on
the Avenue of the Americas at 49th Street in Manhattan.

"As artists," Mr. Chen said, "we would like to improve our artistry. But we all
have to work in the daytime, so we don't have lots of chances to see each
other's art. We don't have a lot of opportunity to practice."

Strains of an operatic aria drifted from the television. "But you know," Ms. Shi
said, "our son does not like kunqu. He's 15. He listens to Janet Jackson."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lu Weizhi practicing a movement taught by Shi Jiehua, a former
Shanghai opera star who works in a Queens video store. (Chang W. Lee/The New
York Times); Ms. Shi, center, and her husband, Cai Qingling, left, with a
colleague, Chen Zhiping. Mr. Chen, who has worked in a garment factory, moved to
the United States in 1989. In the photograph at far left, Mr. Cai, right,
performs with Lu Weizhi. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 25); Zhao Chunqi,
left, leading a percussion workshop. Students included Shen Kuo-chen, center, a
Taiwanese immigrant, and Anna Chen Wu, the president of the Kunqu Society, which
meets in Flushing, Queens.(Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 28)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Proposed Fee Increase Propels Citizenship Drive

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 537 words


When George Ku emigrated from Hong Kong seven years ago, he complained to his
friends about the fees for applying for American citizenship. But now he says
the $95 that the Government charges is a bargain.

"It's the cheapest price right now," said Mr. Ku, 44, as he picked up an
application form yesterday at a citizenship drive at the corner of Mulberry and
Bayard Streets in Chinatown. "If you wait, then it will be worse for you. I tell
everyone to hurry up."

The fee for a citizenship application would more than double to $225 as early as
Oct. 1 under a proposal by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
increased fee, which was announced in January, is being reviewed by immigration
service officials but is expected to be approved, said Eric Andrus, a service
spokesman in Washington.

The expected increase has spurred several immigrants' rights groups in New York
to step up citizenship drives. The city's Department of Youth and Community
Development, which oversees a $4.6 million program to help immigrants become
citizens, may set up a special fund to aid poorer applicants.

"This is going to be a problem for people trying to scrape by," said Bob
Mascali, a department spokesman. "We know it's coming down the road so we are in
discussion."

During yesterday's three-hour citizenship drive in Chinatown, more than 300
people crowded around two tables where volunteers for the Asian American Legal
Defense and Education Fund passed out application forms and fliers that read:
"Beat the fee increase! Become a U.S. citizen!"

Tito Sinha, an immigration lawyer who organized the drive, said the group will
hold another drive next month in Flushing, and hold a free legal clinic there
every week through the summer. Last year, the group helped mainly Asian
immigrants fill out 300 citizenship applications. Mr. Sinha said he expected a
20 percent increase this year.

But other immigrants' rights groups are taking a lower-key approach. Wangsheng
Li, director of legal services for the New York Association for New Americans,
said publicizing the expected $225 fee may cause confusion. He said some people
may rush to file their applications before they have met the residency
requirement of five years. "It encourages them to apply too early," he said,
"and then they get rejected. If you're a day short, then you're out of luck.
We've seen those kinds of things. People come to us in tears."

Mr. Andrus of the immigration service said the increase is needed to cover the
rising cost of processing applications. "The bottom line is that this is what it
costs the I.N.S.," he said. "We don't make any money."

But critics say the increase is inappropriate at a time the service is being
widely assailed for long delays in processing applications. The average
processing time for a citizenship application filed in the New York area is 20
to 24 months, according to the immigration service. In May, there was a backlog
of 292,213 citizenship applications from New York.

"We think it's outrageous that they charge $225 when they're forcing people to
wait two years," said Mark Hetfield, a representative for the Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society, which helps Jewish refugees in New York.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sin Yen Ling, at left behind the table, and other volunteers
spent yesterday providing applications and information for immigrants who want
to become citizens. The Chinatown drive drew more than 300 people. (Dith
Pran/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrants Hail Clinton Trip, Citing Mutual Benefit

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words


As President Clinton deflects criticism from politicians in the United States
and students in Beijing over his trip to China, he is finding unwavering -- and
somewhat surprising -- support from Chinese immigrants in New York City.

Regardless of whether they originally hailed from mainland China, Taiwan or Hong
Kong, immigrants in the New York metropolitan area have applauded Mr. Clinton's
trip, saying his mission benefits both the United States and China for economic,
political and cultural reasons.

Last week, critics in Washington accused Mr. Clinton of kowtowing to a
government with a human rights record that only brutal regimes would envy.
Yesterday, Chinese students at Beijing University grilled Mr. Clinton,
questioning whether the United States was secretly trying to isolate China
politically.

But as Mr. Clinton continues his trip, interviews with more than two dozen
Chinese immigrants over the last two days revealed a more practical assessment:
human rights is secondary to economic progress and Sino-American relations. And
anyone who disagrees with that, they say bluntly, simply does not understand
China, or the Chinese people.

"I don't think most Americans understand why Clinton's trip is so good," said
Daniel Chao, 35, of Edison, N.J., who grew up in Shanghai and was eating on
Sunday at Joe's Shanghai in Flushing, Queens. "It's very important for the
long-term Sino-American relationship that Clinton have a chance to get firsthand
information, and talk about the real issues with the Chinese leaders and the
Chinese people."

At the same time, the immigrants say, Mr. Clinton's trip has tremendous symbolic
value for people who, invariably, place a lot of meaning on symbols and
gestures.

"We are all Chinese, and this raises the profile of all Chinese people," said
Johnson Wang, 67, of Jersey City, a Taiwanese-American who was purchasing
lottery tickets at the Port Authority Bus Terminal on Sunday. "We are especially
proud of the fact that this trip is nine days -- the longest ever by Clinton!"

At first glance, it might appear that Chinese immigrants would have disparate
views. After all, Chinese immigrants in New York include the old guard from
Taiwan and Hong Kong, who have been major backers of Taiwan's Nationalist
Government, and political arrivistes from Fujian province in southern China, who
have been partial to China's Communist Government. Throw in smaller segments of
people whose agendas range from Taiwan independence to Tibetan independence, and
the result is a fluid, vibrant community that agrees to disagree, more often
than not.

But when it comes to matters of national or ethnic pride, many Chinese
immigrants cast typical allegiances aside. Blood, not politics, prevails.

So it went with the return of Hong Kong to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. So it
went with President Jiang Zemin's visit to New York last fall. And so it has
gone with Mr. Clinton's trip.

Not one of the immigrants interviewed failed to mention the eminence of economic
reform and Sino-American trade relations when asked about the vital points of
Mr. Clinton's trip. It is through economic reform, they say, that China will
become a freer society.

"Contact is better than confrontation," said Mang Xu, 35, a Shanghai immigrant
who was leafing through a book about Soong Ching-ling -- the wife of Sun Yat-sen
-- in a Flushing bookstore. "If you open the economic door, then you'll open the
political door."

Human rights, on the other hand, should not be given too much weight, the
immigrants said.

Even the 1989 massacre in Tiananmen Square -- considered by many Americans to be
the emblematic symbol of the Chinese regime -- was something that most
Chinese-Americans viewed as an incident that, while tragic, should be consigned
to history.

"What happened, happened," said Jane Eng, a Hong Kong immigrant and manager of
the Nancy Wedding Center, a bustling bridal shop on the Bowery. "We cannot just
sit here and wait for a conclusion. We have to take the first step."

Part of the reason why Chinese-Americans may appear to be relatively blase about
human rights is that their definition of what a person's basic rights ought to
be is different from what other Americans usually think.

"Human rights are the ability to have enough food, clothing, education and
shelter," said Chunde Shi, 36, a former urban planner in Beijing who now works
as a computer consultant in the New York region. "Only after you have these can
you think about things like democracy and freedom."

Many Chinese immigrants said that the issue of human rights said as much about
American attitudes as it did about anything in China.

Using an argument reminiscent of what some Chinese leaders used to defend their
handling of the pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square, the immigrants
said that many Americans had a tendency to meddle in other countries' internal
affairs, and that few had a genuine understanding of Chinese history or culture.

"America is hegemonistic; America likes to impose its values on other
countries," said Zuken Li, a businessman in Chinatown who emigrated 10 years ago
from Fujian province. "It's pretty funny, because America has only 200 or so
years of history, while China has more than 5,000 years."

The immigrants also lauded Mr. Clinton for grasping Chinese customs and
respecting their traditions.  Mr. Clinton went to the ancient capital of Xian,
the Forbidden City, and the Great Wall in a highly scripted, heavily symbolic
itinerary with a nod to history. He behaved like a proper guest, the immigrants
said, and was therefore rewarded with the Chinese Government's decision to
broadcast his press conference live, and unedited.

But when President Jiang Zemin visited New York, he was snubbed by Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani and other local officials over China's dubious human rights record.
Whatever one's politics, the immigrants said, welcoming a guest is a courtesy
and a necessary protocol.

Of course, not everyone was focused on Mr. Clinton's trip. Some immigrants --
particularly those with blue-collar jobs in Chinatown -- said they were too
burdened with work to devote much time to read, let alone think, about Mr.
Clinton's trip.

But there is a Chinese saying that seems to capture the essence of China's
situation, said Ms. Eng, the bridal shop manager. The saying -- zuo jing guan
tian -- means seeing the sky from the bottom of a well, and having a narrow
point of view.

China, she said, is like a frog at the bottom of the well. It only knows what it
can see. America is at the top; it can see the whole world. So people should
have patience, she said, while China -- with the help of the United States --
figures out a way to get out.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mang Xu, an immigrant from Shanghai, was among those who voiced
support for President Clinton's trip to China. "Contact is better than
confrontation," he said. (Rob Schoenbaum For The New York Times)(pg. B1); Chunde
Shi said that Americans and Chinese have different definitions of human rights.
(Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Record Immigrant Flow Fuels U.S. Home Market

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 926 words


WHEN the Lennar Corporation, a building concern, held some home-buying fairs for
Florida properties recently, they turned out to be bonanzas for the company,
with some leading to six or seven sales on the spot. That may not seem unusual
given the strong United States housing market. But these fairs were held in such
countries as Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela and the Dominican Republic.

With immigrants flowing into the United States at a record-breaking rate, the
fairs are an example of the importance home builders are placing on a
demographic group that many analysts and economists expect to fuel the housing
industry in the 21st century.

"We feel it's important to establish a relationship with these people as soon as
possible," said Rita Gonzalez, the director of marketing for Dade County with
Miami-based Lennar, which is the fifth-largest United States home builder.

Attracted by a strong economy and an abundance of jobs, people from all over the
world are coming to the United States in search of the dream of financial
security -- not to mention a house with a two-car garage.

This has the $800 billion housing industry optimistic, especially now that it
can no longer count on a stream of baby boomers to buy new houses, as has been
the case for much of the last 30 years. The bulk of these Americans are now
middle-aged and on their second homes.

"Without immigrants, home-building starts would level off," said Stan Ross, a
vice chairman with Ernst & Young's real estate group. "This is a wake-up call."

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, more than 10 million
foreigners are expected to enter the United States this decade, surpassing the
record of 8.8 million from 1901 through 1910. Unlike in the early part of the
century, when Ellis Island served as the gateway for millions of Europeans
seeking a new life, today's immigrants are mainly from Latin America and Asia.

"The sheer numbers are immense," said Robert Strudler, chairman of the U.S. Home
Corporation, the nation's eighth-largest home builder. "We have to take
advantage of what's staring us in the face."

U.S. Home, a Houston-based company, has a joint venture with GIG Desarrolladores
Inmobiliarios S.A., one of Mexico's largest builders, to construct homes in
Texas, Arizona and Florida, all of them priced at less than $70,000.

Beazer Homes USA Inc. of Atlanta and its Mexican partner, Corporacion GEO S.A.,
are building homes along the Texas border priced at $35,000 to $45,000. Beazer
expects the venture to generate $150 million in annual revenue by 2001.

So far, sales to immigrants have had a small impact on earnings for home
builders, the companies say. But that impact is expected to grow. The number of
immigrant homeowners, which rose by 47 percent to 4.7 million from 1980 to 1995,
is expected to grow an additional 45 percent to 6.8 million by 2010, according
to Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest provider of home mortgage funds.

Heading into the 21st century, Miami, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, New
York, Houston and their surrounding areas are likely to be affected the most by
immigration, analysts say.

Some builders are tailoring their business to suit immigrants. A development in
Irvine, Calif., has no home with the number "4" on it because in certain Asian
cultures it is a symbol for death. And many people from Latin American nations
prefer homes with more than the usual three or four bedrooms to house extended
families, some builders say.

"What we are learning is that the immigrant market isn't just one market; it's
100 different markets," said Randall Lewis, executive vice president of Lewis
Homes Group, which builds homes in California and Nevada.

Mr. Lewis says he is hiring members of minorities to bridge the communication
and cultural gap between the home office and buyers. "When our sales staff gets
together, it looks like a meeting of the United Nations," he said.

At a Lewis development in Fontana, Calif., an hour east of Los Angeles, Latin
Americans bought about half of the 170 homes. They were drawn to the
development, Mr. Lewis said, because homes were built with the living quarters
behind a garage that butted up against the street, a style popular throughout
Latin America and which immigrants from those countries like for security
reasons.

Many of today's immigrants are more educated and more prosperous than their
predecessors, and become homeowners soon after their arrival. About 12 percent
of recent immigrants have graduate degrees, compared with 8 percent of
native-born citizens, according to the National Academy of Sciences.

Some mortgage lenders are making it easier for immigrants. Among other things,
they are requiring borrowers to show only a year of stable employment rather
than the usual two years.

Joe Varusco, who is in the export business, moved his wife and four children to
a Miami suburb from Sao Paulo, Brazil, four years ago. Last year, Mr. Varusco,
39, bought a $180,000 house from Lennar, and found United States lenders more
agreeable to work with than the ones back in Brazil.

"Here, it's much easier to buy a house because banks are willing to lend you
money for 20 or 30 years," he said. "In Brazil, they don't want to do that."

Newcomers to the United States who rent are almost three times more likely than
adult renters to consider buying a home their "No. 1 priority," according to a
survey by Fannie Mae. And immigrants, on the whole, are more likely than all
adults to buy a home within the next three years, it found.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

What Would You Like In Your Welcome Package?;
Immigrants Offer Tips for an Official Guide to America

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words


If Independence Day celebrates America -- fireworks, parades and cascades of
red, white and blue -- then it also celebrates what it means to be an American.
And being an American usually means being an immigrant or a descendant of
immigrants.

In New York City, this has never been truer: A new wave of arrivals has
propelled the city's immigrant population to a record 2.7 million, and about 60
percent of New Yorkers are either immigrants or their children.

Many things have changed since the New York area's last huge wave of immigration
early in the century. Immigrants take jetliners to Kennedy and Newark
International Airports, not ships to Ellis Island. But as any immigrant can
attest, the first steps to life in the United States are no less awkward,
difficult and lonely.

Last year, the United States Commission on Immigration Reform, a Federal
advisory body, suggested several ways to help immigrants adjust. One idea was to
compile a "welcome package" containing important information in several
languages.

For now, that suggestion is not being actively considered by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which is more concerned with reducing the unprecedented
backlog of two million immigrants awaiting citizenship around the country, said
Eric Andrus, an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington.

The backlog is so great -- 300,000 are waiting in New York City alone -- that
the New York immigration district did not have enough approved applications to
stage its traditional Fourth of July swearing-in ceremony this year.

Given the agency's priorities, it remains to be seen whether the welcome package
will ever become a reality.

But what if there were such a package? What would be in it? Practical things,
like maps or guides to English-language classes? Philosophical things, like
strategies for successful immigrant living? Or quirky things to reduce the
chances of culture shock?

In the spirit of Independence Day, eight immigrants were asked for their
thoughts. Some had specific ideas for an official Federal information packet,
while others couldn't resist tossing in more personal advice.

Sonia Urban, 40, a pastry chef at Maya Restaurant in Manhattan who emigrated in
1970 from the Dominican Republic, suggested including information about the
government, about language schools, about the libraries.

"In some countries, people don't even know what taxes are," she said. "I would
explain the concept, say that it's not money that you give away to the
Government; it produces money to support the schools and Medicaid and the
libraries."

A list of discount outlets and wholesale companies would also be beneficial, she
said, as would a guide to the city's culinary delights.

"Maybe something visual, like a poster, showing different foods, like french
fries," she said. "If you understand what it is, and what it looks like, I think
you'll be willing to try it."

Liam Benson, who is in his early 50's, owns two bars, O'Donoghue's and The Quiet
Woman, in Hoboken, N.J. He was a dairy farmer in County Mayo, Ireland, before
immigrating here 15 years ago.

Mr. Benson said he would encourage immigrants to avoid living in an area with a
large concentration of their own nationality. Being independent, he said, would
open one's mind. A positive attitude also helps.

"A lot of Irish say that they'll stay one or two years," he said. "Then one year
goes by, and they say another year. Then another. Until 10 years go by so fast,
and they're still here and they don't achieve their maximum while they're here."

People also should not cling to their old habits, he said. For example,
immigrants should not gripe about how Americans write dates numerically: 7/4/98,
for instance, is written 4/7/98 in Ireland and many other countries. "You're not
going to change the American way," Mr. Benson said, "so you might as well go
along with it."

Florence Moise-Stone, 43, a lawyer for the City University of New York,
emigrated from Haiti about 30 years ago. She said that Haitian immigrants would
appreciate guides to the city's parks, churches, libraries and ethnic enclaves.

One thing that Haitians would have to adjust to, she said, is freedom of speech:
"You can go out and bad-mouth Clinton all you want; nothing is going to happen
to you."

Dame Babou, 45, who emigrated from Senegal 10 years ago and now works as a radio
and newspaper correspondent in Manhattan, said that any package should include
tips on where, and how, to master English: "I've observed people who ordered the
same type of food for six months, nine months, simply because they didn't know
the word for the other foods."

He said that Senegalese immigrants should listen primarily to the authorities
for advice, and not fellow immigrants.

"When I came here, many people said the bank wouldn't accept my money because I
didn't have a green card," he said. They were mistaken. "That was only because
they happened to have a green card when they opened their bank account."

The pace of life here is fast, he warned, and the living spaces mercilessly
tiny. Don't take it personally, Mr. Babou said. "People don't have time to give
to you, so don't be angry with them."

Alfred Baumeler, 32, who emigrated from Peru as a child and grew up in a largely
Peruvian immigrant neighborhood in Passaic, N.J., is now a senior brand manager
with a pharmaceuticals company in New Jersey. He said that he would enclose a
fair amount of information about the selling points of America.

"A lot of them are fighting that emotional attachment to their country," Mr.
Baumeler said, "so you need to say, 'Here are some of the privileges that come
with being a naturalized citizen.' "

Complicating that switch, perhaps, is that Peruvians are generally quite
sociable, he said, while Americans are more private.

"Some Peruvian immigrants construe that as being unfriendly, or find that
insulting, or the American people are cold," he said. "They should realize that
people here just keep to themselves."

Julie Horvath-Krol, an actress and translator, emigrated from Hungary in 1991.
Now a Staten Island resident, she declined to give her age, but cheerily stated
that she has six children; the oldest is 29.

Topping Ms. Horvath-Krol's list in a fantasy package for immigrants was advice
on learning the language and getting familiar with the city's vast library
system.

In addition, she said, Hungarians should not be afraid of the police. And they
should also understand how easy it is to get things done, she said.

In Hungary, people just wait and wait in line, sometimes for hours, sometimes
for consecutive days. Here, she said, "you can just make an appointment."

One thing she wished someone had given her when she first came here was a
user-friendly guide to building one's credit history and financial profile.

"Teach them that 'yes, there is a way to open a bank account,' which is mutually
beneficial for the businesses here and for people coming here," she said.

Paul Mak, 40, the president of the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, came
here in 1970 from Hong Kong.

He said an immigration packet should include a guide to New York landmarks, a
subway map, a map of downtown Manhattan listing major city agencies and a list
of city services and telephone numbers that people can call for immediate help.

"It can be just as simple as who to call when you want to do construction on
your house," he said.

Mona Sharma Sachar, 35, founder and associate publisher of "Silicon India," a
business and technology magazine based in Manhattan, emigrated from India in
1985.

Ms. Sachar said that the package should include information like contact numbers
for consulates, and information on city services like subsidized housing and tax
tips.

And, she said, it should tell Indian immigrants to change their concept of time:
in India, 9 A.M. means 10 A.M. . . . or so. "Here," she said, "a deadline is a
deadline."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dame Babou, left, a journalist from Senegal, said immigrants
need advice on where to learn English. Florence Moise-Stone, a lawyer from
Haiti, said immigrants should be told about freedom of speech. Julie
Horvath-Krol, an actress from Hungary, offered this advice to newcomers: don't
wait long hours in lines -- make an appointment. (Photographs by James
Estrin/The New York Times); Sonia Urban, pastry chef at Maya Restaurant (James
Estrin/The New York Times); Photo (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

Drawing (Jody Emery/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 9, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Croatia's Run in Soccer Stirs Its Emigres

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 848 words


The temperature inside Scorpio, a bar in Astoria, Queens, owned by Croatian
immigrants, was easily 20 degrees hotter than the outside yesterday afternoon,
despite the air-conditioning at full blast.  It was not hard to see why.

More than 300 people were jammed into every nook and cranny of the
European-style coffee bar, which serves cappuccino along with whisky and vodka.
Every pair of eyes was focused on the wide-screen television at the front of the
bar as patrons watched their beloved Croatian soccer team play in the semifinals
of the World Cup against France.

The match held special significance for the Croatian immigrants who started
filling the bar on Broadway in Astoria hours before the match began. This was
Croatia's debut at the World Cup, and few had expected the team to advance so
far in its first appearance.

"We are so small a country," said Edwin Matesic, an owner of Scorpio, which
opened last year. "People always thought, 'What can they do?' "

Even the disappointing outcome of the match -- a 2-1 loss that ended Croatia's
charmed streak in the tournament -- did not dampen the Croats' pride. Mr.
Matesic and many patrons said the World Cup semifinal was proof that their tiny
nation of four million, which broke from Yugoslavia in a bloody civil war seven
years ago, had finally come into its own.

"Now we are free and people can't look down on us anymore," Mr. Matesic said.
"And with this World Cup, more people in the world will know about us."

There are an estimated 100,000 people of Croatian heritage in the New York area,
according to Dr. Ruzica Vuskovic, a Queens physician who is a co-director of the
Croatian Institute. Most are in Astoria and Long Island City, but increasing
numbers, especially of second-generation Croats, are moving to suburbs on Long
Island and in New Jersey.

The Croats tend to keep a low profile -- Dr. Vuskovic said that a surprisingly
large number of Italian restaurants in the city are actually run by Croats --
but they have been drawn together by the World Cup contests, and proudly
flaunted their heritage as their team advanced.

Last Saturday's stunning victory over powerful Germany was an especially proud
and poignant moment. "It was the first time in 10 years that I felt like I was
home," said Dr. Vuskovic, who watched Saturday's match at Scorpio and also
managed to slip out of work early yesterday to catch the second half of the
match at home.

Dozens of police officers lined Broadway yesterday outside Scorpio and Cafi
Valentino, another popular Croatian bar down the street, to avoid a repeat of
the uproar that broke out after the victory on Saturday. A few hundred soccer
fans rushed onto the street and stopped traffic with spirited flag-waving and
hearty singing and shouting.

"Young people can sometimes get a little bit vicious after a game," said Tom
Smodlaka, a supervisor for a Manhattan painting company who took the day off to
watch the match. "But mostly, we're just happy that after so much trouble in our
country that finally it's time for some beautiful things to happen to us."

No one stopped traffic yesterday when the match yesterday ended in defeat, but
many fans still marched out of Scorpio to wave the Croatian flag on Broadway.
Some then headed home, while others went back into the bar to continue to
celebrate the semifinal appearance.

"We represented every small country in the world," said Tom Voloder, a
mechanical engineer from Astoria who had painted his face with the red and white
checkerboard insignia of the Croatian flag. "It was a good run and it will be
better in 2002. It's a proud moment for Croatia and for us."

Mr. Matesic spent the day toting a video camera around to capture the enthusiasm
and the booming business the bar was doing. "My parents are going to cry when
they see the video, to see how good things are going," he said.

Mr. Matesic, 27, was born in the United States, but returned to Croatia with his
parents when he was 6. He came back alone and settled in Astoria when he was 18.
Both he and his partner, Renato Miocic, worked as busboys and waiters at
restaurants in Manhattan until they saved up enough money to open Scorpio, an
elegant little bar with exposed brick walls and framed photographs of Croatian
cities.

At one point during the match a young man shouted at Mr. Miocic that he should
remove some of the furniture in the back so that more people could squeeze in.
Mr. Miocic, 33, just nodded. "What am I supposed to do?" he said, shrugging. "I
can't make the place bigger."

Mr. Miocic, like most Croatian immigrants and most soccer followers around the
globe, never expected the Croatian team to advance this far in the World Cup,
much less to beat Germany.

"I expected they would get past the first round, but nobody expected this," he
said. "I have never been so excited as now."

At the D & F Italian Deli, next door to the Scorpio bar, the television was also
tuned to the soccer match.

"Hey, our team didn't make it," said Carmelo Perrone, the deli's manager, "so
you got to cheer for somebody."


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Scorpio, a European-style bar in Astoria, Queens, fans rooted
for the Croatian soccer team in its World Cup semifinal match against France
yesterday. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 9, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Stolen Old Masters Surface in U.S.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words


Four long-lost Old Master paintings, among a group of eight that were stolen 30
years ago, are to be presented to the President of Romania at a ceremony in
Washington later this month. The President, Emil Constantinescu, is to return
the paintings to a medieval castle in the Transylvanian region of Romania from
which they disappeared in a brazen theft in 1968.

The Italian and Netherlandish paintings were recovered by the United States
Customs Service in the house of a Romanian immigrant in Florida. The immigrant,
Mike Oprisi, who gave a dramatic account of having escaped from Romania when it
was under Communist rule, said he had had no knowledge that the paintings were
stolen and had bought them from a Gypsy in Vienna for $1,200 before coming to
the United States.

When stolen art is turned over to the law enforcement authorities, suspicion
sometimes falls upon the individual returning it as a possible participant in
the theft. But Patrick Jones, a spokesman for the United States Customs Service,
which now has possession of the paintings, said that although the man's story
was unusual, everything that could be checked -- including a bill of sale and
customs declaration when the paintings entered the United States -- had been
checked and that Customs was not making any charges.

"The individual who gave up the paintings was very cooperative, but of course we
could not find anyone to confirm his whole story," Mr. Jones said. "On the other
hand, no one ever escaped a Soviet bloc country in front of a crowd."

The United States will hand the four paintings over to Mr. Constantinescu in
Washington when he visits the headquarters of the World Bank on July 18.

"President Constantinescu will first meet President Clinton and then accept the
artworks," said Cristian Matei, the cultural counselor at the Romanian Embassy
in Washington, who has been busy organizing the visit. "We're very pleased that
these two events could be combined."

The paintings, which had been reported stolen from the Bruhenthal castle-museum
in Sibiu, Romania, include works that art experts believe to be by Titian or an
artist in the Venetian school of Titian; Dieric Bouts, the 15th-century
Netherlands master, or perhaps his son; Franz van Mieris the Elder, a
17th-century Dutch artist; and Rosalba Carriera, an 18th-century Venetian
master, or another artist in the Venetian school.

American art experts who have studied the paintings in recent weeks estimated
the collection's to be worth somewhere between $300,000 and more than $1
million. One expert, who died last December shortly after making an appraisal,
put the value of the purported Bouts painting, "Man With a Skull," to be worth
$1.2 million.

The story began on May 27, 1968, when officials of the Bruhenthal discovered
that eight "very valuable paintings by Old Masters," according to their report,
had been stolen from the museum overnight. A year later, the Romanian Government
issued a circular about the theft, describing the eight paintings in detail, but
there was no response.

About this time, the young Mr.  Oprisi decided "to seek a new life in the West,"
as he expressed it in a recent interview.

With only the clothes on his back and about $80 in his pocket, he said, he
slipped out of Romania, swam across the Danube, made his way across Yugoslavia
to Austria and settled in Vienna, where he claimed political asylum and worked
as a tool and die maker.

In Vienna, he said, he met a Gypsy woman who offered to sell him four Old Master
paintings. He borrowed money from an aunt living in Ohio and bought the four
artworks for $1,200, he recalled.

A few months later, Mr. Oprisi emigrated to the United States and settled in
Florida, becoming an American citizen in 1976. In 1996, he said, he noticed on
the back of the painting referred to as "Man With a Skull" the seal of the royal
Hohenzollern family, to which the King of Romania had belonged.

He showed it to an old friend, Frank Cesar, a Hungarian-born art appraiser and
restoration expert who lived in Chazy, N.Y., near Plattsburgh.

Mr. Cesar said he thought the painting was by Dieric Bouts or perhaps one of the
master's sons and was worth $1.2 million. Seeking further evaluation, Mr. Cesar
sent a photograph of the painting to Jack Kilgore, a Manhattan dealer in Dutch
and Flemish Old Master paintings. A short while later, Mr. Cesar died of a heart
attack.

Meanwhile, Mr. Kilgore sent the photograph of "Man With a Skull" to the
Netherlands Research Institute for Art History in The Hague. The institute
quickly identified it as one of the stolen paintings. The Dutch institute then
notified Interpol, the international police agency, which in turn alerted the
United States Customs Service. They located Mr. Oprisi in Florida.

Vincent A. Rossi, the senior special Customs agent on the case, recalled that he
was astounded when Mr. Oprisi volunteered that he had not one but four Old
Master works and that he would surrender them all to Customs if it could be
established that they were stolen property.

This fact was quickly established by John J. Baratte, a former museum director
and art scholar retained by Customs for the job. "This was an easy one," Mr.
Baratte said. "I was only trying to match the actual paintings with the fax sent
by Interpol, and they were the same."

Mr. Oprisi then signed a statement in which he abandoned ownership, and Customs
notified the Romanian Government.

"When I found out there was even a suspicion that the paintings might be
stolen," said Mr. Oprisi, "I decided to give them away with no expectation of
winning a medal or congratulations or anything. I could fight them by saying the
statute of limitations had run, but I didn't want to. I said, 'Take them, and if
the Government of Romania wants to repay the $1,200 I spent, I'll accept it, but
if they don't want to pay they can have the paintings free.' "

Mr. Oprisi vehemently denies any knowledge of the four paintings that are still
missing, including Van Dyck's "Death of Cleopatra" and "Portrait of a Man" by
Hans Holbein the Elder.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Man With a Skull," stolen in 1968, has turned up in Florida.
(Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 10, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Immigrant Is Rearrested After Bail Is Posted

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 169 words


Moments after one of the 23 Chinese men who landed illegally in New Jersey two
months ago was released on a $5,000 bond yesterday afternoon, Federal
authorities rearrested him as a witness in a continuing criminal investigation
into smuggling.

The man, Jiang Dian Lu, 22, had been held in an immigration detention center in
Elizabeth along with the 22 other men, all of whom are from Fujian province in
China. On Wednesday, Judge Esmeralda Cabrera granted parole to Mr. Jiang;
yesterday, relatives of Mr. Jiang paid the $5,000 bond.

But as expected, United States marshals arrested Mr. Jiang after he posted bond.
They transported him to Passaic County Jail.

Federal authorities have said that they do not want any of the Chinese
immigrants out on bond because of their value to the investigation, and because
of the possibility that the men may be in danger from smugglers.

Most of the other Chinese immigrants, meanwhile, are scheduled to request parole
today in an immigration court in Elizabeth.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 12, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Q&A/Donald R. Wilde;
Reaching Out to Teach Refugees English

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words


WHILE others are sleeping in, playing golf or getting an early start on errands
on Saturday mornings, Donald R. Wilde of Briarcliff is on the train to Manhattan
to get to his 9 o'clock class in Washington Square where he teaches English to
refugees.

Mr. Wilde, 69, a playwright and retired advertising agency creative director,
has done this almost every week for the last five years as a volunteer with a
program run by the International Rescue Committee. Among the students in his
class at New York University are an opera singer from Slovakia, a university
graduate from Sri Lanka, a machine operator from Latvia and an engineer from
Ukraine.

In May, Mr. Wilde was one of three volunteers honored by the committee with the
first Alison Lanier Awards, named in honor of the late author who started the
English Language Program. Anyone interested in volunteering, should call the
International Rescue Committee at (212) 551-3000.

Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with Mr. Wilde, who is also
president of the board of trustees of the Briarcliff Public Library and became
involved with the English Language Program after reading a newspaper letter
seeking volunteers:


Q. Why do you do this?

A. I do it for a couple of reasons. The main reason is that, like everyone else,
I'm a descendant of immigrants. My grandparents on both sides were English,
Irish and Scottish. I used to hear stories when I was a kid about how they came
over, and one of my grandmothers came over in steerage when she was 16 years
old. That made a big impression on me. So when I read about this program, I
said, gosh, my grandmother and grandparents were helped when they came here,
sometimes by strangers. Maybe I can sort of pay back for the good things that
happened to them.


Q. Every Saturday, 52 weeks a year?

A. Yes that's right. There is no vacation.


Q. Are there times you do not want to get up to do this?

A. No, I really love it. In a sense they become friends; it's like a little
club. Unfortunately, they disperse every four or five months. The whole idea is
to get them to a point where they can speak the language and understand the
language enough to get a job. And once they get a job, they usually leave.


Q. You are not a teacher; you do not know the languages of the people you are
working with. How does that play out in the classroom?

A. Well, I've done a lot of public speaking, and when I was in advertising I did
a lot of recruiting and training of people, literally from around the world. I
did a lot of lecturing overseas. So I sort of built up a way of communicating
with people who weren't American. And over the years that became more and more
honed, and I've simply applied that facility in teaching these refugees.


Q. Explain the difference between a refugee and an immigrant.

A. Refugees are the victims of persecution, perhaps religious or racial.
Sometimes they've been displaced by war. They can't go back to their homeland,
so the parent organization -- in this case the International Rescue Committee --
goes overseas and gets them out of the awful situation they're in by providing
them with medical care, housing and food and then relocates them. Most of them
are penniless when they arrive.


Q. Do they know a little English?

A. There are a couple of levels to the program. There is one level where they
teach almost no English at all. One of the most effective teachers on that
beginning level was a cartoonist who drew pictures of the things that he was
talking about, which they could pick up on. Otherwise, you would have to know
the language, and inasmuch as you're dealing with people from several countries
it's impossible to find someone who could do an effective job at that level. So
I'm at the middle level where they can speak some English.


Q. Idiomatic expressions must be a challenge to the refugees.

A. Yes. One of the problems they have with the language is that they tend to
know the formal language. What they don't know is the informal language. They
don't know idioms, and they don't know slang. For example, they had no idea of
the expression "I'm speaking tongue in cheek." They know what each of those
words means, but they just don't understand what the expression means. Or
"You're pulling my leg," or "Let's face the music." What you come to realize
when you start teaching on this level is that the language seems to be composed
of about 45 percent idioms; we speak that way without even knowing it. And then
there's slang: "This is for the birds" or "He's a real jerk."


Q. How do you overcome that?

A. We drill, we drill, we drill. And then we get into dirty language, which is
strange because I don't use a filter in a way. I encourage them to bring in
things -- words they've heard or read -- that they don't understand. So they
bring in what we used to call dirty language. The language is only part of the
problem because they're coming into a totally foreign culture. If you teach them
only the language, they can't function because they don't know how to operate in
the culture; they don't know the meaning of things. So I spend a lot of time
talking about these things.


Q. Give an example.

A. Well, we go into conversational style, and the American style tends to be
very businesslike: "Let's get to the point," "Let's not beat around the bush."
Well, they come from cultures where you do beat around the bush, where to be
direct is really rather rude and insulting. We tend to ask direct questions. You
meet someone for the first time on a train and you say, "What do you do?" If you
say that to many people from other cultures, that's such an invasion of privacy
they feel outraged by it.


Q. Every country has its variations. Some foreigners will ask directly: "How
much money do you make?" "How much did that cost?" Many Americans would not ask
such questions of strangers.

A. Yes. Money is O.K. It's funny how it's different. Also, when Americans talk
it's sort of like a Ping Pong match, where the ball is tossed back and forth. In
many other countries people hold forth -- it's more of a monologue -- and if you
begin to address your viewpoint they think you're interrupting.

And then there is the whole aspect of the nonverbal. Take, for example,
friendship. I've had Greeks in my class. To express friendship in Greece, men
walk down the street holding hands or embrace each other or kiss each other on
the cheek when they meet. Of course, that simply isn't in our culture. And then
there is the whole thing of eye contact. Many Africans and some Asians feel it's
impolite to look directly at a boss or a teacher, so they tend to look away. Of
course, we interpret that as being shifty. And then there is the very funny
thing of personal space, how close people stand or sit when they are speaking to
each other. You get the Latin Americans or the Arabs, and they're right up in
your nose. And Americans stand back about three or three and a half feet.


Q. In the five years you have done this, have you seen any trends?

A. What strikes me is their courage. These are people who worked as
professionals in their home country and lost their jobs, their houses, in many
cases lost their families, and they come here at sometimes the age of 50 to
start over and are just barely able to speak the language.


Q. What are your feelings about bilingual education, a debate going on in this
country?

A. I think a little bit of that goes a long way. I think we have to get people
to the point of speaking English as quickly as possible. Because the only way
they're going to get ahead in the American culture is to speak the language and
to understand the culture.


Q. Generally, in four months you can release your students so they can get by?

A. Oh, yes. They're very smart, and these are people who are so eager to learn.
They show up rain or shine, in snow storms.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald R. Wilde of Briarcliff in his class at New York
University. He teaches English to refugees. (Frances Roberts for The New York
Times)

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 14, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
4 Immigrants Post Bond And Are Rearrested

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Four more illegal Chinese immigrants who landed on a New Jersey beach on May 30
posted bond yesterday, only to be immediately rearrested by Federal authorities
as witnesses in a continuing investigation into smuggling.

The four were believed to have been taken to Passaic County Jail, joining the
other man who posted bond.

In all, 23 Chinese men from Fujian province were aboard the Oops II, a powerboat
that the authorities say was supposed to be helping to smuggle the men from
China into the United States via South America.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 14, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Soccer: Too Few Commercials for Americans?

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words



To the Editor:

France's victory in the World Cup -- largely made possible by players of African
and Arab descent -- was, as you report, "a rebuke, in an athletic sense, anyway,
of the anti-immigration stand by Jean-Marie Le Pen and the right-wing National
Front party that has gained popularity in recent years" (front page, July 13).
So true.

But tomorrow, and the day after, another Arab or another African will be beaten
on the streets of St. Denis, or maimed or killed in Marseilles, Bordeaux or
Paris. Anti-immigration sentiment is not a mere extremist's stance; it is fast
becoming policy in a country that dyes its hair and paints its skin
bleu-blanc-rouge when national pride is at stake but, in the end, considers
blanc the only color to be.

DOMINIQUE MALAQUAIS
New York, July 13, 1998

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Paul Chow, 69; Helped Save Immigration Site

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 14


Paul Q. Chow, who helped lead the effort to preserve and restore the Angel
Island Immigration Station as the Ellis Island of the West Coast, died on June
30 at his home in San Francisco. He was 69.

The cause was liver disease, said Daniel Quan, president of the Angel Island
Immigration Station Foundation.

Mr. Chow, a transportation engineer, volunteered his time for the past 25 years
to preserving the legacy of Chinese immigration to the United States by helping
to protect one of its most significant cultural landmarks. From 1910 to 1940,
Angel Island, in the San Francisco Bay, was the main Pacific gateway for
immigration into the United States, processing more than one million immigrants
from Asia.

Under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which limited Chinese immigration until
1943, thousands of Chinese, including Mr. Chow's father, were detained on Angel
Island and interrogated about their eligibility to immigrate. Many were held
there for weeks, months and, in some cases, years before they were deported to
China.

After the station was closed in 1940, it was used to house Italian and German
prisoners of war, but in 1945 the barracks was boarded up and abandoned. As the
state was poised to demolish the remaining buildings in the early 1970's for the
California State Park system, a park ranger discovered that Chinese characters
had been etched into the walls of the barracks. A group of Chinese-American
scholars found that the carvings were of hundreds of poems by detainees writing
of their plight.

Mr. Chow led the effort to create an Angel Island Immigration Station Historical
Advisory Committee in 1974 to promote the restoration of the immigration entry
point. Following the group's recommendations, the State of California financed
that restoration with $250,000. The site was then opened to the public, and is
now visited by about 300,000 people each year. Mr. Chow himself gave docent
tours of the station in his free time.

In 1983, Mr. Chow founded the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation, a
nonprofit organization established to continue advocating on both state and
Federal levels for historical designation of the site and for a museum in the
barracks, similar to the one on Ellis Island.

On May 16, part of Mr. Chow's vision was accomplished when the Interior
Department designated the site a National Historic Landmark. Mr. Quan, the
foundation's president, credited Mr. Chow's persistence for that designation.

"He was very concerned about the telling of forgotten chapters of history," Mr.
Quan said, "and he wanted to make sure that this particular chapter in history
got told."

Felicia J. Lowe, a documentary film maker and vice president of the foundation,
first met Mr. Chow when she was researching "Carved in Silence," a 1988
documentary about those detained and employed at Angel Island. The greatest
contribution to the preservation effort was Mr. Chow's ability to convey to
people the significance of the immigration center, Ms. Lowe said.

"Paul was very effective in inspiring the imagination and the hearts of people
to the fact that this was not a story of statistics," she said, adding that he
was able to "translate into human terms, the cost of exclusion."

For his preservation work, Mr. Chow received awards and commendations from
President Jimmy Carter, the Internal Revenue Service and the California
Department of Parks and Recreation. Most recently, on June 18, he was honored
with the Free Spirit Award from the Freedom Forum, a nonprofit, nonpartisan
foundation focused on journalism and First Amendment issues, for "his vision in
seeing the lessons that could come from a place that had meant fear and despair
to so many."

From 1964 to 1976, Mr. Chow was also a member of the Juvenile Justice Commission
in San Francisco.

Paul Quingpoy Chow, who was born in 1928 in San Francisco, graduated from the
University of California at Berkeley with a degree in civil engineering. He
later joined the California Department of Transportation in 1953 as a junior
engineer.

Mr. Chow is survived by his wife of 20 years, Dorothea Char; his children, Gail
and Gary Chow; his stepchildren, William Char and Patricia Char Miller; two
brothers, Frank and Martin Chow; two sisters, Ruby Huey and Betty Tom, and four
grandchildren

NAME: Paul Q. Chow

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Q. Chow observing Chinese poetry carved into walls at the
Angel Island Immigration Station. (Fred Mertz)

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Memorial to Jewish Small-Town Immigration

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, N.H., July 4


Russian-Jewish immigration to the United States at the turn of the century did
more than fill the huge urban centers of America.

It also spilled into cities like Portsmouth, where Abraham and Shiva Shapiro
settled in 1905 and reared a daughter alongside the predominantly Yankee
descendants of the Colonial period.

An exhibit at the Strawbery Banke Museum's Shapiro House, which opened today,
focuses on Jewish small-town immigrants and has given their descendants a new
understanding. "It explodes the myth that all of these old New England locations
were then populated only by descendants of the Mayflower," said Sharon Kotok,
coordinator of the exhibit.

Gov. Jeanne Shaheen spoke at ceremonies marking the opening of the exhibit, and
Judge Joseph A. DiClerico Jr. of the Federal District Court in New Hampshire
naturalized 20 more immigrants of diverse background. The Shapiro House, part of
the museum's 10-acre property on historic Strawbery Banke, has been restored to
the way it appeared in 1919.

Abraham Shapiro immigrated here from Annopol, near Kiev, Ukraine, in 1903, when
that country was part of czarist Russia. Shiva, who also was from Ukraine,
immigrated in 1905 and married Abraham the same year.

At the time, Portsmouth was a city of 10,600 people, full of shoe shops and
breweries and economically tied to the Navy shipyard across the Piscataqua River
in Kittery, Me.

When Abraham arrived here, he had $12 in his pocket, said his grandson, Dr. Bert
Wolf of Portland, Me., a dentist. Deeds and records show that Abraham, a
pawnbroker, bought the house for $400 and paid it off in seven years. The
Shapiros had only one child, Mollie, and she was "the apple of their eye," Ms.
Kotok said. Mollie married and had a son, but she died at the age of 24.

The Shapiros were part of the more than 23 million immigrants who spilled into
the United States at the turn of the century, fleeing discrimination and
poverty.

"Nearly half the people in the U.S. can trace their relatives to immigrants who
came here during this era," said Susan Montgomery, curator of the Strawbery
Banke Museum.

While most of the Russian Jews went directly to New York, Chicago, Boston and
other large urban centers, "fully one quarter of them selected homes in smaller
communities," Ms. Montgomery said.

Elaine Krasker, 70, a former New Hampshire State Senator who was born in
Portsmouth and is a granddaughter of Abraham's older brother, Shepsel, said that
before the restoration project she had only a slight knowledge of the family's
past.

"The most exciting thing is that we're bringing the family to life," Mrs.
Krasker said. "I had only the bare outlines of their lives in Russia."

Her grandfather Shepsel arrived in 1898 and started a scrap metal business.
Simon Shapiro, another brother, arrived four years later.

Simon's grandson, Sumner Shapiro, 71, of McLean, Va., is a retired rear admiral
and a former director of naval intelligence. He, too, is fascinated by the
family's past.

"I heard about the neighborhood and house as a kid," Admiral Shapiro said. "My
grandfather lived in a house around the corner. What makes this important is
that many people think the Jews settled only in large urban areas. Not so."

Speaking of the Shapiro House, Ms. Kotok said: "It's not glamorous. When you
walk in this house, it will rattle some bones and shake some cages about who
really lived in these old New England towns back then."


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:
Photos: The restored Shapiro House at Strawbery Banke in Portsmouth, N.H., where
Mollie Shapiro, right, was reared by a Jewish immigrant couple. (Deb Cram)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 201 words


An article on June 9 about political contributions by Maria L. Hsia misstated
the size and timing of donations made to Representative Howard L. Berman,
Democrat of California, in the early 1980's. Mr. Berman received a total of $800
from a law firm with which Ms. Hsia was associated, not several thousand
dollars. He received the contribution several months after corresponding with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service on the firm's behalf, not before
writing to the agency.

The article also misstated the timing of correspondence between Mr. Berman,
other Congressmen and the I.N.S. The article said that an official from the
agency replied to correspondence from Mr. Berman, Representative Mel Levine,
Democrat of California, and others on Dec. 5, 1983. In fact, the correspondence
sent by the Congressmen was dated Dec. 5, 1983, and the immigration agency's
reply was written on Feb. 27, 1984.

Since the publication of the article, Representatives Berman and Levine have
said that the article mischaracterized their actions. They said that they merely
forwarded a complaint from Ms. Hsia's firm to the immigration agency, and that
they were not "demanding" a response from the agency.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Memorial to Jewish Small-Town Immigration

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, N.H., July 4


Russian-Jewish immigration to the United States at the turn of the century did
more than fill the huge urban centers of America.

It also spilled into cities like Portsmouth, where Abraham and Shiva Shapiro
settled in 1905 and reared a daughter alongside the predominantly Yankee
descendants of the Colonial period.

An exhibit at the Strawbery Banke Museum's Shapiro House, which opened today,
focuses on Jewish small-town immigrants and has given their descendants a new
understanding. "It explodes the myth that all of these old New England locations
were then populated only by descendants of the Mayflower," said Sharon Kotok,
coordinator of the exhibit.

Gov. Jeanne Shaheen spoke at ceremonies marking the opening of the exhibit, and
Judge Joseph A. DiClerico Jr. of the Federal District Court in New Hampshire
naturalized 20 more immigrants of diverse background. The Shapiro House, part of
the museum's 10-acre property on historic Strawbery Banke, has been restored to
the way it appeared in 1919.

Abraham Shapiro immigrated here from Annopol, near Kiev, Ukraine, in 1903, when
that country was part of czarist Russia. Shiva, who also was from Ukraine,
immigrated in 1905 and married Abraham the same year.

At the time, Portsmouth was a city of 10,600 people, full of shoe shops and
breweries and economically tied to the Navy shipyard across the Piscataqua River
in Kittery, Me.

When Abraham arrived here, he had $12 in his pocket, said his grandson, Dr. Bert
Wolf of Portland, Me., a dentist. Deeds and records show that Abraham, a
pawnbroker, bought the house for $400 and paid it off in seven years. The
Shapiros had only one child, Mollie, and she was "the apple of their eye," Ms.
Kotok said. Mollie married and had a son, but she died at the age of 24.

The Shapiros were part of the more than 23 million immigrants who spilled into
the United States at the turn of the century, fleeing discrimination and
poverty.

"Nearly half the people in the U.S. can trace their relatives to immigrants who
came here during this era," said Susan Montgomery, curator of the Strawbery
Banke Museum.

While most of the Russian Jews went directly to New York, Chicago, Boston and
other large urban centers, "fully one quarter of them selected homes in smaller
communities," Ms. Montgomery said.

Elaine Krasker, 70, a former New Hampshire State Senator who was born in
Portsmouth and is a granddaughter of Abraham's older brother, Shepsel, said that
before the restoration project she had only a slight knowledge of the family's
past.

"The most exciting thing is that we're bringing the family to life," Mrs.
Krasker said. "I had only the bare outlines of their lives in Russia."

Her grandfather Shepsel arrived in 1898 and started a scrap metal business.
Simon Shapiro, another brother, arrived four years later.

Simon's grandson, Sumner Shapiro, 71, of McLean, Va., is a retired rear admiral
and a former director of naval intelligence. He, too, is fascinated by the
family's past.

"I heard about the neighborhood and house as a kid," Admiral Shapiro said. "My
grandfather lived in a house around the corner. What makes this important is
that many people think the Jews settled only in large urban areas. Not so."

Speaking of the Shapiro House, Ms. Kotok said: "It's not glamorous. When you
walk in this house, it will rattle some bones and shake some cages about who
really lived in these old New England towns back then."


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:
Photos: The restored Shapiro House at Strawbery Banke in Portsmouth, N.H., where
Mollie Shapiro, right, was reared by a Jewish immigrant couple. (Deb Cram)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 201 words


An article on June 9 about political contributions by Maria L. Hsia misstated
the size and timing of donations made to Representative Howard L. Berman,
Democrat of California, in the early 1980's. Mr. Berman received a total of $800
from a law firm with which Ms. Hsia was associated, not several thousand
dollars. He received the contribution several months after corresponding with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service on the firm's behalf, not before
writing to the agency.

The article also misstated the timing of correspondence between Mr. Berman,
other Congressmen and the I.N.S. The article said that an official from the
agency replied to correspondence from Mr. Berman, Representative Mel Levine,
Democrat of California, and others on Dec. 5, 1983. In fact, the correspondence
sent by the Congressmen was dated Dec. 5, 1983, and the immigration agency's
reply was written on Feb. 27, 1984.

Since the publication of the article, Representatives Berman and Levine have
said that the article mischaracterized their actions. They said that they merely
forwarded a complaint from Ms. Hsia's firm to the immigration agency, and that
they were not "demanding" a response from the agency.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 8, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

America's Chief Justice

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 106 words



To the Editor:

"Who is Chief Justice of the Supreme Court?," question 43 facing would-be
naturalized citizens ("Psst -- Wanna Be an American? Cheat Sheet Below," Week in
Review, July 6) is itself an error on the part of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service examiners. In 1865, Chief Justice Salmon Portland Chase,
President Lincoln's nominee, ruled that his title would be "Chief Justice of the
United States." Chase wished to emphasize the dearly bought reunification of the
once-again United States.

HAROLD M. HYMAN
Houston, July 7, 1997

The writer is professor emeritus of constitutional history at Rice Univ.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: A POSSIBLE LINK;
Man Relates Tangled Tale Implicating Deaf Ex-Wife

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: EAST MEADOW, N.Y., July 19


So far, few explanations have been offered for what led to the situation of 62
Mexican immigrants found in two Queens homes today. But a vehicle linked to the
trinket trade many of the immigrants were forced to engage in led to a deaf Long
Island man who says he can explain it all.

The man, Frank Coenen, 35, was traced through a license plate on the white
Plymouth van outside one of the apartments where the Mexicans said they had been
forced to stay, selling pens and key chains for a man known as "the boss."
Neighbors repeatedly identified the van as one used to ferry the Mexicans and
their wares.

Mr. Coenen, who lives in the Long Island town of East Meadow, was interviewed
this evening with the help of his speaking brother, Brendan.

Mr. Coenen said that the mind behind the trade was his ex-wife, a 28-year-old
woman from Mexico City named Adriana Paoletti. It was unclear whether she was
connected to a man being questioned by the authorities today, known variously as
Alfredo Paoletti and Alfredo Rustrian.

Mr. Coenen said he and his wife divorced about a year ago, after three years of
marriage, because she had been using his status as a citizen to bring dozens of
relatives, friends and strangers to their apartment in Queens, then put them to
work selling trinkets on the streets and in the subways.

The business was begun using one of his credit cards, he said, and escalated
into a scheme to make thousands of dollars off the backs of handicapped Mexicans
hoping for a life in America.

But he said he had no part in it. "I have never been in trouble with the law,"
his brother interpreted as he signed. "I don't even smoke or drink. This is her
game."

Mr. Coenen said he made his living as a postal worker on Long Island, and that
his sister is a police officer.

He said that his wife began smuggling illegal aliens through San Diego with a
brother of hers he knew as Renalto about three years ago, returning to a poor
section of Mexico City twice a year to recruit more deaf people and to deposit
thousands of dollars in accounts there.

Using his credit card, he said, Ms. Paoletti would buy pens and key chains for
three dollars a dozen from a company called Rhode Island Novelty, then send the
immigrants out with cards asking commuters to buy the items for the good of the
deaf.

"Even children worked, as young as 11 years old," Brendan Coenen said. 'The kids
were living tough, dragging up and down the subway twelve hours a day. They
didn't have much to eat and were working for a place to live, something to eat,
and a little pocket change for video games."

When Frank Coenen was asked why he did nothing to stop the exploitation, he said
that it was his ex-wife's life, and her relatives.

Mr. Coenen said he met his former wife in Los Angeles and fell in love, he said.

But Mr. Coenen added that things quickly soured after they moved to Queens and
20 or so relatives began to move into their apartment.

"I began to realize that she was using me," he said, adding that the couple left
the apartment and moved back to Long Island briefly before his wife decided to
move back to Queens, where she was closer to those now plying their small trade
out of the apartment.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: THE OVERVIEW;
Dozens of Deaf Immigrants Discovered in Forced Labor

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words


Four deaf and mute Mexicans walked into a police station in Jackson Heights,
Queens, before dawn yesterday, informed the police that they were indentured
laborers and led them to two apartments crammed with deaf immigrants -- 62 men,
women and young children who slept side by side on bunk beds, mattresses and
sleeping bags.

Using written notes and sign language, the immigrants told the police that they
had been forced by a man who had smuggled them into the United States to work
18-hour days as trinket vendors, selling $1 key chains on subways and at
airports. Some of the women made allegations of sexual assault, the police said;
one had a black eye.

"This is a very disgusting and horrible situation that is going to emerge over
the next few days," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday in Queens. "One man
or more was holding a number of people in bondage or virtual slavery."

By yesterday afternoon, no arrests had been made, although the police were
questioning the man whom the others referred to as "the boss." He is 37 years
old, and named either Alfredo Paoletti or Alfredo Rustrian. Last night, a Long
Island man told a tangled story of marrying a deaf Mexican woman named Paoletti,
who he said drew other deaf Mexicans to Queens and involved them in the trinket
sales.

But it was "the boss" who allegedly arranged the immigrants' passage, in small
groups, through Newark International Airport, then confiscated their personal
documents, shoehorned them into small apartments and forced them to peddle
trinkets using cards that said, "I am deaf," the authorities said. Every night,
they gave their earnings to him and were instructed to stay out until they had
$100 to bring back.

From early yesterday, the police investigation was hampered by communication
problems as officers scrambled to find interpreters of both Spanish and sign
language. In fact, several of the immigrants had tried unsuccessfully to ask for
help in previous visits to the station house, according to one detective. When
four of them, three men and a woman, returned at 4 A.M. yesterday, it was with a
letter written in Spanish.

Written by the woman, the letter began, "I am a woman who works at Newark
Airport," and ended, "I hope you have time to read this."

At dawn, the police roused from sleep two frightened groups of Mexican
immigrants who apparently thought it was an immigration raid. Officers found 44
people in a four-bedroom, one-bath apartment at 37-54 93d Street, and 18 more in
a two-bedroom at 104-15 34th Avenue.  "They thought we were the I.N.S.," said
Officer Billy Milan, who described the way the immigrants began to frantically
pack up clothes. "They were going to leave."

One woman was able to read Officer Milan's lips as he spoke in Spanish, and
helped to calm the two groups. At 6 A.M., they boarded a bus for the 115th
Precinct for questioning. The police seized a basket of their trinkets, key
chains attached to miniature baseballs, fake $100 bills or tiny screwdrivers.

Outside the precinct, there was much commotion yesterday as the Mayor, the
Mexican Consul, immigration agents and Red Cross volunteers descended on
Northern Boulevard. One officer described the scene inside the station house as
oddly chaotic and tranquil at the same time, because 60 people were talking at
once, but in sign language.

Officer Phil Rogan said the 10 children, who ranged from 4 months to 7 years
old, were in good condition and "quite charming." Unlike their parents, about
half of the children were able to talk, in Spanish. The officers fed them
bagels, milk and juice before the Red Cross arrived with provisions from
McDonald's.

In their busy immigrant neighborhood, straddling Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson
Heights, these Mexicans stood out only because they were a large group of deaf
people, who shopped in the Corona Deli Grocery using notes to request food they
could not find. They also wore identical backpacks.

"I had noticed them because I saw an explosion of deaf-mute Mexicans working the
No. 7 line," said Mitchell A. Chiddick, who lives in the neighborhood. "They
were panhandling, selling pens and key chains, what have you."

Those who lived on their blocks, though, saw a sadder picture up close.
Sometimes the women would sit on the front steps and sob loudly. The men would
drink to excess and sometimes sleep in the nearby park. A neighbor, Jose Perez,
said he had the impression that they were supposed to return by 11 P.M., or they
would be locked out.

"They looked so tired, so wasted," Mr. Perez said. "I thought a school was
organizing them and sending them out to sell these little things, but it was a
mafia."

In two houses about 10 blocks apart, their living conditions, while extreme,
were not uncommon, as many nearby houses are overcrowded, or divided into
cubicles.

The front bedroom at 93d Street held two sets of bunk beds, with five sleeping
bags on the floor. Rumpled clothing, stuffed bears and rubber balls were strewn
about the carpeted floor beneath a crucifix. In the back of the apartment,
investigators said, there were 30 beds.

The immigrants always paid their $1,600 monthly rent punctually, on the 22d of
each month, most of it in $1 bills, according to their landlady, Esther Sotamba,
who inherited them as tenants when she bought the house three months ago. For
all other transactions, she dealt with the man she knew only as Alfredo.

While the dominant Hispanic immigrant group in the neighborhood is Colombian,
many Mexicans have been moving into Jackson Heights. Like this group, they come
from different parts of the country: Mexico City, Oaxaca, Puebla and Guerrero.

Cristina Cabrera, 23, who lives above one of the raided apartments, said that
the immigrants told her that they were friends from a school for the deaf in
Mexico. In Mexico City, the director of the National School of the Deaf said
yesterday that he had had a student named Claudia Paoletti a few years ago,
whose older brother was Alfredo.

Although there have been several cases involving Chinese immigrants who were
smuggled into this country and held in servitude, this is the first New York
case involving Mexicans. Typically, the trip from Mexico is far less expensive
than that from China, about $1,000 compared with $30,000. And typically, Mexican
immigrants pay that fee upfront.

There have, however, been a few cases involving Mexican agricultural workers
held in remote locations, including a group of strawberry pickers in forced
labor in California.

"This was a very unusual situation, in that they were physically free, not in
chains, and they were in contact with their relatives in Mexico," said Jorge
Pinto, the Consul General of Mexico in New York City. "But somehow this man had
control over them. There is mention of sexual abuse and all sorts of horrors. It
is especially horrible because they were handicapped."

Mr. Pinto said consular officials volunteered to contact the immigrants'
families, but the Mexicans declined.

Early yesterday afternoon, Richard A. Brown, the Queens District Attorney, said
that the immigrants would be taken into custody by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

But when Mayor Giuliani arrived in Queens, he met with immigration officials to
dissuade them from detaining the whole group without first investigating their
individual situations. He was told then that the immigrants would remain in the
custody of the Police Department last night.

Armed with blankets and baby formula, the Red Cross began transporting vanfuls
of children and adults to unspecified shelters just before 9 P.M. last night.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A woman, escorted yesterday from the 115th Precinct in Queens,
was one of dozens of Mexicans who say they were smuggled into the United States
and forced to sell trinkets in New York City subways and airports. (Steve Hart
for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A house at 104-15 34th Avenue, top, and one at
37-54 93d Street, both in Jackson Heights, where a total of 62 Mexican
immigrants lived. They told the police they had been forced to work long hours
selling trinkets. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York
Times)(pg. 25)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: THE NEIGHBORHOOD;
A Neighborhood Was Jarred By Cries of 'the Mute Ones'

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words


In the neighborhood they were known as los muditos, the mute ones: industrious
young people who left the house at dawn and did not return until after midnight.

But when they came home, their neighbors knew it. That is when life began on the
first floor of 37-54 93d Street, a two-story house half a block from the No. 7
line in Jackson Heights, Queens.

And life among los muditos, neighbors say, was not pretty.

Women ran crying through the house. Men sat on the front steps drinking. Both
men and women made loud guttural sounds, like muffled screams. And children
cried incessantly, but their parents could not hear them.

In the mornings, condoms and empty bottles littered the front yard.

"The screams wouldn't let us sleep," said Luzmari Bohorquez, 42, who lives next
door. "And in the mornings, one of the girls often had a black eye."

Cristina Cabrera, 23, who lives upstairs with five other people, said she always
knew that at least a dozen immigrants lived downstairs. But she never imagined
there would be so many.

The police said 44 people lived in the house, almost all of them deaf adults who
worked for little or no pay for the men who brought them to the United States
from Mexico.

Mrs. Cabrera said it was obvious that her neighbors were going through very hard
times. "Some of the women would sit on the front steps and sob, and I mean sob
loudly," she said.

To others on the block, los muditos were known for always paying for their
groceries and services in dollar bills and for the exquisite care they took of
their home, often hosing down the mess they had left overnight in front of the
house all the way to the sidewalk.

They were also known for their sweetness, waving and smiling to people they did
not even know.

Esther Sotamba, one of the owners of the house, said that when she bought it
three months ago for $269,000, the tenants were already living there.

She said that she did not know who was renting the house, and that she always
dealt with a man named Alfredo who did not live there and never told her his
last name or gave her a telephone number. Police have identified the man as
Alfredo Paoletti, also known as Alfredo Rustrian, 37. When Ms. Sotamba wanted to
talk to him, she left a note with the tenants, she said.

Ms. Sotamba said she had talked to Alfredo several times because she was
concerned that too many people lived there. When she bought the house, she said,
she was told there were only 10 tenants. But she visited the house every
weekend, and had seen signs that many more people lived there: beds everywhere,
many pairs of shoes of different sizes and large, industrial-size cooking pots.

Alfredo, however, told her that many of the people who came to the house
actually lived in another house nearby, she said. He explained that they
congregated in this house because it was closer to their jobs, Ms. Sotamba said.
On July 1, Alfredo agreed that the tenants of the house would move, she said,
but he asked for time to look for another place.

At the second address the police went to yesterday, a two-family home at 104-15
34th Avenue, family members who would not give their names said they had owned
the building for two years. They said they had rented the upper floor to a group
of seven deaf Mexicans, but had little communication with them because they used
only sign language.

A 22-year-old family member said that even though he had heard people go in and
out "all the time," he did not believe there could have been more than seven
people living upstairs. "I would have known," he said. "But I barely heard those
people walking around."

The men and women of both houses made a living selling pens and key chains for
$1 each in the subway cars that crisscross Queens. They paid a monthly total of
$1,600 rent for the four-bedroom, one-bath house on 93d Street. They paid
punctually on the 22d of each month, Ms. Sotamba said, giving her at least
$1,000 of the total in $1 bills.

Manuel Jara, a neighbor who lives two houses away, said that the immigrants
showed up suddenly one day six months ago. "We used to ask ourselves, where did
all these people come from, and what are they doing here, until I saw two of
them in the subway, selling things," he said.

Valerio Mena, a tailor who has a shop a few houses away from where they lived,
said he was always making alterations for them. They wore secondhand clothes
that needed a lot of mending. A few days ago, they left an old purple
sweatshirt, a faded blue hooded jacket and some blue and white sheets.

"I feel for them. They were really nice people," Mr. Mena said, neatly folding
the immigrants' belongings that he never got to mend. "For a long time there has
been a rumor that someone was exploiting them."

Another shopkeeper, Ana Nolasco, said the immigrants had managed to communicate
to several neighbors that they worked 18 hours a day or even longer because the
man who controlled them, whom they never identified, demanded that they stay
away from the house unless they had earned at least $100 a day. Lately, she
said, they had begun wearing the same kind of clothes: colorful T-shirts with a
logo that spelled Love in sign language, and jean shorts.

Mrs. Cabrera said she found it difficult to deal with her neighbors because she
could not communicate with them. She went downstairs many times to let them know
that their babies were crying.

"I pounded on their doors, but they couldn't hear me," she said, "and the babies
cried for hours, until they couldn't cry anymore."

Neighbors said they were not sure whether the men who lived in the house beat
the women, or if someone from the outside came in to abuse them, because they
never actually saw any of the beatings. But, they said, they are certain that
many tears were shed in that house.

Mrs. Cabrera said she once saw a young woman running from the house as if she
wanted to get away from two men who were chasing her. The woman pushed the men
away, and they finally left her alone. She then sat on the steps at the back of
the house, whimpering like a puppy.

The next day, when Mrs. Cabrera asked Alfredo what had happened, he told her
that the woman had had a very bad toothache.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Queens shows the location of 104-15 34th Avenue and of 37-54 93d
Street: Officials say 62 people lived in squalor in two houses in Queens. (pg.
25)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

About New York;
For Some Hispanic Immigrants, a Sense of Kinship With the Silent Laborers

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 786 words


THEY come from dust-blown villages and jam-packed cities, young men barely old
enough to work up a decent lather on their wispy mustaches, all drawn by the
lure of the American dollar. They blend into neighborhoods like Jackson Heights,
where waves of Latin immigration have made the commercial strips look like an
entrepreneurial outpost of the Organization of American States.

The siren song of opportunity is so loud that it resonates even in the bodies of
those who cannot hear. Yesterday's discovery of 62 mostly deaf and mute Mexican
immigrants who the police said were being held virtually captive in two Queens
homes underscored for some young immigrants just how desperately some of their
compatriots want to get ahead.

The police said the immigrants in the two homes earned their keep, and possibly
paid off their passage, by selling key chains and pens on the subway and at
airports. It is humbling work, long days of being shunned by commuters and
pedestrians who sometimes wave them off with a dismissive glare. But it is work,
even for los muditos, the mute ones.

"All Latin America is poor," said Juan Martinez, a 20-year-old from Puebla,
Mexico, who lives down the block from one of the houses on 93d Street. "Mexicans
and the other Latin Americans want to come here, any way they can, to make a
little money and a little progress. Los muditos cannot talk. But they have hands
and feet."

THEY are all gears in the hidden machinery of the city's service economy --
nameless delivery boys for delis, quiet caretakers at corner flower stands,
faceless dishwashers in restaurants. They barely make an impression on the
public, as long as they labor.

"You know, in this country, the immigrant sustains it," said Mr. Martinez, who
sells fruits and vegetables from a van. "Whatever restaurant you go to in New
York, you will find Latins working in it. You could not eat if they left."

In a city that has long been a magnet for Hispanic immigrants and migrants, the
Mexicans began heading here in sizable numbers during the 1980's. They moved
into blocks that already were home to Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Colombians and
Ecuadoreans. Such are their numbers that in places like Spanish Harlem, the
number of Mexican bakeries and taquerias rivals that of longstanding cuchifrito
joints.

The mix is even more striking along 37th Avenue in Jackson Heights. A restaurant
sign in bold yellow, blue and red -- the Colombian national colors -- faces its
Mexican counterpart, where the awning is festooned with tiny banners for Tecate
beer and a sign that announces, "Hoy, mariachis." Nearby, a phone-calling and
money-transfer business -- a booming industry providing immigrant lifelines --
proudly displays the flags of Mexico and Colombia.

"Cocos!" shouted a coconut vendor outside a Dominican bodega. "From my corner to
your refrigerator!"

The less welcome northern cold is a hard adjustment but a small concession for
people like Mr. Martinez and his friend, Ruben Colmenares, both of whom paid
coyotes -- smugglers -- to come to New York. Unlike cities in the Southwest,
they said that la migra -- immigration authorities -- rarely bothered them here.

"In California, la migra is hard on you," Mr. Martinez said. "In this city,
there's no problem because they let us work."

Mr. Colmenares, who makes deliveries for a midtown deli, agreed.

"For every 5,000 that are sent out of New York, 20,000 arrive each day," he said
grandly.

"It's easy for us," Mr. Martinez said. "Even if la migra got me, I would be back
here in a week."

MR. MARTINEZ said he paid a smuggler $1,200 to bring him here last year. Mr.
Colmenares, who arrived five years ago, paid $650. In both cases, they paid half
in Mexico and half here. They doubted that the immigrants discovered in the
house on their block could have been still paying off their passage.

"Here, you pay the coyote first," Mr. Martinez said. "He would not bring you if
not."

The real exploitation, the two men said, came at the hands of others who hired
them in this city. In a way, they felt a certain kinship of silence with their
less fortunate neighbors.

"In the delis and restaurants, they abuse us," said Mr. Martinez, who until last
week worked 60 hours a week as a dishwasher in a restaurant for $130 in cash.
"When I wanted to tell the owner something, it was either be quiet or go. Since
I would have no money for food or rent, I stayed."

Why don't the police go after the business owners who paid low-ball wages, he
asked. He looked across the street, to the house where los muditos had lived. A
police officer on guard sat in a chair on the shaded stoop.

"He gets paid to sit," Mr. Martinez said. "I'd like a job like that."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: MEXICO;
In Mexico, Tales of Deception Confirm the Fears of the Deaf

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 20


A Roman Catholic priest who ministers to deaf people summoned his flock to an
emergency meeting after morning Mass today in his parish church here. With
someone translating in sign language, he warned them about people who seduce
deaf Mexicans into traveling to the United States to labor as street vendors.

"Look at the papers saying they enslaved deaf people in New York City," the Rev.
Martin Montoya said, holding aloft local newspapers reporting today on the
rescue of 57 deaf Mexican immigrants from abusive employers. "Be careful with
those offering a better life elsewhere, and don't be misled by deceitful
promises."

Passing the word through hand signs and lip-reading, thousands of deaf Mexicans
shared the stunning story of the deaf immigrants who the police say were held in
forced labor in New York. The news aroused considerable alarm, confirming
widespread rumors of ill treatment suffered by the thousands of deaf Mexicans
who travel to the United States each year to sell trinkets on streets from Los
Angeles to Queens.

"This gives me an ugly feeling," said Juana Martinez, a 39-year-old deaf woman
who heard the news during Father Montoya's meeting at the San Hipolito church in
downtown Mexico City.

The events in New York transfixed not only deaf people; several of the city's
largest newspapers led today's editions with the news.

"They Enslaved the Deaf Mutes!" read the headline in La Prensa, a Mexico City
tabloid. Another daily newspaper, La Cronica, screamed, "Sixty Two Mexicans
Enslaved in New York!" --

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS;
An Array of State and Federal Charges

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 208 words


The seven people charged in the case of the deaf and mute Mexicans, who the
police say were held against their will, face a number of Federal or state
charges.

Facing state charges are Adriana Paoletti, 29, who was charged with first-degree
coercion and second-degree larceny; Raul Alanis, 24, who was charged with
first-degree coercion and third-degree assault, and Adelja Paoletti, 59, who was
charged with first-degree coercion and second-degree harassment.

The three were arraigned last night in criminal court in Queens, where Judge
Jeffrey Lebowitz set bail at $50,000 apiece over the objections of prosecutors,
who said the three posed a flight risk.

Lawyers for all three defendants said their clients were innocent of the
charges. Joshua Glick, the lawyer for Mr. Alanis, said his client was himself a
victim. "People had approached him and asked him to go to the authorities, but
he himself was scared," Mr. Glick said. "He didn't want to get involved. The
reason was that he himself was subject to threats from those above him."

Held on Federal charges of smuggling, harboring and transporting illegal
immigrants were Jose Paoletti Lemus, 28; Refugia Santa, 21; Alfredo Rustrian
Paoletti, 37, and Rosa Beltran-Sanchez, 25.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: THE OVERVIEW;
Prosecutors Offer a Chilling Story of Exploitation

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words


Federal prosecutors offered a grimly detailed account yesterday of how a band of
illegal Mexican immigrants had smuggled deaf Mexicans into New York City for
nearly a decade, charging that the smugglers ran an efficient, organized
criminal enterprise complete with assigned roles as recruiters, money collectors
and enforcers.

The prosecutors said the band of smugglers, some of them family members, had
designated certain members as bosses of the two Queens apartments where the deaf
Mexicans were forced to live in overcrowded conditions. Some collected money
from the victims, while others followed them as they sold key chains in the
subways and streets and searched for anyone who did not return at the end of the
day. Still others, including a 59-year-old woman, went to Mexico and back to
find new people to work for them.

The details of the Government's charges were provided as seven defendants were
arraigned in Federal court in Brooklyn yesterday, while officials continued to
search in the United States and Mexico for Reinaldo Paoletti, the man they
believe was the chief smuggler.

City officials also acknowledged yesterday that city workers had visited one of
the Queens buildings in recent months to investigate complaints of overcrowding.
One city housing inspector reported that he found no code violations. [Page B4.]

Federal investigators said the band appeared to have laundered proceeds through
casinos in Atlantic City and had moved the money back to Mexico.

The 57 people who were found early Saturday in the two Queens apartments
remained yesterday at a motel in Queens, where they were being interviewed by
prosecutors and the police. Federal officials and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said
yesterday they had agreed that the Mexicans, most of whom are in this country
illegally, would stay in New York City as the case is investigated. Federal
officials said the Immigration and Naturalization Service would assume custody
of them this week, perhaps this morning, and that they could be deported
eventually.

"We have a need for them to remain in New York City," said Mr. Giuliani, "so
they can be interviewed, so that they can be dealt with humanely and decently,
and so that we can find out the full nature" of the smuggling operation.

For now, they are, in effect, under house arrest, since they could be arrested
by the Federal authorities if they do leave the motel, the Westway Motor Inn in
Elmhurst. At least seven of the 12 children who lived in the apartments were
born in the United States and therefore are citizens.

Officials with the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that
they had created a task force to investigate smuggling of deaf or otherwise
disabled immigrants in other cities. Immigration officials in Los Angeles, as
well as Federal law enforcement officials in New York, said an intense
investigation was under way in Los Angeles seeking to uncover a similar
operation, perhaps involving associates of the New York defendants.

One Federal law enforcement official said additional arrests, some involving
people in New York, were expected.

"It was a pretty lucrative operation," said District Attorney Richard A. Brown
of Queens, whose office is part of the joint investigation. "I have to believe
it is not limited to these houses in this city."

Marcella Meyer, chief executive of the Greater Los Angeles Council on Deafness,
said in Los Angeles that bands of deaf Mexican immigrants were known to be
selling trinkets in Los Angeles malls and airports and to be turning over parts
of their proceeds to bosses known as "kings."

"There is usually a king in charge of the ring, and the vendors have to give him
some of their money," Ms. Meyer said. She said the kings, in exchange for the
proceeds, would agree to help the peddlers if they got in trouble with the
authorities.

Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, in a complaint made public yesterday, laid out
a profile of the Queens operation, based on the accounts of victims. Food was
doled out in meager portions; the deaf peddlers had to request money from the
bosses to purchase needed goods; enforcers within the smuggling band telephoned
relatives of peddlers back in Mexico, often falsely reassuring them that their
children or brothers or parents were thriving in New York.

One peddler, a man from Mexico City in his mid-20's, said in an interview at the
motel yesterday that he had been caught up in the exploitation scheme for five
years, brought first to Los Angeles and then to Queens. He said the smugglers
had moved the peddlers to 15 locations in Queens over the five years.

Prosecutors described Adriana Paoletti-Lemus, 29, as the boss of the house on
93d Street. She assisted in smuggling the deaf Mexicans across the border,
prosecutors said, and she was the one to whom the victims gave their proceeds.
The victims also told prosecutors that Ms. Paoletti-Lemus beat residents and
threatened to turn them over to the authorities if they refused to do the work.

Another defendant, Jose Paoletti-Lemus, a brother of Ms. Paoletti-Lemus, ran the
second house along with his wife, Rosa Maria Beltran Sanchez, the Government
said. Prosecutors said Mr. Paoletti-Lemus had admitted providing the deaf
Mexicans with the key chains for sale, and also admitted knowing people in
California who smuggled others from Mexico. Ms. Beltran-Sanchez, prosecutors
said, has been smuggling people into California and New York City since 1988.

Delia Paoletti, 59, the mother of Adriana and Jose, was described by prosecutors
as one of the primary recruiters of deaf people in Mexico. Raul Alanis and
Alfredo Rastrian-Paoletti were portrayed as enforcers, men who followed the
peddlers through the streets or onto the subways. They would monitor their
productivity and find workers who did not return.

Lawyers for the seven people charged portrayed them as victims and denied any
role in smuggling. Samuel Gregory, a lawyer for Santa Gonzalez, described by
prosecutors as in charge of the "day-to-day operations" of the house on 93d
Street, said his client was "deaf, mute and penniless." He said she collected
money, but did not keep it for herself, and that she herself had only recently
been allowed to stop peddling.

"She is essentially one step above the peddlers," Mr. Gregory said.

Officials in Mexico said they had set up a hotline for people to call who
believed relatives had been discovered in the Queens apartments, and that a
dozen calls had already been received. One Mexico City woman, Juana Ofelia
Garcia de Santiago, 45, said she thought her son, Ismael, was among the victims
discovered last Saturday.

She said her son had worked in a carpentry shop, but then met a man named Don
Paoletti, and that he left for the United States in May 1996 with the belief
that he could prosper. She said she received telephone calls from New York from
people who did not identify themselves, but told her that Ismael was "doing
well, making money."

"I would complain to them, saying that as a mother I needed proof of his
well-being," she said in an interview in Mexico yesterday. "If he was all right,
why couldn't he write me a letter or something?"

Mexican officials said yesterday that roughly 10 of the deaf Mexicans in Queens
had, in recent months, come to the Mexican consulate in Manhattan seeking help
in reaching people back home. But the officials said the deaf peddlers had
appeared unharmed and did not complain of being held against their will.

The officials, however, could not say if the deaf Mexicans had come to the
consulate in the company of those who were arrested as part of the scheme.

Jorge Pinto, an official with the Mexican consulate, said: "The families should
be relieved at this point. They are in good hands."

The final fate of the victims remains unresolved. Representative Charles E.
Schumer yesterday asked Attorney General Janet Reno to grant the victims what
are known as "S visas," allowing them residency in the country until they
testify in the criminal case.

The story dominated Spanish-language newspapers and television news programs in
New York, and the coverage in Mexico was even more intense. Many news accounts
there criticized the United States for in effect tolerating such servitude.
"Mexicans Enslaved," read the lead headline of one paper.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Liana Guillen used sign language in Mexico City yesterday to
say "I love you" to her mother, Reina Rodriguez, one of those rescued on
Saturday. (Associated Press)(pg. B4); A bedroom at an apartment in Jackson
Heights, where deaf Mexican immigrants were held in virtual slavery. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times)(pg. A1)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: THE PROFITS;
Dollar Bills Laundered In Casinos, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 693 words


The people charged with overseeing an illegal network of deaf Mexican peddlers
laundered tens of thousands of $1 bills through casinos in Atlantic City, then
smuggled the cash to Mexico, according to a Federal investigator and a man who
said he played a minor role in the operation.

Brendan Coenen, 25, who is the former brother-in-law of one of the central
figures charged in the scheme, also said that the group's network extended well
beyond the 57 illegal immigrants taken from two apartments in Queens during
police raids on Saturday. He said that dozens of other peddlers, who sold
trinkets in the New York City subway, were also working for the group from other
bases in Queens and the Bronx.

In addition, he said that his former sister-in-law, Adriana Paoletti-Lemus, 29,
told him that she earned nearly $200,000 a year, almost all of which was
deposited in banks in Mexico City. Court records made public yesterday described
Ms. Paoletti-Lemus as the boss of that part of the network operating from an
apartment at 37-54 93d Street in the Jackson Heights section of Queens.

"She held their green cards and violence over their heads," Mr. Coenen said.
"Sometimes she wouldn't even pay them in money. Sometimes it was just pizza."

Mr. Coenen said that the peddling of trinkets generated so much cash that
ringleaders would routinely leave stacks of dollar bills throughout the houses
in which they operated. Law enforcement officials said yesterday that $35,000 in
cash was found at the 93d Street house, $10,000 of it in $1 bills.

There was so much money lying around, he said, that he once stole $5,000. But he
said that his brother, Frank Coenen, and Ms. Paoletti-Lemus notified the police,
and that he spent two months in prison last year after being convicted of
burglary.

That is his motivation, he said, for discussing the operation. "They say that
blood is thicker than water," he said. "But not when you're running the slave
trade."

Mr. Coenen said that this is how the operation worked:

Twice a month, a shipment of miniature bats and balls from the Rhode Island
Novelty company would arrive by United Parcel Service at the Coenen family's
home in East Meadow, L.I. The purchases were paid through a credit card in the
name of Frank Coenen but still used by his former wife. A box of trinkets would
cost $75, he said, but would bring in a profit of $485.

A member of the Paoletti family would pick up the merchandise and bring it back
to the houses in Queens, where peddlers would attach small cards to the items to
inform potential customers that the sellers were deaf. Then they would stuff the
trinkets into backpacks and head for the subways, where they would spend up to
16 hours hawking their wares.

The money would be bundled into $100 packets, Mr. Coenen said. Then Ms.
Paoletti-Lemus and her brother Reinaldo -- who is being sought by the
authorities -- would drive to Atlantic City and exchange the cash for $100-bill
packets at casino windows.

The siblings would drive to Southern California and cross the Mexican border,
concealing the cash by taping it to their bodies, he said. Then they would use a
lawyer in Mexico City to deposit the cash in bank accounts. Mr. Coenen said that
the Paolettis would sometimes smuggle more deaf Mexicans in the van on their
return to the United States.

A Federal investigator last night confirmed that the authorities had received
similar information.

Mr. Coenen said Ms. Paoletti-Lemus was the mastermind of the scheme, which, he
said, she modeled after an operation a cousin was running in Los Angeles. He
said he phoned the cousin on Ms. Paoletti-Lemus's behalf to obtain the number
for Rhode Island Novelty.

Mr. Coenen said that his brother and Ms. Paoletti-Lemus separated three years
ago and divorced last year, but still keep in touch. But he said that his
brother had no role in the trinket-peddling business. The lawyers for both Frank
Coenen and his former wife did not return telephone calls last night.

"She was making money hand over fist," Brendan Coenen said. "She even offered me
a job. She was recruiting people here to fake it. It was messed up."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTIVE IN QUEENS: THE VICTIMS;
Telling Tales of Hunger, Abuse and Forced Labor

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 994 words


The burly young man from Mexico City told his tale in a Creole tongue that
blended Mexican and American sign language with animated gestures and mime. Five
years ago, he said, his baby boy was taken from him by the same people who
forced him to work from morning until night selling $1 trinkets on the subway.
He has scoured the subways in New York, he said, looking for his boy, the one
who would now be 6 years old with a red birthmark on his forehead and a mole on
his left cheek.

It was not clear yesterday why the man's child had been taken, where he had been
taken or whether he was still alive. The man said his captors told him that the
child had been placed in a convent in Manhattan.

Yesterday, he begged an interpreter to be released from the motel in Elmhurst,
Queens, where he and 56 other deaf Mexican immigrants, most of them in this
country illegally, are being held until the police and Federal immigration
officials decide where they go next. "Por favor," he pleaded.

His was one of the many silent testimonies that poured out in a dimly lighted
first-floor hallway of the motel yesterday afternoon. A second young man with a
wispy trail of a beard recalled burrowing in the trash for baby pictures and
birth certificates that the boss had spitefully discarded. A third told an
interpreter how their captors had fed them small, carefully measured meals and
how they felt hungry almost all of the time.

They huddled around sign language interpreters who were helping them answer
questions from the police. The authorities are still trying to understand the
scope of a smuggling ring that they believe operated for nearly a decade,
promising a new life to the poor, mostly young deaf Mexicans who had little hope
back home.

If they had been at the mercy of their captors -- some for as long as five years
-- they were now at the mercy of the Federal and city authorities. And they did
not know how long they would have to wait in limbo, somewhere between bondage
and freedom, in a dingy motel overlooking St. Michael's Cemetery on the edge of
the Grand Central Parkway.

They said they did not know where they were being held or why they had to wear
white plastic bracelets, each stamped with an identification number. They said
they did not realize that they had been interviewed by Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials on Sunday. They did not know they were in the
middle of a battle between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the Federal Government
over when their deportation hearings should begin. They said they did not even
know that they could soon be deported.

Told by an interpreter that the police had arrested seven people suspected of
being their captors, several said, "Good riddance."

But they knew this: When George Friebolin, a Spanish-speaking interpreter who
works with the Lexington Center, an agency for the deaf in Jackson Heights,
dangled a make-believe key chain from his left hand and asked whether they
wanted to go back and peddle on the subway, they vigorously shook their heads in
a resounding "No!" When he asked whether they wanted to work, all hands shot up
in the air. They nodded an even more resounding "Yes!"

A short man in his early 20's reached up to a light fixture on the ceiling and
told Mr. Friebolin he could do electrical work. Another, with spiky black hair,
said he was an auto-body expert and a third said he knew how to paint houses.

"They have the same concerns we do about raising their children, about crime,
about the quality of life," said Mr. Friebolin, an independent living skills
specialist with the Lexington Center.

Mr. Friebolin said he had known many of the immigrants. They came into the
Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses in Corona for prayer groups he organized,
often on Friday evenings and, when they had some time and money, shared a meal
at one of the many bustling Mexican cafes on National Street.

Some had begun learning American Sign Language, Mr. Friebolin said. They met
other deaf people who were once also exploited but had since become
self-sufficient and found legitimate jobs. But he said he never heard them talk
about leaving their employers, and certainly not about complaining to the
police, whom they feared because of their immigration status.

They spoke instead about the pressures of their work. "Their concern was -- they
needed to hurry," he said. "They had a certain quota of items they had to sell.
They needed to be careful because anything they lost they had to replace it with
their own cash."

They told him they did not understand that they were leaving their homes -- in
Acapulco, Cuernavaca, Mexico City -- for a life of servitude.

"They wanted to try and get enough money to go back and help their families,"
Mr. Friebolin said. "But of course, they never made enough."

Mr. Friebolin said he offered to translate for them if they wanted help from the
police. They finally spoke up last Saturday, arriving at the 115th Precinct in
Jackson Heights at midnight. At dawn, they took the police to two apartments
Jackson Heights, crammed with bunkbeds, mattresses and sleeping bags. A few
hours later, they were taken to the Westway Motor Inn. The motel was built for
tourists to the 1964 World's Fair in Queens, but has more recently been used as
a homeless shelter and as temporary housing for illegal immigrants.

"I think the conditions at the Westway are far better than where they were
before," said Daniel Greenberg, executive director of the Legal Aid Society,
which has been interviewing the Mexicans. "The Red Cross brought in diapers and
underwear and things that most shelters don't have." The immigrants said they
felt fine and were well fed.

But yesterday, they said they felt anything but relieved. Their personal
belongings were still back at their old apartments -- that is, whatever personal
belongings they were allowed to keep. And their future was still in someone
else's hands.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the 57 people rescued on Saturday from two Queens
apartments were taken yesterday from a motel to a hospital. (Reuters)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Immigrants: In Plain Sight, But Not Seen

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 741 words


IF the No. 1 and No. 7 lines were any indication, the subways were free
yesterday of deaf Mexicans involved in the silent trade of dropping pens or key
chains into passengers' laps in search of a dollar.

Not that everyone noticed the change. Many riders had long regarded these
immigrant peddlers as just one more platoon in the regiment of people who move
from car to car with their hands out, another intrusion to be blocked out --
less irritating perhaps than wheels screeching against the rails, but no more
worthy of attention than the Metrocard ads.

"I never really saw them," said a Federal worker taking the No. 1 train to lower
Manhattan. "I think one's reaction is to ignore people who panhandle in the
subways."

Edward Lally noticed, though. "For me, they're the hardest to ignore," said Mr.
Lally, an actor. "Homelessness is one thing. Being deaf or blind is another."

Now, he worried that the news about dozens of deaf Mexicans being held in forced
labor in Queens would make hard-bitten New Yorkers more reluctant than ever to
open their hearts and purses. They might see all solicitation as a scheme,
largely benefiting some unseen puppeteer and not the poor soul who wanders
subway cars and sidewalks shaking a cup for a coin, or singing a tune, or
selling Street News or peddling cigarette lighters and yo-yos.

"Who gets hurt?" Mr. Lally said. "It's people who need help, because you'll just
turn away from them even more after this. It makes me angry. These guys work
very hard, even if they are here illegally."

WITHOUT question, New Yorkers deplored the plight of the Mexicans who had fallen
victim to a smuggling ring. It made no difference whether it was a subway
maintenance worker who bought a small screwdriver for a dollar two weeks ago or
a Wall Street clerk standing on the Queensboro Plaza platform who resented how
"they push this stuff on you, working on your guilt." Words like "despicable,"
"horrible" and "outrageous" were universal reactions.

But some New Yorkers also recognized that larger issues were at stake in their
relationship with the army of immigrants who, while often all but invisible,
increasingly help make the city run.

Los muditos, the mute and deaf ones in the subways, may be the most shocking
case to come along here since Chinese illegal immigrants ran aground off
Rockaway Peninsula four years ago in the Golden Venture smuggling ship. But when
was the last time you ate in a restaurant where the busboy came from somewhere
other than below the Rio Grande? Same with the fellow watching over the flowers
at the local grocery store or the deli deliveryman.

Do you have any way of knowing whether he is legal or not, whether he is earning
a decent wage, whether he is working an 18-hour day or sleeping with 40 others
in a Jackson Heights apartment, like the Mexicans discovered during the weekend?

IN fact, middle-class New Yorkers who indulge in simple pleasures like going out
to dinner once in a while or taking home flowers have grown more dependent on
immigration, legal or otherwise, than they may care to admit.

"We're schizophrenic about immigration," said Michael Posner, executive director
of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, a New York-based group that deals
with refugee and asylum cases. "On the one hand, we want control of our borders,
and I think that's right. On the other hand, we want cheap immigrant labor.
That's what keeps whole industries alive. That is the bargain, and we should be
honest about it."

The real question then is what happens on the broader issues once the shock of
this forced-labor case wears off.

One answer from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is to make illegal newcomers feel
comfortable about reporting abuses. You don't do it by making them fear
deportation the moment they open their mouths, the Mayor argued. And so, he said
yesterday, New York would appeal a ruling by a Federal judge who invalidated an
executive order that prohibited city employees from turning in illegals who
sought basic services like police protection.

City Hall's approach makes sense to Arthur C. Helton, who teaches immigration
law at New York University. "What is the priority: to report these abuses or to
discourage irregular immigration?" Mr. Helton said.

For him, ending abuses comes first. But he had no doubt, depressing as the
thought might be, that another horror story like that of the Mexican immigrants
was only a matter of time.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Political Memo;
Do Words, Or Policies, Protect Immigrants?

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 917 words


In the days since 57 deaf Mexicans were discovered in virtual bondage in Jackson
Heights, Queens, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has positioned himself as their
staunchest protector, denouncing the ignoble conditions that they endured and
all but acting as their lawyer before Federal immigration authorities.

Yet while the case is allowing the Mayor to show once again that he is a
champion of immigrants, it is also opening him to criticism that his housing
policies contributed to the plight of the Mexicans and that his own
administration missed several opportunities to come to their aid.

Four city departments -- Buildings, Fire, Housing and Health -- received
complaints last January about the illegally subdivided building where many of
the immigrants lived crammed together, and none of the four took any significant
action. The apartments remained occupied.

Even before the Mexicans were rescued, some critics had accused the Mayor of
cutting the number of city housing and building inspectors, and of tolerating
jerry-built illegal housing, which has become increasingly common as poor
people, many of them immigrants, scrounge for a place to live.

These critics have argued that the Mayor was ignoring such housing in part
because he did not want to have to evict the tenants there, who might then
become homeless, possibly confronting the administration with the need to find
space for them in already crowded city shelters.

"This is a big problem in our neighborhood, and I don't think that they have
done a good enough job in dealing with it," said Thomas D. Raffaele, chairman of
Community Board 3 in Queens, which had notified the city about problems at the
house at 37-54 93d Street, where most of the Mexicans lived.

Until last night, the Mayor tended to brush aside such complaints about the
impact of his policies, as if raising them were an insolent attempt to
politicize the suffering of the Mexicans. "That's the sort of Monday-morning
quarterbacking that over the period of time we'll have the luxury to engage in,"
he said on Monday. "Right now, my real concerns are with the people that were
abused, to make sure they are being treated fairly and decently."

But last night, apparently sensing vulnerability, the administration announced
that it would step up its effort to close illegal dwellings with more
inspections and better coordination among agencies. "There are lessons learned
from a tragic situation like this," said Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for
Operations.

The new plan, though, appears to be somewhat of a rehash of a plan that the
administration announced less than four months ago. In April, after a fire
killed four people in an illegal boardinghouse in Maspeth, Queens, the
administration said it would also increase enforcement and require city agencies
to share more information as it tries to weed out illegally converted
apartments.

The Mayor is not the first official to grapple with how to crack down on
dangerously substandard housing and to prevent immigrants from being victimized.
Queens community leaders have contended for more than a decade that the city was
shying away from enforcing longstanding housing laws.

Mr. Giuliani noted this week that he has proposed legislation giving city
building inspectors more authority, but it has languished in the City Council.
And he has criticized his own Buildings Department for inspecting the house on
93d Street where many of the deaf Mexicans lived, and letting it stay open.

Still, with the Mayor focusing largely on the conditions of the Mexicans and the
search for the perpetrators of the scheme, his own record inevitably gets less
attention. Critics point out that since 1990, the number of supervisors and
inspectors in the Buildings Department has dropped by more than 20 percent, to
slightly more than 60. (Last night, Mr. Mastro said more inspectors would be
hired.)

From July through October 1996, the most recent period for which statistics are
available, the number of violations issued by the Buildings Department declined
by nearly 30 percent, compared with the same period in 1995, officials said.

Councilman Sal F. Albanese of Brooklyn, a Democratic mayoral candidate who has
often concentrated on housing issues, said such figures demonstrated that the
Mayor was portraying himself as a defender of the deaf Mexicans even as he was
creating the regulatory climate that allowed them to be abused. "The Mayor has
used the issue to once again dominate the airwaves," he said. "But he is also
evading responsibility for what is now an epidemic in the city. This is an area
that has been totally neglected by this administration."

Mr. Mastro denied last night that the administration was adopting the new
enforcement measures because its earlier policies had been ineffective.

"What we are saying is what we have now said for several months," Mr. Mastro
said. "There is a serious problem with illegal conversions that exist throughout
this city, but particularly in the borough of Queens."

Mr. Raffaele, the chairman of Community Board 3 in Queens, said he had heard
such talk before. He said that in the days since the deaf Mexicans were rescued,
he had realized that if there had been a fire in that building, there would have
been a tragedy. It was extremely overcrowded and the tenants would not have
heard one another or any alarms.

"What happened already was terrible enough," Mr. Raffaele said. "But this was a
disaster that was waiting to happen."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 1997, Friday

CORRECTION:

Because of a production error, continuations of two articles in The Metro
Section were omitted from some editions on Wednesday -- the front-page article
about the family members accused of exploiting deaf Mexican immigrants, and the
page B1 article about Giuliani administration policies on housing inspections.
Readers wishing complete copies of the articles may write to Production Quality
Control, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or
telephone (212) 556-1992. E-mail: quality@nytimes.com. (Include a postal return
address.)


GRAPHIC: Graph showing number of inspectors and supervisors in New York City
Buildings Department each fiscal year, from 1990 to 1997. (Source: City Council)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Suspects in Exploitation of Immigrants May Be Tied to Other Rings

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1004 words


Federal investigators said yesterday that they believed a band of Mexicans
accused of forcing dozens of deaf immigrants into virtual slavery as peddlers in
New York City helped run a similar operation in Los Angeles and perhaps in as
many as three other cities in the United States.

They said that leads about other possible operations, apparently connected to
the same extended family charged in the New York case, had come through
interviews with the 57 deaf victims in New York and their relatives in Mexico.
Five of the seven suspects charged in New York were members of the same family,
based in Mexico City.

"Los Angeles is clearly the city of greatest interest to us right now," one
Federal investigator, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said. "We expect
there will be two or three more arrests very soon in New York and then more in
California."

The officials described their investigations elsewhere -- in Chicago, Boston and
an unidentified city in Connecticut -- as preliminary. But they said the victims
in New York had provided them with information that allowed them to create a
list of other cities where similar rings were operating or had operated.

Federal officials also said that agents had begun an investigation in Mexico,
and that they would request the help of the Mexican Government if extradition
was required. "That option will not be ignored," the Federal investigator said
of prosecuting people now in Mexico.

"We are exploring information and leads that have been developed over the last
several days," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Washington, "and we will follow them wherever they
take us."

Five of the seven people arrested last weekend on suspicion of smuggling the
dozens of deaf Mexicans into the country and then physically abusing and
coercing them into work as street peddlers selling trinkets are members of an
extended family, the Paolettis of Mexico City. An eighth suspect, Renato
Paoletti-Lemus, is still at large.

Justice Department officials in Washington said yesterday that their civil
rights division had opened an investigation to explore bringing additional
slavery, or peonage, charges against the seven illegal Mexican immigrants
arrested in Queens.

In Queens, officials with the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday
began the process of taking custody of the deaf victims, who are now housed in a
motel in Elmhurst. City officials said the I.N.S. had agreed to allow the
victims, most of whom are also illegal aliens, to remain in the motel and to
receive medical and other assistance from a range of city agencies and volunteer
organizations.

"We will have access to all the people there," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said.

Yesterday the city's Department of Health acknowledged that it, like the Fire
Department and the Department of Buildings, had sent inspectors to the house on
93d Street in Jackson Heights where dozens of the deaf Mexicans lived along with
the suspected smugglers. Responding to complaints from the local Community
Board, officials inspected the house in January and levied fines against the
landlord for violations involving rodents, John Gadd, a spokesman for the
department, said.  When inspectors visited again in March, the problems had been
addressed, he said.

Mr. Giuliani, who on Monday had called the performance of the city's building
inspector "incomprehensible," yesterday said it had become less clear what
conditions the inspectors for the Buildings and Fire Departments had seen at the
house months ago. There may have been fewer people living in the house in
February and March, he suggested.

"I don't know what they saw back in February, but if they saw anything like what
I saw, they should have issued summonses, they should have closed the house
down," Mr. Giuliani said.

Foreign Ministry officials in Mexico City acknowledged yesterday that the
parents of one of the deaf victims in Queens had filed a kidnapping complaint
with their office in 1996, saying that their 20-year-old daughter had
disappeared and was believed to be in New York City.

But officials at the Mexican Consulate in New York said that they never received
a report of a kidnapping charge, and that no full-fledged investigation was
done. They said they merely sent a letter to the daughter in Queens notifying
her that her father was worried. They said the daughter, Guadalupe Muniz, came
to the consulate and said she was freely staying in New York with a friend,
Adriana Paoletti. They said they subsequently sent a letter to the girl's
parents in Mexico City.

Ms. Paoletti, 29, is one of the seven people arrested on charges of smuggling
and abusing the deaf immigrants. Mexican Consulate officials said Ms. Paoletti
accompanied a number of the deaf victims to the consulate from 1995 to 1997,
serving as an interpreter. She assisted, they said, in helping the deaf Mexicans
get word to their parents that they were safe and interested in staying in New
York. "With hindsight, one can say it's a pity we didn't go more out of our
way," said Jorge Pinto, the consular general in New York.

Pilar Rodriguez, the mother of Guadalupe Muniz, said the last time she saw her
daughter was when members of the Paoletti family came to her house in Iztacalco
and said they were taking the girl to a party.

Mexican diplomats say they have asked all 42 of Mexico's consular offices in the
United States to check records for any contacts with disabled immigrants that
might indicate a connection to the ring in Queens.

Border Patrol officials at border crossings from San Diego to East Texas said
that they had seen a steady, though modest, trickle of deaf Mexicans trying to
make it to the United States in recent years. In Laredo, Tex., a group of more
than a dozen deaf immigrants were caught several years ago. In El Centro,
Calif., an assistant Border Patrol chief, Kerry Anderson, said he had seen deaf
people trying to make the illegal crossing.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After they collected their belongings yesterday, some of the 57
deaf Mexican immigrants who had been forced to work selling trinkets were
escorted by the authorities from the house they had occupied in Queens. (Ruby
Washington/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Conflicting View Emerges Of Family Linked to Deaf

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1343 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 22


Jose Paoletti Moreda forged his empire from the innocence of the silent ones. He
is a charming but silent salesman who makes his pitch with his hands. He is a
smooth Latin dancer although he cannot hear the music.

The patriarch of the family accused by United States prosecutors of forcing deaf
Mexican immigrants to sell trinkets on the subways and streets of New York City,
Mr. Paoletti Moreda built a family business over the past decade based on a work
force of vendors recruited from Mexico's deaf population, the officials say.

The Paolettis brought to their enterprise the drive of the small shopkeeper, the
guile of the alien smuggler and, occasionally, the back-of-the-hand fury of the
sweatshop foreman, according to interviews with people here who are familiar
with the operation.

Mr. Paoletti Moreda, 59, his wife, Delia, and their three children, Adriana,
Jose and Renato -- all of them deaf -- transferred to the United States a
business plied by other deaf people in Mexico City for decades: peddling
trinkets in the streets and subways. The trinkets that sold for pesos in Mexico
fetched dollars in the United States.

The profits allowed the Paolettis to rise from lower-middle-class roots in
Mexico and acquire homes in New York and Los Angeles and a fleet of vehicles,
their acquaintances say. Using pictures of their possessions as enticements,
they recruited scores of other deaf Mexicans to cross illegally into the United
States as vendors in their silent sales force, according to interviews with law
enforcement officials and relatives of some vendors.

Four members of the Paoletti clan were arrested in New York on a variety of
state and Federal charges after 57 deaf immigrants were found living in two
apartments in Queens: Delia, Adriana, 29, Jose, 28, and a cousin, Alfredo
Rustrian Paoletti, who is Mr. Paoletti Moreda's nephew.

Law enforcement officials are also seeking Renato, the family's youngest son,
who is about 20, and is described as a ringleader. His girlfriend, Santa
Gonzalez, and Jose's wife, Rosa Maria Beltran-Sanchez, were also arrested in New
York, along with Raul Alanis, who is not related to them.

It was not clear whether the authorities in Mexico were looking for Mr. Paoletti
Moreda, but Delia Garcia, 22, who spent seven months working for the Paolettis
in New York in 1994, said she saw him in Mexico City last week at a basketball
game for the deaf.

As investigators in the United States begin to piece together the case against
the Paolettis, the neighbors, teachers, and Mexican relatives of the deaf
workers recruited by the Paolettis offer descriptions of the family that often
contrast with their portrayal as ruthless profiteers.

"These are fine people with great hearts," said Griselda Espinosa Chavez, a
teacher in Mexico City's special education system who taught the three Paoletti
children and knew their parents well. "They were fighting to get ahead. They
loved money and wanted a higher status."

Acquaintances have described the roles the Paolettis played: the brilliant
daughter who recruited her deaf chums from her days in Mexico City's special
education schools, the attractive son who learned to manage the street sales
force at his father's elbow, the beguiling and often duplicitous patriarch who
arranged the illegal border crossings and managed the money.

Mr. Paoletti Moreda was born with full hearing, but lost it during his youth
when he contracted measles, said Clara Munoz, who was a neighbor to the
Paolettis in Mexico City's lower-middle-class Tacubaya sector during the 1970's.
Delia was born deaf, and so were her three children, Ms. Munoz said.

As an artist in Mexico's Communications Ministry for most of his adult life,
sketching roads and airports, Mr. Paoletti Moreda earned a comfortable living.
His three children attended special education public schools, but also received
private instruction in communication and computer programming.

"We knew the Paolettis as los burgueses, the bourgeoisie, of the neighborhood,"
Ms. Munoz said. She said that Mr. Paoletti Moreda's well-maintained Volkswagen,
the children's private classes, and the parties that they gave in their
apartment for neighbors -- where Mr. Paoletti Moreda displayed his dancing --
made them seem more affluent than others in the neighborhood. Socorro Paoletti,
Mr. Paoletti Moreda's sister, was married to a Dr. Rustrian, a general
practitioner whose income allowed the family to put Alfredo and two other
children through private schools.

The Paoletti children were considered studious. Adriana was outstanding,
graduating from high school with a 9.6 grade point average on a 10-point scale.

About the time of Mr. Paoletti Moreda's retirement as an artist in the last
decade, he moved his family to an apartment in a gritty industrial suburb of
Mexico City, and the family also began to travel widely in the United States.

In late 1988, Adriana visited Agustin Rodriguez Torres, a deaf boy who she knew
from their days in special education. She invited him and his sister, Veronica,
to her family's apartment, where Adriana and her father described dazzling
travels across the United States. Mr. Paoletti Moreda said he had started a
business making and selling keyrings, and told Agustin it was easy to make money
north of the border.

"He said we all worked too hard, for too little, in Mexico," Veronica recalled
in an interview. They convinced Agustin, who was earning about $4 a day here as
a laborer and felt that deaf people are treated better in the United States than
in Mexico. After his visit to the Paolettis, he told his family he was going to
the United States. "He said that by working less than he was in Mexico he'd be
able to buy a car, and that's how they won his heart," his sister said.

When the Paolettis took Agustin to the United States in 1989, they traveled by
bus to Tijuana and then crossed the border illegally to Los Angeles, his sister
said. In more recent years, the Paolettis have flown their recruits to Tijuana
and in some cases to Ciudad Juarez, according to relatives of other recruits.
Mr. Paoletti Moreda has boasted to his recruits that he knows Government
officials working on both sides of the border who can arrange the illegal
crossing, the relatives said.

For two years the Rodriguez family did not hear from Agustin. Then a woman
called the Rodriguez residence here, without giving her name, to say Agustin was
being exploited.

"She told us the Paolettis were holding Agustin hostage, that he was sick and
didn't have enough to eat, that they sometimes hit him," Veronica said.

The call stunned the Rodriguez family. Several months later, Mr. Paoletti Moreda
traveled to Mexico, and Veronica confronted him with the reports. "He said it
was all a lie, that Agustin was getting fat and saving a lot of money, that
Agustin soon would be able to buy a car," Veronica said. "But I didn't believe
it. I wanted to hit him."

The Paolettis at first based their street vending business in Los Angeles,
although they sometimes carried recruits elsewhere to sell trinkets in Las
Vegas, Miami and other tourist centers. Their decision to establish a New York
base appears to have resulted from Adriana's marriage to a deaf postal worker
from Long Island, Frank Coenen.

The relatives of several deaf vendors recruited by the Paolettis said they
received no word from their loved ones, for years, except a series of postcards
written in a strange hand carrying saccharine assurances that all was well. The
strikingly similar correspondence sent to several families suggests the
Paolettis may have organized the letter-writing effort to calm relatives.

One who did was Pilar Muniz Rodriguez, who filed kidnapping charges here against
Mario Guillen, one of Mr. Paoletti Moreda's employees, accusing him and the
Paolettis of forcibly carrying her deaf daughter to New York last year.

"Don Paoletti was very nice, but I never trusted him," Ms. Muniz said. "I knew
there was something wrong about the way he talked to me."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "FAMILY CONNECTIONS: Reconstructing the Trinket Ring"
Federal indictments of seven people portray a closely knit family that smuggled
scores of deaf Mexicans into New York City, housed them in two overcrowded
Queens houses, and used threats and violence to force them to sell trinkets on
the streets and subways. Here is how Federal and city authorities describe the
structure of the "family business." Chart provides a family tree of the
following:

Jose Paoletti Moreda, Family patriarch, 59.
Described as probable ringleader.

Delia Lemus Ruiz, Wife 59. Also know as Adelja.
Accused of collecting money from workers, recruiting workers in Mexico.

Soccorro Paoletti Moreda, Sister, 59-60.
Not implicated in the case.

Alfredo Rustrian Paoletti, Son of Soccorro, 37.
One of the few non-deaf members of family. Accused of helping supervise workers
and hunting for those who did not return.

Adriana Paoletti-Lemus, Daughter of Jose Paoletti Moreda, 29.
Describes as boss of house at 37-54 93d Street.

Jose Paoletti-Lemus, Son of Jose Paoletti Moreda, 28. Also known as Pipo.
Described as boss of house at 104-15 34th Avenue.

Rosa Maria Beltran-Sanchez, Daughter-in-law of Jose Paoletti Moreda, 37.
Accused of helping run house at 34th Ave., and recruiting in Mexico.

Renato Paoleti-Lemus, Son of Jose Paoletti Moreda, about 20.
Being sought by U.S.; described as chief smuggler for the operation.

Santa Gonzalez, Renato's girlfriend.
Accused of helping run 93d Street house.

Raul Alanis, Not related to family.
Accused of following workers to make sure they continually sold trinkets. (pg.
B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 24, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Leaders Near Budget Accord On Food Aid

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 23


New York State is likely to insure that as many as 100,000 immigrants continue
to receive food stamps, even after the Federal Government stops paying for them
next month, Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders said today.

Mr. Pataki said he favored continuing food stamps for children, the elderly or
disabled who have legal immigrant status.  The Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver,
who had called for continued food stamps for all current recipients, said he
would accept more restrictive eligibility.

"It's something that we would like to see done," Mr. Pataki said after a budget
negotiation meeting with Mr. Silver and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L.
Bruno. "We are discussing it, and I think there's a reasonable chance that we
can get that done."

The Governor and Mr. Silver said New York and counties around the state would
have to share in the cost, and would have the choice of refusing food stamps for
their immigrant populations, who will lose federally financed food aid under the
welfare law enacted last year. Mr. Silver said the price of the program would be
$50 million to $110 million a year, depending on who is made eligible.

The news was welcomed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has lobbied the Governor
to take up the food stamp burden, and whose city has a large majority of those
who would be affected. "I urged it and we will opt in if, in fact, they pass
it," he said.

While several states are considering partial continuation of food stamps for
immigrants, most states appear ready to let the benefits lapse, welfare
advocates say. Officials in New Jersey and Connecticut say there has been no
move toward state-financed food stamps for immigrants there.

The talk of paying for food stamps was one of several signs today that after a
difficult two weeks, negotiations on a state budget, now 114 days overdue, are
once again moving forward. Mr. Silver said that a budget agreement was "rather
than weeks from now, more like days."

Aides to lawmakers said the leaders appeared ready to agree on increasing school
aid by $650 million, or more than 6 percent, and that legislators were prepared
to agree to Mr. Pataki's call to set aside some money as a reserve against a
budget gap in the 1998-99 year, though not the full $600 million he had sought.

The Governor, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno have all said in recent days that if
there is no budget deal in the next two weeks, they might enact an education
package apart from the rest of the budget. That would allow them to meet the
Aug. 4 deadline for putting a school construction bond act of up to $2 billion
on the November ballot. The Assembly Democrats who conceived of the bond act see
this November as their golden opportunity. Turnout in New York City, where the
need for school construction money is greatest, will be high because of the
mayoral election, while upstate voters, who generally oppose borrowing measures,
will have no compelling reason to go the polls.

Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bruno, both Republicans, have spoken positively this week
about the bond act, though they insist that it is subject to the rest of the
budget's being worked out to their liking. Mr. Bruno said today that, despite
his usual resistance to bond measures, "I know that schools are in great
disrepair all over the state, and I think bonding is appropriate."

Unless there is a major shift in budget negotiations, state support for local
school districts will rise faster this year than at any time since the 1980's.
Some of that money would go toward expanding prekindergarten offerings and
lowering class sizes in the early grades, and some would be used to offset local
property tax freezes.

In January, the Governor proposed a $66.3 billion budget for the fiscal year
that began April 1. The final plan is expected to be about $68 billion. Talks
were going smoothly until two weeks ago, when Mr. Pataki suddenly insisted on
holding $600 million in reserve and scaling back some tentative spending
agreements, to prevent a large deficit in 1998-99. The apparent agreement on
food stamps for some immigrants pleased advocates for the poor, but they argued
that the program should cover all current recipients, and that local governments
should be required to participate.

"The idea of aiding children but not their parents is absurd," said Anne
Erickson, legislative coordinator for the Greater Upstate Law Project. "That
takes food off the family table. That doesn't protect the kids, unless you
believe Mom and Dad aren't going to eat."

The Governor said today that a broader state-financed food stamp program would
be too expensive, and would set New York apart from nearly all other states. He
has argued repeatedly that if New York's welfare benefits were among the
country's most generous, it would become a magnet for the poor. Instead, he has
proposed moving families and disabled people who would lose Federal cash
assistance into a state-paid safety net program.

New York has 150,000 immigrants receiving food stamps, and they are scheduled to
lose those benefits on Aug. 22, the first anniversary of the enactment of the
welfare law. Welfare advocates say the groups Mr. Pataki would make eligible for
state aid -- the elderly, children and the disabled -- make up two-thirds of the
total, or 100,000 people.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 24, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Agents Seek Associates in Smuggling Ring

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 23


Law enforcement officials began searching here today for associates of the
Mexican family accused of holding scores of deaf immigrants in virtual slavery
in New York, but they appeared to find something less than the satellite
smuggling ring that some officials had feared might exist.

Near the center of the city, undercover immigration agents staked out the home
of a cousin of the Mexican family charged in the New York case. One of the
agents, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said they were waiting for the
presumed ringleader of a similar operation thought to exist here. The agent did
not elaborate, but since the discovery of dozens of deaf Mexicans held in two
apartments in Queens, officials have been searching for Renato Paoletti Lemus,
who is called "the boss" in court documents.

Also, Mexican consular officials and the police here hunted for a deaf Mexican
woman who was reported to have been brought to Los Angeles by another group of
suspected smugglers. At both locations, however, the authorities seemed to come
up short.

"We cannot be certain, but our hypothesis now is that this was just a way
station," the Mexican Consul in Los Angeles, Jose Angel Pescador, said this
afternoon. "A lot of these people were moved through here."

Federal law enforcement officials had said they believed that the New York
smuggling ring, run by a family of deaf immigrants from Mexico City, might be
one of several such operations around the country. But in interviews, people
familiar with the the family's activities in Los Angeles said the operations
seemed far less extensive and less severe than those discovered in New York.

The Mexican family headed by Jose Paoletti Moreda came to Los Angeles in the
late 1980's, several of their relatives and associates said, and began building
a small enterprise in which they employed other deaf Mexican immigrants to help
them sell key chains and other trinkets around the city. But after Mr.
Paoletti's daughter, Adriana Paoletti Lemus, moved to New York and found the
same work even more lucrative, the family moved its operations there and
expanded them.

"The Paolettis did not want the deaf community around here to hear about what
they were doing, and they thought that New York would be better money than in
L.A.," said Pablo Rea Escobar Jr., whose father was suspected by the Mexican
authorities of having worked for a time with the Paoletti family here.

Mr. Escobar, his father and another former associate of the Paolettis said they
believed that the family had smuggled deaf Mexican immigrants from Tijuana
through Los Angeles to New York. When enforcement actions at the California
border tightened, they said, the family would divert the immigrants to other
smuggling routes through Texas.

The house that the immigration agents staked out today was that of Hilario
Rivera Pauletti, 48. In an interview on Tuesday evening, Mr. Rivera Pauletti
said that he had helped his uncle, Jose Paoletti Moreda, and Mr. Paoletti
Moreda's children only by allowing them to stay at his Los Angeles home and by
occasionally driving them to a travel agency to buy airline tickets for trips on
which they took the undocumented immigrants from Los Angeles to New York.

Mr. Rivera Pauletti insisted that he learned only a few months ago that there
might have been a dark side to his relatives' activities in New York. It was
then, he said, that he took in two young deaf men who had fled one of the
crowded group homes that the Paolettis ran in Queens and began to hear of the
brutally long working hours, the mistreatment and the other abuses of which his
cousins have now been formally accused.

"It makes me want to cry," Mr. Rivera Pauletti said. "They are my relatives. To
hear that they were doing things like this -- it is bad, very, very bad."

Mr. Rivera Pauletti was not at home this afternoon when agents from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Criminal Alien Apprehensions division
showed up at his modest two-story house.

As the immigration agents continued their investigation here, teams of doctors,
psychiatrists and social workers continued examining and interviewing the 57
people they found living in the two Queens apartments. More specific allegations
of abuse have emerged.

Dr. Ricardo Galdamez, who works at Elmhurst Hospital Center, said three young
women alleged that they had been routinely molested by their boss. The women
said they had not been raped, but "touched in their private parts on a daily
basis for almost two years," Dr. Galdamez said. They were also slapped when they
resisted and threatened to keep silent.

"They were threatened with physical harm, they were physically castigated, and
they were threatened with death" by the man they referred to as their boss, Dr.
Galdamez said.

In court papers filed this week, prosecutors contended that several of the
Mexicans were physically and sexually abused by Mr. Paoletti Lemus, the supposed
leader of the smuggling ring.

Seven of his relatives and associates have been arrested, three on local
criminal charges and four on charges of running an immigrant smuggling ring.

Inside the motel where the Mexicans have been living, some anxiety grew today as
they asked how long they would be staying there and where they would be sent
next. That question is the subject of negotiations between Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A crisis intervention team from Elmhurst Hospital Center arrived in the
afternoon to help calm a woman who had become hysterical and a teen-ager who had
curled into a fetal position and was rocking back and forth. They were
successful.

Under the agreement being shaped by Federal and local authorities, the
immigration agency is to take control of the immigrants on Thursday, but the
Mexicans would remain in New York City until they have been fully interviewed by
the authorities. City officials would retain access to the immigrants, and in
return would pay for part of their care.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Ricardo Galdamez and others from Elmhurst Hospital Center
brought gifts to the deaf Mexican immigrants being held at a motel. (Richard Lee
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 93 words


Because of a production error, continuations of two articles in The Metro
Section were omitted from some editions on Wednesday -- the front-page article
about the family members accused of exploiting deaf Mexican immigrants, and the
page B1 article about Giuliani administration policies on housing inspections.
Readers wishing complete copies of the articles may write to Production Quality
Control, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or
telephone (212) 556-1992. E-mail: quality@nytimes.com. (Include a postal return
address.)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Poor and Deaf From Mexico Betrayed in Their Dreams

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2247 words


With unerring regularity, the deaf immigrants sent glossy postcards home to
their relatives in Mexico, suggesting a whirlwind new life in New York City,
highlighted by regular sightseeing excursions to Rockefeller Center, the Statue
of Liberty, even Bowling Green.

But the messages were creepy, written in an unfamiliar handwriting, expressing
banal wishes of good health. And at the bottom, the immigrants, like preschool
children, got to sign their own names.

In Mexico, many feared that the reality of their relatives' lives up north was
not nearly as enchanting as the cards. Some felt that their relatives had been
all but kidnapped. Until last weekend, though, when four of the immigrants
walked into a police station with a letter revealing their plight, no one back
home had any idea that they were virtually indentured servants in Jackson
Heights, Queens: waking before dawn, peddling trinkets all day, and returning
late to crowded apartments to turn over all their earnings to their Mexican
bosses, who might or might not slap, insult or molest them, depending on the
mood of the day, according to the authorities.

Nearly a week after they were taken into custody, the immigrants have yet to
publicly tell of their ordeal. But in several dozen interviews in Mexico,
California and New York with former vendors, the immigrants' families, with
associates of the bosses and with law enforcement officials, the individual
stories of their harshly constrained lives begin to emerge.

Before they left Mexico, it seemed like anything would be preferable to a life,
poor and deaf, on the margin of the margins of society. The Paoletti family of
Mexico City, deaf themselves, knew that. Before four of them and three
associates were arrested this week on charges of running an immigrant-smuggling
ring, they were fishing in a loaded pond, and they did not need much of a lure.

Not for Omar Fernandez, 29, heavyset with a pencil mustache, who was an orphan
selling chewing gum in Mexico City traffic when the Paolettis met him. Not for
Ismael Santiago Garcia, 22, who was so bored by peddling alphabet cards in the
slums that, at the first invitation, he scooped up his savings from a dresser
drawer, threw a pair of pants into a backpack and pronounced his world "dead."

And not for Delia Garcia Roman, 22, who was a teen-ager when she left, though
for her the offer was sweetened with specific lies: a job in a boutique or
antique store, and a home with a loving couple.

By the time they were fully immersed in their American lives, they did not have
time to dwell on their disappointment. They worked 12 to 18 hours a day, 7 days
a week, with 2 days off every other month. If they were not captives, they
believed they were, dependent on the bosses who had confiscated their documents
and intimidated them with threats and abuse. In the way many saw things, they
needed to escape, or to be rescued.

One man, Oscar Moreno, 27, got out because he was an epileptic, but he was sent
to the Paolettis' cousin's house in Los Angeles, where he now works as a vendor.
Another, a woman with AIDS, was shipped off to Chicago, according to the stories
the victims told prosecutors. Delia Garcia Roman was whisked away by her
brother, who flew to New York and took her back to Mexico.

And 57 others, including 12 children, were freed by the New York City police,
after 4 among them dared to present themselves at the 115th Precinct station
house in Queens to complain last weekend. They are now in a curious limbo,
sleeping in king-size beds in a motel in East Elmhurst, Queens, submitting to
daily interrogation by the police and Federal investigators and waiting to learn
their fate.

Many Noticed Them But Few Reached Out

Inside the Paoletti peddler ring, there was a numbing sameness to the daily
routine, which started before daybreak with shoves, and emphatic hand movements
that said: "Get up, get up, get moving." The men and women packed their
identical backpacks with their daily supply of 100 to 200 key chains, and headed
out into the dark. If they were lucky, and they often were, local shopkeepers
gave them free bagels and coffee.

The city was carved up by subway lines, and workers were assigned routes by the
color coding on the city subway map.

Mr. Fernandez worked the blue line, the Eighth Avenue subways, every day,
including Sundays, which is what particularly irritated him. The long hours did
not bother him, and the bad living conditions were a step up from the near
homelessness he knew in Mexico. But, because he was faithful, in the truest
sense of the word, his Sundays were sacred. He would plead with Renato Paoletti
Lemus to let him go to Mass.

But Mr. Paoletti, the presumed ringleader who is being hunted by the
authorities, forbade it, ordering Mr. Fernandez back to the A, the C and the E
to sell miniature baseball bats and screwdrivers.

As the immigrants crisscrossed the city by train, they proceeded mechanically
from car to car. They usually worked as if in a bubble, keeping their heads
bowed, avoiding eye contact. Even so, over the last year, they became a
ubiquitous presence in underground New York, a phenomenon accepted almost
without comment by a city with a profound capacity to absorb and digest. Few
realized they were troubled; rather, hardened by the parade of so many beggars
with such lurid stories, some suspected that they were not even deaf. But a
handful of people -- some Christian proselytizers, some deaf people -- reached
out.

"We started a deaf ministry just to help them," said Deody Lantoria, 44, a
computer operator who belongs to the All Nations Bible Baptist Church.
"Sometimes I wanted to report them to the I.N.S. for their own good, but I
didn't."

At the end of each day, Mr. Paoletti or his sister, Adriana, or his mother,
Delia, or his cousin, Alfredo, or sometimes even his father, Jose, would demand
the vendors' earnings, according to former vendors. Renato Paoletti was a strict
accountant, while his older brother Jose Jr., known as Pipo, was the softie.

The vendors came home in small groups, sat crosslegged on their beds, or
mattresses, or sleeping bags, and counted their money. They put rubber bands
around the $1 bills, dropped the change into plastic baggies, and handed them
in.

Sometimes, they would get an extra dollar from someone who took pity on them.
That, they would pocket righteously. But it was risky; occasionally, they were
physically searched. A Legal Aid lawyer, Mihea Kim, said that they were fed
according to how hard they worked, but health officials found none who were
malnourished.

Renato Paoletti kept a locked room in the back of one of the two residences,
where investigators said they found $35,000 in plastic containers, including
$10,000 in $1 bills and 20 Mexican identification cards. He sometimes summoned
the women vendors there; three young women have told investigators that they
were routinely molested, "touched in their private parts" by Renato Paoletti.

At night, the men drank, and the women often cried, and the babies howled,
creating a disturbing tableau in a neighborhood of immigrants. Those who came
home late were often locked out, and slept in a nearby park.

Ricardo Gonzalez, 25, was perpetually locked out for what the bosses called his
laziness. He was also beaten. Sometimes he hid from Renato Paoletti in the
apartment overseen by the kinder Jose Jr., underneath the bunk beds. But Renato
would find him there, slam him against a wall, punch him in the chest, according
to a close friend of Mr. Gonzalez. So he started sleeping on the subways. That
is when he turned to Mr. Lantoria for help.

Mr. Lantoria put him up in his own home in Queens, and took him to Manhattan
with him every day, leaving him in Madison Square Park, and arranging to meet
him at his lunch hour and then at the end of the work day. One day, however,
Renato Paoletti tracked him down, and dragged him back to Jackson Heights.

There are others who were let go, put on planes even. Minerva Gutierrez, 25, was
sent back to her hometown, Yautepec, near Cuernavaca, with $2 in her pocket and
a 2-year-old daughter, Paulina. Paulina's father is Renato, Ms. Gutierrez said.
He sent them back because he did not want his daughter to suffer the cold of a
New York winter, Ms. Gutierrez said. He also had a new girlfriend, Santa
Gonzalez, who was one of the seven arrested last Sunday.

Bound to Their Captors Through Complex Ties

Prosecutors trace the beginning of what they see as the Paoletti smuggling ring
to Los Angeles in the late 1980's. But the Los Angeles operation did not get off
to a good start. From the beginning, the first group of vendors were telling new
recruits that the job barely paid. In 1990, a group of four young peddlers fled
back across the Mexican border into Tijuana.

"Here in L.A., it was easier for them to just leave," said Pablo Rea Escobar,
43, who has known the Paolettis since that time. "In New York, they could not do
that."

Starting in 1990, the Paolettis appear to have begun recruiting poor, young
Mexicans from several states in Mexico to go to New York.

Adriana Paoletti found Minerva Gutierrez in bustling Yautepec, through a teacher
at the Institute of Basic Education, which locals unkindly refer to as "the
little Mongoloids' school."

On March 11, 1990, Adriana Paoletti came by her small stone house, picked her up
and they disappeared into the state of Morelos.

"I waited all afternoon, all night," said her mother, Mercedes Diaz Ocampo. She
filed a missing person's report. A year later, she received a photograph of her
daughter from New York.

"She was pregnant," her mother said. "I was angry."

When Ms. Gutierrez arrived in New York, the Paolettis' operation was still
small, she said. She lived with Renato, his mother and two other vendors. At
day's end, she handed over her earnings in a paper bag to Delia Paoletti, whom
she came to consider her mother-in-law. She remains fond of her, even though she
says Delia Paoletti beat her whenever she got pregnant by Renato, which was
often.

"I lost two babies," she said, holding out one hand, palm facing down, and
making a swift slicing movement across her neck with the other. She does not
know the whereabouts of her son by Renato, Jorge, who is 4.

In 1993, when Delia Garcia Roman turned 18, Jose and Delia Paoletti, patriarch
and matriarch of a growing business, visited her mother's home in Mexico City.
They spoke of antique shops and boutiques, of love and respect and great earning
potential. The words "trinket" or "key chain" were never uttered.

Jose Paoletti Jr. drove her north to Tijuana, in a van with six other would-be
immigrants, all deaf. In Ms. Garcia Roman's recollection, they simply drove
across the border undetected.

During the journey, Jose Jr. put his hand on her leg and began to rub her, she
said. She protested, changed seats and he never bothered her again, she said.

The van stopped first in Los Angeles, then in Las Vegas. In both places, the
teen-agers were sent out into the streets to sell trinkets. Ms. Garcia Roman
said her heart sank; she saw in a moment that she had been deceived. Stopping
next in Denver, then Chicago, they finally arrived in Queens.

Over the years, while many vendors felt bound to the Paolettis by a complicated
psychological contract that prosecutors are working to understand, there were
defections.

When Omar Fernandez began to complain bitterly about not being paid, for
instance, Renato Paoletti gave him a ticket to Los Angeles -- the sum total of
his remuneration for several months' work -- where he now works, for modest pay,
for a Paoletti cousin.

There were also those who reveled in their New York City life, even in their
work, according to Ms. Gutierrez and to Mario Guillen Martinez.

Sitting in a small cinderblock house in Mexico City, across from a junkyard
littered with the shells of cars, Mr. Guillen Martinez, 27, described his six
years selling trinkets in the New York City subways as the happiest of his life.
He was so happy that he recruited deaf friends into the organization, he said,
and ended up charged with kidnapping by the Mexican authorities.

During his time in the United States, Mr. Guillen Martinez said he led peddler
road trips to Miami, Las Vegas and Texas. He returned to Mexico when he split
with his wife, a fellow vendor, he said, and it has been a return to the kind of
fingerpointing he first ran from.

"They look at him, they make fun of him," said his father, Jose Guillen Vazquez.
"I tell them, this is not 'The Mute One.' His name is Mario."

Even if it meant facing such humiliation, Delia Garcia Roman wanted to return to
Mexico. Her brother, Sergio, flew to Queens, where, he said, Adriana Paoletti
greeted him cordially. Several vendors, though, slipped him surreptitious notes,
asking him to contact their families to come get them, too, he said.

He slept on a top bunk, only to be awakened at 5 A.M. by the others. Already
dressed, they sat on their beds attaching "I am deaf" cards to piles of key
chains.

When they headed to the subways, he walked out the door with his sister.

Recently, the Paoletti family patriarch visited Ms. Garcia Roman in Mexico City,
scolding her for fleeing without properly thanking them. His audacity galled
her.

"They are a handsome family, and they can be charming," she said yesterday. "But
they caused heartache and suffering for many deaf people."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Westway Motor Inn in Elmhurst, Queens, where 57 deaf Mexican
immigrants, including 12 children, are staying after the authorities said they
found them living in virtual slavery in two houses in Queens. (Angel Franco/The
New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Carolina Raid Finds Exploited Deaf Mexicans

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

DATELINE: SANFORD, N.C., July 25


Federal agents raided two houses in this small, blue-collar city today and found
more than a dozen illegal Mexican immigrants, most of them deaf, who the agents
believe were "held in bondage" by bosses who exploited their deafness for
profit.

Describing what people here had thought of as a distant, big-city problem,
Federal agents said the immigrants were lured with a promise of a better life,
then coerced by "bosses" into peddling trinkets at shopping centers and mills
for just scraps of the profits.

Officials with the Immigration and Naturalization Service said they had raided
the houses after receiving information from the Mexican Government. The agents
said they believed the deaf Mexicans had been smuggled into the United States,
then held as virtual captives by threats from the two people who ran the houses.

The United States Attorney in Greensboro, N.C., said prosecutors were exploring
whether the operation in Sanford was linked to the people charged last week in
New York City with holding dozens of deaf Mexican peddlers in virtual slavery. A
law enforcement official in New York said investigators believed there was a
connection, but the official would not elaborate on what the link was or whether
any of the New York suspects had a hand in the North Carolina operation.

Investigators in North Carolina were still conducting interviews tonight, and no
one had been charged yet.

Meanwhile, Federal prosecutors in New York arrested another man today in
connection with the smuggling ring in Queens. The prosecutors charged the man,
Frank Coenen, a deaf 35-year-old son of a retired New York City police
detective, with conspiracy, saying that he had helped bring the illegal
immigrants to New York and had aided the trinket selling. Mr. Coenen is the
former husband of Adriana Paoletti Lemus, a 29-year-old Mexican woman whose
family, prosecutors say, organized the New York operation.

Investigators in New York said they were pursuing leads to determine whether
similar operations, directly or loosely tied to the people arrested in Queens,
were being run in other cities in addition to Sanford.

In Chicago, I.N.S. officials were interviewing seven deaf Mexican peddlers today
in a neighborhood in the north part of the city. Curtis Aljets, acting district
director of the I.N.S. in Chicago, said that there was a "connection" between
the people in Chicago and those New York, and that his office was providing
information to prosecutors in New York.

But he said that the peddlers in Chicago did not appear to be subject to the
sort of coercion that prosecutors have described in the New York case.

In North Carolina, agents raided the two brick houses shortly after sunrise in a
working-class section of Sanford, about 40 miles southwest of Raleigh. In all,
17 people -- 9 men, 5 women, 2 children and an infant -- were taken to
immigration offices in Charlotte, N.C, and then to a local hotel. Thomas
Fischer, a senior I.N.S. agent who conducted the raids, identified Marcos Moises
and his wife, Guadalupe, as the "bosses" who oversaw the peddlers.

"They were not threatened with weapons, but were manipulated with threats and
other coercion," said Mr. Fischer, who said investigators believed other houses
in Sanford could be raided in the coming days. "These people were exploited.
They were held in bondage."

Patricia Arce Barcenas, a mother in Mexico City, said today that she believed
her son, Mauricio Portillo Arce, was among those discovered in Sanford. She said
that her 16-year-old deaf son had disappeared last March after leaving for his
job at a ceramics factory, and that a month later she had been telephoned by a
woman in North Carolina who told her the boy was "fine" and selling key rings.
The caller identified herself as Teresa Norato Palencia and said that she was
calling on behalf of her deaf mother, Guadalupe Moises, according to Ms. Arce.

Last June, Ms. Arce said in an interview, she received a packet of
correspondence -- two letters, one in her son's hand, another in a stranger's,
$50 and a photograph of her son by a road sign saying, "Welcome to Virginia."

Mexican officials said today that a 26-year-old woman, whom they identified as
Gloria Hipolito Hernandez, had come into the Mexican consulate in Detroit on
Tuesday and told officials of the situation in Sanford.

In Mexico today, the woman's sister, Gabriela Hipolito Hernandez, said Gloria
Hipolito Hernandez had left home last March with Guadalupe Moises. She said her
sister, who was deaf and could barely write or communicate through sign
language, had been lured by the idea of making money selling trinkets in the
United States.

Gloria Hipolito Hernandez's family said Ms. Moises had talked convincingly of
how she would work, make money, split the proceeds and see another part of the
world. "It was irresistible," said Pedro Hernandez, her brother. But the family
members said that they had not heard from her since then -- no letter, no
telephone call, no money.

They said they believe she might have been in Detroit visiting an aunt when she
went to the consulate on Tuesday.

Federal agents in North Carolina said that the workers appeared to have been
ordered out to surrounding malls and other nearby cities, such as Greensboro and
Raleigh, to sell the trinkets, many of them attached to small American flags.
They received only $5 a day, the agents said.

The deaf Mexicans did not appear to have been physically abused, the officials
said, but they believed they had no choice but to work and turn over the
proceeds.

Sanford, the seat of Lee County, is a city of roughly 20,000 people. The
county's Hispanic population has grown over the last decade, with as many as
7,000 Mexicans among the roughly 50,000 residents. Indeed, the two top employers
in Sanford, Golden Poultry, a chicken processing plant, and Tyson Foods, which
makes taco shells and chips, are dominated by Mexican workers. Many other
immigrants, legal and not, pick tobacco and vegetables.

The presence of Mexicans on Woodland Avenue, then, was not in itself surprising.
Neighbors said the deaf Mexicans had lived in the two-bedroom and three-bedroom
houses for about two years. They said that four vans were used to transport the
workers throughout the day, and that United Parcel Service trucks made regular
dropoffs of the boxes of trinkets.

"People were coming and going seven days a week, all hours of the day and
night," said Kevin Buie, a 22-year-old man who lived next door.

Aleqandro Arroyo, who runs the Mexican restaurant La Cabana, said the deaf
peddlers would occasionally eat there, but "we never knew" that the people were
being used in the way that Federal agents described.  If it is true, he said, it
is heartbreaking. Like the other laborers in the city's Hispanic community,
"they travel here looking for nice lives," he said. "Then they are forced to
work for so little."

It seemed more like something he would see on his satellite dish -- it gets
channels from all over the country and Mexico -- from a big city like New York.

And some residents said they wished that the scheme described by the Federal
agents had remained a big-city thing.

People, held in bondage, exploited for their labor, is part of this region's
distant past. "It struck me very badly," said Angela Madison, a hairdresser in
Sanford.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two houses in Sanford, N.C., where more than a dozen illegal
Mexican immigrants, most of them deaf, were "held in bondage," officials said.
(Jenny Warburg for The New York Times)(pg. 24)

Map of North Carolina showing location of Sanford: Sanford, N.C., the seat of
Lee County, is home to 20,000 people. (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Needs to Broaden Law Against Slavery;
World's 'Relief Valve'

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words



To the Editor:

Re "Immigration Angst" (Op-Ed, July 23), on the deaf Mexican immigrants:

There are questions no one seems willing to ask. Why, for example, is America
the "relief valve" for all the political and economic problems of the world?
When will those so concerned about immigrants start worrying about the "poor and
downtrodden" of this country?

As an immigrant, I am painfully aware of the dream billions have of coming here.
But by allowing almost unlimited legal and illegal immigration, we guarantee the
poor already here a place on the bottom of the economic ladder.

STJEPAN BALOG
Warren, Mich., July 24, 1997

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Suter)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Needs to Broaden Law Against Slavery;
New York Apathy

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 59 words



To the Editor:

The abuse of the deaf Mexican immigrants was appalling (news article, July 21).
What shocks more is the apathy of neighbors. Sadly, it's so New York. Neighbors
may have worried about their own immigration status, but surely they could have
alerted local clergy or community groups.

ROSALIND ELLIS
Baltimore, July 21, 1997

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Suter)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Needs to Broaden Law Against Slavery;
Learning to Sign

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words



To the Editor:
 I read with horror the story of the deaf Mexican immigrants forced into virtual
slavery in New York City (front page, July 22). As the parent of a deaf
teen-ager, I know many of the frustrations and fears he and his friends live
with in their silent world.

The key to my son's success and safety is communication. You reported that some
of the immigrants had been learning American sign language; perhaps if more
people knew the language the abuse would have been reported sooner. I hope
people will now consider taking sign language classes at the many schools and
city programs that offer them free or at low cost.

JANE ALLEN
Denver, July 23, 1997

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Suter)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 28, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

New York Should Ban All Crowded Housing

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 125 words



To the Editor:

Alan Wolfe's appeal to reason on the issue of illegal immigration (Op-Ed, July
23) ignores the fact that immigrants are attracted to this country because
low-paying jobs are readily available. Their labor thus underwrites the high
living standards of the rest of the population. Immigration policy aggressively
targets them instead of their employers. This drives their wages down even
further.

The recent plight of the Mexican deaf-mutes in New York City might not be a
parable, as Mr. Wolfe asserts, but it is a clear example of the working
conditions and marginalization prompted by immigration policies that fail to
address the economic mechanisms behind the phenomenon.

PABLO PICCATO
New York, July 25, 1997

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 29, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

In a Borough of Immigrants, A Strong Market for Hovels

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY and MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2102 words


A prospective tenant is led into yet another of the human beehives found behind
the pleasant facades of residential homes in Queens. The first floor has been
carved into five cubicles, the second into six. Some renovations are so recent
that chunks of plaster litter the parquet floor, and wooden door frames have yet
to be painted.

The house is on 73d Street in Jackson Heights, where such illegal conditions are
as common as the sidewalk peddlers hawking their mangoes and coconuts, as
predictable as the No. 7 trains that rumble from above Roosevelt Avenue.

Twenty blocks away, at 34-57 93d Street, more than 40 people were recently found
to be living in crushing closeness on the first floor. The tenants were deaf
Mexicans living like indentured servants. Smuggled into the United States to
sell trinkets on the New York subways, they turned over the dollar bills they
collected to bosses they feared. The extraordinary circumstances sparked
international outrage.

But in the context of a large swath of Queens, there was also an element of the
ordinary to the sad discovery. They were just another clutch of immigrants,
crammed into another house not designed to shelter so many people. If there is
surprise, it comes from how easily such illegal conditions can be ignored in a
city that has returned to its former stature as one of the country's most
desirable places in which to live.

Few in Jackson Heights said they were surprised by the discovery. "I can't say I
was shocked by it," said John D. Sabini, a city councilman whose district
includes part of Jackson Heights. "Things go on in some of these blocks in
Jackson Heights, Corona and Elmhurst that are below the radar."

Fernando Raposo, who has owned a house just a few steps away from the 93d Street
house for 36 years, gave a what-else-is-new shrug. He leaned against his gate
and jabbed a finger in the direction of five other houses. "That one, this one,
the green one, the one on the other side and this other one right here," he
said. "There is no telling how many people live there."

Jackson Heights and the borough of Queens have become ground zero in New York
City for the illegal conversion of one- and two-family homes into makeshift
boardinghouses. And while few people were taken aback by the living conditions
at 93d Street, the proliferation of places like it has created a divisive
tension between longtime residents who see the character of their community
changing, and their newest neighbors, who feel unwelcome and misunderstood.

At its root, the phenomenon reflects an established yet unspoken arrangement
among three interests. Poor people, including immigrants, need cheap housing.
That need creates a market for landlords whose commitment to zoning laws can
wane in the face of profit. And the city has generally looked the other way.

Last October, in a series of six articles in The New York Times about poor
housing conditions in the city -- including illegal conversions in Queens --
housing experts explained that the city is saddled with both an inadequate
housing supply and an overwhelmed code-enforcement system. At the time, Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani declined requests for comment.

But days after a fire in April killed four Polish immigrants in an illegally
converted house in Maspeth, Queens, the Giuliani administration and Ms. Shulman
unveiled what they called a comprehensive plan to eradicate the problem, a plan
that Ms. Shulman's aides said had been in the works for several months. They
established a task force, drafted city and state legislation and vowed to impose
stiffer penalties against landlords who flout zoning laws.

After the recent discovery of the deaf Mexicans in Jackson Heights -- as well as
another dozen in an apartment in Corona -- city officials renewed their call for
swift action.

The Larger Question Of a Housing Shortage

Still, the clarion call for stepped-up enforcement does not address the larger
question, housing advocates say. If the struggling immigrants of Mexico -- and
Pakistan, and the Dominican Republic and Russia -- can no longer find cubicles
to rent for $300 a month, where will they live? Rents continue to rise in a city
where vacancy rates, especially for low-income apartments, are chronically low.
And space in homeless shelters, now considered politically unpalatable,
continues to shrink.

An enforcement crackdown "is only half the equation," said Mary Brosnahan, the
executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless. "If you lack some housing
for folks to wind up in, they will simply escape through the cracks to another
neighborhood. And another substandard housing market will arise to absorb these
folks."

Ms. Brosnahan added that she has been working recently on the case of a woman
from India, who in desperation was paying $100 a month to sleep on a kitchen
table in an apartment in Queens.

The city finds itself in a dilemma, its officials acknowledge, and nowhere is
that predicament more apparent than in that section of northern Queens called
Jackson Heights. Created in the early 1900's as a planned community, it has been
celebrated as much for its cultural diversity as for the garden courtyards of
its apartment buildings. It is known as the Colombian capital of New York, but
the countries represented among its populace number more than 70. There are
Italian cafes and Indian diners, Argentine steakhouses and Mexican
luncheonettes.

But diversity does not always translate into harmony. Some of the established
residents see their hard work -- from creating a historic district to launching
beautification projects -- being jeopardized by the influx of people living in
carved and quartered spaces. The complaints often follow the same logic: a
mostly suburban area has become crowded with people who send their children to
the schools, place their garbage cans at the curb -- and, because many of them
are illegal residents, do not pay taxes.

Now, they argue, the community of garden apartments has a less savory
reputation. Its school district is the most overcrowded in the city, so much so
that the Board of Education plans to tear down a Jewish community center to
build a 600-seat elementary school. And so many brothels were cropping up along
Roosevelt Avenue that the Police Department had to create a task force; along
the avenue there sits a blue-and-white trailer with a sign that reads, "N.Y.P.D.
Prostitution Removal Program."

Why, some longtime residents ask, have so many immigrants chosen Jackson
Heights? The answers range from the economic vagaries of other countries to
turn-of-the-century decisions about subway destinations to the nature of the
housing stock in Queens.

Take the growing numbers of Mexicans drawn to Jackson Heights, a pattern so
recent that demographers are only now beginning to measure its dimensions.
Hundreds of people, perhaps thousands, have come from Mexico City and the state
of Puebla to settle into the drab, two-story houses along the blocks closest to
Roosevelt Avenue.

The economic recession that grips Mexico has prompted them to emigrate. And they
have chosen Jackson Heights, immigration experts say, for two primary reasons:
New York City is considered to be more hospitable than California, and a tight
network of friends and family have told them of the job possibilities.

"Entire Mexican neighborhoods have been replicated in Jackson Heights," said
Rafael Grasso, the director of an immigrant-outreach program called Concerned
Citizens of Queens. "People in some of these towns know the exact corners where
they can go to find jobs."

Always Rush Hour On the No. 7 Line

And the No. 7 subway, sometimes called "the immigrant express," helps them get
to those jobs. The line provides cheap transportation to the factory jobs in
Long Island City, the baby-sitting jobs in Manhattan, the kitchen jobs in
restaurants along the subway route. "You can go to the 90th Street subway
station in Jackson Heights at one in the morning," Councilman Sabini said. "And
it looks like rush hour."

At the same time, a generation has married and moved away, leaving parents with
"empty nests" in the heart of Jackson Heights. They sell their one- and
two-family homes to people who may need extra income to pay the mortgage or are
interested in illicit profit. They rent out a finished basement, split the
living room in half, slap up partitions and even pave the backyard to rent out
parking spaces.

"People in the neighborhood continually report to us houses where extra people
have moved in," said Thomas D. Raffaele, the chairman of Community Board 3,
which covers Jackson Heights and parts of Elmhurst and Corona. "And we have been
protesting for years to try and get increased enforcement regarding illegal
conversions."

To respond to the complaints coming from Queens, the Buildings Department put a
plan into effect in March that some say was long overdue: it created a
"quality-of-life" task force of eight inspectors to work weekends and nights,
when tenants are more likely to be home. In four months, the special squad
issued 1,770 violations, either for working without a permit or for violating
occupancy regulations.

Frequently, those found to be living in illegal conditions are people who are
new to the United States, people like Shahid Shan. Mr. Shan, 28, came from
Pakistan three years ago, and now works as a stock boy in a grocery store in
Jamaica. He pays $200 a month for a small room in a single-family house on 73d
Street.

His bedroom is the house's former living room. And the space that used to be the
dining room has been carved into two more rooms, where a woman from India and a
family of three from Bangladesh live. But the tight accommodations serve his
need, Mr. Shan said. He works so much that he is never home long enough to use
either the kitchen or the only bathroom.

"I feel for them," said Mary Sarro, who for many years was the district manager
of Board 3. "But there's two sides to a coin: some immigrants are great, and
then you have the tail of the coin, an equal number that are very, very bad. The
bad ones are destroying neighborhoods."

Ms. Sarro emphasized that she was the granddaughter of immigrants, but the
community she has lived in for 45 years is changing, she said, for the worse.
And to emphasize the point, she rattled off four addresses of homes that she
said had been illegally converted.

"Why the hell do we have law and order?" she said. "Why do we have borders? It's
absolutely asinine.  Many of the immigrants are hard-working. But at the same
time, if they're illegal, that's another chapter in a book. What should we do? I
don't think we should destroy my neighborhood."

Valid Complaints, Or Xenophobia?

Others find xenophobic threads running through such arguments. Longtime
residents have been known to complain about the smell of curry emanating from
the Indian restaurants, about the Latin American peddlers clogging the sidewalks
with their boxes of fruit, and, now, about the sheer numbers of their newest
neighbors, the Mexicans.

Arturo I. Sanchez, an urban planner who was recently appointed to the community
board, said there is a need for historical perspective. Remember, he said: many
of the grandparents and great-grandparents of the people speaking out on illegal
conversions were peddlers, and many of them took in boarders illegally to pay
the rent.

"This is nothing new," said Mr. Sanchez, who is an immigrant from Colombia. "If
you're going to hark back to the historical experiences of your grandparents, be
historically accurate."

But the quandary that now bedevils Jackson Heights is often of little concern to
those illegal immigrants who have come to New York City with neither intention
nor recourse to stay. Their plan is simple: to work and work and work, until
they have earned enough to live modestly well in their native countries.

There is Javier, 23, who came to New York illegally from Mexico a year ago, and
so is reluctant to give his last name. He works 11 hours a day, six days a week,
making deliveries for a delicatessen in Manhattan. He sends some money home, and
spirits the rest away for his eventual return.

Meanwhile, he pays $125 a month for a corner of an apartment that he shares with
eight other young men from Mexico. Old Happy New Year paper signs and Christmas
lights adorn the window of his tiny room. Clothes hang from nails on the wall
because, he said, he decided not to spend money on furniture.

He apologized for the messy condition of the house, but he said that no one is
ever home to tidy up.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jackson Heights has become a center of illegal conversions of
one- and two-family homes into boardinghouses. In one, an immigrant caught a
nap. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: New Neighbors in Jackson Heights"
Jackson Heights is a diverse community with more than 16 major immigrant groups.
Chart lists the countries from which many of its residents emigrated. (Source:
New York City Department of City Planning)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 30, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

From Victim to Suspect for a Mexican Peddler

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 550 words


For more than a week, prosecutors say, Ivan Gomez-Sanchez lived in the safety of
the Westway Motor Inn in Queens along with 56 other deaf Mexican peddlers. The
suspected ringleaders were arrested early in the investigation, and the rest
appeared to be the victims of ruthless bosses who beat them when they did not
sell enough cheap trinkets in the streets and subways.

But yesterday Federal agents plucked Mr. Gomez-Sanchez, 24, from that haven. He
was then charged in Federal District Court in Brooklyn with being the person who
carried out the violence in a house in Jackson Heights, Queens, where 44 of the
deaf illegal immigrants were discovered by the police on July 19.

Prosecutors charged that he supplied the peddlers with the trinkets each day,
then collected the money from them, which he turned over to his bosses. To keep
the peddlers in line, court papers say, he threatened them with violence, and in
at least one case, struck a peddler.

The authorities refused to paint a clear picture yesterday of exactly how Mr.
Gomez-Sanchez went from being considered a victim to what they called the house
"enforcer." A court-appointed lawyer for Mr. Gomez-Sanchez said his client was a
victim only of mistaken identity.

Court papers suggest that most of the information about Mr. Gomez-Sanchez came
from interviews in recent days in Chicago, where Federal agents raided another
peddler operation that they say was linked to the one in New York. The
interviews continue to suggest how intertwined the two operations were: much of
the testimony in the court papers about Mr. Gomez-Sanchez's role came from two
deaf peddlers now in Chicago who had once worked for the operation in New York
City.

Contradictory information emerged about exactly how long Mr. Gomez-Sanchez had
been at the Westway Motor Inn, where the city police and then the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service have housed the peddlers.

Brian J. Jordan, an immigration service spokesman, said Mr. Gomez-Sanchez was
among the 44 people taken into custody on July 19 at 37-54 93d Street in Jackson
Heights.

Mr. Jordan said that investigators had suspected for some time that Mr.
Gomez-Sanchez might have been among the house "bosses" but that this was not
corroborated until agents conducted interviews in Chicago. Mr. Jordan said he
could only speculate why peddlers in New York had not pointed Mr. Gomez-Sanchez
out to the authorities earlier.

"The fear factor, I think, was predominant," he said. "People hesitate to come
forward until they feel confident they can speak for themselves without the fear
of retaliation."

But at the arraignment yesterday, the lawyer for Mr. Gomez-Sanchez, David
Gordon, said his client, an illegal immigrant who is deaf, went to a local
police precinct station house last Wednesday or Thursday to ask where his
friends at the house had gone. His innocence, the lawyer said, was strongly
suggested by his worried trip to the police.

"He's one of them," Mr. Gordon said. "He's a victim."

The arrest yesterday brings to nine the number of people charged in the case in
New York. Three other people have been charged in connection with the Chicago
operation.

Mr. Gomez-Sanchez was charged with smuggling, transporting and harboring illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

BOMBS IN BROOKLYN: THE SUSPECTS;
Arrested Men Often Seen, Little Known In Park Slope

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 532 words


They had been living in the dilapidated two-story house on the semi-industrial
fringes of Park Slope, unnoticed in a shabby neighborhood where recent
immigrants from the third world crowd many to a room.

But just before dawn yesterday, the neighborhood looked like a war zone, as
helmeted, heavily armed police officers stormed the building. They arrested Lafi
Khalil, 22 years old, and Gazi Ibrahim Abu Mezer, 23, both Palestinians with
Jordanian passports. Abdul Rahman Mossabah, said to be an Egyptian, was taken
into custody for questioning. The authorities seized a cache of pipe bombs,
which, they said, the suspects planned to blow up on a crowded subway station
and a bus.

Chillingly, one of the bombs appeared to be a suicide device, investigators
said. The bomb consisted of four pipe bombs packed with nails and screws to be
detonated by toggle switches the bomber would have to throw by hand.

The Middle Eastern men who had been living at 248 Fourth Avenue for months often
dropped by the Tropical Market a half block away, recalled Pola Lawal, a
Nigerian immigrant who runs the store. They rented boxing and soccer movies, he
said, and greeted him with the Islamic invocation that means "Peace be with
you."

"They would come in and say 'Salaam Aleikum,' and I would say it back to them,"
he said. "They were Moslem, but I never thought they would do anything like
this. They were really friendly."

Mr. Lawal added that the men drove cars with bumper stickers saying "I love the
Koran" and that they "talked about Islam a lot."

A week or so ago, Mr. Lawal said, the group was joined by a new arrival, a
brusque, slender man who always wore religious robes.

The new arrival, Mr. Lawal said, seemed always agitated and in a hurry. Mr.
Lawal would see him walk briskly from the house to a pay phone near the store
several times a day.

"He came for change one day, change for a twenty, and I didn't have it," Mr.
Lawal said. "He became very upset. He was always upset. A very impatient man."

The new arrival was apparently Mr. Mossabah, who entered the country two weeks
ago, law enforcement officials said last night.

Rafael Cruz, a driver for the Family Car Service, just in front of the suspects'
apartment, said the building was filled with immigrants from Pakistan, Egypt and
the Sudan, with people constantly coming and going.

"It was like a big family, people coming in and out, carrying suitcases," he
said. "Sometimes they wore casual suits, other times traditional Muslim
clothing."

Raj Singh, who owns the Tania Deli at 230 Fourth Avenue, said three men from the
group -- whom he knew by the names Amir, Shon and Mohammed -- often came into
his store for coffee and cigarettes or to use his pay phone.

Law enforcement officials said the man who warned them of the plot by his
roommates was a Pakistani immigrant named Mohammed Chindluri.

Mr. Singh said he had visited the men's shabby ground floor apartment several
times, most recently to retrieve a videocassette recorder he had lent them. He
described the apartment as "very small, dirty and barren," with no furniture
except for beds and nothing on the walls.

"They lived like dogs," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Barbados, Sharpton Criticizes Giuliani on Immigration

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 264 words


The Rev. Al Sharpton attacked Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's record on immigration
issues yesterday, calling it "reactionary and repulsive." Mr. Sharpton said Mr.
Giuliani's actions as an Assistant Attorney General a decade ago, when he fought
to hold Haitian refugees in detention camps, belied his recent efforts to
present himself as a friend of immigrants.

"Rudolph Giuliani sat in President Ronald Reagan's Justice Department fighting
against Haitians," Mr. Sharpton, a Democratic Mayoral candidate, said in a
speech released in New York City and delivered last night at a celebration in
Bridgetown, Barbados.

"Rudy Giuliani's track record on immigrant issues is reactionary and repulsive,"
he said.

"He comes now in an election year posing as a friend to immigrants, but his
record speaks volumes to the contrary," he said.

Mr. Sharpton made his remarks as the invited speaker at an Emancipation Day
ceremony sponsored by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. (Emancipation Day is the
the anniversary of the freeing of slaves on Barbados.)

With his remarks, Mr. Sharpton set out to distinguish himself from the field of
Democratic mayoral candidates by challenging Mr. Giuliani's attempt to present
himself as an advocate of immigrants.

Mr. Sharpton took note of Mr. Giuliani's role as the No. 3 person in the Justice
Department, who had led the effort to detain Haitians who fled their country in
leaky boats.

Mr. Giuliani declined comment on Mr. Sharpton's remarks.

"The Mayor does not respond to Mr. Sharpton," said the Mayor's campaign
spokesman, Sunny Mindel.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 2, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

BOMBS IN BROOKLYN: THE OVERVIEW;
Bomb Suspect Was Detained by U.S. but Released

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words


Ghazi Abu Maizar, one of two men arrested in a suspected terrorist plot to
detonate bombs in Brooklyn, had been detained by Federal authorities earlier
this year but was allowed to stay in the United States temporarily even though
he had revealed that Israel considered him a terrorist, officials said
yesterday.

Since June 1996, Mr. Abu Maizar had been caught three times trying to sneak into
the United States from Canada, where he had a criminal record, officials said.
Speaking on the condition of anonymity, law enforcement officials said that
after his third attempt, Mr. Abu Maizar requested political asylum, contending
that he would face persecution in Israel, where he was regarded as a terrorist
-- an accusation he denied.  Federal authorities gave him 60 days -- until Aug.
23 -- to leave the country.

The revelation left immigration officials scrambling for an explanation and
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani seething yesterday.

Mr. Abu Maizar, 23, and Lafi Khalil, 22, both of whom described themselves as
Palestinian, were arrested Thursday in a police raid of a Brooklyn apartment
where officers found the makings of two pipe bombs. Officials alleged that the
men planned to bomb a busy subway station and a commuter bus, and that the
early-morning raid thwarted the plan at the very last minute.

"I think we were close to a disaster here," said James K. Kallstrom, who heads
the New York City office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. "Whether it was
12 hours away or 18 hours or 24 or 36 is irrelevant. I think we were close to a
disaster and it didn't happen, and that's the good news."

As the two suspects were being arraigned last night at Kings County Hospital
Center, where they are recovering from gunshot wounds sustained during the raid,
law enforcement officials were continuing to press international contacts for an
answer to an essential question: Are the two men affiliated with any terrorist
organization, or was the plot they are accused of hatching done in isolation?

To find that answer, investigators sifted through the mounds of documents and
other potential evidence they seized from the apartment.

"The question for us is, were these guys lone wolves who acted after being
incensed or inspired by recent events, or were they part of a directed attack
done in coordination with others," said a high-ranking law enforcement official.
"That's the $50,000 question, and we have not answered it."

At the White House yesterday, President Clinton said, "I cannot comment and
cannot reach a final conclusion yet because I haven't received a report of the
direct investigation done, including the interrogation of the people who were
arrested."

In the search for such telling evidence, investigators pored over the items
seized from the suspects' Park Slope apartment. Among that material, officials
said, was a political manifesto that some investigators have interpreted as the
draft of a suicide note. They also took reams of political literature attacking
Israel, and a portrait of Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, the militant Egyptian cleric
serving a life sentence for plotting to bomb the United Nations and other
landmarks.

However tantalizing, officials said, the evidence so far has not explained what
prompted the suspected plot to detonate bombs at the Atlantic Avenue subway
station, which includes a Long Island Rail Road terminal, and a commuter bus.
But there was little doubt as to the potential deadliness of the purported plot;
officials said that the homemade bombs, made of pipes and gunpowder, nails and
toggle switches, were powerful enough to kill everyone within a 25-foot,
enclosed radius.

Investigators are also scouring the Brooklyn neighborhood for tracks that the
suspects may have left behind, from the supplies they may have purchased at
local stores to the frequent calls that they made from pay phones on the street.
Also of interest is where the two men got their money, although neighbors
described them as poor.

Yesterday, Federal agents visited the Hotel Carter on West 43d Street in
Manhattan, near Times Square, apparently seeking information about one of the
suspects who may have stayed at the hotel Tuesday night, a night clerk there
said.

Although the bomb-making and other preparations must have taken some time,
officials said, the two men appeared to have been motivated to act by Tuesday's
bombing in a Jerusalem market that killed 15 people, including 2 suicide
bombers. Hamas, the Islamic militant organization, has claimed responsibility.

According to one law enforcement official, one of the suspects cited the
Jerusalem bombing shortly after his arrest. "They were heroes," the suspect was
quoted as saying about the bombers. "We wish to join them."

In fact, the specter of Hamas had previously surfaced in connection with Mr. Abu
Maizar, officials said.

Although Mr. Khalil's six-month visitor's visa, which expired two months ago,
was obtained through the United States Embassy in Amman, Jordan, Mr. Abu Maizar
followed a more circuitous path into the country. According to Federal and city
officials, Mr. Abu Maizar tried three times to sneak into Washington State
through Canada: twice in June 1996 and once in January 1997. In his last
attempt, Mr. Abu Maizar was arrested by border patrol officers for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service at a bus station in Bellingham, in
northwestern Washington.

Charged with entering the country without proper documentation, Mr. Abu Maizar
was held for three weeks with a bond of $15,000 in an I.N.S. detention center,
officials said. At a hearing on Jan. 27, I.N.S. officials say, Mr. Abu Maizar
agreed to return to Canada, but that country refused to accept him because of a
criminal record that included a credit-card fraud charge in Toronto.

He was freed in February after posting a reduced bond of $5,000, and was given
an April court date by a judge attached to the Executive Office of Immigration
Review, which is part of the Justice Department. The name of the judge could not
be learned last night.

At the April hearing, officials said, Mr. Abu Maizar filed an application for
political asylum on the ground that he would be persecuted if ordered to return
to Israel. Law enforcement officials and Mayor Giuliani said that Mr. Abu Maizar
acknowledged that he had a criminal record in Israel -- for throwing rocks at
Israeli soldiers, his family said, when he was 15 -- and that the Israeli
Government considered him to be a member of Hamas, an association that he
denied.

But Brian J. Jordan, an I.N.S. spokesman, said: "Our understanding is that he
was afraid to go back because of his affiliation with Palestine as an Islamic,
not as a member of Hamas."

For reasons that Mr. Jordan said he could not explain, Mr. Abu Maizar withdrew
his request for asylum and agreed to leave the country. At a June 23 hearing, a
judge ordered him to leave within 60 days.

At some point, Mr. Abu Maizar moved into an apartment at 248 Fourth Avenue in
Park Slope. He was found there early Thursday morning by police officers
responding to a tip that he and Mr. Khalil were on the verge of committing
suicide-bomb attacks in Brooklyn.

The early tracks left by Mr. Abu Maizar angered Mayor Giuliani.  "Just why is it
that this person was allowed to come into the country announcing that he is
accused of being part of a terrorist group?" the Mayor asked.

But the immigration agency defended its actions. "The I.N.S. is still looking
into the matter, but things initially look like they were done by the book,"
said Eric Andrus, a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It has got to be a false accusation," said Ibrahim Abu Maizar,
left, of charges that his son Ghazi took part in a New York terror plot. He
spoke at his West Bank home, with another son and a grandson. Page 24. (Rina
Castelnuovo for The New York Times); Ghazi Abu Maizar, in a bid for asylum, said
he would be unfairly persecuted if returned to Israel. (Associated Press)(pg.
1); The police said they found the makings of two pipe bombs inside this
Brooklyn apartment in Thursday's raid. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg.
24)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 8, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

2 Held as Leaders of Ring Involving Deaf Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 714 words


Ending a manhunt that had stretched from the subways of Queens to the barrios of
Mexico City, United States and Mexican law enforcement officials arrested two
men yesterday on charges of leading an operation that smuggled dozens of deaf
Mexicans across the border and forced them to live in virtual slavery by
peddling trinkets in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago.

The men, Jose Paoletti Moreda, 59, and his son Renato, who both eluded United
States and Mexican investigators for 18 days, will now face assorted United
States charges that they ran an empire of exploitation for at least seven years
and reaped hundreds of thousands of dollars from the toil of their deaf
indentured servants.

In a bizarre twist, Mexican police officers and agents from the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service found the Paolettis locked in a room
after two men apparently tried to rob them of their ill-gotten gains, according
to officials in the Mexican Attorney General's office.

The arrests came yesterday afternoon, when two men, one of whom fraudulently
claimed to be Jose Paoletti Moreda, tried to cash a 1.7-million-peso check at a
Banamex bank where the Paolettis' assets had been frozen. The Mexican federal
police were called to the bank and arrested the two men, who then led the
authorities to a home in the low-income neighborhood of Narvarte, where Renato
and Jose Paoletti were being held in a locked room, the Mexican officials and a
United States investigator said.

"The door was bolted from the outside," said an investigator who spoke on
condition of anonymity. "So it looks as if these men were going to take the
money and leave them there."

Even before the Paolettis' arrest had been processed, United States and Mexican
officials began the delicate tug-of-war over which country would place them on
trial first. In Mexico, where news of the peddling operation has horrified the
public, Attorney General Jorge Madrazo has pledged to prosecute both men on
unspecified charges, even though they are accused of committing more serious and
violent crimes in the United States. Leslie Kornfeld, a deputy chief in the
United States Attorney's office in Brooklyn, said last night that United States
officials were still determining whether to pursue extradition.
 Law enforcement officials had tracked the younger Paoletti from New York to Los
Angeles and among a network of his friends and relatives in Mexico, and they
were heartened last week when Renato Paoletti was sighted at a basketball game
for deaf athletes.

A Federal complaint filed in District Court in Brooklyn charges that Renato
Paoletti was known as "The Boss" in the various flophouses where the peddlers
lived, and that he routinely ordered beatings, confiscated the workers' proceeds
and sexually assaulted some of the women.

"Renato Paoletti was a ringleader of the conspiracy to smuggle aliens into this
country for profit," Ms. Kornfeld said. His father, Jose Paoletti, is accused of
recruiting deaf Mexicans and helping to smuggle them into the United States,
according to papers filed in Federal court.

Although the deaf peddlers, who sold key chains and other trinkets, had become a
common sight on New York subways in recent years, the authorities first learned
of their brutal living conditions on July 19, when four peddlers walked into the
115th Precinct station house in Queens and handed a note to the desk officer.
City police and Federal immigration agents raided two of the residences in
Queens and discovered abysmal conditions, with people crammed into six-foot
cubicles, and as many as 50 living in one home.

The workers said they had been lured from Mexico with promises of riches in the
United States. But once they were smuggled by bus through Tijuana, Mexico, the
peddlers said, they were forced to work 16 hours a day, seven days a week, and
were beaten if they failed to sell at least $100 worth of trinkets per day.

Federal agents tracked down leads provided by the 54 victims, many of whom are
still being housed in a New York hotel, and found evidence that the Paolettis
also controlled operations involving deaf Mexican immigrants in Chicago and Los
Angeles. Including yesterday's arrests, Federal officials have charged 19 people
in all.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 9, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Orders Inquiry on How Bomb Plot Suspect Stayed in U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 348 words


Attorney General Janet Reno has ordered an inquiry into immigration procedures
that allowed Ghazi Ibrahim Abu Maizar, a suspect in a plot to bomb New York City
subways, to remain in the country after he had been detained for entering
illegally.
 The case of Mr. Abu Maizar, who was seized with another suspect, Lafi Khalil,
and a cache of pipe bombs in their Brooklyn apartment last week, has drawn
criticism from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and other elected officials.

The Attorney General said she had ordered the F.B.I. to give her a chronology of
Mr. Abu Maizar's travels. In addition, she directed the Justice Department's
Inspector General to investigate how the two suspects entered and remained in
the country.

Mr. Abu Maizar was arrested in Washington State on Jan. 14 for illegal entry,
his third such arrest. He was held until Feb. 6, when he was released on bond.
Immigration officials in Canada, where he had been arrested several times on
criminal charges, refused to let him return.

Mr. Abu Maizar then sought political asylum in the United States, stating that
Israeli officials had falsely accused him of being a member of the terrorist
group Hamas. He later dropped the asylum request and agreed to leave the country
within 60 days -- by Aug. 23.

His relatives in Israel, however, said his accounts of being arrested, beaten
and tortured there were vastly exaggerated. Israeli authorities said they had no
indication that either suspect was ever a member of Hamas.

Mayor Giuliani has angrily accused immigration officials of allowing a suspected
terrorist into the country, saying at a news conference on Monday: "You do not
let somebody into the country who admits that they are accused of being a member
of a terrorist organization. What do you expect the person to do beyond that, to
actually, like, admit it?"

Immigration officials insisted that Mr. Abu Maizar's case was handled strictly
by the book. But experts say that in practice, the authorities lack the
resources to insure that illegal immigrants leave when they are supposed to, and
few do.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Exile, Reviled By Haitians, Is Allowed To Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 695 words


One of the most wanted men in Haiti has won permission from the United States to
continue living and working in New York City for six months.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service granted the stay to Emmanuel
Constant, the former leader of a right-wing Haitian paramilitary group.

Mr. Constant, 40, who is known as Toto, is accused of killing and torturing
thousands of his countrymen. He has been living openly in Queens since he fled
Haiti in 1994.

He was arrested by the immigration service in 1995 but appealed for political
asylum and was released the following year pending further hearings.

"It is an outrage that U.S. laws are being used to protect someone who has
persecuted thousands," said Ron Daniels, executive director of the
Manhattan-based Center for Constitutional Rights, who led two dozen people
yesterday in a protest in Laurelton, Queens, where Mr. Constant is believed to
live.

Under a blistering sun, the protesters marched down a street of Tudor- and
Colonial-style houses and stopped in front of the white stucco two-story home
owned by Mr. Constant's aunt. They held signs with pictures of mutilated bodies,
which they said were Mr. Constant's victims, and chanted, "Toto must go." And
they handed out fliers with pictures of him and the words "Wanted for murder in
Haiti."

"It's almost like the 'Megan's Law' principle," Mr. Daniels said of the protest,
referring to laws meant to inform a community when a sex offender moves in. "The
neighbors must know."

New York is home to the world's largest community of Haitian exiles, numbering
some 300,000. Many arrived between 1991 and 1994, when Haiti was terrorized by
paramilitary groups like Mr. Constant's Front for the Advancement and Progress
of Haiti, known by its French acronym, Fraph.

Mr. Constant gave an interview to the CBS program "60 Minutes" in 1995, in which
he said that he was a paid agent of the Central Intelligence Agency from 1991 to
1994, an assertion the Government ignores. But many exiles say that he must have
such connections, or he would be assaulted or murdered on his rounds of
restaurants, cafes and discotheques in the Haitian circles of New York, where he
is largely reviled.

"It's easier for him to live here," said a protester, Jacqueline Fils-Aime.
"He's living like a king in Queens."

Mr. Constant has been a major source of strained relations between Haiti and the
United States. For three years, the Haitian Government has repeatedly asked the
United States to extradite him. But the United States has steadfastly refused,
arguing that Haiti's legal system is incapable of providing a fair trial for Mr.
Constant, who is accused of leading a force that tortured, murdered and raped
thousands of Haitians who were supporters of the former President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide.

The son of a military officer who led the Haitian armed forces under President
Francois Duvalier, Mr. Constant spent part of his career as a diplomat, assigned
to Haiti's United Nations mission. He emerged as a major force in 1993 as the
leader of Fraph.

Mr. Constant was seen at the time by many American officials in Haiti as a
counterbalance to Mr. Aristide's power, and he often boasted of American
connections.

The organization operated during the military rule that followed the overthrow
of Mr. Aristide in 1991. An estimated 5,000 people were killed and thousands
more tortured and raped during the military junta's rule before Mr. Aristide
returned to power in 1994 under a United States-led military invasion.

American troops raided Fraph headquarters in Port-au-Prince, the capital, and
found photographs of mutilated bodies taped to the walls. A score of Fraph
members and sympathizers were arrested, but no effort was made to take Mr.
Constant into custody.

Mr. Constant, then one of the most wanted men in Haiti, was permitted to enter
the United States on a tourist visa. He was seen at Haitian restaurants and
nightclubs in Queens and Brooklyn. Federal officials arrested him in 1995 at the
Queens home that was the site of yesterday's protest, charged him with having
overstayed his visa and sent him to a Maryland jail.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters gathered yesterday outside the Laurelton, Queens,
home of the aunt of Emmanuel Constant, the former Haitian paramilitary leader
they believe is living there. Mr. Constant is widely reviled in his homeland.
(Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. 31)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

In U.S. Deportation Policy, a Pandora's Box

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3082 words

DATELINE: QUEZALTEPEQUE, El Salvador


On a stifling afternoon, Luis Arnoldo Lopez, late of Los Angeles, gathers with
members of the Mara Salvatrucha gang to smoke marijuana, sniff glue and inscribe
gang tattoos on one another's skin. Suddenly, their conversation shifts to the
rival 18th Street gang.

"They killed Cuchillo, so we have to kill them," a teen-ager nicknamed "Snoopy"
complains to Mr. Lopez. "They have been robbing and killing us, so we have to
protect ourselves."

Wearing gray pants that say "L.A. County Jail," Mr. Lopez, 18, nods in agreement
and begins to goad his comrades.

"We've got to defend each other and our barrio," he tells them. "Every time they
kill one of our homeboys, one of theirs should also die."

If Mr. Lopez speaks in a peculiar mixture of American and Salvadoran street
slang, it is no accident. For he is one of a growing number of immigrants whom
the United States has shipped back to their countries of origin under an effort
mandated by Congress a decade ago and strengthened with new financing in the
last four years. It requires the deportation, at the end of their prison
sentences, of those immigrants, legal or illegal, who have been convicted of a
broad range of felonies, from murder to drug possession.

The policy is having a profound effect here in El Salvador. Since January, just
in this dusty town of 13,000 people at least 7 people have died in gang
violence, the police say. The victims included a 3-year-old girl killed when she
and her family came out of church and walked into the middle of a grenade fight
between two gangs, each with roots in the United States.

In the last fiscal year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service reports
having deported about 37,000 criminals, up from about 27,000 three years before.
And in the first half of this fiscal year, it has stepped up the pace further,
deporting more than 23,000, for an annual rate of more than 45,000.

The program was intended to lower the American crime rate, free up prison space
and save American taxpayers money by getting rid of people who were not citizens
and were considered likely to commit new crimes after having served their
sentences. The policy may have had a small effect in those directions, officials
in the United States say, but it is also having a set of far more noticeable
unintended side effects, including these:

*American gang habits -- and branches of the gangs themselves -- are being
exported to El Salvador and other countries in and around the Caribbean. In
these smaller cultures, weak police forces already have their hands full
struggling to control individual crime or politically motivated violence. Now
the police face slick, organized, well-armed gangs that operate with all the
truculence of their parent groups in Los Angeles and other American cities.
Political leaders fear the effect on their lands' stability, and they are
complaining to the Clinton Administration about it.

*In the United States, law enforcement officials are contending with a
"boomerang" effect -- the rapid return to America of criminals who were recently
deported. Deportation has given them opportunities to forge new connections to
drug and other crime rings in their own lands. In turn, this only compounds
their ability to commit new crimes in the United States.

*Inflexibilities built into the law have trapped and marked for deportation a
small but significant number of people who under other circumstances would be
considered good candidates to become law-abiding and productive.

Perhaps the most dramatic of these side effects was in plain view in the safe
house where Mr. Lopez and the Mara Salvatrucha gang were talking so
matter-of-factly about murder. Five years after a peace accord ended El
Salvador's long and brutal civil war, gang warfare transplanted from the United
States has emerged as a new threat to security.

Throughout the country, thousands of young men, recruited and led by deportees
who learned their trade on the streets of American cities, have been joining the
gangs, which officials blame for much of a marked postwar increase in violence
and criminality. Subcommissioner Carlos Ramirez Landaverde, deputy director of
the department of criminal investigation, said there have been dozens of
gang-related deaths in the last year.

The gangs bring with them a deadly rivalry that dates back to their founding in
Los Angeles. And when not trying to kill each other, their members rob
travelers, rape women, steal cars, deal in drugs and extort businesses.

Since 1993, more than 4,000 Salvadorans, mostly teen-agers and young adults,
with United States criminal records have been forcibly repatriated to a homeland
that many of them barely remembered, since most were children when they fled
this country as refugees during the civil war.

"As the deportations have increased, so has crime, and the deportees are
responsible for a disproportional amount of that," Mr. Ramirez Landaverde said.
"Many of the most violent offenses, like murder, kidnapping and robbery, are
committed by people who have been in the United States and are sent back here
without any prior notice, with all the bad habits they developed there."

The Villages
Armed Gangs, Outgunned Police

That crime wave extends even to the most remote peasant villages, which are now
blighted with graffiti, much of it in English.  Local branches of two Los
Angeles gangs -- Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street -- and their allies in the
similarly transplanted Crazy, Mau-Mau and White Fence gangs, use the scrawled
messages to threaten vengeance on each other and express their contempt for a
police force that is undermanned, underarmed and undertrained. "We control the
nation," the Mara Salvatrucha brags in graffiti here, an hour's drive from the
capital.

"The cops up there are real tough, but the ones here are a joke," said Mr.
Lopez, who says he joined the White Fence gang, an ally of Mara Salvatrucha,
when he lived in California. He was deported to Quezaltepeque in November after
being convicted of armed robbery and drug trafficking charges. "Up there, if you
do a drive-by, at least there is an investigation. Here, there is nothing."

For their part, the police bitterly acknowledge that the deportees and their
gangs often have them outmaneuvered and outgunned. "Our weapons are lousy, and
they're running around with M-16 rifles and guns they have smuggled in from
outside the country," said Antonio Cruz Preza Sanchez, a police inspector who is
leading the investigation into the April slaying of a police officer in the town
of Conchagua, in which a deportee is accused.

El Salvador's traditional police force, accused of widespread human rights
violations, was disbanded as part of the 1992 peace agreement that ended the
12-year civil war. Thousands of soldiers and guerrillas were demobilized, and
many of their weapons were destroyed. A new Civilian National Police was
established, but it is still not operating at full strength and has been plagued
by recruitment, budget and other problems. In part to instill confidence among
civilians, its members have not been given the same kind of routine access to
heavy armaments that the national police forces had during the civil war. Today
the police on patrol carry pistols and nightsticks, not assault rifles.

One result of the inability of the police to contain the new gang activity is a
re-emergence of death-squad activity in El Salvador -- not against political
enemies, but against suspected gang members. During the civil war, right-wing
death squads linked to the military were responsible for the deaths of many of
the 75,000 people estimated to have died. Now new squads with names like The
Black Shadow and The Lightning Command have sprung up. But this time, ordinary
citizens weary of crime have largely applauded their efforts.

In April, three men said to be members of The Black Shadow went on trial in the
eastern city of San Miguel, charged with "illicit association" and the 1994
slaying of three Mara Salvatrucha members. Part of a larger group of 12
civilians and four police officers who had initially been arrested in connection
with the killings, they were praised by the Mayor, who said that crime was
"devouring" his city. A jury quickly absolved them.

"This is a very serious problem," said President Armando Calderon Sol, who was
one of several Central American and Caribbean leaders who raised the issue of
deportees when President Clinton visited the region in May.

"The United States lets these dangerous types out and tells them 'Go back to
where you came from.' But we have no way to try them or jail them" for crimes
committed on foreign soil, he said, "and so we must not only let them in, but
let them go free."

The situation may be especially serious here, but El Salvador is by no means
alone in its alarm at Washington's policy on deportees. Throughout Central
America and the Caribbean, from Guatemala east to Guyana, government officials
have expressed anger and frustration at a crisis they regard as foisted on them
by United States and beyond their ability to control.

The Nations
Lands Inundated By Tough Outlaws

The overwhelming bulk of "criminal removals" by the I.N.S. have been to Mexico,
Central America and Caribbean countries. In Jamaica, for example, more than
3,000 such deportees have arrived since the agency began increasing its effort
four years ago, said Keith D. Knight, that country's Minister of National
Security.

In general, "these are persons who have severed all ties to Jamaica and are sent
back to us destitute, with convictions for the most violent offenses, like
murder and assault and trafficking in drugs and firearms," Mr. Knight said in an
interview in Kingston earlier this year. "They simply become part of the
criminal fraternity, and the intelligence we have suggests deep involvement in
serious and sophisticated crime activities here."

The English-speaking island nations of the eastern Caribbean, with their small
populations and limited resources, have similar complaints. They are under
increasing pressure from the United States to help Washington fight the boom in
drug trafficking noticeable throughout the region, but they are being inundated
with deportees they say are likely to gravitate to exactly such ventures.

"If they are sending the worst criminals back to us, that is a bit cold,
calculating and uncaring, and certainly not the action of a fair and concerned
friend," Keith Mitchell, Prime Minister and Minister of National Security of
Grenada, said in an interview in April. "If a man was born in Grenada but has
spent 30 years in the U.S., he is not going to know one person here, and with no
means of supporting himself, the chances are he will commit a crime."

Even after they are returned to the countries of their births, officials
throughout the region note, deportees maintain ties to the gangs to which they
belonged in the United States and continue to cooperate with them in criminal
activities. Here, for instance, gang members are reported by the police to
receive and resell cars stolen by former comrades in California and Texas and to
be involved in illegally transporting would-be immigrants to the United States.

In addition, gang members here are said to buy and smuggle weapons left over
from the civil war, including rifles, pistols, grenades, ammunition and rocket
launchers, to and from the United States and neighboring countries. Salvadoran
police officials also say that gang leaders here and in the United States have
formed alliances with cocaine and marijuana traffickers from Mexico and Colombia
to move drugs through El Salvador and neighboring countries.

The flourishing gang network here also provides an underground railroad of sorts
for gang leaders still living in the United States when they need to evade
charges there. El Salvador does not have an extradition treaty with the United
States, so gang members facing arrest in an American city can simply vanish into
the protective structure that their branches here offer.

"That's what I'm doing right now, chillin' with my homeys," a leader of the Mara
Crazy in the eastern city of San Miguel, who identified himself only by his
street name, "Dreamer," said this spring, speaking in bilingual gang argot.
"I've got some problems in the States, so I came down here to hang for a while."


The Friction
Calls for Warnings And Rap Sheets

That reverse side of the flow of deportees, wanted outlaws taking refuge in
their home countries, has become a source of tension between the United States
and its neighbors in Central America and the Caribbean. Washington says that
these countries do not make enough of an effort to arrest such criminals and
that they have antiquated extradition laws, and is pressing for constitutional
changes.

But the receiving countries have complaints of their own, noting that the United
States has sent most of the deportees to them without any advance notification
or warning.

In an interview at the National Palace in San Salvador, Mr. Calderon Sol said
his Government needed greater cooperation.  "They send us deportees without any
prior warning, and that complicates things," he said.

The Salvadoran Government has proposed legislation that would require deportees
with foreign criminal records to register with Salvadoran immigration
authorities immediately upon their return to the country. Once they find a place
to live, they would also be required to report regularly to the local police.

"We can't deny any citizen the right to return," Mr. Calderon Sol said. "We have
to take them back, and we can't ask the United States to take charge of them.
But we need measures that require these dangerous types to report every week or
fortnight."

As things have stood until now, Salvadoran law enforcement officials say, often
they have learned of a deportee's return only after a crime has been committed
and a suspect apprehended. Except in a few extraordinary cases, they say, there
has been no prior notification from American immigration or police authorities
that a criminal deportee is on the way, which only makes their job more
difficult.

"It would help us a lot to know in advance, especially in cases of the type
where they are involved in a crime just as soon as they arrive," Mr. Ramirez
Landaverde said. "It is important for us to be able to have an album of photos
that we can show to people, to have fingerprints and a rap sheet of the crimes
these people have committed in the United States, to know what tattoos or other
identifying features they may have."

Just before Easter, for example, Jesus Enrique Flores was deported to his home
town, Conchagua, after living in the United States for 11 years, jail terms for
gang-related drug and assault convictions included. Less than two weeks later,
the police in his hometown said, he shot and killed one police officer and
gravely wounded another outside a local bordello.

In an interview at the ramshackle jail where he was being held, Mr. Flores,
stocky, shirtless and with a large "18" tattooed on his chest, maintained that
local the police had singled him out merely because he was a deportee. "I am
innocent," he said. "They have accused the wrong person."

Mr. Flores, a 26-year-old who said he had worked as a gardener and construction
worker in Washington and Los Angeles before being jailed, acknowledged being a
member of the 18th Street Gang. After serving his most recent term in a
California prison, he said, he was handed over to the I.N.S. early this year and
held while his deportation order was being processed.

Then, Mr. Flores said, "they just put me on an American Airlines flight from Los
Angeles." Asked if he had been shackled or held under guard, he said that he had
not, but had traveled as an ordinary passenger.

On his arrival at the international airport outside San Salvador, he said: "I
gave the immigration and customs people my passport, it was stamped like anybody
else's, and I came home here. I'd never had any problems with the law here, so
there was no reason for them to hold me, and my name wasn't on any blacklist
that the Government had of people who were to be detained."

A spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, Russ Bergeron,
acknowledged that the agency has not systematically advised foreign immigration
or law enforcement officials when their citizens are deported.

"We recognize that these countries want more information, and we are working
with foreign governments to provide them with new mechanisms" for prior
notification, he said.

On Aug. 1, the agency began using new notification guidelines intended to
address some of the complaints of countries being sent deportees. Under the new
procedures, foreign governments are to be supplied the name, date of birth,
birthplace, criminal record and expected date of arrival of deportees, though
not their photographs or fingerprints, Mr. Bergeron said.

The Salvadoran police said the background of Mr. Flores, the man accused of
shooting two police officers in Conchagua,matched that of the typical deportee:
male, in his late teens to mid 20's and from a poor and broken family. The gang
problem is nationwide, they add, but most acute in those areas of the country
where heavy fighting, human rights abuses and forced flight were most prevalent
during the civil war.

"In 1981, the death squads came to our house, yanked my uncle out of bed and
shot him and tried to kill my mother, my sister and me, so my mother went to
Houston and left me with my grandparents and cousins," said Edwin Castillo, a
25-year-old member of the Mara Salvatrucha who was deported to Quezaltepeque
late last year. "She brought me up north later, and the seed of my liking for
the gangster life was planted there, and just kept on growing."

But once back home, Mr. Castillo and other deportees said, it is easy to recruit
local teen-agers into the gang life. Unemployment is high, school is expensive,
amusements are minimal, and, thanks in large part to the gangs, drugs are
increasingly available.

"If you keep sending these guys back, we're going to have another civil war on
our hands," Mr. Preza Sanchez, the police investigator, warned. "People will arm
themselves again, and this new police force will be nullified. We are very
worried."

Next: Surprisingly hard to track down, many criminal aliens return to the United
States with ease after being deported.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: DEADLY EXPORTS -- First of two articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When gang members, like these Salvadorans, are deported they
take their rivalries to their home countries. (Rutilio Enamorado for The New
York Times)(pg. 1); A Deportee Runs Into Trouble -- El Salvador wants United
States notice about deportees. Jesus Enrique Flores was arrested in an officer's
killing after his return. (A Deportee Runs Into Trouble); Gang-Sponsored Safety
Network -- Gang members facing arrest in an American city can hide out with
their Salvadoran branches. Members of the Mara Salvatrucha gang gather at their
safe house in Quezaltepeque. (Photographs by Rutilio Enamorado for The New York
Times)(pg. 6)

Map of El Salvador showing the location of Quezaltepeque: Deportees and their
gangs have the police in Quezaltepeque outgunned. (pg. 6)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Jewish Forward;
Still Ethnic, in Any Language

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words


AS the Jewish Forward observes its 100th birthday this year, the newspaper that
began life in 1897 as a Yiddish daily and an organ of the Socialist Party offers
many clues about what has happened to America's ethnic press from the days of
mass immigration then to the mass immigration that is under way now.

The Forward's target was the Yiddish-speaking laborers arriving in New York from
eastern Europe. But while its masthead proclaimed "Workers of the World Unite,"
its first editor, Abraham Cahan, had other ideas. Having been a reporter for The
Commercial Advertiser, the prestigious paper edited by the muckraker Lincoln
Steffens, he wanted not a party line, but a lively journal that would speak to
its readers in their own language, an American Yiddish that was free of the
ponderous, pompous Germanized Yiddish revered by many Yiddish literati. He
wanted to tell his readers about life in America, to air their problems in their
new cultural whirlpool.

With Cahan as editor until his death in 1951, The Forward was stringently
anti-Communist and, eventually, New Deal Democratic. Politics rarely infiltrated
its chatty though literate pages, where articles explained baseball and
described how fathers in America took their sons fishing. In the letters column,
the famed Bintel Brief, readers told of their experiences in America. By the
1920's, daily circulation had soared to a quarter of a million.

Today, however, The Forward is a weekly, and its circulation is less than
40,000. Those asking why it has dropped may be told, flippantly, "Look at the
obituary section."

But the survival of The Forward, in new incarnations designed to appeal to new
audiences, mirrors the tenacious hold of heritage on today's generations, just
as much as its decline reflects the acculturation of Jews and of other immigrant
groups in America.

The wonder is not that the ethnic press has diminished (a 1940 census counted
1,092 ethnic periodicals in 39 languages; the 1996 Editor & Publisher Yearbook
counted fewer than 500). The wonder is that it exists at all.

The ethnic press's readers have not only slipped into the English-speaking
mainstream, but have been lured away by television and other media. And in a
world shrunk by air travel and global communications, contact with the old
country is not broken as it was for immigrants of a century ago; it is merely a
long-distance call away.

Three Languages

The Editor & Publisher Yearbook's ethnic listings start with Afghan and end with
Ukrainian/English, an intriguing hybrid that suggests how some languages may
fade while interest in ancestral roots does not. The Forward is a striking
example of that: It now is published in three separate editions, in three
languages.

The Yiddish edition, the direct descendant of the paper that occupied the
tallest building on the Lower East Side and had the largest Yiddish electric
sign anywhere, has news, stories, essays and native town news for its 10,000
readers, many of whom are elderly people.

A second edition in Russian, with a circulation of 4,000, caters to the new
immigrants from eastern Europe who came to adulthood ignorant of mama loshn
Yiddish, the mother tongue.

But the great leap that The Forward has taken is to publish a third,
English-language edition, with a circulation of 25,000. This one maintains the
high literary standard of its forbear and has been gaining an audience of
younger, well-educated Jewish readers who want to keep up with news within a
Jewish context.

An Influence on Leaders

The English-language Forward, established in 1990, is edited by Seth Lipsky, who
came to the paper from The Wall Street Journal. Mr. Lipsky and his staff have a
keen eye for American and Israeli politics, and have frequently scored scoops.
The paper is distinguished from the general press only by its pursuit of the
Jewish angle, the Jewish perspective.

This is where The Forward's future may lie, as an ethnic press whose influence
is still undecided and which is largely read in English. After all, the
English-language Forward is more easily read by most politicians.

Decades ago people in government had to reach their ethnic constituents through
middlemen who were fluent in the customs and languages on both sides of the
equation.

Now even the fully ethnic press -- perhaps with the exception of
Spanish-language and Chinese newspapers (New York has four Chinese dailies,
against three English ones) -- infuses some English into its columns. And as
ethnic groups, who often making their voices heard through their newspapers,
their radio broadcasts and their local officials, gain the ear of the general
public, segments of the general public are eager to seize the attention of
ethnic groups as well.

The Forward enters its second hundred years at an intersection of history that
has placed many strains on ethnic survival in America. But even intermarriage
and the disappearance of an immigrant tongue have not dented a consciousness of
special heritages.

A half-century ago, there was often contemptuous reference to hyphenated
Americanism; today there is an acceptance of ethnic identification. Although one
might not know 10 words of the Yiddish, Italian, Chinese or German that grandma
spoke, there is an interest in maintaining an ethnic identity, even if it is
just a gastronomic one that is also savored by everyone else.

The ethnic press is not only a link to the community it is written for, but to
the one that is beyond the press's explicit bounds.

Ethnic NewsWatch, on CD-ROM for its subscribers (mainly libraries) collects
material from 200 ethnic publications in English and Spanish. A push of the
button on Clinton and Gingrich, for example, reveals a flood of articles from
black and Jewish papers in Baltimore, from publications for Ojibway and Cherokee
readers.

Ethnic NewsWatch's president, Eileen H. Heckerling, said, "This is material not
to be found in the mainstream press and until now very few of them were noticed.
They were never represented."

The ethnic press today is not cause for raised eyebrows. It is a far cry from
the 1940's when a consciousness-raising Zionist speaker taunted his audience by
remarking, "It's getting so people are afraid to carry their fish home wrapped
in The Forward."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ethnic newspapers still serve immigrant communities. Haitian
papers at a kiosk in Brooklyn. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1567 words



INTERNATIONAL   A3-9

Envoy Meets Obstacles In Mideast Talks
Dennis B. Ross, President Clinton's special envoy to the Middle East, began his
effort to restore what he called "the security underpinnings" of
Israeli-Palestinian ties. He met separately for hours with Israel's Prime
Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. The two
sides expressed very different opinions about what Mr. Ross should be trying to
achieve, and each again accused the other of acting in bad faith.   A1

Under Montserrat's Volcano
Residents of Montserrat were forced to consider whether they could still inhabit
their Caribbean island as the Soufriere Hills volcano continued its forceful and
frequent eruptions. With eruptions every 12 hours, a destroyed capital city and
residents living in makeshift mass shelters, people contemplated their future in
a place where safety is harder and harder to find.   A1


Struggling With Deportation
Although the Immigration and Naturalization Service has recently made dramatic
improvements in its record of deporting criminal immigrants like Walter Cabrera
Benavides, problems still linger. Offenders find it easy to return, often under
aliases, and can bounce between American prisons and their home countries.   A1

'Third Force' at Work Again?
The cycle of killing that marked South Africa's past has leapt up again in
KwaZulu/Natal Province, reviving fears that the sinister "third force,"
supposedly dismantled with apartheid, may still be active. The third force is a
presumably white-led, right-wing group dedicated to secretly fomenting
black-on-black violence to prove that blacks are too violent to be trusted with
government.   A3

A Changing Mission
Last year, the World Bank and International Monetary Fund announced at their
annual meeting that they would, for the first time, use their leverage with
poorer nations to stamp out corruption and to promote better governance. As next
month's annual meeting draws near, the finance ministers can point to examples
of this policy's being applied in countries like Kenya, Romania and Cambodia.
A4

4th Death From Bridge Collapse
A fourth victim of a bridge collapse at last month's Maccabiah games died of
complications from a respiratory infection, raising new questions about whether
polluted water of the Yarkon River contributed to the deaths.   (AP)

Peruvian Rights Complaint
Javier Perez de Cuellar, the former United Nations chief, will take his case
that Peru's security forces tapped his telephones during the 1995 presidential
campaign to the Interamerican Human Rights Commission of the Organization of
American States in Washington this week. Mr. Perez de Cuellar lost to President
Alberto Fujimori.   (Reuters)

NATIONAL   A10-13

President to Use Line Item Veto Power
President Clinton has decided to exercise today his line item veto authority for
the first time, striking out at least one narrow tax break and one spending
measure from the balanced-budget bills he signed last week. The selection of the
line item veto target has been sensitive because any veto, if sustained, is
almost certain to face an immediate legal challenge on whether such authority
unconstitutionally shifts power over spending and taxes from the Congress to the
President.   A1

Strike Injunction Not Likely
A post office employee made a Sunday delivery in Philadelphia as U.P.S. leaders
stepped up their calls for the President to seek a court order to end the
teamsters' strike. Administration officials said Mr. Clinton was leaning
strongly against intervening, and union officials said such a move would be
improper interference in the collective bargaining process. Negotiations between
the union and the company broke down indefinitely on Saturday.   A13

U.P.S. officials, who have been pushing the teamsters to let the rank-and-file
vote on the company's contract proposal, suggested that the union's leadership
was anti-democratic and was blocking the workers from considering a generous
offer. From the union's point of view, all the company's talk about democracy
and voting is a cynical ploy aimed at diverting members' attention from the main
issues.   A13

Nuclear Production Plans
The Energy Department, its own big nuclear reactors broken down irreparably, is
preparing to borrow space in a civilian power plant to manufacture tritium for
nuclear weapons. Tritium, a form of hydrogen and the H in H-bombs, is used to
increase the power of older, fission atomic weapons, and the President has
signed an order saying the United States has to have the ability to make more
tritium by 2005.   A10

Security Checks to Change
The Federal Aviation Administration, after years of fending off complaints of
discrimination in its security checks for terrorists, has decided to require
airlines to begin moving to a computerized system of "profiling." Officials say
the new system does not allow for discrimination on the basis of ethnic
background. It would replace the current method of letting individual security
people at the gate decide who could be a risk based on written manuals, which
allow for wide discretion.   A12

Budgetary Survival Skills
As President Clinton signed into law last week a bill to balance the Federal
budget by 2002, one of the most widely touted provisions was a plan to provide
$24 billion for health coverage of uninsured children, much of the money raised
by an increase in tobacco taxes. How such an idea came about and survived is a
complex tale of political alliances, backroom political skills and fortuitous
timing.   A12

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-4

Hackers Focus Skills On Metrocard System
A gathering in Soho served as a rallying point for the anonymous exchange of
know-how in the effort of computer hackers to penetrate the latest Holy Grail:
the new gold Metrocard and the $700 million computer system that the New York
City Transit Authority has installed to make it work. The issue is not one of
free rides, they insist, but privacy: Just what information about card users
does the Transit Authority have stored?   A1

Park Plan May Include Beaches
The organizers of a park proposed for the banks of the Hudson River between
Battery Park City and 59th Street are circulating a plan that raises the
possibility of swimming in the river, said the City Parks Commissioner, Henry J.
Stern. The latest version of the plan includes a beach at 31st Street and
another at Gansevoort Peninsula at 12th Street. Mr. Stern emphasized that the
park as a whole, and swimming in particular, face numerous regulatory and
community hurdles.   B2

Mother Is Charged
A 16-year-old girl was arrested and charged with endangering the welfare of her
20-month-old daughter, who has been missing since Tuesday. The police said that
they think the teen-ager, Robine Blue, removed the toddler from the foster home
they shared in Brooklyn and took her to her own mother, who has an extensive
history of prostitution and drug convictions. Ms. Blue has told the authorities
that she does not know the address of her mother, Patricia, or the whereabouts
of her daughter, Kadesia Blue, the police and a family member said.   B3

ARTS   C9-12

OBITUARIES   B5

Robert E. Pike
The teacher and historian whose 1967 book, "Tall Trees and Tough Men," is widely
regarded as the definitive history of the New England logging industry was 92.
   B5

Herbert Jose de Souza
The Brazilian sociologist who became the figure most identified with fighting
inequality, hunger and police brutality in his country was 60. A year and a half
ago, Mr. de Souza's life and efforts to bring poor Brazilians into the
democratic process were honored by the Imperio Serrano samba academy, which made
him the subject of its annual Carnival entry. Though he was ill in later years,
he still spoke up.   B5

BUSINESS DAY   D1-10

Gasoline Use Sets Records
American drivers are consuming record quantities of gasoline this year, with
about half refined from imported oil. Indeed, the nation's dependency on
imported oil is also setting records as domestic production of oil slowly
declines. The heavy demand means that any sharp increase in gasoline prices
would have an even bigger effect on the American economy.   A1

Betty Crocker on the Web
General Mills is sending Betty Crocker into cyberspace, with a new site on the
World Wide Web focusing on the Crocker character and the more than 300 products
sold under her name. The site is emblematic of the methods being used by giant
marketers to transfer to the new-media realm the bonds built among shoppers and
brands.   D1

Business Digest   D1

SPORTSMONDAY   C1-8

$11.5 Million for Maddux
The Atlanta Braves signed Greg Maddux to a five-year contract worth a guaranteed
$11.5 million per year, making the four-time Cy Young award winner the
highest-paid player in baseball. The deal locks in the Atlanta starting pitching
rotation, considered the best in baseball, into the next century.   C5

EDITORIAL   A14-15

Editorials: Wrong place for a prison; a makeover at Columbia/HCA; Tina Rosenberg
on South Africa.
Column: Anthony Lewis.

Chronicle   D11

Bridge   D11

Crossword   C10

Weather   B6

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Deports Felons but Can't Keep Them Out

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2439 words

DATELINE: GUAYNABO, P.R.


Wearing his many tattoos like a sneer, Walter Cabrera Benavides, also known as
the Scorpion, awaits his second deportation here at the Federal prison just
outside San Juan.

As the product of a violent American subculture, Mr. Cabrera is an export
dreaded by the Government of El Salvador, one of thousands of criminals
apprehended for deportation by a newly efficient Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

But in reality he, like many of his colleagues, is a human boomerang. A
27-year-old gang leader, he will not last long in El Salvador, he said, before
he ventures across the border again, just as he did the first time he was
deported.

"I cannot survive in El Salvador," he said in Spanish, his two front teeth
framed in gold. 'I'm too Americanized. It's so hot there, and there's no
air-conditioning."

For more than a decade, Congress has been ordering the immigration service to
improve its admittedly poor record of deporting criminal aliens on the
supposition that it would make the United States safer.

In the last few years, particularly this year, with increased financing from
Congress, stricter laws and better organization, the agency has finally built a
more efficient deportation system -- one that was able to track down Mr. Cabrera
in a county jail, where he was held under an alias.

But Mr. Cabrera's case illustrates a critical frustration for a system that is
finally beginning to function. The criminals who are deported are finding it
surprisingly easy to return. Partly as a result, the effect of the increased
deportations are barely perceptible on the streets of the nation's major cities.

Born in El Salvador, Mr. Cabrera was made in the U.S.A. A hick kid when he left
the small city of San Miguel for Los Angeles, he will return a felon many times
over, with a bag full of tricks learned on the streets and in the prisons of the
United States. Like Mr. Cabrera, criminal aliens are immigrants, legal and
illegal, who are convicted of crimes, mostly felonies, in this country. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service is supposed to deport them at the end of
their sentences. But that has proved a task more challenging than critics of the
agency have ever comprehended.

The agency still does not remove all or even most of the criminal aliens, and a
result is that thousands are released every year, with little reason to fear
apprehension unless they commit another crime. All the same, the agency expects
to deport perhaps 50,000 criminal aliens this year, a record number.

So far, the repercussions have been most keenly felt abroad: many countries
blame the deportations for increases in American-style violent crime and the
emergence of gangs. But in the United States, the increased deportations are not
noticeably altering life on the streets. No analysis of the dropping crime rate,
which has coincided with the increased deportations, even considers them a
factor, except perhaps in isolated localities like San Diego.

"We applaud the I.N.S. for its efforts, but several hundred deportations from
Rikers, or a thousand from the state prisons, make only a small dent in a city
of this size," said Michael Farrell, a Deputy Police Commissioner in New York.
"Our view is shaped by the order of magnitude of our own enforcement. We're
making 350,000 arrests a year."

Immigration officials say this is the first year in which the volume of criminal
deportations is substantial enough to be perceptible.

"If you look nationally, it's been a blip so far," said Russ Bergeron, a
spokesman for the immigration agency. "This is really the first year it should
pop out on the radar screen. But still the impact will vary from one location to
another. Removing 1,000 criminal aliens from metropolitan New York might not
have the same impact as removing three gang members from suburban Cleveland."

But even in those suburbs, local officials are skeptical that the immigration
service can keep deported criminals from returning.

"It's been our experience that these people come back," said Jerry White, the
police chief of Painesville, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. "We recognize the
faces, even though they're now using the maiden name of their mother's aunt
twice removed."

Case History
Growing Up Hard: Walter Cabrera

In a fiercely air-conditioned interview room at the Metropolitan Detention
Center here, Walter Cabrera Benavides told the story of his life bluntly and
articulately. Working his way across his body, he pointed out tattoo after
tattoo as if they were markers of key moments in his biography.

His parents left El Salvador in the mid- 1970's without him -- his mother for
Los Angeles, where she found work chopping vegetables in a canning factory, and
his father for Alexandria, Va., to work at construction. Both are now United
States citizens.

In the eastern Salvadoran town of San Miguel, Mr. Cabrera stayed behind with his
grandmother until his mother saved enough money to send for him. He had been sad
without her, and he was grateful. To show it, he got his first tattoo, on his
left forearm: Ester, his mother's name, next to the image of a curvaceous woman
in a bikini.

Mr. Cabrera landed in Pasadena at the age of 10, short and skinny and
intimidated. By 13, quick on his feet and agile with his fists, he had dropped
out of middle school to devote himself to fighting.

His mother was very upset, but he told her it was the only way to survive in
their neighborhood. The choice was not whether to join a gang but which one, he
said.

He elected Mara Salvatrucha, a gang formed by Salvadoran immigrants in Los
Angeles that is now pan-Hispanic, with branches in Seattle, San Francisco,
Washington and elsewhere, including El Salvador. After his initiation, which was
a severe beating, he had MS tattooed on his chest.

"MS totally gave me a feel of belonging," he said, demonstrating the hand signs
that serve as the gang greeting.

By 16 he was chief of the gang's Hollywood chapter. Between the ages of 18 and
22, he accumulated 14 aliases and a rap sheet that included two dozen arrests
and six felony convictions. He stole cars, dabbled in burglary and vandalism and
occasionally strong-armed a rival gang member for money.

"We knew we were doing bad things, but bad things were valued as good things in
our world," he said. "We were confused."

Law enforcement officials said Mr. Cabrera had rarely been arrested for violent
offenses because he had quickly achieved a reputation for toughness that put him
behind the scenes, directing the battles between others.

"This is a very intelligent man who, if he had had the benefit of a formal
education and the mores of a good home, would have been somebody," said Lloyd
Miner, an agent with the immigration service who specializes in violent gangs.

During each of Mr. Cabrera's stints behind bars, he accumulated a trianglular
tattoo composed of three dots, which he said symbolized "la vida loca," the
crazy life.

At 22, because of his criminal record, he was deported to El Salvador and
returned to his grandmother's three-room apartment in San Miguel. He felt
completely at a loss, he said: "I'm not really American or Central American. If
anything, I'm a gang American. I'm more comfortable in the United States. The
customs, the way of life, the food. I need hamburgers, macaroni, good pizza."

So Mr. Cabrera worked his way to and across the Mexican border with the United
States. He said he flew from Los Angeles to Washington to move in with his
father and "change his life." But there happened to be a fledgling Mara
Salvatrucha chapter in Washington, and that did not help the process.

"The word spread that the Scorpion had arrived, and he was ready to sting," Mr.
Miner said.

The System
A Soaring Number Of Deportations

To appreciate how relatively well the immigration service's criminal deportation
program is working now is to appreciate how poorly it functioned before.

In 1986 the agency was deporting 1,000 criminal aliens a year. This year the
number could be 50 times that.

"Do we have a handle on this? Do we have it under control?" said Mr. Bergeron,
the agency spokesman. "The answer is no, if you want to know are we deporting
the vast majority of criminal aliens. We are in the early stages of this
initiative."

The easiest place to find criminal aliens is behind bars, and the most expedient
way to deport them is to bring them before an immigration judge so they can be
released from prison directly onto a plane or bus.

That is the Justice Department's chief strategy, but it has been costly and
cumbersome to put into place and dependent on cooperation from the states, which
is not always predictable.

In a report to Congress in July, the General Accounting Office found that the
prison hearing program was so porous that immigration officials failed to
identify thousands of deportable prisoners before their release.

And most were not put into deportation proceedings quickly enough, the report
said: when they were released from prison, they had to be sent to Federal
detention centers. That represented an additional $63 million cost in 1995, the
accounting office said.

That assessment, based on 1995 data, is already dated, immigration officials
say, maintaining that they they are finding almost all criminal aliens who are
now entering Federal and state prisons -- but not local jails -- and most of
those who entered since 1995.

But thousands of inmates who began serving their sentences before 1995 are
largely lost to the immigration authorities -- except in Texas, where the state
has built a special prison in Huntsville for foreign-born inmates.

Even as the immigration agency builds a system to deport more criminal aliens,
law enforcement officials in major cities question the ultimate impact of that
effort.

To be truly effective, they say, the increased deportation of criminal aliens
must be part of a comprehensive strategy -- including better border enforcement
and stringent prosecution of deportees who return and are caught, both of which
are Justice Department goals but difficult to accomplish.

Attorney General Janet Reno sent a fat memorandum to all United States Attorneys
two years ago, urging them to view deportation as a crime-fighting measure.

It was Alan D. Birson, the United States Attorney in San Diego, who took that
directive most to heart. He obtained the convictions of nearly half of the 2,300
deported criminals who were found guilty of re-entering this country last year,
and the increased deportations in his district have indeed been accompanied by a
drop in street crimes.

And under the most recent immigration reform law, Congress raised the maximum
penalty for returning after criminal deportation from a 15-year to a 20-year
sentence.

Prospects
Will He Go Straight? Don't Bet on It

But whether these measures serve as a deterrent to aliens like Mr. Cabrera
remains to be seen. Savvy about the system, Mr. Cabrera knows that the maximum
penalty is rarely imposed. The average sentence is 29 months, according to the
United States Commission on Sentencing. And it is not expected to increase
substantially.

In Hispanic neighborhoods of Washington and northern Virginia, Mr. Miner, the
immigration agent, is known on the streets by a not-so-affectionate nickname:
Aldea Lobo, or the Village Wolf. That is because he swoops in out of nowhere to
lock up gang members.

He is the man to avoid, Mr. Cabrera said. The local police might annoy you,
might even lock you up for a while, but Aldea Lobo could put you away without
bond and then ship you home, he said.

Not long after Mr. Cabrera returned to the United States and settled in
Alexandria, word of his Los Angeles reputation spread.

"He was like John Gotti walking the streets," Mr. Miner said.

In the Washington area, Mr. Cabrera had been arrested on a number of charges,
from auto theft and vehicle tampering to larceny and assault, but he was largely
considered to be operating behind the scenes.

"Our information had Walter attempting to recruit people from smaller-type gangs
to join Mara Salvatrucha," said Detective Shirl Mammarella of the Alexandria
Police Department. "He was trying to make it into a force to be reckoned with."

When Detective Mammarella discovered that Mr. Cabrera had a prior deportation,
she turned to Mr. Miner, who operates from a special unit of the immigration
agency that targets violent gangs -- the only program devoted to apprehending
criminal aliens who are on the streets, not behind bars.

In pursuit, Mr. Miner visited and revisited the homes where Mr. Cabrera was
thought to be sleeping, going ever earlier in the morning. He arrested several
associates on minor immigration charges, making it clear that he was after
information, not them. Finally, in the late fall of 1995, one man blurted out
Mr. Cabrera's whereabouts.

"You have him!" he said.

Mr. Cabrera was in an Arlington, Va., jail on an assault and battery charge,
under the name Antonio Rivera.

After Mr. Cabera was convicted and imprisoned, the fledgling Mara Salvatrucha
chapter in the Washington area nearly withered away. But in short order, and as
a result, Mr. Miner acknowledges, a rival Hispanic gang became more powerful.

Mr. Cabrera is expected to be deported in mid-August and to return to his
grandmother's home in San Miguel, where there is now a chapter of his Los
Angeles-based gang.

With a long, thin braid dangling from his buzz cut, he professes to have
outgrown his criminality but not his loyalty; he is MS for life. What he wants
to do, he said, is persuade his gang to become "more peaceful and constructive,
like a club."

In El Salvador, for instance, they could help the Government paint yellow lines
down the center of highways, "to make the country look more like California."

A patriot deep down, Mr. Cabrera sounded almost like a Salvadoran official
lamenting the increased deportations. "El Salvador is just emerging from a long
period of violence," he said. "It is desperate for some stability. And the last
thing it needs are all us gang guys returning from up north. We're destroying
the country."

But Mr. Miner doubts that Mr. Cabrera can go straight -- not with a body riddled
with tattoos and bad habits deeply entrenched. If he returns to the United
States, after all, he will be triply illegal, not just undocumented but a double
deportee. And so, for the Federal Government, the chase will start anew.

"The moment his body leaves the airspace of the United States, I will be
requesting his file," Mr. Miner said. "Because I will run into him again. No
question."


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: DEADLY EXPORTS -- Second of two articles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leaving, but for How Long? -- Walter Cabrera Benavides is in
Federal custody in Puerto Rico, awaiting deportation to El Salvador. But he
plans to return to the United States again. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York
Times)(pg. A8)

Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Sending the Crooks Back Home"
Even before the stricter immigration laws that were passed last year, the number
of immigrants deported because they had criminal records was rising. Graph
tracks number of immigrants deported, since fiscal 1993.

More than three-quarters of the immigrants sent back to their home countries in
the first half of this fiscal year for having criminal records were from Mexico.
Graph shows country of origin breakdown for immigrants sent home for having
criminal records. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. A8)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Newcomers Who Lead Sightseers;
Immigrants Thrive as Tour Guides for a Surge of Visitors

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words


Tourists who take the advice of Lorenzo Regalado, a tour guide, and walk across
the Brooklyn Bridge to and from Manhattan this summer will undoubtedly enjoy the
sights he describes in florid detail: "fantastic views, stupendous skyline,
tremendous sunsets."

"Do it at sunset," he gushes in English and Spanish to the tourists aboard his
New York Double Decker Tours red bus. "You'll get the best light, the best view
ever." A view, and this he does not tell them, that Mr. Regalado himself has not
yet seen.

A film maker by profession and a tour guide by necessity, Mr. Regalado, who
arrived from Cuba five years ago, is a recent recruit to the growing ranks of
immigrants who have found in New York City's booming tourism industry a
practical, if not always simple, way to make a living.

Their ability to find relatively well-paying jobs (guides can make anywhere from
$20,000 to $60,000 a year) in an increasingly tough job market is a testament to
the city's continuing capacity to absorb newcomers and to the quick adaptability
of immigrants, many of whom are professionals.

Traditionally, highly skilled new immigrants have accepted jobs in factories, on
assembly lines and at construction sites. But because so many immigrants are
arriving in New York at a time when manufacturers have closed their doors, those
jobs are not as plentiful as they were in the past.

Yet, as some doors have closed, others have swung open. Last year, 31.2 million
people visited New York City, a record number. This year, 31.8 million are
expected. Researchers at the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau estimate
that tourists will spend $13.7 billion in New York this year alone. Those high
numbers have allowed new immigrants to carve a niche for themselves serving
tourists, not only as their guides, but also as cooks and dishwashers in
restaurants and maids and bellboys in hotels.

But it is as tour guides that immigrants can use their most fundamental natural
assets, their language and culture, two factors that can be obstacles to finding
jobs in other fields. Their services are much in demand because foreign
tourists, who represent about 20 percent of the city's visitors, tend to request
guides who speak their language and share their culture.

And so, immigrants from Croatia to Romania and from Cuba to Italy, practically
tourists themselves, are leading hundreds of visitors daily through the streets
of a city that still surprises and sometimes confounds them. By most accounts
they are doing a fine job, industry experts say.

"I still have the mentality and approach of New York as a tourist," said Marina
Udovcic, who arrived from Croatia seven years ago and was hired by New York
Apple Tours in April. "I learn every day. There are things about this city that
still fascinate me."

To be a tour guide in New York City all one needs is a license from the
Department of Consumer Affairs. There are 1,225 licensed tour guides in the
city, but a spokeswoman for the department said there is no way to know how many
are actually employed or where they were born. Executives at the three major bus
tour companies, Gray Line, New York Apple Tours and New York Double Decker
Tours, say many of their employees are foreign born. At New York Double Decker
Tours, for example, all 15 guides are from other countries.

To pass the licensing test, guides say all one needs to do is study the Michelin
guide to New York City. However, for foreign-born guides, both the test and the
job can be a challenge. Because the test is administered in English, they must
first master the language. To prepare for the test, some of them take training
tours or explore the city as tourists themselves. To impress prospective
employers, they must learn about New York City history and much about the United
States. And, equally important, they must demonstrate excitement for a complex
city that many of them barely know.

Still, they explain, their backgrounds give them a competitive advantage. They
say they bring a cultural and psychological insight into international clients
that few Americans could ever achieve.

"I take Italian tourists through the city and I know what they want," said Mihai
Popian, a mechanical engineer who speaks five languages and moved to New York
from Romania five years ago. "They want to know about art, architecture,
history, how people live. They are excited by how different and fascinating this
city is."

Americans, on the other hand, know all about New York City, the guides say. They
have seen the city on television, and they are up on the latest news, the
hottest shows, the newest trends. They want to know where the stars live, where
the models hang out, what's playing where. For them, American tour guides work
better.

Mr. Regalado, who became a tour guide this summer after failing to find work in
the film and television industries, said he is sometimes stumped by questions
tourists ask. During a recent tour, he admitted he did not know where the
Ansonia Hotel was (Broadway and 73d Street), but he did know where Nestor
Almendros, the Oscar-winning cinematographer of movies like "Sophie's Choice"
and "Kramer vs. Kramer" used to live (29th Street and Broadway). And, touring
Harlem, he pointed out the Hotel Theresa (Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard and
125th Street), where Fidel Castro (Mr. Regalado referred to him as "the dictator
Fidel Castro") met with the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev in 1960.

Lee P. Gelber, who is in charge of selecting and training tour guides for Gray
Line, said he appreciates the extra knowledge and sophistication that
foreign-born tour guides bring to their jobs. But, he said, it is sometimes
difficult to impart to them the enthusiasm and feel for the city that is an
essential part of the job. "We try to indoctrinate them in that area," Mr.
Gelber said. "But it is an intangible item, like telling someone to be funny."

Mr. Popian remembers that it was not love at first sight when he arrived in New
York. He disliked the city's row houses, the rooftop water tanks, the fire
escapes obstructing building facades, the graffiti and the dark and dirty subway
stations. But his clients have helped to change his mind. "I learned to love the
city through their eyes," he said.

Some industry leaders worry that in their rush to please customers at the height
of the tourist season, some tour companies may be hiring guides who do not know
the city themselves. To prevent that, the Department of Consumer Affairs is
working with members of the Guides Association of New York City to develop a
much tougher licensing test for all aspiring tour guides.

"Some companies are so desperate to please their clients that they sometimes
say, 'You speak the language? Good. You have a license? Good. You are hired,' "
Mr. Gelber said. "And that sometimes, regretfully, backfires."

Mr. Gelber pointed to Mr. Popian as one of the better prepared tour guides he
knows. But even Mr. Popian admitted that tourists used to ask him things about
New York he did not know. To avoid embarrassment, he read history books,
magazines and newspapers. He keeps a file of newspaper clippings, collecting
everything from articles about the price of real estate to the latest crime
statistics. He borrowed tapes from the library to learn about Broadway shows and
developed a taste for jazz.

There are things, however, that some foreign-born tour guides will never get,
Mr. Gelber said, like a taste for baseball. "They'd take a group of tourists
through the Bronx and forget to point out Yankee Stadium," Mr. Gelber said
good-naturedly. "They are just not into it."

Mr. Popian admitted that he does not much care for baseball. "I try to follow
it, but I don't understand the rules," he said, adding that he does not need to
because most of his passengers are German tourists who never ask him questions
about the Yankees.

And, Mr. Popian confessed, like Mr. Regalado, he has never walked across the
Brooklyn Bridge to Manhattan. "I cannot tell a lie," he said. "But I have seen
the magnificent views from a car."


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee P. Gelber, who selects tour guides for Gray Line, during a
training session last month. Mr. Gelber said foreign-born tour guides sometimes
lack a feel for the city. Many immigrants are finding jobs as New York tour
guides. Lorenzo Regalado, who arrived from Cuba five years ago, pointed out the
sights of Manhattan recently to a group of visitors riding in a New York Double
Decker Tours bus. Pamphlets for foreign tourists, who tend to seek guides who
share their language. (pg. B1); Marina Udovcic, a tour guide who is a Croatian
immigrant, was hired in April by New York Apple Tours. Ms. Udovcic says that she
has the mentality of a tourist, and that she learns something about the city
every day. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 13, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Deaf Immigrant, Once Classified As a Victim, Is Now a Suspect

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words


For weeks, agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service had considered
Juan Contreras Rauda one of the victims in a scheme to smuggle deaf immigrants
from Mexico and force them to sell trinkets on the streets of Chicago.

Yesterday, Federal authorities painted a starkly different portrait of Mr.
Contreras Rauda. In a complaint filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, he
was accused of helping to smuggle deaf immigrants from Mexico, shuttling them
from Chicago to New York, collecting their earnings at the end of each day and
beating them if they did not bring back enough money.

Like nearly all the others arrested in the smuggling ring in Chicago, New York
and Mexico City over the last four weeks, Mr. Contreras Rauda, 29, who is also
deaf, is in this country illegally, said Russ Bergeron, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokesman.

Mr. Contreras Rauda pleaded not guilty. He is being held at the Federal
detention center in Brooklyn.

Mr. Contreras Rauda had been in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service at a hotel in Chicago since late July, when Federal
authorities discovered him among a group of seven deaf Mexican immigrants living
in an apartment. Yesterday, immigration agents brought him to New York City,
where he was arrested by Federal officials.

Their complaint is based on the testimony of two unidentified informers who were
among the deaf Mexicans illegally smuggled into this country. According to the
complaint, one of the informers said Mr. Contreras Rauda helped Norma Alcantara,
who was arrested in Chicago last month on charges of smuggling immigrants,
smuggle the informer and other illegal immigrants from Mexico to the United
States.

The authorities have said in the past that they believe Ms. Alcantara worked
under Renato Paoletti Lemus, who has been charged as the mastermind of a
nationwide scheme to lure deaf immigrants from Mexico and force them to sell
trinkets on the streets and subways of several American cities.

The scheme was discovered last month when several of the deaf immigrants in
Jackson Heights approached the police and led them to two apartments in Jackson
Heights crammed with 57 immigrants. They are all still in the custody of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in an Elmhurst motel, because they are
here illegally.

According to the complaint, Mr. Contreras Rauda transported several deaf
immigrants to "safe houses" in Queens and "acted as the boss, supervising their
work" as peddlers in the city's subways. Both informers said they observed him
collecting money from the deaf workers in Chicago, and they both said that they
were struck by Mr. Contreras Rauda when they did not bring back enough cash.

Sanford Cohen, chief of the civil rights division of the United States
Attorney's office in Brooklyn, who is prosecuting the case, said he could not
say when or how the authorities learned of these allegations.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Golden Anniversary in Queens;
Indian and Pakistani Immigrants Honor 2 Homelands

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1480 words


Up a narrow flight of stairs in Jackson Heights, Queens, above the rich scents
of curry and the high-pitched melodies of Indian pop divas that wash over the
bustling sidewalk, two spare offices appear to house nothing more remarkable
than a businessman and an accountant.

But the second-floor office of Kanu Chauhan, a concert promoter and developer
from Bombay, is the headquarters for this weekend's 50th anniversary celebration
of India's independence, while just upstairs, the office of Manny Beg, an
accountant from Karachi, was the nerve center of Pakistan's 50th anniversary
festival, held last Sunday.

Fifty years after Pakistan was carved from India at the moment of independence
from the British Raj, this layering of celebratory efforts -- Mr. Chauhan, a
Hindu who owns the building, rents to Mr. Beg, a Muslim -- is no anomaly in
Jackson Heights. Thousands of immigrants from countries that have been enemies
since 1947 live together peaceably in the commercial heart of New York City's
South Asian population.

"It's not a perfect harmony," said Madhulika Khandelwal, acting director of the
Asian-American Center at Queens College. "There are moments of misgiving, but
what you see in everyday life in Queens is a lot of interaction among peoples
from South Asia."

Indians and Pakistanis buy from each other. They work for each other. The belong
to the same merchants' association. They share the same few blocks of commercial
space along 74th Street. They idolize the same Indian movie stars and watch the
same cricket matches. And, most importantly, they share a common story: they
came to the United States in pursuit of a life better than what they left
behind.

"Sometimes, people say money is the cause of evils," said Ramesh Navani, a part
owner of the India Sari Shop and a Hindu with childhood memories of fleeing
Pakistan for India 50 years ago in a noisy propeller plane. "But sometimes,
money keeps you so busy you have no time to think of nasty things."

In the New York metropolitan area, a magnet for more Indian and Pakistani
immigrants than any other urban region in the nation, nostalgia for home has
blended with ethnic pride to produce a burst of independence celebrations that
may be more festive than those on the subcontinent, where the daily drip of
political venality and the ever-present tragedy of poverty have complicated the
moment.

This past Sunday, the police estimated that 10,000 people gathered for the
Pakistan Day festival in Battery Park to picnic on fragrant, spicy food, listen
to singers from home and feast their eyes on Pakistani movie stars. This coming
Sunday, the India Day Parade, billed as "unprecedented, spectacular, colossal,"
will sail down lower Madison Avenue, with the John Wayne of Indian movie stars,
Amitabh Bachchan, in the lead as grand marshal.

But in the midst of the parades, banquets, concerts and conferences that are the
public face of immigrant celebrations of independence, many of those who left
home because they were dissatisfied with life on the subcontinent are in a mood
that is more meditative than joyous.

Saeeda Qureshi, 43, who emigrated from Pakistan 21 years ago and has raised her
children here, said she was glad to be Pakistani, but disgusted by the state of
politics in her homeland. "I feel very good about independence," said Mrs.
Qureshi, who lives on Staten Island. "But the politicians are very bad in
Pakistan. There is too much corruption."

Indian immigrants, too, have complex feelings about their nation's progress.
They say they take pride in being from the world's largest democracy, but abhor
the corruption that has debased it. They take heart in the growth of the
country's middle class and the loosening of state control over the economy,
while mourning the high rates of illiteracy and poverty.

And some ponder the persistence of communal conflict between Hindus and Muslims.
The Global Organization of People of Indian Origin, a nonprofit group based in
New York, has invited experts to speak on that theme, among others, at a 50th
anniversary conference on Aug. 30 at the New York Hilton and Towers.

The integration of Hindus and Muslims in neighborhood and civic life within
India, which echoes in relations between Indian and Pakistani immigrants here,
may well be the key to peace between them, said one of those experts, Ashutosh
Varshney, an associate professor of government at Harvard University.

Professor Varshney has compared some of the most riot-prone cities in India,
including Ahmadabad and Hyderabad, with the most tranquil, Lucknow and Calicut
among them. He found that cities where Hindus and Muslims had everyday
relationships at the neighborhood level and joined together in business, labor,
professional and voluntary associations, were the most resistant to violent
polarization.

And peace is actually far more prevalent than it appears, he said. His study
found that from 1950 to 1995, 18 cities with only 8 percent of India's
population accounted for two-thirds of the 7,300 riot-related deaths. "Peace
does not make news," he said. "It's not good copy."

But coexistence, Queens style, is a visual feast. The daily pageantry of Jackson
Heights, where women shop for brilliantly-hued saris ($29, $35 or $39 at India
Sari Palace) and men thrust plump fresh chickens into tandoori ovens, is a show
that runs free for the watching.

The first waves of immigration to New York from the subcontinent began after
1965, when United States immigration quotas that had favored Europeans were
abandoned. Many Indians, who far outnumber Pakistanis here, came under rules
that gave a preference to the highly skilled and educated. They, in turn,
brought their wives and children, siblings and parents, in a chain of familial
migration.

By 1990, United States Census figures show, the New York area had 199,010 Indian
residents, about half of them living in the city, and 21,726 Pakistanis,
two-thirds of whom lived in the city. From 1990 to 1994, 14,486 Indian
immigrants and 7,465 Pakistani immigrants moved to the city, according to the
City Planning Department.

Typically, Queens has been the newcomers' first home. But many immigrants, as
they have become more prosperous, have scattered to New Jersey, Long Island and
Westchester County.

And increasingly since the 1970's, Jackson Heights has become an ethnic
marketplace for South Asian immigrants from all over the region. The everyday
connections between Indians and Pakistanis here are everywhere evident.

The first Indian-owned store in the neighborhood, Sam and Raj, opened in 1973 to
sell 220-volt appliances to immigrants for shipping home to relatives on the
subcontinent, where that voltage is standard. The store hired a Pakistani
salesman, Atif Hasan, in 1978. Mr. Hasan has since risen to be the store
manager.

"They never made me feel I was hired because I'm Pakistani," Mr. Hasan said. And
Nitin Vora, who is a part owner of the store, said Mr. Hasan was right. "We
hired him because he's a nice person," Mr. Vora said.

Across 74th Street, at the New York Gold Company, Vasantrai M. Gandhi, 60, who
emigrated 20 years ago from Bombay, was carefully weighing a ring, necklace and
bracelet for sale to Raj Kanchwal, 37, who came from Karachi 12 years ago and
runs his own health food store in Forest Hills. Mr. Kanchwal, hunting for gifts
for his wife, found the shop in the Yellow Pages.

"I have a lot of friends who are Indian," said Mr. Kanchwal, whose parents were
among the millions of Muslims who fled India for Pakistan in 1947, as millions
of Hindus emigrated in the opposite direction. Mr. Gandhi, who advertises his
gold store in the Pakistani ethnic press, piped in, "Here there is no difference
except for politics."

Among the second generation, the remaining divisions may fade further. Ritika
Chadha, a 26-year-old accounting student at the State University in Albany who
emigrated from Delhi as a child, still cherishes her ethnic identity, but she is
also influenced by American culture. She admires Mohandas K. Gandhi, the great
Indian leader -- and tellingly, she gleaned some of her impressions of him from
Ben Kingsley's depiction of Gandhi in the 1982 movie.

As she munched on french fries while window shopping along 74th Street one
recent afternoon, she recounted her experiences from a January trip to Delhi.
Her family had hoped she would find a husband while she was there. She was
introduced to three or four young men, but none was quite right. "I was a little
too picky," she said. "I wanted more of a choice."

Indeed, Ms. Chadha had a choice of her own in mind back in New York City: a
Pakistani limousine driver. They are to be married this week, she said.

"My parents are really against it," she said. "I'm Hindu. He's Muslim. But if I
married an American, they wouldn't like it either. I'm a rebel with a cause."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Along 74th Street in Jackson Heights, Indian and Pakistani
immigrants, like their stores, mingle extensively and peaceably. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times); Nitin Vora, in suit, part owner of the Sam and Raj
store in Jackson Heights, and Atif Hasan, the manager. The Indian-owned store
hired Mr. Hasan, a Pakistani, as a salesman in 1978. (Vic DeLucia/The New York
Times)(pg. B1); In preparation for Indian Independence Day celebrations, Kirid
Patel installed miniature Indian flags on telephone poles in Iselin, N.J. (Frank
C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. B3)

Chart: "CELEBRATIONS: Honoring 50 Years of Independence"
These are some of the celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of India's and
Pakistan's independence:

TODAY -- Mosaic '97, Indian folk and classical dance and music. 7:30 P.M.
Tickets: $20, $30, $40, $50. Lincoln Center, Alice Tully Hall.

TOMORROW -- Concert with the Indian singers Kumar Sanu and Kavita Krishnamurthy,
Nassau Coliseum, East Garden City, Long Island, 7:30 P.M.

SUNDAY -- India Day Parade, with Amitabh Bachchan, the Indian movie star, as
grand marshal. Forms at 1 P.M., 41st Street and Madison Avenue, and will move
south down Madison. Food fair at 3 P.M. and cultural program at 4:30, Madison
and 23d Street (Sponsor: Federation of Indian Associations).

AUG. 23 -- Carnival India '97, noon to 10 P.M., Brookdale Park Stadium,
Montclair-Bloomfield, N.J. Food, fortune tellers and fireworks (Sponsor:
Coalition of Indian Organizations, New Jersey).

AUG. 24 -- Pakistan Independence Day Parade, 1 P.M., 41st Street and Madison
Avenue, south down Madison.; 3 P.M., folk music and dancing in Madison Park, 23d
Street and Madison (sponsor not yet determined).

AUG. 30 -- Conference: A political assessment of India on the 50th anniversary
of independence, featuring scholars and experts. Shashi Tharoor, the author,
will be the keynote speaker. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Registration: $15. New York
Hilton and Towers, 53d Street and Avenue of the Americas (Sponsor: Global
Organization of People of Indian Origin).

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 17, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CHARGES OF BRUTALITY: THE FORCE;
City's Police Brutality Report Card: Complaints Down, Needs Improving

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words


He was an Irish immigrant known as Sailor Jack and in 1857 he became the first
recorded victim of police brutality in New York City when an officer with a
dislike for immigrants shot and killed him.

In a national era of widespread discrimination against the Irish, the officer
was cleared despite testimony that the shooting was unprovoked. But the case
highlights what would become a recurring theme in brutality allegations: how
members of minority groups and new immigrants are more likely than others to be
severely mistreated by the police.

The latest brutality charges, by Abner Louima, 30, a Haitian immigrant, have
once again put the department on the defensive for its treatment of immigrants
and minority groups. Mr. Louima said that after being arrested in a scuffle with
police officers on Aug. 9, he was beaten and taken to the 70th Precinct station
house in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, where officers shoved the wooden
handle of a toilet plunger into his rectum.

Last year, almost 80 percent of police misconduct complaints to the Civilian
Complaint Review Board were made by black, Hispanic and Asian people.

"The underlying causes of brutality for a lot of cops in New York and other big
cities are fear, racism and misunderstanding of other cultures," said John S.
Pritchard 3d, a former top city police official who is now the Police
Commissioner of Mount Vernon, N.Y. "They fear that new immigrants and new
arrivals in the city are unwashed hordes about to take over the streets," he
said, and that the police "are the last line of defense."

Thomas A. Reppetto, the president of the New York City Citizens Crime
Commission, a private monitoring group, said that all of the nation's big cities
have been plagued by similar misconduct problems. But New York's situation has
been aggravated by an influx of 14,000 new and inexperienced officers since 1990
and the difficulties of screening out potentially abusive applicants, he said.

Almost half of the force's uniformed personnel live in the suburbs, prompting
concerns by analysts that the department is infused with officers who are
unaware of or indifferent to the concerns of the city's population, especially
members of minority groups. While members of minority groups make up 61 percent
of the city's population of 7.2 million, white officers and supervisors account
for about 68 percent of the police force.

To attract more mature officers, the department in 1995 raised its minimum age
for recruits to 22 from 20 and required two years of college credit or two years
of military service. The department, which now has about 38,000 officers and
supervisors, subjects candidates to a battery of standard personality and
psychological tests and to interviews with psychologists before accepting them
for training in the Police Academy.

At the academy, rookies take sensitivity courses on dealing with different races
and ethnic groups, but critics have long complained that the department's
in-service training courses for racial sensitivity are largely ineffective.

Philip Bonifacio, a psychology professor at the John Jay College of Criminal
Justice and a consultant to police agencies on abuse problems, said that the
city Police Department "does a credible job in screening out candidates who are
clearly unqualified psychologically for police work."

But, he asserted, officials have not paid sufficient attention to the
psychological problems encountered by many new officers when they reach the
station houses in high-crime areas.

"Most of them come on the job full of idealism that they are heroes going to
help people," Mr. Bonifacio said. "They soon get frustrated about many
conditions that they are powerless to stop.

"After a year or two, some of them begin to view the neighborhood as populated
with adversaries, people without virtue who don't deserve respect," he said.

"At the same time, you have young, armed men who have never had power before
beginning to believe that the streets they patrol are their streets and they
have the power and mastery over people they encounter. Many of them quickly
assume a tough-guy attitude. Otherwise, they fear their peers will look on them
unfavorably."

This year, through July, 3,331 complaints of police abuses were filed with the
Civilian Complaint Review Board, down 21 percent from a year earlier.

Critics, including the New York Civil Liberties Union, assert, however, that the
numbers dropped mainly because the public viewed the board as ineffective in
disciplining officers.

Lawrence W. Sherman, chairman of the criminology department at the University of
Maryland, said that more misconduct complaints surfaced in the city than
elsewhere simply because New York has the nation's largest population and police
force.

He emphasized that the number of civilian complaints per arrest in the city had
declined steadily in the last five years and that most of them involved
relatively minor allegations of rudeness and abusive language.

"This is a very good indication that the police can enforce the law without
generating dissatisfaction," he said.

Aaron Rosenthal, a former assistant New York City police chief who headed the
Civilian Complaint Review Board in the 1980's, said that brutality was a much
larger headache when he joined the force in 1961 but that almost all incidents
then were ignored or covered up by officials.

He attributed many of the current problems to lax management by sergeants and
lieutenants who are directly responsible for supervising younger officers.

As one method of discouraging abuses, Mr. Rosenthal said, an officer who
struggles with a defendant should be prohibited from escorting the arrested
person to the station house or from fingerprinting and questioning the person
without supervision by a higher officer.

Mr. Rosenthal noted that Justin A. Volpe, the officer who arrested Mr. Louima
after scuffling with him, was allowed to take charge of him at the station
house. Officer Volpe was charged Wednesday night with assault and aggravated
sexual abuse.  Another officer, Charles Schwarz, was charged Friday with
aggravated sexual harassment and first-degree assault in the case, after a
colleague gave investigators the information they needed to indict him.

A code of silence endures in the police force, Mr. Rosenthal said, because
officers fear retaliation if they cooperate with the authorities on brutality
inquiries. "I know of incidents where officers who cooperated in investigations
found dead rats in their lockers," he said. Joel Berger, a lawyer and former
official in the City Corporation Counsel's office who defended officers in
police brutality lawsuits, said that many of them felt invulnerable to
punishment. "What makes them feel they are above the law is the fact that so
little has been done against rogue cops in so many cases in the past," Mr.
Berger said. "They feel the odds of getting caught are extremely small."

Commissioner Pritchard of Mount Vernon, a former First Deputy Police
Commissioner and former Police Chief of the Transit Authority, said racism was a
factor in many brutality incidents.

"You cannot escape the fact that racism is as pervasive in the city's Police
Department as it is in society," he said.

Mr. Pritchard, who is black, said he encountered numerous incidents of
misconduct by other officers when he was a patrol officer and a detective in the
city from 1965 to 1976.

"I handled it the way most minority cops handle it," he recalled, saying he
intervened on several occasions when he believed that officers were on the verge
of assaulting suspects in custody or attacking civilians during confrontations
on streets.

"You have to be tough, take a stand and be willing to talk some sense to them,"
he added.

To reduce brutality, Mr. Pritchard recommends the recruitment of more minority
officers, and requirements that all officers live in the city and be college
graduates. Better educated rookies, he said, are more likely to have been
exposed to different cultures and less prone to being biased against other races
and ethnic groups.

Mr. Sherman of the University of Maryland, who has been a consultant to the
Police Department and the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the police
officers' union, urged the expansion of the Field Associates program, formed to
expose police corruption, into investigations of brutality.

Officers in the program are officers secretly recruited, without the knowledge
of their commanding officers, to report to the Internal Affairs Bureau on
corruption problems in each station house and police unit.  Mr. Sherman said
that the associates should be required to file monthly reports on officers they
observe acting abusively. "This would be an effective way of deterring and
exposing misconduct behind closed doors," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eleanor Bumpurs. Robert Davis, 19, one of several men who said
they had been tortured at the 106th Precinct station house, pointing to marks
caused by electric prods. Convicted on various charges in the stun-gun trial:
from left, Loren MacCary, Jeffrey Gilbert, both with mustaches, Richard Pike and
Steven Cheswick, shown during the trial.

Chart: "CHRONOLOGY: Brutality, and Attempts at Reform"
Incidents of brutality have occurred sporadically throughout the history of the
New York City Police Department, often prompting attempts to purge or reorganize
it. Some significant dates:

1857 -- An Irish immigrant known as Sailor Jack is shot without provocation in
Manhattan.

1896 -- New York State's Lexow Commission reports that the city police routinely
use clubs and brass knuckles to attack Italian and Jewish immigrants who have
not committed crimes.

1953 -- In response to charges of excessive use of force against black and
Puerto Rican people, the Police Department establishes the Civilian Complaint
Review Board, an investigating arm made up entirely of police officials.

1966 -- Mayor V. John Lindsay's plan to place civilians on the Review Board is
opposed by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association and defeated in a referendum.

1983 -- A committee of the United States House of Representatives, headed by
Representative John Conyers Jr., a Michigan Democrat, reports that racism is a
major factor in police misconduct in the city.

1984 -- Eleanor Bumpurs, a 66-year-old black woman, is fatally shot by the
police as they are evicting her from her Bronx apartment. The Police Department
changes policies in restraining emotionally distressed people.

1985 -- Twenty-five police officials in Queens are removed after officers in the
106th Precinct are accused of using stun guns to torture drug suspects.

1987 -- Civilians are appointed to serve with police executives on the Review
Board, while investigations are conducted by police investigators.

1993 -- The Review Board is removed from police control and established as an
independent body of civilians appointed by the Mayor, the City Council and the
Police Commissioner.

1994 -- The Mollen Commission, investigating police corruption, uncovers
organized police crews terrorizing minority neighborhoods and urges revisions in
screening, recruiting and training officers.

1996 -- Amnesty International finds a pattern of ill treatment of suspects,
deaths in custody and unjustified shootings by officers, with most abuses
reported in black, Hispanic and Asian neighborhoods.

TYPE: Chronology

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 17, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Mother In a Strange Land

BYLINE: By LAURA CUNNINGHAM;    LAURA CUNNINGHAM is the author of "Sleeping
Arrangements" (Plume/Penguin).

SECTION: Section 5;   Page 29;   Column 1;   Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words


COULD there be a journey more fateful than the overseas odyssey to adopt a
foreign child? The United States immigration service refers to these prospective
new citizens in the preliminary papers as "unidentified orphans," and, after
their arrival in this country, as "resident aliens." In the 1990's, what I think
of as an adoption excursion has become a more common, and surreal, experience.
Every day, hopeful adoptive parents fly off to Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin
America on journeys that will forever change their lives. I have taken two such
journeys, the first to Romania, the second to China. But that first trip was my
introduction to the depth of revelation that such a trip entails.

It was seven years ago that I traveled to Transylvania to adopt an infant girl.
While initially I was startled by the sightseeing aspects -- interpreters and
guides will insist you visit the local attractions -- I came to value these
experiences. When might I ever see my baby's native land again? Would I ever
view a country and a culture with more curiosity? I carry with me not just
photographs and videotapes, but clues to the mysteries of my child's life.

My trip to Romania had an ominous start: My husband and I arrived in the
aftermath of the 1989 bloody revolution. All I knew of the country was the news
footage of slain student revolutionaries, and the crumpled bodies of the fallen
dictator, Nicolae Ceausescu, and his wife. We were accompanied by a Romanian
friend, who would serve as our interpreter and guide; she told tales of fleeing
Romania's oppression and appeared uneasy about what we would find.

Not only that. A woman met me at Kennedy International Airport, on her return
trip from Bucharest to Orlando, Fla., and reported that she "hated Romania,"
that it was "awful -- they have no lawns." This woman represented, I discovered
later, if not the Ugly American version of an adoptive parent, at least a sort
of Homely American. Later I met several people who sought out Cokes and
hamburgers in Bucharest. But I also met many more adoptive parents who in a
sense "adopted" their child's native country. All the adoptive parents reported
a time-machine sense of dislocation: One day, you find yourself not only holding
a newborn baby but standing in the shadow of Dracula's castle as well.

The time shock was instantaneous. Walking into our Bucharest hotel room, I
entered history: the walls were pocked with bullet holes; the window was
cracked. Through shattered glass, I saw the rusted armature of the burned-out
television station that had been the focus of much of the fighting. I
concentrated on every detail in order to tell my daughter someday, for her
history was related to this carnage. She was the "unidentified orphan" of the
firestorm -- not an orphan in the sense of having lost two parents to death, but
by decree. Ceausescu had outlawed all contraception and abortion. As a result,
there were at that time thousands of unwanted babies and children left in
orphanages and hospitals. On my first walk through the city, I saw its morbid
center, the plaza, marked by dying bouquets, where the students had been killed.
I took my first mental snapshots of the wilted flowers and charred tapers, the
black stain that shadowed the city.

Almost immediately, we boarded a train bound for the Carpathian Mountains, where
"our" baby had been born, and where she waited, in a hospital, in a tiny
mountain village. The trip took perhaps three hours, but it transported me, it
seemed, three centuries, into Romania's past.

The passenger cars were barely lighted -- electricity being rationed -- and
there had been little plumbing repair in the past several years. The air was
thick with the smoke of Carpati cigarettes, redolent of the Turkish influence
that I would observe throughout this section of Romania.

The train windows, cataracted with grime, still offered a view of beautiful
countryside. Beside the track, a river ran quick and silver; gorges plunged. At
nightfall, we arrived at the station at Brasov. The dimness prevailed here, too,
turning the main room into a cathedral of shadow from which vendors loomed,
offering hot crepes.

Because we could not meet the baby's doctor until dawn, my husband, our friend
the translator and I took a taxi to a small stone house on the mountainside, the
summer home of the interpreter's grand parents. The house had no plumbing but
featured pretty porcelain stoves set in the corners of the rooms. The beds
seemed ancient; their covers, shaken, gave off plumes of dust. I spent a
sleepless night, staring out at the Carpathian sky, studded with stars brighter
than I'd ever seen.

At dawn I saw just how pristine the Carpathian villages had remained. More
traffic was horse-drawn than motorized. The streets were cobbled; the village
lanes, steep. People and animals seemed to walk at a tilt. We drove through a
pastoral landscape such as I had seen only in the works of Old Masters. Here was
agriculture unchanged since the 1500's. Horses drew the plows. Cowherds milked,
by hand, in the fields. Everywhere, shepherds and goatherds led their flocks. We
stopped often on the narrow roads to let the men and their animals pass. What
struck me, then, was the sweet silence -- how quiet the past had been, how
still, before the advent of the engine.

AS if in compensation, the pediatrician drove, Romanian style, full-speed,
roaring around the hairpin turns, despite the sight, all too frequent, of
charred cars along the road. I was startled to see large signs with the image of
a fanged and roaring bear, warning of the presence of these beasts. The Romanian
bears, I learned, were not the shuffling beggars at home, but giant, man-eating
brown bears. The doctor told me my prospective baby's family had for generations
patrolled these woods as gamekeepers. I stared out at the primeval shadows: This
was my daughter's history, and I vowed to respect it.

Soon the Transylvanian forests gave way to pastures dotted with sheep. A mist
draped the valley and, as we drove toward the rising sun, I felt we'd ripped
through the curtain of fog, like scrim, to enter the light of the new day.

There, in a tiny town -- in a square, cement hospital -- my future waited. The
hospital, too, seemed from another century, not in its exterior, but in the
formality and style of its occupants. Inside, the nurses wore formal uniforms
that seemed to date back a few decades. Women who were patients clustered in the
lobby, wearing babushkas and skirt-and-blouse ensembles that showed a daring
chic in their clashing colors and pattern. Some suckled babies. Walking past, I
trembled. How dare I trespass into this world and presume to be the mother of a
baby born here? I knew I was crossing more than one border.

I hurried up the stairs, my heart hammering. In the doctor's office -- a
surprise. A nurse had peeked from the window and counted the exact number of our
party, and now waited, proffering a linen-draped tray holding demitasses of
strong Turkish coffee. This was the gracious touch I needed to face the most
dramatic moment of my life. I waited to meet my daughter.

She was carried in, howling, her face framed by what appeared to be a
19th-century gauze bonnet. Yowl! She seemed to squawl, Here I am. Everyone
smiled. She had a full head of Eskimo-like black hair, and wide brown eyes that
seemed to regard me with full recognition.

That night, the grown-ups celebrated with Romanian home-brew, the fiery tuica,
which we tossed back in tiny shot glasses, with the local toast: "Noroc!" ("Good
luck!"). Our luck held through ribbons of red tape -- baby visa, baby passport,
baby medical tests. Then, after five weeks, we were winging our way back to the
United States. I propped my new daughter up in her airline-approved baby seat
and began the pragmatic part of being a mother. I changed my first diaper when
we deplaned in Luxembourg. We reboarded -- fresh diaper in place, warm formula
on hand -- and flew home across the night ocean.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Sis)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 21, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Indictment Describes Abuses Of Deaf Mexican Trinket Sellers

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1141 words


A Federal indictment unsealed yesterday painted the most complete -- and graphic
-- picture yet of what prosecutors say was a cross-country operation to force
deaf Mexican immigrants to sell $1 trinkets, including disclosures that
ringleaders used electric shocks on one peddler who did not sell enough
trinkets, slammed another's head against a wall and chained a third to a bed for
a week.

The operation's techniques, as described in the indictment against 20 people,
were effective. For the first time, prosecutors gave an estimate of the ring's
revenue, placing it at $1 million a year over five years.

The 11-count indictment was also significant because it seemed to indicate that
the operation, which prosecutors say was run by an extended clan of deaf people
from Mexico City, was not as widespread as initially feared when it was
uncovered last month in Queens. The ring, though believed to be the largest of
its kind, appears to have been limited to New York City and Chicago, with a
separate group in Los Angeles of people who smuggled deaf immigrants into the
country, according to law enforcement officials.

"The operation has largely been dismantled," said Leslie Cornfeld, an assistant
United States Attorney who is a prosecutor on the case. "The leaders of this
operation have now been arrested and charged, including the ringleaders in three
major cities throughout the country."

But investigators provided an intriguing explanation for why other cities
appeared to have similar rings of deaf peddlers. The indictment said the
Paoletti family, which ran the New York City operation, forced peddlers from New
York to take day trips out of town to work. The ringleaders would take them to
and from cities like Philadelphia, Washington and Boston so they could earn yet
more money selling the trinkets.

Zachary W. Carter, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New
York, also said there appeared to be no link between the operation in New York
and a smaller ring in North Carolina, also shut down last month.

Since the operation was shut down on July 19, Federal investigators had provided
few details about it. The indictment released yesterday began to flesh out a
world that few New Yorkers knew existed, expanding on the conditions of virtual
slavery described by two of the peddlers who exposed the operation when they
walked into a police precinct in Queens.

The incident shocked the city, and Federal investigators worked in the following
weeks to arrest 18 suspects from coast to coast, ranging from people who
smuggled the peddlers in to those who reportedly administered regular beatings.
Two others -- a father and son described as the two main leaders -- were
arrested in Mexico City two weeks ago, and officials in New York are seeking
their extradition.

The indictment still provides only limited details about an operation
prosecutors say may have stretched back to 1988. But it begins to sketch out
specific acts of cruelty which, combined with the threats from the ringleaders
to turn peddlers over the immigration officials, may have been what kept the
operation running for so long and so profitably.

This past spring, the indictment alleges, Renato Paoletti Lemus and Adriana
Paoletti Lemus, the brother and sister who were leaders of two Queens houses
where many of the peddlers lived, administered electric shocks to a 25-year-old
peddler because he did not sell enough trinkets. In roughly the same time, the
indictment says, Mr. Paoletti handcuffed a 30-year-old man to a bed for a week,
forcing him to make trinkets that would later be sold on the street. In another
case, the indictment describes a woman being punished for leaving the house in
Jackson Heights by having her head smashed into a wall.

The indictment also alleges that other peddlers were beaten for trying to escape
or for not turning all their money over to the bosses at the end of the day.

According to the indictment, another victim claimed that Mr. Paoletti's brother,
Jose, threatened to kill him if he told the police about conditions in the two
houses of peddlers run by the Paolettis in Jackson Heights, Queens.

At a news conference in Brooklyn yesterday, Federal and city officials described
the crimes in the indictment in tones of outrage.

"Every case of slavery is terrible, but what's especially appalling about
today's case is the double exploitation," said Isabelle Katz Pinzler, Acting
Assistant Attorney General in the Civil Rights Division of the United States
Department of Justice. "The victims were targeted both because they were aliens
and because they were people with disabilities."

But Samuel Gregory, a lawyer for one of the defendants, Santa Gonzalez Refugio,
said the lines between victims and bosses may not be as clear as prosecutors
portray. Though he said it was extraordinarily difficult to communicate with his
client -- a problem that investigators also say hampered them -- it appeared
that people like Ms. Gonzalez, the girlfriend of one of the Paolettis, did not
play a major role.

"When she came here she had nothing," Mr. Gregory said. "When she was arrested
she still had nothing. I'm sure the relationships between these people as
individuals arecomplex and that to understand this entire scenario is a
difficult undertaking."

The indictment, which covers only the time between 1993 and 1997, portrays a
complicated arrangement in which the Paolettis did not bring people from Mexico,
where the deaf often live as outcasts, to the United States by kidnapping them,
as some investigators initially thought. The indictment alleges that recruiters
promised them "prosperous jobs and life styles" if they left Mexico.

The peddlers were then smuggled into California, often through Tijuana, to a way
station run by smugglers in Los Angeles. From there, they were taken either to
New York City or to Chicago, where prosecutors say a long-time friend of the
Paoletti family, Norma Alcantara, ran a similar and related operation. Relations
between Chicago and New York were so close, the indictment alleges, that
peddlers were traded back and forth, as they sold trinkets on the streets and
subways often seven days a week.

The charges include conspiracy to violate civil rights laws against involuntary
servitude, extortion, alien smuggling and illegal transportation of aliens. The
indictment did not include sexual abuse charges, though investigators have said
several women appeared to have been sexually abused.

Mr. Carter said, "That's a matter still under investigation, as is the entire
enterprise."

"We expect that as a result of the investigation there may be further charges
added," he said.

All 18 of the defendants in the United States are being held in Brooklyn, and
are scheduled to appear in court for arraignment on Sept. 3.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zachary W. Carter, right, the United States Attorney for the
Eastern District of New York, discussed an indictment yesterday in the case of
deaf Mexican peddlers. Jon Wolfe Nelson interpreted in sign language. (Chester
Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B3)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 24, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

'Silent Deaths' Climbing Steadily As Migrants Cross Mexico Border

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1429 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Aug. 20


In police reports, they often have no names and are chiefly described by the
clothes they wore when their bodies were found floating in the Rio Grande or the
adjacent Franklin Canal here.

A man in his 20's, wearing a beige shirt, brown pants and one blue tennis shoe.
A female in her 20's or early 30's, wearing a Tasmanian Devil T-shirt and maroon
jeans. A teen-age male with a Chicago Bulls T-shirt and black shorts.

Nearly all of them are from Mexico or Central America, the police and
immigration officials say, and they came here trying to cross the border
illegally, hoping to find work in the United States. Instead they drowned in the
attempt, part of a group whose numbers have become so large in recent years that
on both sides of the border there is a name for them: los desaparecidos, the
disappeared.

Some who die are never found, so no one knows the exact number of such
fatalities over all. But in the first systematic effort to study these deaths at
the border, a recent report by the University of Houston found that over the
last four years, 1,185 people had drowned, died of exposure or dehydration or
been hit by automobiles while, the authorities concluded, they had been trying
to cross the border away from designated checkpoints.

"It's the equivalent of a large plane load of people crashing every year," said
Nestor Rodriguez, the co-director of the university's Center for Immigration
Research and one of the authors of the report. "But they do not all die at once,
so these are like invisible, silent deaths."

The deaths typically happen one or perhaps two at a time and generate little
attention, although there are exceptions: Earlier this month in Douglas, Ariz.,
a group of Mexican citizens was trying to enter the country through an
underground drainage pipe that runs from the Mexican border town of Agua Prieta
when a sudden storm sent a torrent of rainwater through the pipe.

Five men and one woman died, all of them identified as illegal immigrants; three
other men, two women and a 2-year-old child survived by clinging to a ladder.
Since then, two more bodies have been discovered in the pipe, both believed to
be victims of the same incident.

The death total in the report by the University of Houston amounts to a highly
conservative estimate of the problem, the authors say. The report included only
cases that could be documented, the authors say, and focused only on counties
directly along the 2,000-mile-long border. Dozens more people die of exposure
each year trying to evade immigration authorities at checkpoints inside the
United States.

In Kenedy County in South Texas, for instance, site of a Border Patrol
checkpoint in the town of Sarita that is more than 50 miles north of the border,
19 immigrants died last year of heat stroke and other exposure-related causes
while trying to evade the checkpoint.

Capt. Carlos Garza of the Sheriff's Department of Jim Wells County, also about
50 miles from the border, said there had been at least 12 such deaths in his
area in the last year.

Those who die, of course, are only a fraction of those who successfully make it
across the border or even across the lonesome brushland of South Texas, and
Captain Garza doubts the deaths will deter others.

"They're desperate to get to Houston" and the promise of work, he said. "These
people really go through hell trying to get here to create another life."

Professor Rodriguez, at the University of Houston, agreed. The typical death at
the border is that of a young man from Mexico or Central America in his 20's, an
age at which the prospect of death seems very distant, no matter how publicized
the dangers of crossing the border.

"These young men believe that they will be successful," Professor Rodriguez
said. "They think they are not the ones who are going to die."

The border death toll has risen so greatly over the last decade that the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service has even undertaken a "Stay Out,
Stay Alive" campaign, featuring television commercials and newspaper
advertisements in Mexico and other countries, warning people about the dangers
of evading immigration checkpoints and trying to cross the border illegally.

Drownings, most of them in the Rio Grande of Texas or its associated tributaries
and canals, remain the most common form of death among the illegal border
crossers. But while the number of annual deaths documented in the report has
held fairly steady, and indeed dropped last year (a drop that was largely
attributable to a severe drought, lowering the Rio Grande), there has been a
noticeable increase in the number of deaths from what are called environmental
factors. These are usually cases in which people die in the desert or deep in
the mountains.

Many of the dead are never identified because they put a wallet and other
belongings in a plastic bag that floats away. Those who are unidentified are
buried in unmarked graves. The families of those with identification are
notified and, if the families pay for it, the bodies are shipped back.

Some of the deaths have clearly come about as a result of the much-publicized
crackdowns by the Border Patrol on illegal crossings, with names like "Operation
Gatekeeper" in California and "Hold the Line" here in El Paso, prompting many
immigrants to take increasingly circuitous and dangerous routes in their bid to
make it to the United States.

Immigration authorities insist that even as they discourage illegal immigration,
they have carried out hundreds of medical and rescue operations for those who
make the attempt and get in trouble. Still, officials say that many deaths
simply cannot be avoided as long as people are determined to enter the country
illegally. They also blame unscrupulous smugglers who lead immigrants into the
country but then quickly abandon them in the desert or scrubland.

But many advocates for the immigrants say American authorities are knowingly
enforcing a policy that directly leads to hundreds of deaths a year. "Everybody
wants deniability for these deaths," said Suzan Kern, co-coordinator for the
Border Rights Coalition, an El Paso-based group that helps immigrants. "Nobody
wants accountability."

Captain Garza, in South Texas, described the death of Santos Francisco Sapon
Garcia, a 20-year-old Guatemalan who succumbed to heat exhaustion last week
after crossing the border with a companion at Brownsville and walking 150 miles
in 15 days through the harsh scrub, surviving after a while on the water in
cattle troughs and fruit from prickly pear cactus plants. His companion,
Dionicio Garcia Lopez, dragged him through the brush in a desperate bid to find
medical help, but Mr. Sapon had died by the time Mr. Garcia got him to a state
highway.

Mr. Sapon's second cousin, Diego Caniz, 27, a dishwasher at a Houston restaurant
who is trying to solicit money from relatives and friends to send his cousin's
body back to Guatemala, had a friend who died in similar circumstances last
year. In both cases, he said in an interview this week, the young men were on
their way to Houston to look for work.

The poverty they are trying to escape is so great, Mr. Caniz said, that he is
certain others will keep trying to escape it. He pleaded with the United States
authorities to find some way to help stop the deaths.

"What I know is, he's dead," Mr. Caniz said of his cousin. "I think an important
factor is the migra," he continued, using a common Spanish term for the Border
Patrol. "The more obstacles they have, the more people will be hurt."

The immigration service said in its statement that it would continue its public
information campaign about the dangers of crossing the border illegally, as well
as its efforts to combat smugglers "who prey on helpless illegal aliens."

Advocates for the immigrants, like Ms. Kern in El Paso, said the problem would
not go away until people focused on solving the root problems of poverty.

"They're trying to solve an immense problem with a few public service
announcements," she said. "It won't work."

The deaths leave families to the south to worry and wonder about what happened
to a loved one. In this country, the dead "leave a legacy of unmarked graves all
along the border," in the words of Jacqueline Hagan, a co-director at the
University of Houston immigration center and an author of the recent report.

But if the immigrants make it over the border and around the interior
checkpoint, Captain Garza said, they know where they are headed. "They follow
the stars," he said, "and just go north."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Firefighters in Arizona earlier this month recovered the body of
a person believed to have drowned while trying to cross the border from Mexico.
(Associated Press)(pg. 20)

Map/Graph: "Death on the Border"
From 1993 through 1996 there were 1,185 documented deaths during border
crossings between Mexico and the United States. Map of the U.S.-Mexican border
shows areas where the deaths were reported, by cause. It also shows the total
number of deaths for each state. (Source: University of Houston Center for
Migration Research)(pg. 20)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 24, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBOORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
In School for Deaf, America's Promise to Immigrants Is Kept

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 706 words


For deaf immigrants, especially those from third world countries, the United
States is a place rich beyond imagining, offering a cornucopia of services:
schools with the most up-to-date pedagogic techniques, electronic and
telecommunication devices that ease communication, civil rights protections and
an organized advocacy community.

Many of these advantages are not available to illegal immigrants, like the deaf
Mexicans smuggled here to peddle trinkets and held in conditions approaching
bondage in two Queens apartments. They were forced into the underground economy
because current law prohibits their employment of any illegal immigrant,
disabled or not.

But for deaf immigrants who are eligible for green cards or citizenship, the
United States is the land of opportunity. The Lexington Center and School for
the Deaf, a 135-year-old academic and social service agency at 30th Avenue and
75th Street in Jackson Heights, not far from the apartments where the trinket
peddlers lived, is one of many institutions that provide unusual training to the
disabled.

Lexington, like many other American schools for the deaf, has shifted over time
from the so-called oralism that dominated schooling for the deaf for decades.
The old system emphasized time-consuming and often unsuccessful efforts at
speech, and the newer system stresses mastery of sign language. In Mexico, by
contrast, only the biggest cities even have schools for the deaf, and their
focus is on the old-fashioned oral methods.

Lexington also has access to the latest aids: telephones that allow the deaf to
send messages by teletype, devices that flash when a doorbell rings or a baby
cries, dogs trained to alert their masters to sounds the human ear cannot hear.
In underdeveloped countries, such help is generally unavailable or unaffordable.

These educational and technological services are staples at schools like
Lexington, which is private but financed with public money. But tides of
immigration have brought curricular changes.

The school has developed a tri lingual approach to teach deaf children in their
home language (be it Urdu, Russian, Spanish or Cantonese), the school language
(English) and American sign Language, a visual communication system with its own
syntax, vocabulary and grammar. Lexington's student body is now nearly 60
percent foreign-born, from families that speak 28 different languages.

Some immigrant children arrive able to speak their native language but with
varying degrees of impairment. Some can read a bit. Some are familiar with the
sign language used in their home country, which is different from American sign
language in vocabulary but similar in grammar and syntax.

Others arrive illiterate in all three languages, with no communication skills
other than an idiosyncratic form of sign that deaf people commonly develop when
not taught a formal version.

Developing language skills under such circumstances is a complicated process
with, say, a deaf teacher fluent in Spanish and sign aided by a Russian or
Chinese translator. While the first instructor presents the lesson, the children
with other languages read the lips of native translators. Hands are flying,
multiple languages are spoken, multiple sets of lips are read, until the
children master English and American sign language.

Lexington's vocational center has also developed programs to deal with the crush
of new immigrants, who are often ignorant of their legal status under America's
changing immigration laws.

To guide clients through the process, the center assigns sign language
interpreters to accompany the deaf to immigration hearings, explain the law and
translate documents. But despite all these advantages and innovations, an
illegal immigrant educated or trained at Lexington and other places like it
eventually runs into a brick wall when the time comes to find a job: Federal
immigration laws.

Graduates of vocational programs who lack legal status cannot be offered job
placement services.

"They cannot access the system," said Dr. Kevin Keane, who is Lexington's
assistant superintendent. "So we are training them to do what? Eventually, they
will have to enter the underground economy."   JANE GROSS

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Liz Bowen, a speech teacher, and Aneta Brodski, her student,
work at the Lexington Center and School for the Deaf in Jackson Heights. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times)




                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
U.S. to Repeat Lottery For Residency Visas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


The United States will make 55,000 immigrant visas available this fall through a
lottery open to applicants from all geographic regions.

The lottery, which has been held for the past several years, is intended to
increase the number of resident visas from areas that normally receive a small
number of such visas.

The period for mailing applications is Oct. 24 to Nov. 24. Winners will be
selected by a drawing.

Immigrants from all nations in Africa and Oceania are eligible. Immigrants from
all European countries are eligible except those from Poland, the Channel
Islands, England, Gibraltar, Scotland and Wales.

Immigrants from all Asian countries are eligible except those from China, India,
the Philippines, Taiwan, South Korea and Vietnam. Ex-residents of Hong Kong are
eligible.

The Bahamas is the only eligible country in North America. Immigrants from all
countries in South America, Central America and the Caribbean are eligible
except those from Colombia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Jamaica and
Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 27, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

2 Indicted in N. Carolina in Deaf Immigrant Case

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 301 words


A Federal grand jury has indicted two deaf Mexican immigrants on charges of
running an operation in North Carolina similar to the one uncovered in July in
New York City, and forcing other deaf immigrants to sell cheap trinkets for
virtually no wages, law enforcement officials said yesterday.

Investigators said they believed the operation in North Carolina and the ring
based in New York City were separate. But they are continuing to investigate
less formal ties, including allegations from at least one of the victims that
the leaders of an operation in Chicago -- which had strong ties to New York --
had visited North Carolina last summer.

"We know there's a link," said one immigration official who spoke on the
condition of anonymity. "What we are still investigating is what the link was,
and what it meant."

On Monday, Walter C. Holton Jr., the United States Attorney for the Middle
District of North Carolina, announced a 16-count indictment against Marcos
Campos Sanchez, 39, and his wife, Guadalupe Palencia Moises, 42. They are
accused of running two houses in Sanford, N.C., in which they and 14 other
people, including several children, were discovered on July 25.

Conditions in the houses in Sanford, a small town roughly 35 miles southwest of
Raleigh, were described as better than those in Jackson Heights, Queens, where
the police found 62 people crammed into two apartments on July 19. Twenty people
have been charged with running a ring to exploit other deaf immigrants centered
in New York City, with an arm in Chicago and a smuggling operation in Los
Angeles.

Mr. Campos and Ms. Palencia were charged with conspiracy to violate Federal
immigration laws, inducing illegal immigrants to come to the United States and
harboring and transporting illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 28, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Border Patrol Chief

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27


A veteran immigration-enforcement official, Gustavo De La Vina, was named today
as the next head of the Border Patrol, and in a change intended to put him
closer to his 6,900 agents, Mr. De La Vina will be based in Southern California
rather than Washington.

Mr. De La Vina, the current director of the western region of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, was appointed by Doris A. Meissner, the Commissioner
of Immigration and Naturalization. He began his career as a Border Patrol agent
in 1970.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Most Elderly Immigrants Don't Play by the Rules

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 105 words



To the Editor:

Re your Aug. 25 news article on Hispanic legislators in Congress taking the
offensive against anti-immigrant legislation, including bills to ditch bilingual
education:

All immigrants have an interest in speaking English fluently. If I moved to Laos
and expected the residents to communicate in English, I would be rightly viewed
as the Ugly American incarnate. I see no reason immigrants to these shores
should not, in time, meet the same standards. It is, however, questionable
whether bilingual education facilitates this goal, or is designed to.

JEFFREY M. GROSS
Brooklyn, Aug. 26, 1997

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
End of a Dream

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Martina Diederich was in a German tour group traveling around this country three
years ago when she met Baxter Thompson near New Orleans. They fell in love,
visited each other's families, got engaged. Finally, a year ago, they were
married.

What followed was not bliss but, thanks to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, a nightmare. I have heard many horror stories about the
I.N.S. This one takes the prize for gratuitous cruelty.

Mrs. Thompson came to the United States on a visitor's visa. After their
marriage she applied to adjust her status to permanent resident, as the law
allows. They planned to live in Alexandria, La., where Mr. Thompson had a
contracting business.

Last February the young couple went to Germany to visit her parents. Before
leaving, each separately called the New Orleans office of the I.N.S. and asked
whether it was all right for her to leave the country while her application for
permanent residence was pending. Each was told yes. That advice was false.

When Mrs. Thompson flew back to New Orleans, in March, she was told to report to
the immigration office within 30 days. She and her husband went there on April
14. Her name was called, she went into an office -- and didn't come back. After
a while Mr. Thompson asked where she was. An official answered: "She's in jail."

Mrs. Thompson had been taken to the New Orleans Parish Prison, which by
reputation is one of the most degraded places imaginable. She was held there for
eight days. Her husband was not allowed to visit her.

On the eighth day, with no notice to Mr. Thompson, she was taken in handcuffs to
an airplane, chained to her seat and flown to Germany under guard. Her mother,
told that she would be on a plane to Frankfurt, drove eight hours from her home
near Hanover to meet her there. The plane landed in Hanover.

Why did all this happen? Because she was not supposed to leave the United States
while her application for adjustment of status was pending. Mrs. Thompson had a
valid visitor's visa. But the immigration officials knew she wanted to be a
permanent resident, so they classified her as someone trying to enter the
country by fraud. And they treated her as if she were a vicious criminal.

Baxter Thompson tried to keep his business afloat in Alexandria under the
strains of separation. But two weeks ago he gave up, sold everything and went to
join Martina in Germany. So far lawyers' bills and other things have cost the
family upwards of $10,000.

"This beautiful little lady," her mother-in-law, Cynthia Thompson, said of
Martina. "I never would have imagined this could happen in the United States."

Under the immigration law passed last year, anyone who comes to the U.S. without
the right documents is subject to "expedited removal" -- without a hearing or
review by a judge -- and then is banned from the United States for five years.
Martina Thompson is trying to have the ban waived.

"She had a dream of living in America," her mother-in-law said. "Now I don't
know if she'll want to come back."

The immigration officials in New Orleans could easily have told Martina Thompson
that she had made a mistake and should fly back to Germany on her own and apply
there for an immigrant visa. That way she would not have been banned for five
years for an innocent mistake -- and would not have been brutalized. But they
wanted to show their power, knowing that under the new law no court could
correct them.

"Here's an agency that's historically notorious for arbitrary action," the
Thompsons' lawyer, Lawrence B. Fabacher of New Orleans, said. "Under the new law
it has been given powers that increase exponentially its opportunities to act
arbitrarily. This family has been devastated."

When British immigration officials recently acted outrageously, John Prescott,
acting as Prime Minister in Tony Blair's absence on vacation, intervened to
correct them as soon as he heard the news. Is anyone in our Government ready to
call our tin-pot immigration dictators to account? And is anyone ready to lead
the way to amendment of a law that gives bureaucrats such dangerous,
unreviewable power?

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

MUSIC REVIEW;
Showcase for Immigrants as Composers

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 566 words


When Joel Sachs took over the directorship of the Museum of Modern Art's
Summergarden concerts, he changed the focus of the weekly programs from
explorations of individual composers and their worlds to more expansive thematic
overviews. This summer, noting that immigration has become a hot issue not only
in the United States but in other countries as well, he assembled nine programs
that looked at the contributions of foreign-born composers to 20th-century
American composition.

Mr. Sachs could have made his point with a list of immigrant composers whose
works have enriched the repertory. The 44 he presented cover the range of
contemporary styles and include composers who are household names (from Victor
Herbert and Percy Grainger to Stravinsky, Schoenberg and Lukas Foss), as well as
those familiar mostly to avid concertgoers and record collectors, and young
composers just beginning to make a mark.

This range of both style and accomplishment was evident in the closing concert
on Saturday evening. Thea Musgrave, who came to the United States from Scotland,
was the best known of the five composers on the program, and was represented by
the most accessibly picturesque work. Her "Pierrot" (1985), for clarinet trio,
depicts the classic commedia dell'arte story so literally that each of the
instruments was assigned a character. The arching, passionate violin lines
represent Pierrot. The clarinet, as Columbine, conveys both demure playfulness
and cruel rejection, and the piano, as Harlequin, is blustery and combative.

Making this score come to life requires considerable subtlety in performance and
the ensemble -- Albert Tiu, the pianist, David Gresham, the clarinetist, and Tom
Chiu, the violinist -- gave it all the dynamic subtlety and coloristic breadth
it demands. The players were equally polished and more powerfully affecting in
"Si," by Ge-gan Ru, a composer from China. This elegy to the victims of the
Tiananmen Square massacre begins with a long reflective, melancholy section and
evolves into an intensely, unequivocally angry work.

Before the intermission, Mr. Tiu gave vivid accounts of three difficult solo
works. "Paens," a 1927 work by Dane Rudhyar, who was born in France and died in
San Francisco, combined the clustery angularity of the time with a Lisztian
approach to pianism and drama. Annea Lockwood, from New Zealand, offered a
fascinating exploration of both conventional and unusual piano timbres
(including plucked and strummed strings) and silences in "Red Mesa," an
evocative and sometimes eerily beautiful depiction of a Southwestern landscape.
And Ilhan Mimaroglu, from Turkey, was represented by "Cops 'n' Rollers," a
colorful, amusing work that touched several bases, from jazziness to classical
form (particularly a passacaglia near the end), from light-spiritedness to
rhythmic and harmonic spikiness.

The audiences for the free Summergarden concerts generally know what they've
come to hear and focus their attention on the music better than many indoor,
paying crowds. But now and then someone takes a gamble and loses. Through the
entire performance of the Lockwood work, the man behind me alternately declared
his love to his lady friend and expressed puzzlement and consternation over the
music's peculiar textures and incongruities. Ms. Lockwood, sitting two seats to
his right, showed extraordinary forbearance.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Chiu in a trio that performed "Pierrot" at Summergarden.
(Steve Sherman for The New York Times)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 4, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Agency Plans to Double U.S. Citizenship Fee

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3


The cost of becoming a United States citizen would more than double under a
draft proposal by the Clinton Administration, but the idea is drawing fire from
advocates for immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has forwarded to the Justice
Department a plan to raise a variety of fees, including increasing the
citizenship application to $200 or more from the current $95.

The department, which oversees the immigration service, has yet to approve the
proposal, which would have to undergo a public comment period before it could
take effect.

Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat who heads the immigration
task force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, denounced the proposed fee
increases. Mr. Gutierrez said the immigration service had no business increasing
fees paid by the public when agency backlogs were causing some applicants to
wait two or more years to become citizens.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Jail Sentence for Imposter

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 88 words

DATELINE: MAYS LANDING


Over a four-year period, Marco Carranza, 26, a father of two who worked in a
pizza parlor, repeatedly paid Dawn Stegmaier, an Atlantic City prostitute, for
sex and gave her marijuana, officials said.

And yesterday, Judge Michael Connor of Superior Court sentenced Ms. Stegmaier,
32, to 13 years in prison for posing as an immigration official on New Year's
Eve in 1995 in order to intimidate Mr. Carranza's wife, an immigrant from
Mexico, and steal $3,500 from his apartment, said Steve Imperial, a court
official.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Village Primary Race Far From the Textbook

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

DATELINE: SPRING VALLEY, N.Y.


It might be hard to find another primary campaign like the one in this suburb,
where two Haitians, a Jamaican and an Orthodox Jew are running for mayor.

And it might be hard to find another candidate like Jacques Michel, a poet,
part-time deputy sheriff, Pentecostal minister and self-professed prophet who
spent a month and a half in prison for immigration fraud.

But this Rockland County community of 22,000 is unlike most suburban villages,
with a steady stream of immigrants, most of them from Haiti, Jamaica, Guatemala
and El Salvador, adding to the mostly black or Jewish population.

And Mr. Michel's confidence in his success is not the ordinary stuff of
politics. God, he says, showed him in a vision that he would become mayor. "If
God is for me, who can be against me?" he said the other day in his office at
the United Saints and Holiness Church of God, where he is pastor.

Mr. Michel wants to become the first Haitian-American mayor of a United States
municipality, and he says that he doesn't believe that his conviction in 1978
will stand in his way.

While working for an anti-poverty program called the Rockland Community Action
Council, he helped Haitian immigrants file false documents to obtain resident
alien status, according to court documents. In this community, where a third of
the population is Haitian, the 57-year-old Mr. Michel wears his arrest like a
badge of honor.

He says the Government prosecuted him after he refused to turn over a list of
people he had helped. "In the 70's, the Government was like a bounty hunter," he
said, Port-au-Prince still in his voice after 34 years in this country. "I could
not reveal the names to Immigration so they could go after these people. I would
never give up my people."

More recently, Mr. Michel caused controversy in another arena. At a mayoral
debate, he identified the victim of an attempted sexual assault and said the
Spring Valley Police Department had covered up the crime.

"There was sloppy police work that could be interpreted as a cover-up," he said.
He said he identified the victim with her permission, and would not have done so
if she had been raped. Nonetheless, his opponents and the police attacked him
for his statements about a case of sexual assault.

"I was really shocked because he is allegedly a deputy sheriff in Rockland
County," said Detective Reginald Anderson, president of Spring Valley's Police
Benevolent Association. "This case is still under investigation. So it's
impossible to be a cover-up. It has to be a political ploy on his part. Besides,
he mentioned the victim's first name and last name. He had no right to do so.
You question his judgment."

Shortly after the debate, Mr. Michel took a leave of absence from his deputy
sheriff's job. "Jacques and I talked and we thought that because part of the
campaign involved police issues that it might be a conflict of interest," said
Rockland County Sheriff James Kralik. "Jacques agreed. He wanted to be free to
say whatever he wanted."

Mr. Michel reserves most of his criticism for the incumbent, Allan Thompson, a
Democrat who is seeking re-election. Mr. Thompson is a native of Jamaica and a
former bakery owner. Mr. Michel says he has failed to deal with the community's
crime problem or the lack of diversity in the police force, which has no
Haitian-American officers.
 The other Haitian seeking the Democratic nomination in the race is Demeza
Delhomme, who has been in this country 23 years. He works with the community's
youth in the People's Choice, an organization he founded. He also teaches
plumbing, electrical wiring and carpentry at a free technical school he started.
He calls for a crackdown on drug dealing and an effort to bring businesses to
the village.

The fourth Democratic candidate is Philip Rosenthal, a computer consultant who
has been a village trustee for four years. He says he wants to reduce property
taxes, which he says have climbed more than 80 percent in the last four years.

"The Mayor," he said, "doesn't understand there are other ways to balance the
budget besides on the back of homeowners."

Mr. Rosenthal said the budget could be balanced by cutting spending and
attracting new businesses to the village.

Mayor Thompson, who says he brought the village back from the brink of
bankruptcy, makes no effort to conceal his hostility toward Mr. Michel. "He is
someone that I do not trust," he said.

Much of Mr. Michel's campaign deals with law enforcement. He proposes creating a
"police council to oversee what the police are doing" and a trustee board to
deal with minor infractions committed by young people. He also wants more
diversity on the police force, which is 80 percent white.

"I want police officers to be seen as peace officers," he said, "not to be seen
as an army of occupation."

Recently, he marched in a protest rally against the New York police officers
accused of brutalizing Abner Louima, a Haitian immigrant. "It was not a Haitian
cause," Mr. Michel said. "It was an inhuman thing that happened to him."

Mr. Michel's slate includes a Russian-American environmentalist and a
Haitian-American auto-repair shop owner seeking positions as village trustees
and an Orthodox Jew who is running for village justice. They campaign door to
door.

One of seven children born to a construction worker and a housewife in
Port-au-Prince, Mr. Michel earned a master's degree in criminology at the
University of Mexico and a doctorate in theology and divinity this year at Logos
University in Jacksonville, Fla.

He came to the United States in 1963 on a tourist visa and stayed after the visa
expired. In 1990 he became a citizen. He has seven children and has published
his poems, many with religious themes, himself.  He has also published a book,
"United Aliens of America: A Guide to Foreign-Borns," in which he addresses his
1978 conviction.

He teaches boxing to children in a community organization that he founded in
1991 called Haven (Haitian-American Voters and Entrepreneurs). He speaks French,
Creole, and Spanish as well as English and he was an interpreter for area
courts.

He expects to add the position of mayor to his resume shortly, but he says he
will not take the credit. "All of the glory goes to Him," he said, looking
skyward.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Michel is a Pentecostal minister and a poet. He also
served time for immigration fraud. He says his conviction won't stand in his way
as he campaigns for mayor in a village with a large immigrant population. (Chris
Maynard for The New York Times)

Map of Rockland County showing the location of Haverstraw: Four Democrats are
running for mayor in Spring Valley, N.Y.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Government Investigates Citizenship Test Program

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6


Months after shutting one program that administered tests for citizenship, the
Government is investigating another amid questions about overcharging and
cheating.

The director of the program, at Houston Community College-Southeast, was
reassigned after college officials received complaints that he might have
improperly directed business to his wife and failed to adequately monitor the
school's coast-to-coast network of 60 test operators to prevent fraud.

An internal audit at the college is under way. "We're trying to eliminate the
carpetbaggers, people who only want the money and leave a burning trail of
dissatisfied clients, the applicants for naturalization," said Sandra Vega, the
acting director of the program.

This is the second time in a year that problems have surfaced under an
Immigration and Naturalization Service program that allows five outside
organizations to administer the history and English examinations that are
required for immigrants seeking citizenship. These organizations deal with 20
percent of the 1.8 million immigrants who will take the test this year.

In January, the immigration service closed a network based in Florida after
cheating had been uncovered at some of its 400 sites.

Interviews and documents obtained by The Associated Press now indicate problems
in the program based in Houston.

Until recently, the Houston college's program was directed by Paul Metzger Jr.
The Government and the college are investigating complaints from test operators
and others that Mr. Metzger had contracted with at least five operators who had
been suspended by the former concern in Florida for overcharging immigrants,
conducting unauthorized tests or other improprieties.

Mr. Metzger has been accused of not adequately monitoring sites to discourage
cheating and exorbitant fees and to prevent unauthorized tests from being given.

Greg Gourley, who operates a site for the program in Redmond, Wash., said that
in January he found an unauthorized examination room in Seattle where a tester
filled out answers for immigrants taking an examination issued by the Houston
college. One applicant said he had paid $165, more than five times the normal
fee, to have someone complete the test for him, Mr. Gourley said.

"Even as I was shutting down this illegal testing room," Mr. Gourley said, "I
suspected other unauthorized tests, not approved by the college, would crop up
in Seattle and cities across the country. Reports come across my desk on a
regular basis about people taking tests for others or switching fingerprints or
offering the 'fast way' to citizenship."

The Government and the college are also investigating whether Mr. Metzger
channeled work to a business partly owned by his wife, Alice DaSilva. College
records indicate that Ms. DaSilva's business administered 3,000 of the 8,000
tests that the program conducted in May.

"There seemed to be developing a pattern of rapid growth in her testing
business," Ms. Vega said. "It appears that when his wife was testing, he was in
the same city. Perhaps there might have been favoritism."

In an interview, Mr. Metzger denied wrongdoing, saying he did not know that some
operators he approved had been suspended.

Mr. Metzger said he terminated three operators for cheating or charging
excessive fees and suspended at least three more, but could not prove
allegations against others.

He said he referred business to several test operators and sometimes chose his
wife's business in problem situations because it was one that "I could depend on
to do it right."

Last month, Ms. DaSilva sold her interest in the business.

Until 1991, immigrants had to go to offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to be tested. Applicants still must have face-to-face
interviews with examiners from the agency, who review the applications and check
oral English proficiency.

Since it started its immigration program in 1993, Houston Community College has
tested 60,000 people. The usual charge is $30 an examination, of which $15 to
$20 is forwarded to the college.

College officials say they shifted Mr. Metzger to a job outside the citizenship
program in June.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Andrew Lluberes,
said immigration officials began hearing about problems this year. "We are
investigating these reports to determine their validity and what, if any, action
should be taken," Mr. Lluberes said, adding that the Government had no plans to
close the Houston program.

Mr. Lluberes said that the agency was reorganizing the naturalization process
and that it had hired a company to monitor fingerprint and testing sites
nationwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Asians Are Making an Impact on L.I. Life

BYLINE: By RAMIN P. JALESHGARI

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1886 words


WHEN Indu Jaiswal moved to Nassau County 20 years ago, her traditional Indian
clothing often got second looks. During the 1960's Shi Ming Hu, who came to
teach at Stony Brook University in the 1960's, had to travel to New York's
Chinatown for basic Asian foodstuffs. Ten years ago, in Great Neck, Henry Pak, a
Korean physician, could not get brokers to show him houses in the more
"exclusive" parts of town.

Backlash against Asians had deep roots. In the early part of this century the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service placed stringent entry
quotas on the amount of Asian immigrants allowed into the country. Those that
did get in were denied naturalization and the right to own property. Americans
who married Asian nationals lost their own citizenship.

Today, women in saris on the Island rarely raise an eyebrow, and Asian foods
have become regular fare, gaining their own aisle in supermarkets. And, Asian
home buyers have little problem finding houses in the neighborhoods of their
choice.

Once unwelcome, those from the Far East are the fastest growing immigrant group
in America. Long Island is high on the list of preferred residences, ccounting
more than 50,000 people in the 1990 Census. A Census Department study also noted
an almost 5 percent rise between 1990 and 1994. The projected rise through the
year 2000 is 15 percent, with a steady increase of 15 to 18 percent through
2025.

Next to the Hispanic population, Asians are the quickest growing minority group
in the country. The bulk of Asian immigrants to the Eastern seaboard arrived in
the late 1960's, often settling in enclaves in Flushing, Queens, which changed
from predominantly Eastern European to Korean and Indian.

The 1980's became a time for relocation, and many Asians began to look forward
to "the better life" on Long Island.

"Asians have been, in many ways, very different kinds of immigrants," said S. N.
Sridhar, a linguistics professor at the State University of New York at Stony
Brook, whose efforts to start an India Studies Center at the school came to
fruition this year. "Asians tend to come to America with specific job skills,
or, once they arrive, voraciously seek out higher educational training. This
affords them entry to well-paying, professional employment and they tend to move
into areas of economic influence fairly quickly."

Census statistics prove this. A 1994 study indicates that educational attainment
for Asians tends to be twice as high as that of Americans of other racial
heritage. Consequently, the median income for Asian American families tends to
be around 10 percent higher than that of white families, averaging near $45,000
annually in 1993.

The number of businesses owned by Asian-Americans increased 56 percent
nationwide from 1987-1992 with revenues of hundreds of millions of dollars.
Doing business with Asian entrepreneurs is high on the agenda for Marine Midland
bank, whose Asian Business Unit, with permanently placed agents dedicated to
cultivating the Long Island area, specializes in business loans to Asian-run
establishments.

"A growing number of our Asian clientele is coming from Long Island," said Peter
Boland, senior vice president in charge of trade finance at Marine Midland Bank.
"We see Asian-American businesses as a dynamic ever-increasing group." The bank
has paid careful attention to those business owners doing international trade
with "home" countries in the East -- most notably India.

"India is the world's fifth largest economy -- it is increasingly an economic
force to be recognized," said Ram Khanna, who heads Marine's Asian Business
Unit.  "American and Long Island business people need to tap into this fertile
market by learning more about it -- one way to do that is to examine the Asian
community all around them."

Marine's efforts to recognize the Asian society as a plentiful business resource
have included providing personal finance seminars in Great Neck to
Asian-American professionals like doctors and lawyers, and being host to
cultural events as well.

In 1996 the bank was host of a festival in Manhattan in honor of the Hindu
holiday Diwali, with an eye on a Long Island location for this year's
celebration, in October. It was private donations from Long Islanders of Indian
heritage, amounting to more than $100,000 that enabled the establishment of the
state university's India Studies Center. And, over the last 20 years the Korean
community has donated more than $700,000 for the school's Korean Studies
program.

Also intended for Stony Brook University: an Asian-American Cultural Center, to
be built through a $25 million donation by Charles Wang, whose Islandia-based
company, Computer Associates International Inc., a global software giant, is one
of the largest local employers.

Remembering his first days in the states when his family was denied home
ownership in Queens because of their Chinese ancestry, Mr. Wang asserted his
hope that "the Asian-American Cultural Center will serve as a catalyst for a
host of cultural, academic, business and technology initiatives."

The mark made by Long Islanders of Asian heritage is apparent in ways outside
the business forum as well. In Hicksville, the small hardware stores, butcher
shop and dress makers lining Main Street (Route 107) are now East Indian
grocers, sari palaces and Hindi language video emporiums. In Huntington,
Oriental grocers cater to a wide variety of Asian and non-Asian clientele.
"There was a time when we were practically the only Asian market on Long Island
-- it was either us, or, travel into Queens," said Rajesh and Gita, owners of
Modern Bazaar, an Indian food market in Hicksville. "Now, there are so many,
we're really feeling the competition -- but the population is there to support
it."

Restaurants are another indicator. While Chinese restaurants have long been
popular on the Island, Japanese sushi bars, Thai and Indian eateries are
becoming ubiquitous along the main roads of Nassau and Suffolk Counties.

"As little as five years ago," said Chani Singh, co-owner of the Curry Club, an
Indian restaurant in Setauket, "I would never have dreamed that an Indian
restaurant would do well in Suffolk County, especially the farther away you got
from the city."

Opening last December to crowds of 250 people per night, the Curry Club expanded
and also opened a Southold location. "Most of our clients are actually not
Asian," Mr. Singh said. "They're American. Americans have become very familiar
and comfortable with Indian culture and cuisine."

In other mainstream venues, Asian-Americans are making a mark as well. Jennifer
Choi, a physician certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation, has built a
practice based on acupuncture techniques. With offices in Huntington and
Smithtown, the Korean-born physician noted that s the ancient Chinese art had
become an acceptable method of treatment in traditional medical arenas.

"Ninety-eight percent of my patients are non-Asian and we see up to 60 patients
a day -- some from as far away as the Hamptons," said Dr. Choi.

Officials in Suffolk and Nassau County have also been instrumental in addressing
the concerns of Asians in their districts, and promoting Asian cultural
programs. A concert series sponsored by Nassau County in Eisenhower Park
included an Indian-American night in July and Korean and Chinese American nights
in August.

Dr. William Keh, director of the Chinese Cultural Association in Great Neck,
said, "Our local politicians, County Executive Tom Gulotta and Congressman Gary
Ackerman have been very receptive to our community voice -- they really
participate in organizing activities that include us."

Indu Jaiswal, president of the Indian Association of Long Island, agrees, noting
that support in county government has made annual events like an India Day
parade and yearly Diwali festivals in Long Beach possible. Despite the niche
Asian-Americans have made for themselves on Long Island, and their increasing
influence in various aspects of the area's daily life, being an Asian-American
Long Islander is not always easy.

"Asians-Americans have always tried to hold on to their cultural heritage-in
terms of rituals, religion, and language," said Kamal Sridhar, director of the
English as a Second Language program at Stony Brook and co-founder of the India
Center there. "This can be particularly hard on second-generation
Asian-Americans who want to remain loyal to their families and culture but don't
want to be different from their friends and classmates."

Shalin Bhatt, an 18-year-old college student from Hicksville, primarily speaks
the Indian language Gujrati at home. He has observed the difficulty this
sometimes presents to school-age youngsters in his family.

"My cousin entered school with a low attention span -- because English wasn't
his primary language," he said, "The school didn't realize he came from a
bilingual home and what the implications of that were, so they wanted to put him
in a special education class.It took some time, but he eventually adapted and
his teachers realized he was very bright -- that his whole problem had been the
language."

Eriko Sato Zhu, a Japanese-born adjunct professor at Stony Brook, noted that
"many Japanese who live here are very lonely and feel they don't fit in" with
the mainstream culture.

"Friends from other Asian countries tell me they feel the same way. When they're
outside their ethnic enclave they are disoriented and unhappy and many long to
return to native lands." Ms. Zhu also said that while there may be more Asians
on Long Island, they tend to live in tight-knit communities -- near colleges for
example.

Valley Stream, for example, is home to a large number of Korean and Pakistani
families. And, while many Asian-American students live directly at/or around
Stony Brook University, the number of Asian families making their permanent home
in the Three Village area surrounding the school are few.

Asian culture groups attempt to alleviate some of the problems that
Asian-American Long Islanders face. Dr. Keh's organization sponsors five Chinese
language schools in Nassau County -- mainly for the benefit of second-generation
Chinese Americans. The group has also started a series of cultural awareness
programs at New York Institute of Technology in Old Westbury, including this
year's Long Island Chinese Festival. The India Association of Long Island, helps
raise funds for the American Heart Association, North Shore University Hospital,
and other local charities.

"In this way," said Mrs. Jaiswal, "we can become part of the community -- by
showing the non-Indian, non-Asian population that we too are serious and
dedicated to the area we live in."

For Drs. S. N. and Kamal Sridhar, efforts like these make the future of Asians
on Long Island seem very hopeful. Standing proudly in the backyard of his Stony
Brook home, by the 4-foot Japanese maple planted to commemorate the first talks
of the India Studies Center that has now become a reality, Dr. Sridhar said,
"That tree was a tiny thing when it was put here -- like the trickle of Asians
to Long Island just 15 years ago.That tree has grown by leaps and bounds, and
today, like the Asian community, it is firmly rooted in the Long Island
landscape."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the new India Studies Center at Stony Brook, Trupti Sevak,
lower left, rehearses for opening ceremony. Modern Bazar, below, an Indian food
market in Hicksville, and Dr. Jennifer Choi, who uses acupuncture in her
practice. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times; Vic DeLucia/The New York
Times)(pg. 1); Deep Singh tuning drum for the opening of the India Studies
Center at Stony Brook. Trupti Sevak, below right, preparing to perform at the
ceremony. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 10, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

For Food-Stamp Families, a More Uncertain Future

BYLINE: By DONNA ST. GEORGE

SECTION: Section C;   Page 1;   Column 3;   Living Desk

LENGTH: 1918 words


HER refrigerator is nearly empty. There are 10 cans of food left in the kitchen
cabinet. Ruth Acosta looks over her meager spread -- sweet peas, instant
potatoes, cling peaches, kidney beans -- and a grimace crosses her face.

She has no money left and no more food stamps.

"That's it," she says.

Eight days remain until her food stamps will come again, and in Ms. Acosta's
cramped little apartment on the Upper West Side, with its broken appliances and
holes in the walls and steamy humid air, that means 24 meals to scrounge up for
a family of six -- herself, three sons, ages 5, 7 and 12, a teen-age daughter
and a grandson, 3.

Ms. Acosta does not know where the food will come from or how her family will
get by. But she tries not to panic. This uncertainty comes every month, a period
of nothing, bleak and foreseeable. Always, she finds a way to work it out.

For Ms. Acosta, who came to New York 30 years ago from the Dominican Republic
but who never lived the immigrant's dream, never tried, never really imagined
it, the hardest part may be knowing her troubles are about to get worse.

This month and next month, 900,000 people across the country will lose their
food stamps when a Federal law that abolishes aid to legal immigrants is
implemented. In New York City, local and state laws will spare children, the
elderly and the disabled from the cuts, but that will leave 30,000 to 40,000
legal immigrants eliminated from the food program.

Ms. Acosta, 37, will be one of them. Her family may lose $65 to $75 a month in
food stamps, a big hit for people eating on 87 cents a meal each.

A world away from political debates in Washington, Ms. Acosta may not be an
argument for welfare nor one against it. But her experiences over the course of
eight months, starting last February, offer a glimpse into the lives of others
coping with the same problem: making do with little, anticipating less.

In the world of food stamps, Ms. Acosta's household is larger than most. The
average is a family of three. Her history with public aid goes back longer than
most do -- she had a baby as a teen-ager and decided to stay home rather than
work.

But in many ways, her experience is shared by many families. Like three-quarters
of New York's 1.2 million people on food stamps, she receives public assistance.
Her monthly income consists of $488 in food stamps and $523 in public
assistance.

For Ms. Acosta and others, running out of cash and stamps is a common
experience. They make do by stockpiling staples. Collecting free food from
pantries. Getting loans from friends. Eating with relatives. Using school lunch
programs. Taking jobs off the books.

There is a rhythm to life on food stamps in many families -- a sense of
well-being at the start of the month, when cupboards are stocked, and a growing
worry as weeks go by and dinner becomes less predictable.

HALF a block from the plush greenery of Central Park, Ruth Acosta leaves her
West 92d Street apartment wearing worn blue jeans and a baggy jacket, her pocket
stuffed with food stamps.

This is the day of the month when Ms. Acosta feels the most prosperous, when she
can walk into the grocery store and fill up a shopping cart, when she has
choices.

Her food stamps came today.

They arrived as they always do, paid at a currency exchange on her
Government-assigned day of the month. Ms. Acosta collects them in the morning,
buys meat at a butcher shop and walks to the supermarket with her oldest son,
Jason Rodriguez.

Once inside C Town on Columbus Avenue, Jason is all eyes. He fetches a
five-pound bag of bright red apples. Then a 98-cent package of green grapes. The
lanky sixth grader looks at his mother. She nods. Into the shopping cart they
go.

They buy vinegar (73 cents), plantains (six for $1), cooking oil (2 1/2 gallons
for $14.99), white rice (20 pounds for $6.99), dried red beans (99 cents),
generic cornflakes ($1.99), Frosted Flakes ($3.69) and three giant cans of Tang
($8.99 each).

The cart fills quickly. "I try to get sales to make it last longer," Ms. Acosta
says, poring over the sale flier, "but it doesn't seem to."

They pass up frozen food. They pass up a big display for Cocoa Pebbles. They
bypass the candy, the crackers, the potato chips. They buy Vienna sausages,
milk, pancake mix, hot-dog buns. In 52 minutes, they collect $108 in groceries,
a bounty of staples and a few indulgences: pudding cups, Oreos, grape soda.

Experts say even the wisest shoppers would have trouble living on food stamps,
which were not intended to be a family's only source of income for meals. Food
stamps are supposed to help, not suffice.

"Food stamps will never supply you with food for a month," said Nilda Tirado, a
nutritionist with Cornell University's Cooperative Extension Service in New York
City.

As mother and son wind their way toward the cash register, Jason notices a
bottle of generic pancake syrup that his mother has placed into their cart. He
scans the flier -- and finds that Aunt Jemima is on sale. He races to make an
exchange.

BACK in their seven-story apartment building, Ms. Acosta and Jason ride a tiny,
halting elevator to their apartment on the sixth floor. As they open the door,
they are greeted by a rush of footsteps and a clamor of children's voices. The
two younger children, Kenny and Dennis Rodriguez, seize the grocery bags and
drag them into the kitchen, squealing, pushing, running with the food.

"Apples!" Kenny announces.

The boys dash into the living room, red-skinned beauties held aloft, and plunk
on the raggedy couch. Jason joins them, and they eat with glee.

In a rare moment, this brings quiet to the living room, a place as haphazard as
their lives. Here, clothes are drying on the radiator. A mattress is propped
against the wall. The walls are bare except for a certificate declaring Jason
"Student of the Month" and two photographs of him in a baseball uniform.

As the older boys devour their apples, Ms. Acosta's grandson, Rene Barrientos,
is in the kitchen hunting down an apple. "Are the apples here?" he calls out.

A day later, the fruit is gone.

Researchers say that, over all, food stamps are spent on food that is just as
nutritious, or more so, than what the general population buys.

Dr. Kathryn Edin, a sociologist who interviewed 214 welfare families for a
recent book, "Making Ends Meet," said she found that welfare mothers bought food
in bulk, looked for cheaper stores and tended toward staples that are low in
cost and high in nutrition.

"I can't remember seeing a frozen pizza on the table," Dr. Edin said.

But that's not to say there wasn't the occasional box of freeze pops in the
house. "Every mother wants to give her kids a decent life, a feeling that
they're normal," she said.

Eight days after her food stamps arrive, Ms. Acosta is at a food pantry for the
poor, run by the West Side Campaign Against Hunger.

Like others who rely on the pantry, in the basement of SS. Paul and Andrew
Church, at 86th Street and West End Avenue, Ms. Acosta is allowed to come once a
month, on a specially assigned day. Today, she will get three days' worth of
groceries for each member of the family.

This morning, she's No. 34 in a line of 50. She has been waiting an hour, since
10 A.M., but she is undeterred, talking quietly with her friend Tita.  As the
women wait, Ms. Acosta notices a sign on the pantry's bulletin board that says
legal immigrants are to lose food stamps.

She reads the notice soberly and tells her friend what it says.

Ms. Acosta was 7 when she and her mother emigrated from the Dominican Republic.
She has had a green card since she was a child, and has worked for short periods
of time over the years. She has no contact with the father of her oldest child,
Lillian Aponte, 18, who is the mother of Rene. The father of her three sons, she
said, visits occasionally but is unemployed and has contributed little to the
family's support.

Her friend at the pantry cares for eight grandchildren and is frightened by the
prospect of losing her food stamps. "But what can I do?" she frets. The women
fall silent.

Back at home, dinners are dictated by what is in the cabinet or the
refrigerator; often that means rice and beans, oxtail stew, baked chicken,
hamburgers or spaghetti.

Lunch is easier, free under the school-lunch program. Today at Public School 84,
where Kenny and Dennis are enrolled, the menu is deep-fried meat pies, mixed
vegetables and tangerines. It is not a big hit with most of the children. But
Dennis, quiet and deliberate, eats one bite of meat pie after another.

On another day, Rene, who is not yet in school, waits for his grandmother to fix
lunch. Ms. Acosta baby-sits while Lillian attends a program to complete high
school and overcome alcohol problems.

Ms. Acosta is boiling pasta in the kitchen, a tiny room where every appliance is
broken and cockroaches dart across the walls. A black-and-white television with
a hopelessly fuzzy picture is tuned to the Spanish soap opera "Guadalupe." Rene
plunks himself down on the only kitchen chair that has all its legs.

"You want it with cheese, or you want it plain?" Ms. Acosta asks.

"Cheese!" Rene says.

Ms. Acosta spoons his noodles into a small bowl. But she realizes all the cheese
is gone. So she roots through her cabinet and finds a last can of spaghetti
sauce, which she opens by plunging a knife through the top.

"Sauce!" Rene declares, grinning.

TWENTY-TWO days after the food stamps arrive, they are gone. Ms. Acosta spends
the last $5 on bread, salami and cheese.

During the month, she has spent her cash on basics that cannot be bought with
food stamps, things like clothing, school supplies, bus fares, dental work,
toilet paper, shampoo, detergent, insecticide -- and the subsidized rent of $135
a month.

Her grandson needed new sneakers. Her teen-age daughter wanted eye liner and
lipstick. Jason wants his favorite gold jacket dry-cleaned, but he has to wait.
"Every check, someone else in the family gets a turn," she says.

Ms. Acosta thinks of herself as a wise shopper, but sometimes money slips
through her hands. She spent $45 on Rene's new sneakers. Sometimes, she buys a
hot chocolate at McDonald's. At least one night a month, the family eats out.
They have no telephone -- but pay $37.50 a month for cable television.

To cut down on impulse buying, she gives her food stamps to Jason for
safekeeping -- and doesn't ask where he hides them. "He's the bookkeeper for
me," she says. "If you go outside with money, you go broke."

As the month ends, Ms. Acosta relies on rice and beans. She relies on her
sister's cooking one night, her sister's money the next. When all else fails,
her neighbor lends her $10 for "chicken and stuff." Ms. Acosta is vague about
how they get by. They just do.

NOW, the long-feared cut in food stamps is about to take effect -- just as Ms.
Acosta and her family have begun to sort out some of their difficulties.

Lillian had a summer job; the three eldest boys took home trophies for summer
baseball; the family has a new refrigerator and stove, and Ruth has joined a
maintenance crew as part of a welfare work program, which in many ways she
enjoys. "I feel like you're earning what you're getting now," she says.

And the work program has increased her food supply: she is paid $3 a day for
transportation, but Ms. Acosta often walks the mile to work, using the money for
groceries.

But this stability will soon change. "I'm just waiting to see," she says.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ruth Acosta and her son Jason, 12, make their monthly shopping
trip the day her food stamps arrive. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg.
C1); A food pantry in the basement of SS. Paul and Andrew Church, left, provides
Ruth Acosta with a few days' groceries each month. Below, she and her son Jason
putting the food away. Ruth Acosta making lunch for her grandson, Rene
Barrientos, 3. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. C8)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 11, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Jubilation at Reprieve in I.R.A. Expulsion

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section B;  Page 2;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD, N.J., Sept. 10


Colleen Gaynor started crying before dawn, and at 2 P.M. she was crying still,
staggered by the news that her husband of seven years, a veteran of the Irish
Republican Army, would not be deported.

Her husband, Noel Gaynor, has been fighting deportation proceedings by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for most of their married life. The
reason: Mr. Gaynor's conviction in a British court 20 years ago on charges that
he took part in the killing of a British police officer by I.R.A. soldiers when
he was 17.

The Gaynors, exhausted after four years of trying to prove he had not committed
a crime but an act of political violence, say they had all but abandoned hope
until Tuesday afternoon. That was when the Clinton Administration suspended the
proceedings against Mr. Gaynor and five other former members of the I.R.A.

Now the Gaynors, who have two young daughters, say they are too happy to eat,
sleep or even talk without the words getting stuck on their tongues.

"It's an unbelievable feeling," Mr. Gaynor, 43, said today during a break from
his job at a construction site in New York City.

Still, Noel and Colleen Gaynor say they cannot stop fretting about all the other
problems that have arisen since 1993, when Mr. Gaynor was arrested by agents of
the immigration service and was told he did not have the right to apply for
political asylum. He faced deportation, they said, because he had checked "no"
in a box on his original visa application that asked if he had ever committed a
crime.

There are mountains of bills to pay. There are questions about Mr. Gaynor's
eligibility for a green card now that the threat of deportation looms no more.
And above all, Mrs. Gaynor said, there is an urgent need to return the $50,000
her father lent them -- his life savings -- to post Mr. Gaynor's prison bail
four years ago, when the immigration service began proceedings against him.

Mrs. Gaynor said she hoped the Federal Government would pay back the money now
that the deportation proceedings have been stopped.

"That is the thing that matters to us the most right now," said Mrs. Gaynor, who
became Noel Gaynor's pen pal while he was in prison in the 1980's and married
him a few months after he arrived in New York on a tourist visa in 1990. "We
feel a huge weight has been lifted off our shoulders, but there's still that
money we need to get back for my dad. Once that's finalized, maybe we'll rest."

But the rest might be temporary. In a statement on Tuesday, Attorney General
Janet Reno stressed that the suspension, meant to help the peace process between
Northern Ireland and Britain, did not represent "an acceptance of the legal
arguments against deportation that have been advanced."

A lawyer for Mr. Gaynor, James P. Harrington of Buffalo, said his client's legal
battles were not necessarily over.

"It would appear they're going to wait and see what happens with the peace
talks," Mr. Harrington said. "Obviously, it's a big step, but it's premature to
say that this is final."

Mr. Gaynor and some of the other men who faced deportation, all close friends,
met tonight at an Irish tavern in Manhattan to celebrate with their wives. They
also planned to discuss the legal implications, which one of the men, Brian
Pearson of Pearl River, N.Y., said he needed to understand better before he
could feel true relief.

"I hope they can get this totally resolved, so it will not be hanging over our
heads," said Mr. Pearson, 46.

United States Representative William J. Pascrell, a Democrat who has been
pressing the Clinton Administration to grant citizenship to Mr. Gaynor, who
lives in his district, said he did not consider Mr. Gaynor's crime -- serving as
a lookout in the murder of the British police officer in 1973 -- an act of
terrorism.

"I'm not one to glorify or support any legion of death," Mr. Pascrell said
today, "but they were fighting for their freedom over many, many years, not
unlike the American colonists. That's a chapter of Noel's life that's behind
him, and I'm sure whatever he did, he did for a good reason."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Noel Gaynor, far end at right, and other I.R.A. veterans met
last night at McQuaid's, a tavern on the west side of Manhattan, to celebrate
the suspension of their deportation proceedings and discuss their future. (Chang
W. Lee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 18, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Is Changing Its Process for Fingerprinting

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


Under pressure from Congress to fix its troubled citizenship program, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is changing how it fingerprints
applicants, but many immigrants' advocates say that rushing the new system into
place may wor sen the backlog of 1.4 million people waiting up to two years to
become citizens.

For 15 years, the immigration service has entrusted the important job of
fingerprinting people seeking immigration benefits to a loosely supervised
network of private businesses, including such unlikely contractors as liquor
stores and beauty parlors who often failed to make good quality prints.

The agency used those prints to verify an applicant's identity and screen out
criminals.

Lawmakers and some Justice Department officials have complained that relying on
outsiders to take the prints invited fraud and abuse.

The long-simmering criticism reached a boil last year after the immigration
service naturalized 180,000 immigrants without proper criminal background
checks. In nearly 125,000 of those cases, the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
which conducts the checks, rejected the fingerprints because of poor quality.

Angry over the debacle, Congress directed the immigration service to do the
fingerprinting itself, as early as next month. But immigrants' advocates say the
agency cannot possibly meet such tight deadlines. Without a reasonable
transition period, they say, the new policy will create a bottleneck in the
citizenship process as the I.N.S. is struggling to cope with an expected record
1.8 million applicants this year.

"We have no disagreement in principle with the change, but the timing is going
to wreak havoc with people waiting to naturalize," said Jeanne Butterfield,
executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington. "It's going to be a nightmare."

But experts who favor restrictions on the numbers of new immigrants say it is
better to insure the integrity of the citizenship process and suffer short-term
backlogs than naturalize unqualified immigrants.

"This will involve a lot of extra work and will probably slow the process down,
but the chief objective of naturalization is not speed, it's the quality of the
process," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington.

The Senate wants the immigration service or, in some cases, law-enforcement
agencies to take over the fingerprinting on Oct. 1.

The House is leaning toward a deadline of March 1, 1998. The immigration service
is proposing to phase in the new system by June 1, 1998.

The I.N.S. insists it can buy about 400 new fingerprinting machines, install
them and train operators by next June.

"It's perfectly understandable that people are skeptical, but watch what we do,"
said Andrew L. Lluberes, an immigration service spokesman. "This is an
unprecedented effort."

Privately, officials in the program say that in the agency's zeal to prove to
Congress it can solve its problems, the I.N.S. may be setting itself up for
another failure.

A Federal advisory panel will issue a report later this month recommending that
the agency be abolished and its duties given to other agencies.

"People who are running the program are very concerned that we're expected to
put it in place quicker than we think it can be done, but Congress made it clear
it wants it done in a hurry," said one senior immigration official, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity.

The agency will replace the traditional ink-and-paper method of taking
fingerprints with a new technology. The machines, made by Identix, a technology
company in Sunnyvale, Calif., optically read a fingerprint pressed on a glass
slide and store the image on a computer disk.

By the end of the decade, the Justice Department intends to have additional
technology to electronically transfer the digital fingerprint images to the
F.B.I.

The fingerprinting machine, which cost $65,000 each, have been used by police
departments in California, Arizona, and Washington State. The I.N.S. installed
the machines at 50 deportation centers around the country last year.

But immigration service officials say the machines have yet to be used for the
kind of a high-volume operations the I.N.S. is planning to run at 80 of its
offices nationwide. Agency officials will evaluate the machines' performance in
pilot programs that are scheduled to start on Oct. 1 in Miami, Baltimore and
Arlington, Va.

When the I.N.S. sought to tighten up its fingerprint contractor network in 1995,
a proposed policy published in the Federal Register said the agency considered
resuming the fingerprinting job itself but rejected the idea because "it would
take up to three years to implement a fully functional fingerprinting operation
at all local service offices."

This time, Mr. Lluberes said, the agency is willing to spend $766,000 to run the
pilot programs this year and $26.4 million in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1
for the entire program and it brought in experts from all over the immigration
service to work on the project.

Attorney General Janet Reno has assigned one of the Justice Department's top
troubleshooters, Robert K. Bratt, to straighten out the citizenship program,
including the fingerprinting procedure. "This didn't receive the attention then
that it has now," Mr. Lluberes said.

Nonetheless, the timing of the change has drawn warnings from both Republicans
and Democrats.

"A delayed effective date of 9 to 12 months will be required so there can be an
orderly transition to the new system," Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan
Republican who heads the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said on
the Senate floor earlier this summer.

"Without a significant delay in the effective date, we will have a serious,
possibly irreversible disruption in the naturalization process," Senator Edward
M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said at the same time.

The agency has received a backhanded vote of confidence from an unlikely source,
one of its fiercest critics. "They have every reason to produce the results they
say they can," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who heads the
House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. "They are under the public
microscope for having done such a lousy job."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Tougher Penalties for Employers Who Cheat on Pay

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 18


Gov. George E. Pataki signed legislation today that imposes tougher penalties on
employers who hire migrants and other low-skilled laborers but refuse to pay
them all or part of their wages.

The legislation was drafted in response to widespread concerns that many
unscrupulous bosses have been exploiting new immigrants who have been flocking
to New York in a desperate quest for jobs. Day laborers, for example, have given
accounts of being hired by landscapers and contractors, only to be dropped off
on a street corner at the end of a long day and paid nothing.

In a memo explaining his decision, Mr. Pataki said the new law would deter
employers from taking advantage of these workers.

Organizations that work with immigrants hailed the Governor's decision. Jennifer
Gordon, executive director of the Workplace Project, an immigrant advocacy group
based in Hempstead, Long Island, said the law was an important deterrent because
there are not enough state and Federal labor inspectors to pursue all the cases
of unpaid wages. She said that between 1992 and 1995, the state's Department of
Labor collected wages in 2 of the 72 cases filed by her group on behalf of
workers.

"The old law was nothing more than a slap on the wrist," she said, "which
allowed unscrupulous business owners to compete unfairly with law-abiding
employers."

But the Governor's decision was criticized by the New York Farm Bureau, whose
27,000 members often hire low-wage migrant workers. Randal Sawyer, a spokesman
for the group, said that the new law was unnecessary. "Philosophically, the Farm
Bureau agrees with the premise of the legislation that all workers deserve to be
paid what is due to them," he said. But, he added, "We believe the existing
Department of Labor policies and practices will adequately address the problem."

The old law was widely criticized as being so weak that employers almost had an
incentive to cheat: the most an employer had to pay was what was due to the
employee plus a fine equal to 25 percent of those wages. The old law also made
it only a misdemeanor for failure to pay a worker, giving district attorneys
little incentive to prosecute.

Under the new law, employers could face felony penalties the second time that
they are convicted of not paying wages. The employer would also have to pay a
fine of 200 percent of the wages owed, in addition to the wages.

The bill would also bar a common practice at the State Labor Department:
agreeing to settlements in which employers pay 50 percent of back wages. The new
law would require them to
pay 100 percent.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A Dominican Immigrant Says Police Beat Him at Drug Raid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 668 words


The Police Department and the Manhattan District Attorney's office are
investigating the charges of an immigrant from the Dominican Republic who says
that he was beaten by police officers on Thursday night during a drug bust in
Washington Heights, the police said.

The man, Norman Batista, was in stable condition yesterday at Metropolitan
Hospital Center in upper Manhattan with several fractured ribs, said Richard K.
Stone, the hospital's medical director. How he got those injuries is under
investigation.

On Thursday evening, Mr. Batista, 52, went to a friend's apartment at 650 West
172d Street. A team of police officers knocked down the door to execute a search
warrant and arrested five people, including Mr. Batista, on charges of drug
possession, the police said.

But Mr. Batista's lawyer, Andres M. Aranda, said that Mr. Batista had just
arrived at the apartment moments before the raid to pick up some fabric he had
left there, and that one of the officers in the raid knocked Mr. Batista
unconscious. Mr. Aranda said that Mr. Batista awoke in a police van on the way
to the 33d Precinct station house with severe pain in his ribs.

"He was brutalized," Mr. Aranda said.

Marilyn Mode, a Police Department spokeswoman, said that the matter was being
investigated by the department's Internal Affairs Bureau and the Manhattan
District Attorney's office.

Mr. Batista was arrested on charges of criminal possession of a controlled
substance in the seventh degree, a misdemeanor, and given a desk appearance
ticket ordering him to appear in court at a later date, Mr. Aranda said. Mr.
Aranda said that Mr. Batista had no drugs in his possession.

Mr. Batista's allegations come at a time of increased sensitivity to police
brutality in New York City, which became an issue in the mayoral campaign after
the arrest in August of four police officers from the 70th Precinct on charges
of torturing a Haitian immigrant, Abner Louima, in the station house.

Asked about Mr. Batista's charges by reporters, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said:
"I believe he alleges he was beaten up by a female police officer who he
identifies as being blond and a large woman. And the police are investigating
it. But at this point, it's an allegation, and we should give the police a
chance to investigate it."

The Rev. Al Sharpton, speaking to reporters in Manhattan yesterday after a
television appearance, said, "I've heard about it," adding that he needed more
information before he could discuss the case. "Police brutality keeps occurring
at a pace that is disturbing to me."

Ruth W. Messinger, the Democratic candidate for mayor, said she wanted to get
all the facts before commenting further. Later, in an appearance at the Bethany
Baptist Church in Harlem, she said, "We must be a city that works together to
improve the quality of life in every neighborhood, to stand strong against
police brutality, to recognize that the vast number of officers out there are
doing their best to reduce crime and make us safer."

Mr. Aranda said that a female police officer took part in the attack but that
other officers were also involved. He said that his client's memory of the
attack was hazy because he had been knocked out.

Mr. Batista, who moved to New York 19 years ago from the Dominican Republic, has
worked for the last 16 years as a busboy at the Rutherford House restaurant in
New Jersey. He spends six nights a week in New Jersey and spends each Wednesday
night in Washington Heights with his wife.

"He's never been in trouble, never been to a doctor's, never been arrested,"
said his wife, Ana Celeste Batista, who visited him at the hospital yesterday.
She said he went to the apartment last Thursday before going back to work so he
could pick up some gabardine that he hoped to give to a tailor to make him a
pair of trousers.

Mr. Batista was admitted to the hospital around midnight Thursday and taken to
the intensive care unit, said Mr. Stone, of the Metropolitan Hospital Center.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Batista, visited by his brother Fernando Batista
yesterday in the Metropolitan Hospital Center in Manhattan, was arrested
Thursday during a drug raid at a friend's apartment. He has several fractured
ribs. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Tougher, Better I.N.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 103 words



To the Editor:

Re your Sept. 18 news article "Immigration Agency Is Changing Its Process for
Fingerprinting": Protecting the American people is the only justification for
the existence of immigration and naturalization laws. Fingerprinting and
background checks help protect us from those who pose a threat.

While it may be unfortunate that applicants for benefits must exercise some
patience while waiting for these more thorough checks to be made, we should
breathe a sigh of relief that the safety of the American people is being put
ahead of convenience.

JAMES R. DORCY
San Diego, Sept. 19, 1997

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 25, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Rules on Asylum Give Victims Little Hope

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words



To the Editor:

Cases like the one of the Albanian woman deported because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said her claim for political asylum was not credible
point to the problems with the new law denying asylum seekers full hearings
(front page, Sept. 20). If people are receiving only cursory examinations of
their claims, the I.N.S. will miss the most vulnerable refugees, among them
women who have suffered rape, genital mutilation, forced abortion and
involuntary sterilization.

The Guidelines on Women's Asylum Claims, adopted by the immigration service in
1995, urge officers to be sensitive to cultural constraints facing women and
note that female interpreters should be used. In the case of the Albanian woman,
none of this appears to have been done.

The woman is now back in Albania, too afraid to return to her village. Not only
should the United States bring her back and give her a proper hearing, but
Congress should also repeal expedited removal and provide asylum seekers with a
fair chance.

MARY DIAZ
Kigali, Rwanda, Sept. 22, 1997

Director, Women's Commission
for Refugee Women and Children

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 25, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Rules on Asylum Give Victims Little Hope

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words



To the Editor:

An Albanian woman seeking asylum in the United States says that she was
gang-raped in retaliation for her husband's refusal to fight for the Albanian
Government, but new United States immigration procedures have returned her to
her country (front page, Sept. 20).

The problem is that the initial review takes place too quickly. Most people must
tell their story within 48 hours, although some are granted an extension.
However, even with an additional month, it is close to impossible to find a
lawyer, and difficult to produce corroborating evidence.

Expedited procedures simply do not give enough time for a careful consideration
of the facts when people are fleeing from emergent human rights crises.

ANNIE WILSON
New York, Sept. 23, 1997

Dir., Asylum Concerns, Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 26, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Peeved and Puzzled By Big Neighbor to the South

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia


It's always something, though rarely has it ever threatened the peace along the
world's longest undefended border or amounted to much more than Canada and the
United States getting on each other's nerves.

These days, however, the list of peeves, slights and cross-border squabbles has
grown unusually long. And that has left Canadians feeling bruised and bewildered
by their closest ally.

Tough new restrictions for crossing the border have Canadians hopping mad. Trade
conflicts over milk and magazines have rattled Ottawa. Canadians are profoundly
disappointed by the failure of the United States to sign the land mine treaty, a
Canadian-led move viewed here as a national accomplishment all but spoiled by
American stubbornness.

And then there is the deepening conflict over Pacific salmon, which reached new
lows in Canadian eyes when President Clinton recently threatened in a letter to
use the might of the United States to retaliate against protesting Canadians.

"What's going on here?" asked The Globe and Mail of Toronto in a front-page
analysis of the cross-border lack of bonhomie. "Now they want us to get 'smart
cards'," was the snarly headline splashed across the cover of The Province of
Vancouver, referring to a computerized card that Canadians would need under a
new American immigration law. Even the normally cautious Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation scheduled a sober look at the deteriorating state of relations
between Canada and the United States.

Of course, compared with past disagreements over the Vietnam War (Canada opposed
it), relations with Cuba (Canada pursues them), and foreign investment (Canada
once tried to keep Americans out), current troubles seem like little more than
another family feud.

So why are Canadians so upset?

Diplomats, whose job it is to insure that small incidents do not grow into big
ones, say a certain measure of irritation is inevitable in a longstanding
international relationship like that between the two former British colonies in
North America.

"When you have a long border like ours," said Georges Rioux, a spokesman at the
Canadian Embassy in Washington, "fish cross it, lumber crosses it, people rub
elbows and sometimes disagreements happen."

But Prof. Stephen Blank, a specialist in Canada-United States relations at Pace
University in New York, says current tensions run far deeper.

"Canadians see the United States as a rough neighbor that is likely to get
rougher," he said. As the two countries are drawn ever closer by free trade
agreements, the $1 billion a day in commerce that crosses the border makes eggs,
milk and almost every product or service a potential point of conflict.

And then there is Canada's habitual crisis of self-confidence, which Professor
Blank said is whipped by the "deep uncertainty of Canadians about what is
happening to their own country."

Indeed, the recent cross-border conflicts all seemed to deepen during the same
week that Canada reopened its long-running and ever-painful domestic debate
about national unity and the separatist movement in Quebec.

As Quebec leaders were defiantly rejecting the latest peaceful overtures from
English-speaking Canada, a surprisingly harsh letter from President Clinton to a
senator from Alaska over the salmon issue was made public in Washington.

"I want to assure you that we have made clear to Canada how seriously we view
the action against the M/V Malaspina," he wrote, referring to the Alaskan
passenger ferry that was blockaded for several days last July by angry Canadian
salmon fishermen to protest what they say is overfishing by Alaskans.

Mr. Clinton then warned that another incident like the blockade would
"necessitate our taking appropriate countermeasures."

The threatening note from the leader of the free world angered fishermen like
Kim Olsen of Shawnigan Lake, British Columbia, one of 195 Canadian fishermen who
are cited in a suit by the state of Alaska, which is seeking to recover damages
caused by the blockade.

"It's all just so frustrating," he said. "They try to make it look like they're
the heroes and we're the bad guys."

In some instances, the Canadians seem fired up by their own language. Last July,
Prime Minister Jean Chretien was caught by an open microphone boasting to
European leaders: "I like to stand up to the Americans. It's popular. But you
have to be very careful because they're our friends."

The Premier of British Columbia, Glen Clark, regularly uses such words as
"piracy" and "fish stealing" when referring to the actions of United States
fishermen who go after salmon that the Canadians say belong to them.

"From time to time, for political considerations on each side of the border, and
for genuine interests that are divergent, these things are not resolved
necessarily by polite encounters," Mr. Clark said. "One would wish they would be
but they're not always."

Canadians were deeply disappointed that the United States would not sign the
treaty banning land mines, a favorite project of the Canadian Foreign Minister,
Lloyd Axworthy. But that feeling, however strong, was nothing compared with the
reaction to a new law that would force Canadians to fill out immigration
documents or have a registered "smart card" every time they cross the border
beginning next September.

The focus of the new law was tracking noncitizens who cross the Mexican border,
but Canadians, who have historically crossed into the United States by the
millions without filling out forms, were not specifically exempted.

Congressional leaders assured Canadian officials last year that the new law
would not bother most Canadians. But a year went by without an amendment
introduced.

Last week, in his first official meeting with reporters since becoming the new
United States Ambassador to Canada, Gordon D. Giffin tried to soothe Canadian
nerves about the rash of international irritants. "In virtually every instance
we have the same goal in mind," Mr. Giffin said. "Sometimes it just takes a
little effort to get there."

But even without that assurance, some Canadians think they can see past the
latest round of international chest-beating and right into the heart of the
Canadian-American relationship.

"They are not going to shake us down, rough us up or make us wait in 17-hour
traffic jams," wrote Pete McMartin, a columnist with the Vancouver Sun. "They
are going to let us cross the border as easily as if we were crossing the
street, not because we share the world's longest undefended border with them and
we're the best of neighbors, but because they believe in the God-given right of
Canadians to visit their glorious republic and spend large sums of money there."



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 28, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Indentured Aliens Found Selling Drugs in Oregon

BYLINE: AP  AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; National DeskSection 1;Page 27;Column
5;National Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Sept. 27


Scores of young Hondurans were smuggled here with promises of earning big money
and then forced to sell drugs, the police said on Friday after a raid that
netted six pounds of heroin and cocaine.

Three men were arrested on drug charges in the raid. Another 127 Hondurans taken
into custody by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and will be
deported.

The Hondurans "were brought up on the promise that they would be making money,
but they had a debt to the crew chief," said Lieut. Cliff Madison of the
Portland Police Department. "In a lot of cases, unless they sold a lot
narcotics, it would be hard for them to pay off their debt."

Most of those taken into custody lived in 12 cramped, cockroach-infested
apartments, raided by about 60 law-enforcement officers from 11 Federal, state
and local agencies.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Celebrate A Pastor Of Tolerance

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words


Inside a crowded church, with the sounds and smells of Chinatown edging their
way to the altar, Chinese and Cuban Catholics yesterday honored a 19th-century
Cuban immigrant who spent half his life defending Irish immigrants in New York.

His name was Felix Varela and he was a priest, philosopher and educator who fled
a death sentence of the Spanish Crown to arrive in New York in 1823 and left,
shortly before he died, 30 years later.

Father Varela founded two churches and two schools in New York City, opened
orphanages and tended to the sick. He published a Spanish-language newspaper,
which he used to advocate the independence of Cuba, the abolition of slavery and
the need for tolerance.

But above all, he fought for the rights of immigrants, who were overwhelmingly
Irish at the time and among the first often unwanted newcomers to America.
Eventually, he was named vicar general of the New York Diocese.

At the ceremony yesterday at the Church of the Transfiguration, one of the
churches Father Varela founded, he was remembered by about 300 Catholics, while
the postal service unveiled a 32-cent stamp in his honor.

Dr. Tirso del Junco, the chairman of the board of governors of the postal
service, said the stamp was first proposed about 10 years ago. But it had to
compete against the 50,000 proposals the board receives every year.

Religious leaders, including John Cardinal O'Connor, used the opportunity to
highlight Father Varela's work with immigrants, comparing his times to the
current anti-immigration climate.

"I couldn't stand before you in honor of Father Varela today without a word for
those other immigrants," Cardinal O'Connor said. "In my judgment, it is utterly
preposterous that we seem to have become a land hostile to immigrants."

Most members of the audience, many of them immigrants with harrowing stories of
exile and poverty, nodded at the Cardinal's words. But it was the unspoken
symbolism of the celebration that captured the imagination of the audience.

Here was a long-dead priest, whose name is spoken by Cubans everywhere in the
same reverential tones reserved in the United States for Thomas Jefferson, being
celebrated by Chinese-American Catholics, who did not know him as a Cuban
patriot, but as the founder of their church and the parochial school their
children attend.

Chinese-American men and women, most of them unable to communicate in English or
Spanish, stood in line at a cart parked outside the church to buy the stamp.
More than 12,000 stamps were sold in about three hours.

"My children wanted it," said Yin Yurn, 42, a mother of two. "It's important for
them to have the stamp of the man who founded their school."

Cubans in the audience, clearly pleased with the acceptance of their home-grown
hero in Chinatown, were turning to each other and asking the same question: What
would Father Varela say if he could see his church now?

Msgr. Otto Garcia, the Cuban-born Chancellor of the Diocese of Brooklyn, had an
answer: "He would have opened up his arms like this," he said, and he made a
sweeping gesture from the altar.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Postal Service officials unveiled a stamp honoring Felix Varela,
a 19th-century Catholic priest who defended New York's immigrants. (Chang W.
Lee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Man Accused In Smuggling Of Chinese Is Extradited

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 540 words


Nearly two years after he was captured in Thailand, the man accused of
masterminding the smuggling of hundreds of Chinese immigrants aboard the Golden
Venture in 1993 has been ordered extradited to the United States, Federal
prosecutors said yesterday.

The suspect, Lee Peng Fei, who was arrested in Bangkok, Thailand, in November
1995 while polishing his $89,000 Mercedes-Benz, is expected to be arraigned in
United States District Court in Brooklyn on Monday on Federal homicide and
immigrant smuggling charges, stemming from the Golden Venture voyage, a
prosecution official said.

The nightmarish four-month voyage, which began off the coast of Thailand and
wound through the Indian and Atlantic Oceans, ended when organizers of the
operation ordered that the old freighter be grounded off the Rockaway peninsula
in Queens so that its 300 passengers could reach the shore.

Ten passengers drowned or died of hypothermia after they swam toward shore in
the early morning darkness on June 3, 1993, and almost all of the rest were
quickly captured.

The prosecution official, William J. Muller, the executive assistant United
States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, declined to say whether
Mr. Lee, who is 45, had already been brought to New York from Thailand or was
still en route in the custody of United States marshals. Mr. Muller cited
security concerns.

He said that sometime in September the Thai Government had ordered Mr. Lee sent
to the United States to face the charges, ending an extradition process that had
begun shortly after the defendant, who was known by the names Charlie or Char
Lee or Ma Lee, was seized after a two-and-a-half year manhunt.

It was unclear at the time of his arrest whether Mr. Lee was a Thai citizen. He
is said to have been born in Taiwan and to have a wife in New York City.

Mr. Lee, believed by American officials to have been one of the top organizers
of Chinese smuggling ventures, was arrested by the Royal Thai Police, who acted
on information that had been received by representatives of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Thailand.

An indictment issued by a Federal grand jury in Brooklyn three years ago charges
him with various immigrant smuggling and conspiracy counts and the Federal
homicide counts, which accuse him of procuring maritime misconduct through which
"the life of another person was destroyed." The homicide and smuggling charges,
the most serious, are each punishable by up to 10 years in prison.

According to the indictment, Mr. Lee was on a Queens beach two days before the
150-foot Golden Venture was grounded on a sandbar. And Federal agents have said
that from an apartment in Manhattan, Mr. Lee was in radio contact with the ship
as it neared the shore, and that he had given the order to ground the vessel,
saying, "Those who can swim should swim to shore."

However, an admitted smuggler in the scheme, Weng Yu Hui, said when he pleaded
guilty in 1994 that he had given the order to ground the ship and "to have those
people who could swim, jump."

Altogether, 21 people have pleaded guilty to various charges in the case and
have been sentenced to prison terms ranging from less than a year to 10 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 7, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Bail Denied to Suspect In Immigrants' Smuggling

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


The man accused of masterminding the Golden Venture's 1993 voyage, an ill-fated
effort to smuggle hundreds of Chinese immigrants into the United States on a
decrepit freighter, pleaded not guilty yesterday in a Brooklyn court and was
held without bail to await trial.

The suspect, Lee Peng Fei, 47, had been taken to the United States in recent
days after his extradition from Thailand, where he was arrested nearly two years
ago. He faces Federal charges of homicide and smuggling immigrants. Convictions
on each of the most serious counts are punishable by 10 years in prison.

The four-month voyage, which began off the Thai coast, ended when organizers
ordered the freighter run aground off the Rockaway peninsula in Queens, Federal
authorities say. Ten of the nearly 300 immigrants drowned or died of hypothermia
after they swam toward the beach in darkness on June 6, 1993, and most of the
rest were taken into custody.

In ordering Mr. Lee held in jail, Judge Reena Raggi said in Federal District
Court that the defendant, known by aliases including Char Lee and Ma Lee, "would
have the strongest possible motive to flee."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 7, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

American Nativism Has 19th-Century Roots

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 158 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis notes that the American "strain of nativism" dates back to "at
least the 1850's" (column, Oct. 3). It is rooted even deeper in the psyche and
practice of American politics.

One should note the Naturalization Act of 1798, which increased the residency
requirement for citizenship to 14 years from 5, and the Alien and Sedition Acts
of the same year, which authorized the deportation of those immigrants who were
deemed dangerous to the safety of the country. These acts were subject to the
discretion of the executive branch and could be loosely interpreted in the time
before a strong judicial branch.

Mr. Lewis urges a less ambivalent system for immigration, one separated from
party and bureaucracy. But history shows that an American immigration policy
devoid of political ambiguities and nativist attitudes is a fond hope unfounded
in reality.

TIMOTHY M. ROOD
East Hampton, N.Y., Oct. 3, 1997

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 12, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD

BYLINE: By DAN GABA

SECTION: Section 14; Page 15; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 567 words



UPPER EAST SIDE
Were the Streets Really Paved With Gold?

The struggle between immigrants and their children, who are growing up in new
ways and assimilating to the new country, is the focus of the photography
exhibition "In Search of Promise," at the 92d Street Y.

Forty photographers, including Susan Meiselas, Mel Rosefeld and Alex Webb,
address the questions of whether people still see America as the promised land,
and whether it ever really was the promised land.

Above is Nao Pad Xiong, a Laotian immigrant in Wausau, Wis., with three of his
seven children. The picture was taken by Leonard Freed, who is with the Magnum
agency.

"In Search of Promise: Immigration and the American Experience," through Oct.
30; Mondays through Wednesdays, 1 to 4 P.M., and before and after events in the
adjoining Kaufmann Concert Hall; 92d Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue at 92nd
Street; free; (212) 996-1100.

BROOKLYN
Bus and Foot Tours Of Exotic Brooklyn

A journey to Russia, Italy, Poland, Central America, China, the Middle East and
Africa is being offered for prices from $10 to $25. The catch is that you have
to go by foot or bus.

Those who take the "Making Brooklyn Home" tours next Sunday can visit all those
places without leaving the borough. Participants in any of the half-dozen tours
will also receive a Brooklyn calendar.

"Making Brooklyn Home"; next Sunday; tours begin from 10 A.M. to 2 P.M.; from
$10 to $25; call for reservations and tour meeting places; (718) 855-7882, ext.
53.

CITYWIDE
British Culture: Other Voices, Other Views

British culture is more than shepherd's pie, say the organizers of "Transforming
the Crown," an exhibition of works by British artists of African or Asian
descent. Organized by Mora Beauchamp-Byrd of the Caribbean Cultural Center, it
will be on display there and at the Bronx Museum of the Arts and the Studio
Museum in Harlem, with 120 works divided among the three sites. The photo at
right is by Vanley Burke.

"Transforming the Crown: African, Asian and Caribbean Artists in Britain,
1966-1996"; Wednesday through March 15, 1998, at the Studio Museum in Harlem,
144 West 125th Street (between Malcolm X and Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
Boulevards); opens Thursday at the Bronx Museum of the Arts (1040 Grand
Concourse at 165th Street); Friday at Caribbean Cultural Center 408 West 58th
Street; hours and prices vary; (212) 307-7420, ext. 3007.

ALSO AROUND TOWN

OLD HAUNTS "The Scream," a pre-Halloween celebration that will include a
children's costume contest, a haunted house and a hayride; Saturday and next
Sunday, noon to 4 P.M., $2, $1 extra for hayride; Passerelle Building, Flushing
Meadows-Corona Park (next to National Tennis Center); also Oct. 25, 26 and 30;
(718) 520-5918.

WALKING FOR DOG "Woofstock 97," where pets and their owners can walk to raise
money for homeless pets; next Sunday, registration starts at 9:30 A.M., walk at
11 A.M.; Rumsey Playfield, Central Park near East 72d Street entrance);
sponsored by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals;
(212) 876-7708.

GOWANUS GOURMETS "The Best of Brooklyn," a wine and food tasting, representing
Brooklyn restaurants and caterers, to benefit the Brooklyn Center for the Urban
Environment, Friday, 6:30 P.M., Picnic House, Prospect Park, $40 in advance, $45
at door; (718) 788-8500.   DAN GABA

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 19, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Faces of the New York Economy;
Immigrants Providing a Global Link

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words


IN 1994, Zan Ng, a commercial photographer, persuaded Joseph Liu, an advertising
executive, to join his fledgling ad agency, which Mr. Ng hoped would attract
business from American companies trying to sell products to Asian consumers.

Today that midtown agency, Admerasia, employs 50 people and bills $20 million a
year, joining a growing number of immigrant-owned businesses that have
successfully capitalized on ethnic connections.

"The cultural and ethnic mix gives New York a special energy that makes it
possible for people like us to succeed," said Mr. Liu, the agency's managing
director.

Mr. Ng started Admerasia in 1993 with $250,000 that he and his two brothers had
saved over the years. For advertising skill, he turned to Mr. Liu, who had
started an agency of his own but had grown weary of the entrepreneurial
headaches and now wanted a job with less risk but some chance of building
equity.

Both came to America in 1975 and are now United States citizens. Mr. Ng, 40 and
a father of five, was a penniless immigrant from a poor village in Fujian,
China. Mr. Liu, who was reluctant to give his age but quick to say he is single,
arrived on a student visa from Hong Kong with only a rice cooker, hoping to find
work as an artist.

Drawing from the city's large pool of talented professionals who are native
speakers of Asian languages, the agency quickly built its business by helping
American companies sell to Asian consumers in the United States. Its clients now
include Citibank, MCI Communications and Ajinomoto U.S.A., the American
subsidiary of the Japanese manufacturer of seasonings and processed foods.

Admerasia's business is expanding to include a telemarketing company, 618 Easy,
and services that help American companies market their products in Asia. The
company plans to open an office soon in Los Angeles.

Mr. Liu said New York's rapidly growing immigrant populations allowed him to
select the best talent from a variety of ethnic groups, including Chinese,
Korean, Japanese, Vietnamese and Russian. Staff members say they are often
overlooked by mainstream Madison Avenue agencies because they lack a native's
grasp of American language and culture.

"I had a lot of creative experience in Taiwan," said Jeff Lin, the agency's
creative officer. "But American agencies would not hire me because my English
isn't perfect."   JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Liu, left, and Zan Ng have relied upon their ethnic
connections in working with American clients on advertising for Asian consumers.
(Chang W. Lee for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 19, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration, Continued

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 112 words



To the Editor:

Re "Immigration by the Numbers" (Op-Ed, Oct. 15):

Kevin McCarthy, a demographer at the Rand Corporation, overlooks a third
category in the immigration debate beyond immigrant advocacy groups and
immigrant restrictionists: those of us who worry about injury to the world
through excessive consumption and injury to the United States through excessive
numbers.

If our country's population is headed toward 387 million in 2050 because of the
current level of immigration and we consume 25 percent of the world's resources
now, what will we do then?

What will 387 million do to our environment?

MARVIN GREGORY
Renton, Wash., Oct. 15, 1997

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 24, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Deaf Peddlers Were Tortured With Stun Guns, Enforcer Says

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 307 words


A brother and sister, said by officials to be two leaders of a ring that forced
deaf Mexican immigrants to peddle trinkets in the subways and streets, used an
electric stun gun to torture some who did not sell enough or who had tried to
escape, an admitted ring enforcer said yesterday.

The account came from Agustino Rodriguez Torres, 26, himself a deaf Mexican
immigrant, as he pleaded guilty in Federal District Court in Brooklyn to
criminal conspiracy involving his role as an enforcer. Prosecutors charge that
the ring smuggled the illegal immigrants into this country and held scores of
them in servitude in two packed houses in Queens and a third in Chicago.

Investigators said that Mr. Rodriguez Torres's plea deal, which includes
cooperation, was important because he was a prime enforcer and could incriminate
two of the reputed leaders of the Queens houses, who are among 20 people
indicted since the operation was discovered in July.

The two leaders are Adriana Paoletti Lemus, 29, and her brother, Renato Paoletti
Lemus, 24, members of a family of deaf Mexicans that officials say organized and
ran the ring. The workers were forced to give the leaders all their earnings
from working long hours peddling key chains for $1 apiece, prosecutors said.

"I was directed to hold the worker in a bear hug while Adriana or Renato
tortured the worker by firing a stun gun at him," Mr. Rodriguez Torres said,
describing how workers were sometimes punished if they were deemed laggard or
had been caught trying to flee. "On some occasions, Adriana and Renato made me
fire the stun gun." At other times, workers were beaten, he said.

His account was read in court by his lawyer, Roger J. Bernstein. Mr. Rodriguez
Torres cannot speak and, through a sign-language interpreter, told Judge Nina
Gershon that he was illiterate.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 26, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: GARMENT DISTRICT;
On the Sidewalk, a Patch of Mexico

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 422 words


When evening falls on the Garment District, workers stream out of the
sweatshops, clothing wholesalers and retail stores along Eighth Avenue and the
nearby side streets. The Americans and Europeans are the first to leave,
starting around 5 P.M. But as it nears 6 o'clock, the the crowd begins to
change. Most are Mexicans, who claim the sidewalks as their own. Workers gather
at makeshift food stands, sharing gossip and catching up with cousins and
friends.

"We pack the streets until about 7," said Agustin Campos as he left a factory on
a recent Monday night. Mr. Campos said he works to send money to his family in
Puebla, the central Mexican state from which many Mexican immigrants in New York
originally left. He joked with co-workers but also spoke of their life with a
quiet resignation. "Some people work 11 hours a day, seven days a week, for $3
an hour," he said. "If not, they are fired without pay."

Nonpayment of workers "is a massive problem," said Berta Wilson of the Garment
Workers Justice Center, operated by Unite, the national clothing workers' union.
She said only 3 percent of the estimated 13,000 Mexicans working in the Garment
District have working papers and are, therefore, "in no position to demand
better wages or conditions." Many make far less than the minimum wage, currently
$5.15 an hour; few earn overtime, and none are unionized. Many sweatshop owners
are immigrants themselves, mostly Korean and Chinese.

Tales of the exploitation in the sweatshops can be heart-wrenching. "I once
worked five weeks without pay," said a man from Nezahualcoyotl, a sprawling slum
outside Mexico City, who gave his name only as Javier.

Illegal food vendors also hustle to survive. Mirian Lopez, 27, had prepared
about 50 tamales at her Bronx apartment, hauling them on the subway in a folding
cart to Eighth Avenue and 39th Street. A police officer appeared. "You got a
permit?" he barked. "You got ID? You got any idea what I'm talking about?" Ms.
Lopez, in America only two months, looked at him blankly. "Next time, you go to
jail, Senorita," warned the officer as he left. He soon returned, covering his
badge so a reporter could not read his name tag, and the vendors scampered into
traffic to escape.

An hour later, two Asian women in fine silk jackets stopped at Ms. Lopez's cart.
One of them, who said she ran a factory nearby, pulled a large bill from her
Gucci wallet. "Dos, por favor," she said. In language, at least, the employed
have influenced the employers.   DAVID KIRBY

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tamales and other Mexican specialties are offered on Eighth
Avenue, near 39th Street. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 1, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1997 ELECTIONS;
In Her Own Words

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 217 words



RUTH W. MESSINGER

At a news conference in City Hall Park, where she received the endorsements of
several immigrant groups.

"I can promise you that I will fight as mayor to protect the rights of legal
immigrants. I will fight as mayor to reverse the serious damage that has been
done to our public health system and to all the other services through which
government offers a helping hand to individuals and families. It's who I am. I
see a city that educates the children of its immigrant families. I see a city
that works to create jobs and provides a helping hand to people who want to
start small businesses. I see a city where compassion is not ridiculed. New
Yorkers are tough but they are also compassionate. They believe that the rules
should be equal so everyone has a fair chance to succeed. Right now,
particularly after the last three and half years, the rules in New York are
unequal. They favor children whose parents can afford to send them to private
schools. They favor large corporations and big businesses over the little guy.
They favor those who have stocked cupboards and kitchens at home as opposed to
those who get turned away from food pantries and soup kitchens. It's time to
even out the rules again, to respect immigrants and their contribution to this
city."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 9, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Academic Progress by Asian-Americans Is Found to be Uneven

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 570 words


While Asian-American children rank high in academic achievement, their standing
as a group has obscured the needs of pockets of Asian children, many of whom are
immigrants or refugees living in poverty, according to a recent national study.

The study, produced by Asian-American/Pacific Islanders in Philanthropy, a
nonprofit group in New York that lobbies private foundations on behalf of
Asian-Americans, said that these children had sometimes been neglected as school
officials failed to offer bilingual education or placed them in the wrong
language classes and as teachers and peers misunderstand their cultural
backgrounds.

The report comes as the number of Asian-American children in the nation's
schools has grown sixfold over the last 30 years -- to 1.3 million in the 1990
census -- prompting advocates and scholars to call attention to the diversity of
the Asian-American population.

Last spring, the Educational Testing Service issued a report on the vast
differences among Asian-American high school students. For instance, the study
found that 95 percent of South Asian high school seniors aspired to earn a
college degree, compared with 65 percent of Southeast Asians and 74 percent of
all American seniors. The parents of the South Asian students had the highest
educational backgrounds.

Similarly, the report by the Asian-American philanthropy group urges educators
and policy makers to distinguish between the needs of the different
Asian-American ethnic groups.

According to 1990 census data, nearly two-thirds of Hmong families from
Southeast Asia live below the poverty line, compared with 7 percent of
Japanese-Americans and 13 percent of the nation as a whole. Nearly 60 percent of
Indians and 40 percent of Chinese in the United States have at least a
bachelor's degree, compared with 3 percent of Hmong and 6 percent of Cambodians.

Not surprisingly, dropout rates are highest among Southeast Asians -- as high as
60 percent in the San Diego and St. Paul schools, according to Marjorie Fujiki,
the philanthropy group's executive director.

The report urges school officials to go beyond the token "international day"
when students are asked to wear "native dress" and include Asian-American
history and culture in the curriculums.

In 1990, the study noted, only 1.2 percent of the nation's teachers was
Asian-American, compared with 3.2 percent of schoolchildren. The disparity was
more striking in California, where Asian-Americans made up 11 percent of
students but only 4 percent of teachers.

The study also points to the need for educators to better understand the
emotional pressures felt by many Asian-American children. Young people
interviewed for the report described being taunted by peers and pressured by
parents, and refugees described the trauma of leaving their home countries.

"This crisis is largely invisible to most Americans -- most significantly, even
to many in the teaching professions," the study said, "because most see all
Asian Pacific American students as members of a 'model minority' destined to
excel."

The study also asserted that some schools placed Asian-American children in
special education classes when they simply needed to learn English and failed to
offer bilingual programs in enough languages. Ms. Fujiki cited the example of a
Chinese-speaking elementary school student in Oakland placed in a
Vietnamese-English bilingual class.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 10, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Already Struggling, Dominicans Sink Deeper Into Poverty, Study Finds

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1114 words


A new study of Dominicans, New York City's largest and fastest growing immigrant
group, has found that they have stumbled badly in the 1990's on the road to the
American dream. Their per capita income has declined precipitously. Unemployment
and poverty have risen substantially, as has the proportion of Dominican
families headed by women with no spouse around to help out financially.

These social and economic setbacks have worsened the position of Dominicans
relative to other groups in the city, including Puerto Ricans, blacks and
Hispanic residents in general, and have further entrenched Dominicans at the
bottom of the city's economic heap.

The deteriorating status of Dominicans is a worrisome trend for the city because
the group is growing so fast and because Dominican children make up a
disproportionate share of students in city schools, principally because
Dominicans are younger on average than other New Yorkers and have more children,
researchers say.

The city's Dominican population has grown at a remarkable rate, rising from
125,380 in 1980 to 332,713 in 1990 and to 495,000 this year -- and is expected
to top 700,000 by the year 2000 if current patterns persist. And while
Dominicans now make up about 7 percent of the city's population, they comprise
an estimated 10 percent of its schoolchildren. Almost half the Dominicans in the
city live below the poverty level.

These are among the findings in a socioeconomic profile of Dominicans in the
city to be released today. Researchers in Columbia University's Latino Studies
Program and the City University of New York's Dominican Studies Institute at
City College based their conclusions on an analysis of annual Census Bureau
surveys.

"Dominicans came looking for better jobs and living conditions and to improve
their lives," said one of the two principal researchers, Ramona Hernandez, a
sociologist at CUNY. "What you see is that this is not materializing for a
majority of them."

Professor Hernandez and her colleague at Columbia, Francisco Rivera-Batiz, an
economist, say they believe that the city should put more emphasis on attracting
industries that employ unskilled workers and on investing in education. The
progress of Dominicans will largely depend on improvements in their educational
status, they say. As in many other immigrant groups, many Dominican adults need
literacy and English language instruction, while children need better schools.

"The lack of a planned response by the public school system to enrollment growth
has resulted in severe overcrowding of the schools in which Dominican children
are enrolled," the researchers say in their report.

The bustling shopping areas along Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue in Washington
Heights, the city's largest Dominican neighborhood, in upper Manhattan, and the
apparent profusion of Dominican shopkeepers disguise a far less hopeful reality,
the researchers say.

Only 7 percent of Dominicans in the labor force in the city were self-employed
in 1990, below the city average of 9 percent. The vast majority of Dominicans
must look for work in a job market particularly unfavorable to them, the
researchers say.

A number of demographic factors have made Dominicans vulnerable to the erosion
of opportunities for the unskilled in the city and the further contraction of
the blue-collar manufacturing sector in the 1990's.

Dominicans in New York City, which is home to 6 out of every 10 Dominicans in
the United States, are predominantly unskilled and have relatively low levels of
educational attainment, even when compared with residents of the Dominican
Republic, the study found.

In 1996, only 4 percent of the city's Dominicans had a college degree, as
compared with 9 percent in the Dominican Republic, and 55 percent had not
graduated from high school, while 44 percent lacked a high school diploma in the
Dominican Republic.

Dominicans are much younger on average than New Yorkers generally (28 years old
versus 36) and a large proportion are new to the United States and still
struggling to learn English. Both their relative youth and lack of proficiency
in English are disadvantages in the job market, researchers say.

The fact that so many Dominicans immigrated so recently and have had relatively
little time to establish themselves economically has also contributed to their
lagging performance in income and employment.

Among the study's findings was the sharp rise in Dominican households headed by
women, to 49 percent in 1996 from 41 percent in 1990.

The study does not detail rates of welfare use among Dominicans, but city
demographers found that 29 percent of Dominican households received public
assistance in 1990. Among the foreign born, only people from the former Soviet
Union had a higher reliance on welfare, with 37 percent. All other immigrant
groups, except for Hondurans, had welfare-use rates lower than the 13 percent
for the city population as a whole.

Given the economic plight of Dominicans since 1990, welfare use among Dominican
women may have risen, Professor Rivera-Batiz said.

Both he and Professor Hernandez said they were shocked to discover how deep the
drop was in per capita income among Dominicans and how steep the rise was in
poverty.

From 1989 to 1996, per capita income declined 23 percent, to $6,094 a year, in
inflation-adjusted dollars, while the poverty rate rose to 46 percent from 37
percent -- almost double that for the city as a whole.

The unemployment rate for Dominicans in the city rose to 18.8 percent in 1996
from 17.2 percent in 1990.

Dominicans began migrating to the United States in significant numbers in 1962,
after the 1961 death of Rafael Trujillo, the dictator who had enforced highly
restrictive policies on leaving the island. As economic conditions in the
Dominican Republic worsened, particularly in the 1980's and 1990's, Dominican
immigration to the United States soared.

Professor Hernandez said her family was among the thousands drawn to America by
the lure of opportunity -- and is also among the majority whose hopes have often
been disappointed. She is the only one of her parents' three children in the
United States to make it through college and into a profession.

Her father, 66, recently retired as a school janitor but still does maintenance
work part time. Her sister and her sister's husband each work two jobs to
support their four children. And her brother is a laborer.

"It's painful that you have been let go by your own country and come to a new
place dreaming of a better life and that does not happen," Professor Hernandez
said.

Her voice charged with feeling, she added, "Education is crucial."


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Economic Setbacks for Dominicans"
The economic status of Dominicans, New York City's largest and fastest growing
immigrant group, has suffered several setbacks, including a drop in household
income and a rise in the poverty rate. Graph shows per capita household income
for Dominicans, Hispanics, blacks, and whites, along with the N.Y.C. averages,
during 1989 and 1996. (Source: Dominican New Yorkers: A Socioeconomic Profile,
1997)(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Pakistani Convicted of Killing 2 Outside C.I.A. Headquarters

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10


A Pakistani immigrant was convicted of murder tonight for killing two C.I.A.
employees stuck in morning rush-hour traffic outside the intelligence agency's
Virginia headquarters nearly five years ago.

The Pakistani, Mir Amal Kansi, 33, faces a possible death sentence. The jury
that convicted him in a Virginia state court after four hours of deliberation
will return on Tuesday to weigh his fate.

Mr. Kansi was captured in June after a four-and-a-half-year search that reached
from Washington's suburbs to the mountains of Afghanistan and to the deserts of
Pakistan.

He was the lone suspect in the killings from the moment he fled the United
States after the shootings, which wounded three other people on Jan. 25, 1993,
outside the Central Intelligence Agency's headquarters in Langley, Va.

The search for Mr. Kansi took place "in the face of often overwhelming
difficulties," said William J. Esposito, deputy director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.

A son of a relatively wealthy family from Quetta, a rugged city bordering
Afghanistan, he had eluded an international manhunt that took F.B.I. agents into
the lawless Afghan borderlands.

His motive, as best it could be determined, was anger at American foreign policy
in the Middle East. He was especially furious over the Persian Gulf war and the
treatment of Palestinians by Israel, said Special Agent Bradley J. Garrett of
the F.B.I., who helped arrest Mr. Kansi at a cheap hotel in Pakistan and
testified against him last week.

Mr. Kansi, whose surname is also spelled Kasi, gave a detailed confession to the
F.B.I. team as they flew to the United States from Pakistan, Mr. Garrett
testified.

Mr. Kansi said he believed that the United States and the C.I.A. had too much
power over Islamic nations like Pakistan. His hometown was a base for a $3
billion C.I.A. paramilitary operation that was intended to arm the Afghan
guerrillas who were fighting off Soviet occupiers during the 1980's.

Mr. Garrett said Mr. Kansi told him he chose the C.I.A. headquarters as a target
to "convey a message to the United States."

The State Department today cautioned Americans traveling abroad to be aware of
the potential for retaliation against American interests by sympathizers of Mr.
Kansi. United States Government installations abroad have been instructed to
review their security precautions.

Witnesses testified at Mr. Kansi's trial that he walked up to a line of cars
waiting to turn into C.I.A. headquarters and fired off rapid bursts from an
AK-47 assault rifle. He had bought the weapon legally at a gun shop in
Chantilly, Va. He killed Frank Darling, 28, and Lansing Bennett, 66, both agency
employees, and wounded two more C.I.A. workers and one from a telephone company.

He was tried under Virginia law, not Federal terrorist statutes. Legally
speaking, because Mr. Kansi appeared to have acted alone, and not as part of a
terrorist group, it was a simple case of murder.

The jury in the Fairfax County courthouse recommended Mr. Kansi be sentenced to
life in prison for the fatal shooting of Mr. Bennett. Jurors will decide on
Tuesday whether to impose the death penalty in the killing of Mr. Darling. He
was charged with the graver offense for the latter killing because, as the
bitter trial testimony of Mr. Darling's widow showed, he shot him first in the
back, and then returned later and shot him in the head point-blank.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Dominicans May Allow Voting Abroad

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG and LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words


In a move that promises to turn the Dominican immigrant community in New York
City into a powerful electoral force in its homeland, the Dominican Government
is poised to grant its citizens abroad the right to vote from polling places
where they live.

While planeloads of Dominicans have routinely flown home from New York City to
vote in presidential elections, their numbers have been too tiny to make an
impact. This move, however, would instantly give the Dominican community in New
York City the second-largest concentration of votes in any Dominican election,
exceeded only by Santo Domingo, the capital.

For years, Dominican immigrants, whose weekly financial remittances are vital to
their homeland's economic survival, have argued that denying them the right to
vote from their new homes amounts to a variation on taxation without
representation. And yesterday, many, particularly those who bankroll the
political parties themselves, cheered the imminent change in their status. The
voting-rights measure, which is working its way through the Dominican Congress
and is expected to be signed by its President, would grant even naturalized
American citizens of Dominican descent the right to vote and to run for office.

"It's about time," said Nelson Camacho, 52, the owner of a car service in
Washington Heights. He has lived in New York City since 1980 but returns to the
Dominican Republic at least twice a year for visits and now plans to run from
New York for a Congressional seat there.

"This will legitimize us," he said. "This will mean that we have not lost our
status as Dominicans by coming here and helping our motherland to survive and
prosper. Culturally, we are one with the people who remain at home, and legally,
there is no reason to make any distinction either."

Some Dominicans in New York reacted anxiously to the news. They expressed
concern that the measure would keep new immigrants tethered to the politics of
their homeland, preventing them from integrating themselves into their new
lives. It could keep them looking backward, they said.

"If this ends up meaning that Dominicans here have less enthusiasm for
participating politically here, it will have been counterproductive," said
Moises Perez, executive director of the Alianza Dominicana, a social-service
organization in Washington Heights. "We have limited funds. If we end up sending
them disproportionately to the Dominican Republic, not just to our families but
to political parties as well, it weakens our position here."

At least 15 percent of the Dominican Republic's population of 7.5 million lives
abroad, with some 500,000 Dominicans in New York City (not all of whom would be
eligible to vote). Some 30,000 to 40,000 immigrants arrive in New York every
year, and they are the most likely to keep alive their ties by voting.

Well aware of the clout of its dollars, the Dominican population in New York
spearheaded the campaign to extend voting rights to the approximately one
million Dominicans who live abroad.

"As soon as we are able to vote from the United States, we will change the
entire politics of the country," said Fernando Mateo, a Manhattan businessman
who is the leader of a group called the Pro-Vote Movement for Dominicans Living
Abroad. "This is something that is going to change the whole mind-set of the
country, because we will be the ones who make the difference."

Some Dominicans in New York are self-centered in their goals; they want to use
their vote to pressure politicians to reform laws that make them second-class
citizens, economically, when they invest in their homeland or retire there.

The voting-rights measure, part of a broader electoral reform package, was
unanimously approved last week by the Dominican Senate and has broad support in
the lower house of the Dominican Congress. President Leonel Fernandez Reyna, who
grew up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and still holds an American
residency permit, or green card, is expected to sign the measure.

"He is himself a product of that community," said Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, who
ran against Mr. Fernandez but is also a supporter of the plan.

If approved, the proposal would go into effect in 2000, when the next
Presidential election is scheduled. As currently structured, the legislation
would also make it possible for Dominicans living abroad to vote in
congressional elections, beginning as early as 2002.

All three principal Dominican political parties already have regional offices in
New York City. Since the 1980's, Dominican presidential candidates have
regularly campaigned in the city, courting investors. Three years ago, bowing to
pressure from New Yorkers, the Dominican Republic adopted constitutional reforms
that recognized the right to dual citizenship, paving the way for this electoral
reform.

The clout of New York's Dominicans was apparent when Mr. Mateo made a recent
visit to his homeland, meeting with influential members of Congress and
delivering a tough message: "No vote, no more money," as one Dominican
government official summarized it.

"From now on, if you want to win, you'll also have to campaign here and
understand the needs of Dominicans living here," Mr. Mateo said.

One proposal to expand the electoral reform calls for creating new Congressional
seats to represent Dominicans abroad.

The mechanics of how and where votes would be cast remains unclear. Several
Latin American countries, most notably Colombia, already allow their citizens
living abroad to vote in presidential elections, typically from the nearest
consulate. But because the Dominican community in the United States is so large,
such an arrangement has already been ruled out.

Adriano Espaillat, a New York State Assemblyman who represents Washington
Heights, said he planned to ask for help from local election boards and in other
cities with large Dominican populations, and to request the use of polling sites
at schools and churches.

Mr. Espaillat said his only concern was that, with the right to vote, the
politics of the Dominican Republic would prove too great a distraction to
Dominicans in New York. "We don't want this to be divisive or disruptive or to
lead to a split in our community among Dominican party lines," he said.

But Ramona Hernandez, a Brooklyn resident who teaches Latino studies at the
University of Massachusetts in Boston, said many young Dominican-Americans,
those born or raised here, are too distant from the politics of the Dominican
Republic to be divided by its party politics.

"Their mind is basically here," she said.

Mr. Perez agreed. "Unless the current rate of immigration continues, this is a
plan that will affect one or two generations only," he said. "Twenty years from
now, Dominicans will be concerned about leaving their mark here, not there, and
the influence of this legislation will diminish."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

For Traditional Church, New Traditions, New Life;
From Lands of the Old British Empire, Immigrants Fill Emptied Episcopal Pews

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1244 words


One part of the history of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Flatbush, Brooklyn, is
etched into its huge stained-glass windows. Besides the requisite Bible scenes,
it tells the story of a small chapel built in 1836 by the prominent descendants
of English and Dutch settlers and transformed a century later into a sprawling
church, its pews filled with the affluent and influential.

But the windows do not depict what followed: the decades of dwindling attendance
that left St. Paul's on the verge of closing or the surprising infusion that has
filled its pews once again.

The story of that resurgence is told in the small strip of kente cloth that
hangs on the marble altar and in the flags of a dozen West Indian nations
hoisted incongruously above the gothic arches.

"They represent all of the people in this parish," said the Very Rev. Canon
Peter P.Q. Golden, rector of the church, referring to the flags from countries
like Trinidad, Jamaica and Barbados as well as Britain. "It's an opportunity for
us to celebrate everyone's culture. You won't find your typical Episcopal church
looking like that."

Thousands of Caribbean immigrants have settled in Flatbush in recent years, many
from former English colonies where Anglicanism -- whose American branch is the
Episcopal Church -- has deep roots. Even as they have transformed the
neighborhood with new stores, new accents and a new culture, they have brought
fresh energy to the old traditions of St. Paul's.

"For us Caribbean people, the church is more than just a spiritual thing," said
Byron Hamilton, 33, a van driver from Jamaica who attends Mass at St. Paul's
occasionally. "We work very hard here, and the church provides us some comfort
of mind."

In its earlier days, St. Paul's was the spiritual home of the Cortelyous and
other prominent Brooklynites, and it had a membership of 1,000 at the turn of
the century.

But the vast flight to the suburbs, combined with the general weakening of
traditional churches during the 1960's, decimated the congregation. By 1967,
there were only 100 parishioners, and officials considered closing St. Paul's.

Today, the church has 1,500 members,the vast majority Caribbean immigrants.

To some extent, the history of St. Paul's mirrors that of the Episcopal Church
in New York City, once a powerful and nearly all-white denomination that is now
being transformed by a generation of new immigrants, particularly blacks from
the Caribbean and to a lesser extent Africa.

Across the city, Episcopal Churches that once faced closing -- like St.
Bartholomew's in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn; St. Luke's in Morrisania, the
Bronx, and St. David's in Cambria Heights, Queens -- are now vibrant parishes
because of the influx of West Indians, church officials said.

More than 100,000 people have come to New York City in the last decade from
English-speaking Caribbean islands, and that influx has accounted for a small
increase nationwide in the number of Episcopalians, now roughly 2.5 million,
according to church officials.

While other denominations have also seen a growing number of new immigrants in
recent decades -- Koreans have replaced whites in many Methodist and
Presbyterian churches, for example -- the change has been particularly notable
in the tradition-bound Episcopal Church. It has long been heavily represented in
America's social aristocracy and in the upper reaches of business, law and
politics.

Two-thirds of the signers of the Declaration of Independence were members of the
Church of England, and the Episcopal Church has counted Astors, du Ponts,
Morgans, Vanderbilts, Mellons and Roosevelts among its members.

In the 1950's the church was 94 percent white nationwide, while today officials
say membership is at least 25 percent nonwhite, and the number of Koreans,
Indians and Native Americans is rising.

At St. Paul's, Masses are celebrated in five languages -- English, Haitian
Creole, Spanish, Nigerian Ibo and Ga, a language spoken primarily in eastern
Ghana.

An hour or so before a recent Sunday morning service, groups of smartly dressed
children gathered eagerly in the basement of St. Paul's to attend Sunday school.
The Mass began with a procession circling the congregation twice and enveloping
the altar, the choir and the worshipers in cloud after cloud of incense. The
pipe organ was accompanied by steel drums, guitar and tambourine.

The pews were filled with West Indian taxi drivers, factory workers, doctors,
nurses and accountants. Most wore suits and dresses, though some wore
traditional African attire as they enthusiastically applauded the choir. After
Mass, parishioners clustered in conversation, the topics ranging from politics
back home to the more immediate problems of their adopted land -- where to find
a bigger apartment for a growing family, how to help the children adjust in
school.

"Coming to church gives me companionship," said Arlene McCarthy, 29, a nanny who
came from Jamaica four years ago. "You find out what your neighbors and friends
are doing and you keep in touch with what's happening back home."

It was not always that way. Phyllis Richards, a native of Trinidad, remembered
attending Mass at St. Paul's as far back as 1967. As one of a handful of blacks
at the church, she said the reception from the white parishioners was decidedly
cold. No one spoke to them and there were no invitations to join the bridge
club.

"We came, we said our prayers and we left," said Ms. Richards, a retired nurse
who now volunteers in the church's office once a week. "It was not a friendly
atmosphere."

But as the number of new parishioners grew, a Caribbean flavor began to mingle
with the stately Anglican traditions. West Indian celebrations like the Harvest
Mass have become regular events, said Canon Golden, who is the first
African-American to head St. Paul's.

"I didn't know what Harvest was," he said, describing the African and Caribbean
tradition of bringing corn stalks and leaves to the church to thank the Lord for
a good harvest. "But I learned, and now it's part of who we are in this church."

The Rev. Calvin McIntyre, a native of Jamaica, came to St. Paul's as an
associate pastor last year. He said the biggest change he found was that
American parishes were both more autonomous and more democratic than those back
home.

"When you come here, you have to learn that it's a new ball game," he said. "Lay
people are in charge of many things here. It's not like that at all in the
Caribbean."

The Rev. Eileen Lindner, a Presbyterian minister who is editor of the Yearbook
of American and Canadian Churches and assistant general secretary of the
National Council of Churches, said the influence of the immigrants would
invigorate the Episcopal Church. "They will refashion the church's tradition
with their own cultural richness," she said.

Ms. Lindner noted that the West Indian influence was in part a modern-day result
of the vast breadth of the British empire. "What we're seeing is the consequence
of British colonialism in its religious context," she said. "As their people
move to the United States, they naturally affiliate with the Episcopal Church."

But some church members describe it another way.

"For centuries, white men were going around trying to save our soul," said Alex
Barrington, a native of Jamaica who attends St. Paul's. "I think fortune has
reversed itself. The white man is learning from us what's going on spiritually."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Calvin McIntyre, foreground, and the Very Rev. Canon
Peter P.Q. Golden, rector, lead services at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in
Flatbush, above, which has been revitalized by an influx of West Indian
immigrants, below. Welcome signs at St. Paul's, where Masses are celebrated in
English, Haitian Creole, Spanish, Nigerian Ibo and Ga, which is spoken mostly in
eastern Ghana. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1);
Marian Bird, who came from Jamaica, with daughter Marlen, 5, at St. Paul's, and
another parishioner, Edwin Brathwaite, a Barbadian immigrant. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Invisible, and in Anguish;
A Slain Driver's Service Brings Attention to Senegalese

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 997 words


The first 150 or so people to arrive at Francisco's Funeraria in East Harlem
yesterday were able to squeeze into the upstairs room where Elhadji Gaye's body
lay inside a plywood crate, the word "Senegal" scrawled across it in black
marker as a crude shipping instruction.

Later arrivals to the funeral home made do with the staircase, then the lobby,
then a chapel on the first floor, and finally the sidewalk, where they could
barely hear the Muslim prayers being said as a farewell to Mr. Gaye, a
livery-cab driver who was shot and killed on Friday night.

It was a stunning turnout, rife with tears. It was also a window into the tight
bonds and common anguish of a little-known immigrant group whose struggle to
make a better life in New York City led many of them into a dangerous
profession.

Over the last 15 years, thousands of men from the West African country of
Senegal have trickled into New York City. Many, like Mr. Gaye, followed a
trajectory that put them behind the wheel of a livery cab. Many, like Mr. Gaye,
have died there.

The people who showed up at a prayer service for him yesterday came not only to
pay their respects but to draw attention to that phenomenon. "This goes on and
on and on," said one Senegalese immigrant, Saite Sall, referring to prayer
services for Senegalese men who have been killed driving livery or gypsy cabs.

Police said Mr. Gaye was shot in the back of the head when he tried to escape
two female passengers who were trying to rob him. The women, Marta Nelson, 17,
and Erica Colon, 22, were arrested on Saturday and are being held without bail
on murder charges.

Mr. Sall, who is president of the African Islamic Center in the Bronx, said that
Mr. Gaye is at least the 40th Senegalese cab driver killed since Mr. Sall's own
brother died that way in 1985.

According to Timothy O'Brien, owner of the company that operates Francisco's
Funeraria, that may be a low estimate. Mr. O'Brien, who does many of the Muslim
prayer services for West African immigrants in Harlem, said that over the last
15 years, he has handled scores of funerals for West African livery-cab drivers
killed on the job. About half of those drivers, he guessed, were Senegalese.

Alan J. Fromberg, a spokesman for the city Taxi and Limousine Commission, said
yesterday that whatever the nationality or immigrant status of livery-cab
drivers killed annually on the job, the number has decreased dramatically. Mr.
Fromberg said that while 35 drivers were killed in 1992 and 37 in 1993, only 19
were killed last year and 13 so far this year. "The drop in crime under the
Giuliani administration has been very effective in making the livery industry
safer," he said.

Senegalese drivers insisted that the job remains not only perilous, but is an
economic stepping stone and a necessary evil.

Men from Senegal first began arriving in New York in significant numbers in the
early to mid-1980's, around the time that France, a favorite destination,
erected new boundaries to their arrival.

Although city officials say that the known population of Senegalese immigrants
here is under 1,000, social service and health care agencies say that a more
likely figure, taking into account undocumented residents, is between 6,000 and
20,000.

For the most part, these men, who usually entered the United States on tourist
visas, were not among the poorest residents of Senegal; they needed at least
enough money for a plane ticket across the Atlantic. They left behind wives and
children, promising to send money home so that relatives could join them.

Although some men ended up in parts of Brooklyn and others in the Bronx, perhaps
the greatest number settled in Harlem, where they found fellow West Africans and
mosques with Islamic services. And they lived as cheaply as they could. Mr.
Gaye, for example, lived in an apartment with four other West African men.

"They were quadrupled and quintupled up in rooms in single-room occupancy hotels
and cooking on burners on the floors," said Dr. Francesca M. Gany, director of
the New York Task Force on Immigrant Health, who has treated and come to know
many of them.

For many, the first job was hawking watches, T-shirts or sunglasses as a street
peddler. But it was work that paid poorly and exposed them constantly to police
officers and immigration officials. They rented or bought a car for a livery cab
as soon as they made enough money.

They were drawn into the livery business much as any immigrant group is drawn
into a particular trade: because other West Africans and Senegalese before them
had made that choice.

But there were other benefits as well, particularly for undocumented workers
with minimal education. A driver did not need to know much English, and was not
subjected to the prying eyes of a boss.

"We go to other places and ask for work and they ask for a green card or
immigration papers," said Moustapha Dieye, who came here from Senegal in 1988 on
a tourist visa. He shares a Bronx apartment with three other men. Mr. Dieye, 28,
said that before he began driving a livery cab six years ago, he was turned down
for jobs at restaurants and supermarkets and, for a while, sold T-shirts in
Times Square, but there was no money in it and too many police officers around.

Driving a livery cab, he clears about $200 a week. He said he is aware of the
danger: he knew Mr. Gaye, and he also knew another driver who was killed a year
ago.

"I am scared but I can't do anything else," Mr. Dieye said. "I have no choice. I
have no green card. That's why I drive a cab."

That sense of helplessness hovered over Francisco's Funeraria. Janice Phibian,
said that she and other co-workers of Mr. Gaye had made donations so that his
body could be washed and wrapped, in accordance with Islamic tradition, and sent
home. Mr. O'Brien, who supervised that process, said it has grown more familiar,
but no less sad.

"These guys are so honorable," he said. "It's a shame what happens to them
here."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 1997, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about the funeral for Elhadji Gaye, a Senegalese immigrant
who was shot and killed while driving a livery cab in East Harlem, misstated the
time of his death. It was early Friday, not Friday night.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two co-workers of Mr. Gaye, Michael Weeks, left, and Abraham
Diop consoled each other yesterday after funeral services for the slain man. A
crate holding the body of Elhadji Gaye, a cabdriver from Senegal who was slain,
being carried from the funeral home. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New
York Times)(pg. B1); Mr. Gaye, with his cab. Two women have been charged in his
death. (pg. B14); Murlie Bensouda wrote the cab number of his friend, Elhadji
Gaye, yesterday on a crate containing Mr. Gaye's body. The word "Senegal," where
Mr. Gaye was from, was scrawled across the top. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York
Times)(pg. B14)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Woman Pleads Guilty in Case Of Deaf Mexican Peddlers

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 651 words


A woman who prosecutors say helped lead the Queens branch of an operation that
forced deaf Mexican immigrants to peddle trinkets in the subways and streets
pleaded guilty yesterday to conspiring to violate the constitutional ban on
slavery.

But another woman who the authorities say was a leader in the Chicago branch of
the ring refused yesterday to enter a guilty plea to another conspiracy charge,
though prosecutors had expected her to do so. Her lawyer said she refused
because the prosecution wanted her to say she had committed acts she insisted
she had not.

But the plea by the woman in the Queens part of the operation, Rosa Maria
Beltran Sanchez, a Mexican immigrant who is herself deaf, brought to 11 the
number of people who have pleaded guilty to charges in the case. Nearly all of
the pleas have been to conspiring to smuggle deaf and mute immigrants into the
United States and keep them in forced servitude in two cities, prosecutors say.

Ms. Beltran Sanchez faces up to 10 years in prison.

A total of 20 people, all but 2 of them Mexican and most of them also deaf and
unable to speak, have been indicted on various charges in the case. Of the 9
whose cases are still awaiting resolution, 7 are in jail in New York awaiting
trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, while 2 are in custody in Mexico
after being arrested there.

The operation -- in which investigators say violence and threats were used to
force the immigrants to peddle key-chain trinkets for $1 each and to turn over
all the proceeds to the ring's bosses -- was discovered in July, when four of
the immigrants walked into a Queens police station to report their plight.

They led officers to two houses in the borough -- one in Jackson Heights and one
in Corona -- that were crammed with about 60 men, women and children, sleeping
side by side on bunk beds and mattresses.

Subsequent investigation led to what Federal investigators called a similar
"workhouse" in Chicago, as well as to a house in Los Angeles that the
authorities described as a "safe house" in which the immigrants, after being
smuggled across the border into California, were kept until they were
transported to New York and Chicago.

The Chicago woman who refused to go through with the plea in Federal Court in
Brooklyn yesterday is Norma Alcantara.

Ms. Beltran Sanchez, 26, is the first defendant to plead guilty whom prosecutors
have described as a leader of the operation, though they say she was not at the
highest level of leadership. She and her husband, Jose Paoletti Lemus, a member
of the family that the authorities say organized the operation, are said to have
run the house in Corona. Mr. Paoletti Lemus is among those awaiting trial.

The charge Ms. Beltran Sanchez pleaded guilty to says she conspired from 1993 to
July of this year to violate the immigrants' "right to be free from involuntary
servitude." Through sign-language interpreters, she pleaded guilty by agreeing
with a series of statements that her lawyer, Michael Hurwitz, read before
Magistrate Judge Joan M. Azrack.

"Threats of violence and violence were used to hold workers against their will
and to make sure they worked," Mr. Hurwitz said. "Is that correct?"

"Yes," the interpreter said after Ms. Beltran Sanchez nodded.

"They would be hit if they didn't work or tried to escape," Mr. Hurwitz
continued. "Is that correct?"

"Yes."

Meanwhile, 57 immigrants who had been kept in the houses in Queens and Chicago
-- 48 adult peddlers and 9 of their children -- are being held by immigration
officials at a Queens motel, said the prosecutor in the case, Leslie Cornfeld.
The adults have been designated potential witnesses.

Legislation has been introduced in Congress to permit the illegal immigrants to
remain in the country legally. Some of the children were born after their
parents arrived in the United States and thus are American citizens.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 19, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Catholic Bishops Say Immigrants Are Harassed

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 195 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


The state's 17 Roman Catholic bishops accused the Immigration and Naturalization
Service yesterday of conducting an inhumane crackdown on immigrants in New
Jersey. As evidence of the crackdown, the bishops cited figures showing that 879
people were deported from New Jersey in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, compared
to 174 during the same period the year before, said Regina Purcell, a
spokeswoman for the New Jersey Catholic Conference, a policy making body made up
of bishops.

The spokeswoman also said that the agency is separating mothers from their
children and detaining illegal immigrants far from their homes. "The vigor with
which the law is being enforced seems to be superseding the bounds of human
rights and human dignity," she said.

I.N.S. officials denied that they were engaging in a crackdown and said
deportations have increased as a result of faster procedures and the resumption
of hearings at the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, which closed for a year
after a riot in 1995. Michael Hart, the agency's deputy district director, said
that when necessary, mothers of small children are released while they await a
deportation hearing.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 19, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Sun Belt Suburbs Set Pace for Fastest-Growing Cities

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18


Highlighting three trends continued migration to the Sun Belt, immigration from
Mexico and the growth of cities that serve as nearby alternatives to traditional
urban centers -- the Census Bureau today released its list of the country's
fastest-growing cities.

Although the cities cited by the bureau as growing the fastest since 1990 are
showing phenomenal growth, virtually all were relatively small to begin with. Of
the top 10 cities in growth, only one, Las Vegas, Nev., started the decade with
a population that was more than 200,000. Its population rose to 376,906 from
258,204.

The 10 fastest-growing cities are in five Sun Belt states: California, Florida,
Texas, Arizona and Nevada.

According to the bureau, the city that grew most rapidly from 1990 to 1996 was
Henderson, Nev., where the population rose by 88.4 percent to 122,339. Henderson
was followed by Chandler, Ariz., with a 59 percent increase; Pembroke Pines,
Fla., up 53.5 percent; Palmdale, Calif., up 51.6 percent, and Plano, Tex., up
50.4 percent.

Filling out the top 10 are Las Vegas, up 46 percent; Scottsdale, Ariz., up 37.6
percent; Laredo, Tex., up 34.2 percent; Coral Springs, Fla., up 33.5 percent,
and Corona, Calif., up 32 percent.

Most of these cities are in areas that would normally be considered suburbs of
older cities.

For example, Henderson is a suburb of Las Vegas, Chandler is a suburb of
Phoenix, Pembroke Pines is a suburb of Miami and Plano is a suburb of Dallas. Of
the 15 fastest-growing cities, 11 are suburbs of older, larger urban centers.

Growth of these cities is further evidence of the development of what some
demographers have termed "edge cities." These are cities that have grown up in
suburbs, some relatively close, others more distant, to older urban areas and
provide alternative residential, business and recreational centers to major
cities.

Three of the fastest-growing cities, -- Laredo, Brownsville and McAllen -- are
in Texas, on or near the Mexican border and are magnets for immigrants from
Mexico.

As has been the case for several decades now, virtually all the cities that lost
the most population were in the Northeast or the Midwest. Those that lost the
most population were St. Louis, which shrank by 11.4 percent; Norfolk, Va., down
10.6 percent; Washington, down 10.5 percent; Baltimore, down 8.2 percent, and
Philadelphia, down 6.8 percent.

The bureau reported that of the 10 largest cities, only Chicago, Philadelphia
and Detroit lost population since 1990. New York City's estimated population was
7,380,906, up 58,342 people, for an increase of 0.8 percent.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "CENSUS: Winners and Losers" shows cities with the fastest
growing and fastest shrinking populations based on new estimates from the Census
Bureau. Figures are for cities with population over 100,000. (Source: Census
Bureau)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
I.N.S. Raid Reaps Many, But Sows Pain

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: ELBA, N.Y.


THE first big snowstorm has come and gone and Torrey Farms still has 3,000 tons
of cabbage on the ground, encrusted in ice.

Normally, half of that would be harvested by now. But last month, two dozen
workers were carted away by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents. Other
workers, while legal, quit early, put off by the raids. Forty acres of butternut
squash went unpicked and rotted, and acres of cabbage may be left to do the
same.

Maureen Torrey, part of the 11th generation of Torreys to farm this land 30
miles east of Buffalo, is still reeling from the turn of events. "We did
everything right," she said. "We had all the documentation we needed from our
workers. For the I.N.S. to barge in during the middle of harvest to do this,
well, it doesn't seem like something that would happen in America."

As farmers here describe it, the immigration agents plowed into fields and
barged into packing sheds like gangbusters, handcuffing all workers who might be
Hispanic and asking questions later. Dozens of farms in western and central New
York were raided during harvest. Farmers say doors were knocked down, and
workers were wrestled to the ground.

One farmer, Herb Bateman, said he saw agents shooting at workers as they ran
from the road through his cornfields. "I asked an agent what he was shooting
at," he said. "He said, 'Four Mexicans got away and I am shooting for their
legs.' "

John Ingham, district director of the I.N.S. field office in Buffalo, said his
agents never shot at anyone. He added, "What farmers may perceive as aggressive
tactics are agents arresting illegal aliens and putting handcuffs on them."

Mr. Ingham refused to say how many farm workers have been arrested in raids over
the season. "Raid is your word. We conduct work-site enforcement," he said,
adding, "Our agents are out there every day. That's what we're here to do,
uphold the law and the will of Congress."

NO doubt farmers know that some of the workers they hire are illegal; with
backbreaking, low-paying farm jobs going begging, they don't make a habit of
interrogating employees. They ask for documents, and they receive them.

"There is no way to tell fraudulent documents from real ones," Maureen Torrey
said. "All my employees were referred to me by the Department of Labor. They
were paying taxes."

She is still smarting at a press release the Buffalo I.N.S. office sent to
newspapers after the raid on her farm. The release said her workers were getting
paid less than minimum wage and that some had no documents; both claims were
untrue, she says.  (Mr. Ingham said he did not remember the press release.)

As the farmers see it, the raids end up punishing them for following the rules.
Some farms were left without most of their hands when most of their crops had
yet to be picked. And all the farmers say their remaining Hispanic workers,
while legal, are edgy and worried that they will be pulled off, harassed or
detained by the immigration police.

SERGIO CORDOBA, a supervisor at Torrey Farms, is one of the frightened ones.
Although he is a legal permanent resident of Genesee County, with two sons, ages
7 and 3, who were born in the United States, he is worried that he'll be pulled
over and handcuffed. "The other night," he said, "I was playing in the snow with
my son and a white car like the ones the police had was watching us."

For him, it seems particularly mean for the raids to have come so close to the
end of the season, when the workers would be returning to their countries.
"They're not criminals," Mr. Cordoba said. "They're just very hard-working
people."

The issue of illegal farm workers has no solution in sight. A Federal bill would
give 25,000 workers passes to work in five pilot states. But the bill has
detractors in both parties and has not made much progress.

Ms. Torrey said 14 of her workers were deported last Thursday after spending
close to a month in detention in Berks County, Pa. "They had moved some of them
into a maximum security prison and they were scared to death," she said.

She peered out her office window as a car with a flashing yellow light on top
pulled up. It turned out to be the newspaper deliverer. "Everyone's scared to
death," Ms. Torrey said. "The small farmers are scared to death. The workers are
scared to death. And I'm scared too."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

RELIGION;
From Different Paths, Muslims Seek Common Ground

BYLINE: By ANDREA KANNAPELL

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words

DATELINE: PISCATAWAY


On Friday afternoons, the parking lot of the new Muslim Center of Middlesex
County is often jammed. Once the white-lined spaces are full, the cars double up
in the driving lanes.

Inside the brick building, built by Muslims who met in a Piscataway ranch house
for the last 10 years, several hundred men pray aloud, together, in the main
chamber. Upstairs, a few dozen women, hidden by screens and draped in cloth from
head to ankle, silently follow along. Most are Pakistani or Indian immigrants. A
few are blue-eyed American converts. There are almost no black worshipers here.

This is the face of Islam in New Jersey, the state with the fourth largest
Muslim population in the nation.

Islam, which is believed to have at least 5 million adherents in the United
States, draws on two main sources in this country: immigration and the heritage
of conversion among black Americans. Both are strongly represented in New
Jersey, which has at least 37 masjids, or mosques, and more than 20 Islamic
schools. Estimates of the number of Muslims in the state range from 200,000
Muslims to 1 million.

Whatever the number, it is growing, with immigration -- from South Asia and
other Muslim strongholds -- abreast or ahead of growth through conversion and
heredity. And that highlights the gap that often exists between indigenous
Muslims and immigrant Muslims, a divide neatly expressed over Labor Day weekend
in two national conventions. One, in Secaucus, drew 20,000 Muslims, mainly
black; the other, in Chicago, drew 22,000, mainly immigrants and their
descendants.

"That definitely pulled some people who would have come to Secaucus," said
Ayesha K. Mustafaa, the editor of the Muslim Journal, a Chicago-based national
weekly newspaper serving black Muslims. "There is some talk to trying to have
them together next time."

Part of the separation has to do with the Nation of Islam. Many Muslims, black
and immigrant, see its tenets, including its central idea of black supremacy, as
antithetical to orthodox Islam. The organization, founded by Elijah Mohammad in
1933, split after his death in 1975. His son has taken the larger faction, now
called the Muslim American Society, in the direction of orthodox Sunni Islam,
while the Rev. Louis Farrakhan kept the name Nation of Islam for his smaller
group and continued its separatist teachings. But many people do not realize
that the Nation of Islam is not the mainstream of American black Islam.

That mainstream has a patchwork history. In the 1500's, some Africans imported
as slaves were practicing Muslims; Moorish explorers and settlers also brought
Islam. A few decades after the Civil War, Edward Blyden encouraged black
Americans to turn to Islam. In the early 1900's, Muslim emigres from the Ottoman
Empire begin arriving. And in 1913, Newark took a leading spot in the nurturing
of Islam in America with the establishment of the Moorish Science Temple of
America, which was dedicated to black conversion to Islam. During exactly the
years the Nation of Islam was forming, some of the Moorish members, including
Muhammad Elzadeen, were studying Sunni Islam in Egypt.

Heshaam Jaabar, 66, an imam in Elizabeth, was an Elzadeen protege. "I did
Malcolm X's funeral," he said. "It was we that helped pull Malcolm out of the
Nation of Islam."

The civil rights movement, both a cause and an effect of growth in black Islam,
indirectly helped bring more Muslim immigrants to the United States. In 1965,
with calls for racial equality ringing in its ears, the nation scrapped
longstanding immigration policies preferential to Europeans.

Black Americans, coping with the bitter history of slavery and social inequity,
have sometimes seen these immigrants as interlopers. W. Deen Mohammed, the son
of Elijah Mohammad, found it necessary specifically to combat that attitude. "I
have on my mind the way some of you treat immigrant Muslims," he wrote in a book
based on his speeches, "Al-Islam Unity and Leadership." "You look for an excuse
to write them off. And that is really ugly."

Economic disparity was a clear cause. "Someone comes in and runs the store
successfully and does something progressive in the same physical environment
that another couldn't progress in," he wrote. "So they are hated simply because
they have shown up your bad record. That same weakness may be motivating us to
say, 'Brother, don't trust those old Arabs!' "

And, even absent bad feeling, economics can easily separate the immigrant
Muslims, who are often professionals, from the struggling black communities in
which mosques were often first founded. Immigrant communities sometimes build
their own, as with the Muslim Center of Middlesex County. As a result, mosques
are often either black or immigrant.

"I don't think its willful," Ms. Mustafaa said. "But where you live dictates
where you go to worship. There are economic variants that will always make a
difference. And God blesses whom He pleases."

For their part, immigrant Muslims have been slow to acknowledge the leadership
of black Muslims or to mingle socially. Zakiudin Sharfi, an imam who came from
Pakistan in the late 1970's and who, as chairman of Islamic Educational
Services, a religious center based in Mount Holly, visits mosques throughout the
state, said few black Muslims knew Arabic as well as immigrants. And in a faith
dedicated to heeding and preserving the exact language of the Koran, he said,
that is a huge obstacle.

Socially, Imam Sharfi said, there are subtle and powerful gaps that time will
bridge. "Immigrants have very strong family backgrounds and are often coming
from tribal groups," he said. "They have not undergone industrialization and all
these pressures."

Some New Jersey mosques do have blended congregations. In Elizabeth, where the
center on Salem Avenue is undergoing renovation, Imam Jaaber said, "We have
Egyptians, Afghans, Anglos, Pakistanis and Palestinians."

Jimmy Smalls, an East Orange Councilman who attends a mosque in Irvington, said
he was involved in several initiatives to bring black and immigrant Muslims
together. One, the Majlis Ashura of New Jersey, is a monthly gathering of Muslim
leaders meant to solve problems collectively. "When we meet, there is a mutual
respect at the table," he said. "Doesn't matter if you're a white Turk or a
black American, or are of an Indian background from the Caribbean or an Arab
from Egypt itself."

He said both black and immigrant Muslims were deeply concerned with the problems
their teen-age children were facing. The agenda at a recent meeting included a
discussion about a proposed state oversight committee composed of three sheiks:
one black, one Bangladeshi and one Arab. And he said one of his constituents,
Earl Sadiq, with the New Jersey Muslim Business Association, was trying to put
together a mini-convention in which successful immigrant business owners would
teach black Muslims about enterprise.

Some leaders say the non-Muslim world discriminates between black and immigrant
Muslims more than Muslims do.

"We are all Muslims," said Armiya Nu'Man, imam at the Masjid Mohammad in Jersey
City. "We look at our immigrant brothers as that, as brothers. They see us as
their brothers in the West." But after the World Trade Center bombing, he
acknowledged, immigrant Muslims suffered a more painful backlash from the
general public. "We've been pretty fortunate," he said, "because they don't look
at us with the same eye that they look at the immigrants."

And at the Muslim Center of Middlesex County, the pain of stereotyping was as
raw as the eagerness to portray Muslims in a positive light, as a devout people
with a faith that could solve America's worse social problems.

"Islam is the most misunderstood religion," Imam Sharfi said. "People think of
the long beards; They think maniacs!" Protesting such prejudice, he shook his
head and said, "Was it not enough, the Crusades, one after another?"

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN SPIRIT Dr. Zafar Shaheen prepares for prayer with a ritual
cleansing in the bathroom of the Piscatway mosque. Below, worshippers at prayer.
(Photographs by Timothy Fadek for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Rise in Hunger Prompts City to Approve $2 Million for Food

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words


Since the end of summer, when Federal welfare law cut off thousands of
immigrants from food stamps, there has been a significant increase in hunger in
New York City, the directors of food pantries and social service agencies say.
Many assistance programs have begun to run out of food and are cutting back
their hours or preparing less expensive, meatless meals.

Scrambling to respond to the growing demand before the holiday season, city
officials agreed yesterday to spend an extra $2 million to restock programs that
have been running out of food. And Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday formally
added $26 million to this year's budget to preserve food stamp benefits for
about 67,000 immigrants who are elderly or disabled or are children.

The $26 million is the city's share of the program approved by the state in July
to keep those three groups of immigrants on food stamps. But the program does
not cover 50,000 other able-bodied immigrants in New York City who were cut off
from food stamps in August by the new Federal welfare law. Nor does it address
an average 10 percent reduction in food stamp benefit levels for all recipients
as a result of new calculations in the welfare law.

Compounding the difficulties in measuring any increase in neediness, 300,000
people have left the welfare rolls in recent years as the Giuliani
administration toughened requirements and imposed a workfare program. The
administration says that most of those people no longer need public assistance,
but critics and welfare advocates have said that many people were unfairly
removed from the rolls and still require some government benefits.

Many of those affected by the new rules have begun to show up at the city's food
programs, often exceeding the supply of food on hand. The New York City
Coalition Against Hunger, an association of food programs, said that at least
73,000 families and individuals were turned away from the programs each month
when food runs out, a 23 percent increase over last year.

Because there is less food to go around, the Community Kitchen of West Harlem,
on West 116th Street in Manhattan, will serve Thanksgiving meals for only four
hours today, compared with five hours last year. Diane Ward, the director, said
that in previous years the soup kitchen received 300 turkeys to give out, but
received only 100 this year.

"I know we only have enough food to last until 4 o'clock," she said. "I don't
know about after that. I just don't know."

Angelica Torres, an 11-year-old immigrant from Ecuador who was eating at the
kitchen yesterday along with her mother, Maria, said the food at the kitchen was
much better last year. Now, instead of fish and chicken, they eat mostly rice,
beans and spaghetti, she said.

A similar trend has been observed elsewhere in the nation. Last week, the United
States Conference of Mayors released a 34-city survey showing that requests for
food assistance had increased by an average of 17 percent this year because of
demand from legal immigrants who no longer qualify for food stamps.

Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, said New York City could not
permit a rise in hunger.

"It's come to our attention over the last few days that there's an intolerable
situation that exists in our city where people are actually going hungry again,"
Mr. Vallone said yesterday. "We think this a growing number, and there may be a
number of reasons for it, not the least of which is the reduction in the number
of food stamps. Whatever the reasons are, we have a crisis."

Mr. Vallone proposed spending the $2 million -- which would pay for about 1.6
million meals a year -- in a meeting yesterday morning with Mr. Giuliani, who
agreed to the request as part of the Council's discretionary spending. Mr.
Vallone also asked that the state and the private sector contribute an equal
amount to the food programs.

Discussing the problem at a news conference yesterday, the Mayor did not
explicitly agree that hunger was on the rise in New York City, but he said he
would order his aides to conduct an immediate survey of the city's food programs
to determine their needs. He rejected any suggestion that his own policies had
contributed to greater hunger, saying that any increase was the result of
Federal cutbacks.

"It would be very useful of people in New York to put a lot of pressure on
members of Congress to see if some of that money can be restored," he said. "The
city will continue to subsidize these programs, because people shouldn't be
hungry. But this is really a problem that has to be addressed at the Federal
level."

Because of tightened requirements in the new Federal welfare law and the city's
welfare system, between 220,000 and 270,000 people in New York City have lost
their food stamp benefits over the last two years, according to estimates by the
City Council and private agencies. Many of those have been immigrants who no
longer receive benefits under the Supplemental Security Income program, the
welfare program for the aged and disabled poor, and others have left the welfare
rolls because of the Giuliani administration's stringent eligibility rules. The
welfare law has also reduced food stamp benefits by an average of 9 percent --
from about $280 a month to $256 -- because of different ways in which it
calculates the monthly benefit.

A study released yesterday by the Community Food Resource Center, an advocacy
group, estimated that there are now about 388,000 people in New York City
suffering from "moderate to severe hunger." The study was based on a nationwide
survey released in September by the United States Department of Agriculture.

Many of those people have contributed to the growing demand at food kitchens,
which serve free meals, and food pantries, which provide a two- or three-day
supply of food to take home. Dawn Walker, director of the Food for Survival food
warehouse in the Bronx, which supplies many of the food programs around New
York, said her warehouse normally distributes about 2.5 million pounds of food a
month. In September, she said, that amount grew to 3.5 million pounds, and in
October, it exceeded 4 million pounds.

But the food is not going as far, because at the same time, the number of food
assistance programs has increased from about 750 to about 1,000 this year. Some
pantries say they have cut back on the size of their food packages from a
three-day to a two-day supply.

Sister Elizabeth Kelliher, who runs the food pantry at St. Cecilia's Church in
East Harlem, said her program served about 500 people in May, 700 people in
August and nearly 1,000 people by the end of October.

"By the end of last month, we were running very short of adequate food," she
said. "These people are not lazy people -- they're people who had a very good
reason to be on welfare or to get some kind of support. We've got children who
are getting no benefits and families who are starving."


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because its supplies are low, the Community Kitchen of West
Harlem will reduce the number of hours it serves Thanksgiving meals. (James
Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Immigrants Haven't Had Special Help;
Another Berlin Wall

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 136 words



To the Editor:

In his Nov. 26 letter, Representative Lamar Smith asserts that Haitians "have
been treated better than immigrants from nearly every other country." But no
country other than Haiti has had, in effect, a floating Berlin wall of United
States Coast Guard cutters surrounding it during the most brutal of regimes to
interdict and summarily repatriate refugees.

Mr. Smith suggests that the entry of Haitians from Guantanamo is another
privilege denied others. This ignores that the vast majority of the Haitians
detained there were screened out on the basis of cursory interviews and forcibly
repatriated to a military regime the United States itself did not recognize.

MERRILL SMITH
Flushing, Queens, Nov. 26, 1997

The writer is a fellow at New York University School of Law.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 1, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Continue to Reshape the City

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 968 words


An analysis of updated census data by scholars at New York University shows how
New York City continues to be reshaped by its new immigrants, even though these
groups have yet to make their mark on the city's political landscape.

The report, based on a Federal Census Bureau survey of 18,000 New York City
households in 1996, found that more than 11 out of every 20 New Yorkers are
immigrants or the children of immigrants, that nearly half of all Bronx
residents and a third of Manhattan's are Hispanic, and that nearly a fifth of
the population in Queens is Asian-American.

The report reflects a transformation of the city's population that has been
taking place for more than a decade. The Hispanic population has been increasing
so rapidly that it may already exceed the black population citywide; native-born
blacks leaving for the suburbs are being more than replaced by immigrants, and
the size of the white population continues to decline, although the whites who
remain in Manhattan tend to be the most highly educated.

Researchers at the university's Taub Urban Research Center, who will publish
their study today, say that immigrants, who now make up about 34 percent of the
city's population, will account for nearly 38 percent by the year 2000,
approaching the 20th-century peak of about 40 percent, reached in 1910.

By 1996, the researchers say, a foreign-born person headed 35 percent of black
households, 47 percent of Hispanic households, and 27 percent of white
households. Together, immigrants and their children make up 56 percent of the
city's population, the researchers found. And more than 46 percent of the city's
school-age children live in households headed by an immigrant.

The study's authors said the findings showed the dynamics at work in New York
City are changing.

"The traditional black-white racial image of cities doesn't work for New York
anymore," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of Taub Urban Research Center and a
co-author of the study. "Ethnicity is much more important. And the political
leadership has yet to understand the magnitude of the change and to incorporate
these groups into the political system." For example, he noted, no
Asian-Americans have been elected to political office in New York City.

Demographers say it can take as much as a generation or two for the political
system to catch up to population trends, since new immigrants must first wait to
be naturalized, and then are slow to register and to vote in politically
effective numbers. Despite two decades of heavy immigration from the Dominican
Republic, for example, only two Dominicans have been elected in New York.

That lag can clearly be seen in Manhattan, where 30 percent of residents now are
Hispanic, up from 25.5 percent in 1990, and 18 percent are black. Despite the
larger numbers of Hispanic residents in the borough, blacks retain a larger
share of political power through their traditional power base in Harlem.

Of the city's total of 7.23 million residents, Hispanic and black residents each
number nearly 2 million. Whites, who remained a majority until the late 1980's,
have dropped to 38.5 percent of the population, from 43.4 percent in 1990, while
Asian-Americans now make up 8.7 percent, up from 6.7 percent in 1990.

In Queens, the white population declined most steeply, from 48 percent in 1990
to 39 percent last year. Asian-Americans, meanwhile, rose to 16.6 percent of the
population in Queens, where more than half the city's Asian-American population
lives.

Only on Staten Island, where whites still make up 77 percent of the population,
does a single ethnic or racial group constitute a majority of a borough's
residents.

The study also portrays the city's population as increasingly split along
educational lines that mirror racial and ethnic ones. Among New Yorkers age 25
or older, for example, whites and Asian-Americans are two to three times as
likely to be college graduates as are black and Hispanic residents. About 39
percent of whites are college graduates, as are 36 percent of Asian-Americans,
but 18.5 percent of black and 12 percent of Hispanic residents are college
graduates, according to the analysis.

In Manhattan, where more than half the city's white college graduates live, that
educational gap is starkest: 72 percent of whites are college graduates,
compared with 47 percent of Asian-Americans, 19 percent of blacks, and 18
percent of Hispanic residents.

The New York University report is based on the New York City Housing and Vacancy
Survey, conducted by the United States Bureau of the Census under a contract
with the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development. The
survey is intended primarily as a profile of the city's housing stock, and its
accuracy regarding income levels has been criticized, but its findings about
race, ethnicity, national origin and age are generally considered reliable.

The study, to be published electronically at http://www.nyu.edu/ urban, is the
first to assert that Hispanics already have outnumbered blacks in New York,
although demographers have long anticipated that such a shift would occur at
least by the year 2000.

But the report's authors claim a margin of error of less than two percentage
points for their major conclusions. That would place the difference between the
citywide Hispanic and black populations at slightly less than the margin of
error, making the difference statistically insignificant.

Some analysts said the survey showed how the city's emerging immigrant groups
need to be taken more seriously.

"It does show that African-Americans cannot treat Hispanics as sort of a little
brother or little sister," said J. Phillip Thompson, associate professor of
political science at Barnard College. "And that has been the history."


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Today's New Yorkers"
An analysis of Federal Census Bureau data shows that Hispanic people continue to
increase their share of New York City population. Graph shows racial/ethic
groups, as a percentage of New York City's population, during 1980, 1990, and
1996. It also shows annual change in population for the groups, 1990 to 1996.
(Source: Taub Urban Research Center; New York University)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 4, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Refugees Improve U.S. Quality of Life;
They'll Stay Forever

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words



To the Editor:

James R. Edwards Jr. (Op-Ed, Dec. 2) is correct in noting that the thousands of
illegal immigrants from Central America covered by the amnesty Congress recently
enacted "could return home today and face no threat of political persecution."
Unfortunately, the politics surrounding this new amnesty make it clear that no
migrant, once settled here, is ever going to go home.

With this fact in mind, the United States should never again embrace the
mendacious notion of "temporary" refuge. We must understand that virtually
everyone we admit for humanitarian reasons will stay. Thus, those whom we want
to protect but do not want as permanent residents of our country must be
sheltered in safe havens outside the United States, like the Guantanamo base in
Cuba, and repatriated when the emergencies in their countries have passed.

MARK KRIKORIAN
Washington, Dec. 3, 1997

The writer is executive director, Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 4, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Refugees Improve U.S. Quality of Life

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words



To the Editor:

James R. Edwards Jr. (Op-Ed, Dec. 2) says that granting amnesty to Central
American refugees is like allowing "your neighbor whose house burns down to stay
in your home. But once his house is rebuilt, he won't leave. He likes your
big-screen television, your pool, your air-conditioning."

I think a more appropriate analogy for the Central American situation is this:
You allow your neighbor whose house burns down to stay in your home. He
landscapes your garden, cooks your food, takes care of your children, scrubs the
floors and pays rent. Meanwhile, it has taken so many years to rebuild his house
that his children have long been going to school with your children, speak only
your children's language and know no other home. In addition, his rent has
become an important part of your income that you can't do without.

Thus, he is no longer a stranger in your household -- he is part of the
household. And you are both the better for it.

STEPHANIE HILL
Washington, Dec. 2, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 7, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Puerto Rican History in New England

BYLINE: By FRANCES CHAMBERLAIN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 12; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words


"AQUI ME QUEDO" -- I'm here to stay -- couldn't be a more fitting title for the
book by Ruth Glasser of Waterbury, the granddaughter of Jewish immigrants from
Russia and Hungary who has taken on the daunting task of recording the history
of Puerto Ricans in New England.

Rather than focusing her talents on her own cultural heritage, Dr. Glasser, a
historian, chose to explore the Puerto Rican culture, in which she found a rich
tapestry of stories, music and traditions that were basically unknown beyond
that ethnic group.

"There is a need to put things in perspective," Dr. Glasser said. "There are
lies of omission in the media, and this history is needed. We have all these
books on Polish, Italian and Afro-American immigration, but nothing on Puerto
Rican immigrants. There are just social books looking at the massive problems."

Although she acknowledges that there might be people criticizing her for
chronicling Puerto Rican history when she is basically an "outsider," Dr.
Glasser remains committed to the task.

"For the community itself this is so important, but I want the general public to
understand as well," she said. "If you don't know the history of a group, you
make an argument of causality when in fact it's more complex. You have to
understand the colonial situation in Puerto Rico, and United States domination,
and how immigration was encouraged. Some say Puerto Ricans came here because of
over-population; others say it was Operation Bootstrap and the displacement of
farmers. The whole idea of America as the Promised Land is a myth. There are
many people who wouldn't have chosen to come here because they loved their
homes."

"Aqui Me Quedo," published by the Connecticut Humanities Council, is one of only
two books that the agency has published. Talks and lectures by Dr. Glasser this
fall were also financed by the humanities council, as well as by the Latino
Artists Group of Waterbury. Although the book is not currently available in
bookstores, copies are available at the council's Middletown offices.

The path that led Dr. Glasser to document Puerto Rican history was itself
somewhat convoluted. "I went to graduate school inadvertently," she explained.
"I wasn't quite sure what I was going to do at Yale. I had studied comparative
literature, but I wanted the historical context. I had been a Vista volunteer
teaching literacy in North Carolina before that, and that experience changed my
life. I knew I wanted to do work with people rather than be an academic."

After earning her bachelor's degree in comparative literature from the
University of Wisconsin/Madison, and while working on her master's and doctorate
in American studies at Yale, Dr. Glasser became involved in organizing an ethnic
music festival in Waterbury with another historian, Jeremy Brecher, and Marie
Galbraith, director of community programs at the Mattatuck Museum.

"When I started to work on that project in 1986, I had to bring an interpreter
along," Dr. Glasser said. "I spent most of the next summer in Mexico, in total
language immersion, and the following summer started historical research in
Spanish. I wanted to be able to do my interviews in whatever language people
felt comfortable with. It was a process, though. Spanish in Puerto Rico wasn't
at all like the Spanish spoken in Mexico. Spanish and writing became like
obsessions, and finally becoming fluent in Spanish has opened up world views for
me."

She went on to work on a project documenting Puerto Rican music in Waterbury for
a series on ethnic music on Connecticut Public Radio.  This ignited her
interest, and she began work on her first book, "My Music Is My Flag: Puerto
Rican Musicians and Their New York Communities, 1917-1940." The book evolved
from her doctoral dissertation, and was a rather academic work, Dr. Glasser
explained. Two years later, the publication of "Aqui Me Quedo" finds her with a
different agenda.

"This was an attempt to be more accessible, to make it simple and well written,"
she said. "I don't like academic, pretentious jargon. The book is written at a
high school level, and could be used for community groups, bilingual education
or community college classes."

The book is not only accessible, it is written in both English and Spanish, and
even the oral histories that supplement each page are translated in both
languages. Readers can skip back and forth between both languages, reading the
first person account of immigrant experiences, but also capturing the flavor of
the language.

"Non-Latinos have been very positive, especially those who work in school
systems and social services," Dr. Glasser said. "My hope is to get the book into
schools and have it filter out to communities that way."

Her next step, she added, will probably be to write children's books focusing on
the Puerto Rican community. Plans also include offering a teachers' workshop and
putting together a study guide, music and film for "Aqui Me Quedo."

A third book is in the works, on Puerto Ricans in Waterbury and the impact of
urban renewal. "A lot of physical evidence, that of stores, community groups and
neighborhoods, has been razed by bulldozers," Dr. Glasser said. "James Baldwin
coined the term 'Negro removal.' This is true of Puerto Ricans as well in terms
of urban renewal."

As Dr. Glasser explains, "I would eventually like to see an archive of Puerto
Rican and Latino materials, and a program to train oral historians. Not all
Latinos are Puerto Rican, and their histories are even more neglected. I'm only
one person and I can only do so much. Everyone should go out with a tape
recorder and record their histories."

As for the stereotypes implying that all Puerto Ricans are gang members or on
welfare, she added, "I won't convert the hard-core bigots, but I can make
comparisons between Puerto Rican immigrants and early immigrants. Why is it that
the Puerto Ricans received such a poor reception from other immigrants who
received a poor reception in the first place?"

While many immigrants have been assimilated into their American communities, Dr.
Glasser said, people must value the wish of many to retain their language and
customs. "There are many who want to hang onto their culture and this is
threatening to other immigrant groups," she said. "Why should they wish that
same horrible experience -- not being able to speak their language at all -- on
others? Why can't they preserve their language? The attitude seems to be all or
nothing, taking pride in being monolingual, yet I think we should all try to be
bilingual."

The attitude of culturally patriotic Puerto Ricans has caused friction, Dr.
Glasser added. "Some people are in the same boat, but there are big cultural
differences. The Puerto Ricans can't necessarily identify with another group.
Also, about 31 percent of the Latinos here are from places other than Puerto
Rico. The easternmost and westernmost parts of the state are seeing a lot of
change."

"Aqui Me Quedo," she added, is not intended to be a comprehensive look at Puerto
Ricans in Connecticut, but rather representative of the communities. "It is a
sampling of the diversity of the Puerto Rican experience, the different classes,
races, years of migration, and religious beliefs in many different Connecticut
communities. I touch upon the fact that the experience is extremely diverse,"
she said. "It is an ongoing process. There is very spotty information about the
19th-century immigrants, and there is much more work to be done."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruth Glasser, historian, granddaughter of European immigrants,
has a passion for writing about Hispanic arrivals. (Thomas McDonald for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Ignore Immigration's Benefits to the U.S.;
Food for the Hungry

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 168 words



To the Editor:

Re "Denied Food Stamps, Many Immigrants Scrape for Meals" (news article, Dec.
8): Regardless of the cuts under the new Federal welfare law, New York State is
providing food coupons through the Food Assistance Program for children, the
elderly and the disabled who are legal immigrants. With the myriad new laws,
workers are confronted with increasingly complicated guidelines that exclude
parts of families and include others. The families interviewed in your article
may be eligible for benefits, but their children's cases may have been
improperly closed by their welfare caseworkers.

Parents and their advocates should be made aware that food coupon benefits
increase when the family has less income. They can also appeal any loss of
benefits for their children by requesting a conference at their welfare center.

CATHLEEN CLEMENTS
New York, Dec. 9, 1997

The writer is assistant director of the Children's Aid Society's immigration and
welfare reform project.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Ignore Immigration's Benefits to the U.S.;
Fact or Fiction?

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 86 words



To the Editor:

Re "Tiny Stretch of Border, Big Test for a Wall" (front page, Dec. 8): The
absurd idea of a "friendly" wall designed to exclude indigent Mexicans sounds as
if it should come from the movies, and indeed it does. In the 1994 comedy
"Speechless," Geena Davis plays a speechwriter working for a Senate candidate
who advocates digging a "friendship ditch" between Mexico and Arizona to impede
immigration. Once again, life imitates art.

JONATHAN D. REICHMAN
Chappaqua, N.Y., Dec. 9, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Ignore Immigration's Benefits to the U.S.;
We Need the Wall

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 111 words



To the Editor:

The fact that the Mexican Government was opposed to the building of a new
"fence" on the border between our countries is outrageous (front page, Dec. 8).
We are on peaceful terms with Mexico, and the specified intent of the wall seems
reasonable. Even if it takes a 50-foot wall with trenches on both sides to stop
the flow of illegal immigrants and smuggled drugs, it would be worth it.

Building the wall is a step in the right direction for the United States. But by
trying to make the situation friendlier by using the term "fence," we only
detach ourselves from the real issue.

STEPHAN P. TURANO
Norcross, Ga., Dec. 9, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Ignore Immigration's Benefits to the U.S.;
Glue of Our Society

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 179 words



To the Editor:

Leave it to two economists to reduce the immigration issue to economic growth
factors and natives versus immigrants (Op-Ed, Dec. 10). Certainly the United
States cannot admit immigrants without regard to economic considerations. But
why do American politicians persist in presenting immigration in almost
exclusively economic terms?

American society is largely held together by the glue of shared ideals that are
political, not cultural. Most of this country's finest universities seek out
international students because their unique perspectives foster intellectual
growth. Why not then view immigrants as potential invigorators of the democratic
system and as people who bring cultural offerings that cannot be measured
monetarily?

If there is one "critical issue" in the immigration debate, it is not relative
material well-being but that the debate reveals a country where making money has
supplanted political ideals. The country of immigrants has become a country of
capitalists.

MEGAN MC CARTHY
San Francisco, Dec. 10, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Ignore Immigration's Benefits to the U.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 223 words



To the Editor:

George J. Borjas and Richard B. Freeman, in their Dec. 10 Op-Ed article on the
economic impact of immigration, write as if the United States economy operated
in isolation and American immigration policy could be constructed as if its
major influences stemmed from within our borders. In fact, the United States
must respond to global pressures. The skills, contacts and labor of immigrants
help assure the viability of American companies, securing employment for both
newcomers and native-born workers.

Mr. Borjas and Mr. Freeman also exacerbate social tensions when they write, "The
critical issue is how much we care about the well-being of immigrants compared
with that of the Americans who win and the Americans who lose." It is divisive
and inaccurate to posit an inevitable competition between immigrants and
Americans.

Immigrants are part of the same families as natives and become part of our
society. The businesses they create benefit us all. Only by falsely conceiving
of them as outsiders can Mr. Borjas and Mr. Freeman focus on the problems rather
than on the contributions they have made and will continue to make to this
society.

GARY E. RUBIN
New York, Dec. 10, 1997

The writer is assistant executive vice president for public policy, New York
Association for New Americans.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Agent Fired During Raid On Migrants, Report Finds

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Dec. 11


At least one Federal immigration agent fired shots at migrant workers during a
raid on a cabbage farm in Genesee County last month, investigators from the
Sheriff's Department concluded in a report released today.

Seven agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service who had been at the
farm told investigators that they had neither fired their handguns nor heard any
gunshots, Sheriff Gary Maha said. An eighth I.N.S. agent who had been at the
scene refused to speak with investigators, Sheriff Maha said.

Sheriff Maha said, however, that one agent was overheard telling a bystander
that "they were just shooting at their legs." The agent said to have made the
comment later denied it, the sheriff said.

Top officials with the immigration service have speculated that the gunshots
reported by witnesses to the Nov. 5 raid may have come from turkey or pheasant
hunters.

"The conclusion is that shots were fired by one or more of the I.N.S. agents,"
said the report released by Lawrence Friedman, the Genesee County District
Attorney.

Mr. Friedman said that he found no basis for criminal prosecution.
"Nonetheless," he added, "such conduct would appear to constitute a violation of
I.N.S. regulations."

Sheriff Maha said that investigators interviewed dozens of individuals,
including migrant workers and the immigration service agents, and conducted an
extensive investigation at the scene before concluding that at least three shots
had been fired.

"We don't think any agent shot at anybody" intending to do bodily harm, said
Sheriff Maha, who agreed with the District Attorney that there was no cause for
criminal charges.

"It's a matter for the I.N.S. to handle internally," he said.

John J. Ingham, director of the immigration service for the Buffalo district,
declined to comment on the report, which he said he had not seen. He said the
agency's Washington headquarters was overseeing a separate internal
investigation.

"Until such time as that investigation is concluded," he said, "it would be
inappropriate for me to comment."

Mr. Ingham said the agency has a national policy outlining appropriate use of
firearms, in cases, for example, where a person's life is in danger. He said he
had no reason to believe that agents did not adhere to that policy.

At the time of the shooting, 7:30 A.M., Herbert Bateman, a neighboring farmer,
said he heard at least five shots, although he said he had not seen any shots
being fired. He said one agent at the scene acknowledged shooting at the
workers' legs.

Representative Bill Paxon, a Republican from upstate New York, called for an
investigation after the raid. He said today that he was troubled by what had
been concluded.

"Just last month, officials from the I.N.S. were publicly denying that the
incident ever took place," he said. "The sheriff's conclusion is to the
contrary."

Mr. Paxon called for a "full accounting" from the Commissioner of the
immigration service, Doris Meissner, and Attorney General Janet Reno and "an
explanation on what action they intend to take" in light of the conclusion that
immigration service policies may have been violated.

Immigration agents had stopped three vans carrying migrant workers when some of
the passengers jumped and ran away into a field, Sheriff Maha said.

A resident in the area reported gunfire to the state police, who sped to the
scene and learned of the raid, Sheriff Maha said.

"One of the concerns I have is they don't notify local law enforcement," he
said. "It's common courtesy; they should."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'Now We Are Ashamed'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Attila Hegyi, a 26-year-old Hungarian, arrived at Kennedy Airport in New York on
the afternoon of Sept. 6. He had a visitor's visa, issued at the U.S. Embassy in
Budapest, but he was not admitted. Instead he found himself badgered into
signing documents he did not understand, then sent back to Hungary and barred
from the United States for five years -- without explanation.

What happened to Mr. Hegyi is a concrete example of what the 1996 Immigration
Act blandly calls "expedited removal." The account that follows is taken from
statements sworn by Mr. Hegyi before the U.S. Consul General in Budapest.

An I.N.S. officer questioned Mr. Hegyi at length about visits he made in 1994-95
and 1996-97. On the first of the earlier visits Mr. Hegyi overstayed his visa by
three months. He was nevertheless given a visa for the next visit, and an
extension to that. The officer was skeptical about the extension and could not
seem to find a record of it in his computer.

The first hour and a half or two of the interrogation was in English, which Mr.
Hegyi speaks badly and has trouble understanding. Then, suddenly, the officer
began speaking in Hungarian. After two more hours he said his name was Doczy.

Mr. Hegyi has an arthritic condition that causes severe pain. When he asked if
he could sit down, officer Doczy replied, "Don't screw around with me, because
I'm working hard, too. O.K., you want to sit down, you can sit on your ass." He
handcuffed Mr. Hegyi's ankle to a bench. When Mr. Hegyi said he was hungry, the
officer gave him nothing to eat but went off for dinner himself.

When officer Doczy returned, he asked Mr. Hegyi to sign a document that he said
was a record of his questions and Mr. Hegyi's answers. Mr. Hegyi's sworn
statement says:

"I told him that although I spoke a little English, I had no idea what he had
written. . . . I also told him I was tired. It was between 10 and 11 P.M.,
although as I had flown in from Hungary that day it felt much later to me. Doczy
then threw his pencil down on his desk and said, 'if you don't sign this, we
won't be able to decide your future. If you sign, I'll go to my boss and we'll
reach a speedy conclusion.' "

Mr. Hegyi signed the document -- and some others that officer Doczy then
produced. "At about midnight," he says, "two guards came and took me out of the
room. That is when Doczy said the papers I had signed barred me from entering
the U.S. for five years. He did not tell me why this decision had been reached."

For the rest of the night he was handcuffed to a backless bench. In pain, he
asked the guards to be put on one with a back. They refused. At 6 A.M. he was
given coffee and a roll, his first food in 18 hours.

He had brought some gifts with him for his intended hosts, Judy and Tibor
Horvath. They were taken from his luggage, he says, and never returned.

What happened to Mr. Hegyi leaves aching questions. It may be that officer Doczy
thought his long stays in the last few years showed an intention to live here.
But why should someone with a duly issued United States visa be barred in such a
summary way, with no real chance for him to appreciate what is going on? Is it
I.N.S. policy to have officers badger someone into signing documents that he
does not fully comprehend?

A lawsuit now before the courts contends that the new law's "expedited removal"
process was designed for people who reach our borders with fraudulent travel
documents or none at all, not those with visas. In any event, someone thus
excluded should surely be given a reason.

Beyond law and policy, there is a question of American values. That was the
point seen by Tibor Horvath, who had expected Mr. Hegyi as a guest.

"I was born in Hungary," Mr. Horvath said, "where I lived under Nazism as a
small child and later Communism. I fought against the Communists in the 1956
revolution, and shortly after the Soviet tanks rolled in, escaped. . . . I came
to the U.S.A., worked hard and proudly became a citizen. Until now my wife, who
was born here, and I have been telling friends and relatives in Hungary what a
great country this is, where civil liberties are respected. Now we are ashamed."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Smuggler Of Chinese Is Rearrested

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 591 words


Four and a half years ago an Indonesian mariner named Amir Humuntal Lumban
Tobing was at the center of one of the most notorious smuggling cases in recent
American history.

He was the captain of the Golden Venture, the decrepit freighter that was run
aground off Queens in June 1993 with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants
aboard, 10 of whom drowned or died from hypothermia after they swam toward shore
while virtually all the rest were quickly seized.

After serving 41 months in prison for his role in the voyage -- then being
deported in February -- Mr. Tobing has now been arrested again. This time,
Federal authorities say he was involved in another ill-fated smuggling scheme,
an attempt to sneak 5,000 pounds of marijuana into the United States from Asia.

In the early morning darkness of Dec. 1, the crew of a Coast Guard cutter
spotted the silhouette of a 54-foot sailboat, its running lights off, five miles
off the Washington State coast near the Canadian border, prosecutors in Seattle
said. As members of the cutter's crew prepared to board the craft, the
prosecutors said, it erupted in flames, and the three men on it -- two Americans
and Mr Tobing -- jumped into a rubber dinghy or the chilly Pacific waters. They
were scooped up and have been indicted on drug-smuggling charges.

As part of his plea deal in the Golden Venture case, Mr. Tobing admitted to one
smuggling-conspiracy count and cooperated with Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn
against his fellow conspirators while the Government dropped additional charges
against him, his lawyer in that case, Alan Drezin, said this week. Once back in
Indonesia, Mr. Drezin said, Mr. Tobing would send him occasional postcards in
which he said, "I'm doing O.K."

Although Mr. Tobing's latest arrest -- after what appeared to be a harrowing
two-and-half-month journey across the Pacific from Thailand -- was bad news for
the 48-year-old Indonesian, it could be good news for the prosecutors in
Brooklyn. They still have one more defendant to prosecute in the Golden Venture
case, in which 21 conspirators have already pleaded guilty, and this gives them
more leverage to get Mr. Tobin's testimony again.

The remaining defendant, Lee Peng Fei, is accused of masterminding the
operation. Now that Mr. Tobing is once more subject to the American criminal
justice system, "we're considering the option of interviewing him to see if we
should use him" in Mr. Lee's trial, said Jodi Avergun, an assistant United
States attorney in Brooklyn.

During his earlier cooperation in the case, Mr. Tobing said that Mr. Lee had
hired him as the Golden Venture's captain, but that in a dispute at sea the
smugglers' chief representative on board had deposed him as captain and he was
not in control when the ship was intentionally grounded.

David S. Marshall of Seattle, Mr. Tobing's lawyer in his latest case, said his
client was innocent of the marijuana-smuggling charges.

The prosecutor, Bonnie MacNaughton, an assistant United States attorney, said
the illicit cargo had a wholesale value of perhaps $10 million, and that one of
the other two men on the boat had set it on fire in an appartent effort to
destroy the evidence. She said the men had picked up the cargo off the coast of
Thailand and had endured two typhoons during a two-and-a-half-month journey in
which the boat's motor died early on.

"They're lucky to have gotten here," she said.

On the other hand, if convicted of the charges, Mr. Tobing and the others would
each face between 10 years and life in prison.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Honesty on Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words



To the Editor:

George J. Borjas and Richard B. Freeman, in their Dec. 10 Op-Ed article on the
National Academy of Sciences report on immigration, attribute statements to me
that I never made. They assert that I fail to mention that the bulk of the
increase of the gross national product from immigration goes to the immigrants
themselves. In fact, I go out of my way to make precisely that point.

They claim that I have argued that the drop in wages in low-skill jobs caused by
immigration are good for the less skilled because it gives them an incentive to
finish school. While these wage cuts do provide such an incentive, it would be
absurd to argue that less skilled workers are better off, and I have never done
so.

I am proud of the quality of scholarship and balance reflected in the report.
The public presentations that my colleagues and I will continue to make on the
report reflect that balance.

JAMES P. SMITH
Santa Monica, Calif., Dec. 11, 1997

The writer was chairman of the National Academy of Sciences panel on
immigration.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 16, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Has Made Improvements, Auditors Find

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15


Eight months ago, Government-hired auditors found that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had largely ignored its own set of sweeping new
safeguards, meant to prevent immigrants with certain criminal records from
becoming citizens.

Only 1 of the 24 agency offices surveyed fully met the new standards. Doris M.
Meissner, the Commissioner of the immigration service, was so upset by the
findings that she immediately summoned the agency's 33 field directors to
Washington for a dressing down and ordered remedial training for 200 clerks and
adjudicators.

Apparently, something worked.

The auditors from the accounting firm, KPMG Peat Marwick, concluded in their
final review that the agency had largely cleaned up its citizenship program.
They found that 4 of the 24 offices failed the review, but suggested that their
errors could be readily corrected.

"The I.N.S. has made significant improvements in the internal controls of the
naturalization process and greatly reduced the risk of incorrectly naturalizing
an applicant," said the report, which the agency plans to make public on
Tuesday.

The audit is a rare piece of good news for the beleaguered immigration agency,
which over the last year has been accused by Republicans in Congress of bending
to White House pressure to improperly naturalize thousands of immigrants in time
to vote, presumably for President Clinton, in the November 1996 elections. The
Administration has denied the accusations.

A battery of immigration service lawyers and examiners in Charleston, S.C., are
poring over the cases of thousands of newly naturalized immigrants to determine
how many have criminal records that should have disqualified them. The
Government has already begun proceedings to revoke the citizenship of about
1,000 people.

In addition, Mrs. Meissner announced last month that the agency would
fingerprint citizenship applicants in-house instead of contracting with
independent companies. The agency hopes this procedural change will reduce fraud
and insure better quality fingerprints, which the Federal Bureau of
Investigation uses for its criminal background checks of applicants for
citizenship.

The agency's critics on Capitol Hill, however, took little comfort in the
audit's findings.

"It is no surprise that after widespread public criticism, the Administration
has cleaned up its act," said Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican
who heads the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. "The real question
is, when is the I.N.S. going to correct its mistakes, which continue to haunt
the Administration?"

KPMG Peat Marwick's initial audit of the naturalization program in April was a
list of bureaucratic horrors. In some of the 24 offices surveyed, which account
for about 85 percent of the citizenship applications, auditors discovered that
three versions of the new safeguards had been issued.

Some offices had no record of training clerks in the new procedures, which are
meant to guarantee the accuracy of applicants' biographical information and the
integrity of their fingerprints. Many clerks apparently ignored new checklists,
filled out fingerprint forms improperly and then sent the forms to the wrong
addresses for processing.

In addition to Mrs. Meissner's response to that initial audit, the Justice
Department assigned one of its top troubleshooters, Robert K. Bratt, to help
straighten out the problems.

Under Mr. Bratt's guidance, and some stern warnings from Congress, the
citizenship program seems to be back on track, the audit said. At each of the
same 24 offices that they revisited in the last two months, auditors examined as
many as 100 individual case files and 100 fingerprint cards. Auditors judged the
files on four measurements related to the fingerprint checks and how well
supervisors reviewed the applications.

Twenty offices, including one in Newark and one in Garden City, N.Y., passed.
The four sites that failed one or more of the measurements were the district
offices in Phoenix, Dallas, El Paso and Omaha. Agency officials said today that
the mistakes cited were clerical errors and did not result in any criminals
receiving citizenship.

"We're pleased," one Justice Department official, who insisted on anonymity,
said, adding, "By and large, the program works."

Congress and the Administration have been forced to pay closer attention to the
citizenship program as the number of applicants exceeded 1.6 million in the
fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30.

In addition to the KPMG Peat Marwick audit, the immigration service is working
with another consultant, Coopers & Lybrand, to overhaul the entire citizenship
program, beginning early next year.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 17, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CLINTON EXPECTED TO SPARE HAITIANS FROM DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16


President Clinton is expected in the next several days to invoke a rarely used
executive authority to exempt up to 20,000 Haitians for at least a year from
strict new deportation rules that would make it more difficult for most to stay
here.

The decision underscores a continuing clash on immigrant policy between the
White House and the Republican Congress, with the President moving to roll back
approved Congressional measures that he considers harsh.

Congress itself agreed in the waning days of the recent session to soften its
stand by exempting from the deportation rules it approved in 1996 hundreds of
thousands of refugees from civil wars in Central America, including Nicaraguans
and Salvadorans. But Haitians were left out of the deal.

Since mid-November, White House and Justice Department officials have debated an
interim strategy to shield a large group of Haitians from deportation, while
Congress has debated long-term remedies. Most of the Haitians that would be
covered by the exemption fled from the military regime that was ousted when an
American-led peacekeeping force entered Haiti in September 1994.

Attorney General Janet Reno could simply have ordered immigration officials to
temporarily halt deportation proceedings against the Haitians, the minimum the
Administration had promised. But Administration officials decided to elevate the
decision to Mr. Clinton's level and cast it in foreign policy terms.

They contended that sending thousands of Haitians back to Haiti when United
Nations peacekeeping troops have pulled out could destabilize an already fragile
government. Moreover, the Haitians would not qualify for work permits if their
prosecutions were merely suspended.

"It is important to the health and well-being of Haiti to do it this way," said
one White House official involved in the decision.

Under the Presidential directive, Haitians who filed for political asylum by
Dec. 31, 1995, or who were screened into the United States from the refugee camp
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by that date, would be covered. Haitian immigrant
groups estimate that this could affect 15,000 to 20,000 people. The authority
would last at least a year, an Administration official said.

The new immigration law makes it more difficult for immigrants to avoid
deportation. It requires an immigrant to have lived here for 10 years and to
show good moral character; the old law also required good moral character, but
only seven years' residency. The new law also increased the standard of danger
an applicant or family member would face if deported.

This would be only the second time that Mr. Clinton has invoked his authority to
suspend deportation proceedings, called deferred enforced departure. In the
first instance he simply extended the protection granted to Salvadorans by
President Bush in 1992. Mr. Bush used the authority two other times: for Chinese
students after the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, and for Kuwaitis after the
Persian Gulf war.

The fate of the Haitians has stirred passions in Congress. The Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration will hold a hearing in Miami on Wednesday to discuss
a bill sponsored by the panel's chairman, Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of
Michigan, and Florida's Senators -- Bob Graham, the Democrat, and Connie Mack,
the Republican -- that would grant 15,000 to 20,000 Haitians automatic permanent
residency.

A bill pending in the House, sponsored by Representative Carrie P.  Meek, a
Florida Democrat whose Miami district has a large concentration of Haitians,
would cover any Haitian who has been in the United States since Dec. 31, 1995,
or about 140,000 people.

The Administration has not said which bill, if either, it would support.

Lawmakers who support shielding the Haitians from deportation cheered the
Administration's decision. "Because of the intense opposition in Congress to
fairness for Haitian refugees, it is especially symbolic that the President
himself has acted to halt these unjust deportations," Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, said.

Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida, one of only two Republicans to
support the House bill, said, "The action by the Administration is warranted and
welcome."

But some Haitian advocacy groups greeted the Administration's decision with
calculated reserve. "This approach is better than what currently exists, but the
big question is how many people will be eligible?" said Jocelyn McCalla,
executive director of the National Coalition for Haitian Rights in New York.

These advocates fear that the Administration's approach may leave thousands of
Haitians without relief.

The White House's fiercest critic on immigrant policy lambasted the decision.
"This is political pandering of the worst type," said Representative Lamar S.
Smith, a Texas Republican who heads the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration.

Mr. Smith is so feared within the Justice Department that Administration
officials said one reason they decided to invoke Mr. Clinton's foreign policy
authority was to spare Ms. Reno and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
criticism from Mr. Smith that the Government was trying to evade the law.

Others expressed concern that the White House would try to use immigration as a
wedge issue. "The Administration will use this policy to embarrass Republicans,"
said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican. "But this
Administration has done absolutely nothing for the Haitians all these years."


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Money, Not Miracles, Is Reviving South Bronx;
Dominican Women

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 133 words



To the Editor:

Your Dec. 16 news article on New York City's Dominican households is poignant
for its accurate and sad reflection of an immigrant group in crisis. But the
observation that Josefina Disla and other women abandoned by husbands have been
left to "pick up the pieces" needs some qualification.

The Herculean maintenance by these women of the emotional stability of their
families is extraordinary. But the three critical pieces in their struggles --
welfare, Medicaid and food stamps -- are not of their creation. And the wisdom
of continuing to provide this indispensable assistance to immigrant,
non-English- speaking, barely employable, growing families has been the most
contentious political issue of the last two years.

ROBERT CISNEROS
New York, Dec. 16, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 23, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Plans to Raise Its Fees

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which retreated in September from
plans for fee increases after an outcry by lawmakers and advocacy groups, has
said it would make a new effort in 1998.

The agency is preparing a plan that would substantially increase more than two
dozen of the fees it charges for such services as processing naturalization
applications, issuing border crossing cards and renewing green cards for
resident aliens. The current fee scale has been in place since 1994.

The proposed increases will be published soon in the Federal Register, but the
agency will allow several months for public comment before putting them into
effect, the head of the agency, Doris Meissner, said in an Associated Press
interview.

Mrs. Meissner was quick to add that she would not allow the increases to take
effect until the agency had proved that its often-criticized service had
improved. In September, she made a similar pledge to Congress.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 23, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Appeal in Murder Cites International Treaty

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 520 words


When Carlos Alberto Cevallos Bermeo was convicted last month in the kidnapping
and murder of a Palisades Park, N.J., woman, Hudson County prosecutors sought to
add him to the 14 convicts on New Jersey's death row.

But a treaty signed in Vienna more than 30 years ago could offer Mr. Cevallos
Bermeo, a 24-year-old immigrant from Ecuador who was also convicted of murdering
his girlfriend last year, a reprieve.

Mr. Cevallos Bermeo's fate hangs on a provision of the Vienna Convention on
Consular Relations. Ratified in 1963 by the United States, Ecuador and about 160
other countries, the treaty requires that citizens of one country arrested in
another country be offered the opportunity to consult with the local consulate
or embassy representing their Government. At issue in this case is what happens
when law enforcement officials do not follow the treaty's requirements.

Lawyers for Mr. Cevallos Bermeo, a native of Guayaquil, Ecuador, who immigrated
to the United States in 1993, have asked Judge Thomas Olivieri of Superior Court
to overturn the convictions because, they argued, the Hudson County prosecutors
failed to abide by the treaty.

The Ecuadorean Consul General in Jersey City, Juan M. Leoro, joined their plea,
contending in a letter to the judge on Friday that Mr. Cevallos Bermeo's rights
under the Vienna Convention had been violated. Mr. Leoro also asked the judge
not to impose the death penalty, noting that Ecuador abolished executions in
1906.

Hudson County prosecutors conceded that they did not know of the treaty and had
failed to inform Ecuadorean Government officials early on in the case. Still, an
assistant prosecutor, Debra Simon, argued that a violation of international law
should not be used to overturn a criminal conviction in a New Jersey state
court.

Judge Olivieri is expected to announce his decision this afternoon, lawyers for
both sides said.

The case of Mr. Cevallos Bermeo comes as State Department officials are making
efforts to remind law enforcement agencies around the country of their
obligations under the Vienna Convention.

The State Department is acting after receiving a formal complaint from the
Government of Mexico about a Mexican man in Texas who had been convicted of
murder and executed. Mexican officials had charged that the man, Irineo Tristan
Montoya, had not been informed of his rights under the Vienna Convention.

In the New Jersey case, Mr. Cevallos Bermeo was convicted in October 1996 of
murdering his girlfriend, Irma Sanchez, in a Bergen County motel in March 1995.
Last month, he was convicted in the 1994 murder of Andrea Lugardo Tarasoff, 40,
of Palisades Park. Mr. Cevallos Bermeo maintained his innocence in that slaying,
but prosecutors said they had found his fingerprints on a car next to the
woman's body. The two women also had similar wounds: Both had been asphyxiated
and their faces and throats had been slashed.

The Hudson County Prosecutor's office is seeking the death penalty for Mr.
Cevallos Bermeo in the slaying of Ms. Tarasoff. Jury selection in the sentencing
trial is scheduled to begin next month.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 24, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Trial of Ecuadorean Breached Consular Treaty, Judge Rules

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Dec. 23


Hudson County prosecutors violated an international treaty when they arrested,
tried, and ultimately obtained a murder conviction against an immigrant from
Ecuador without advising Ecuadorean diplomats in the United States, a Superior
Court judge ruled today.

But the judge, Thomas Oliveiri, upheld the conviction of the immigrant, Carlos
Alberto Cevallos, ruling that the prosecutors' mistake had not prejudiced his
case in any way. The ruling clears the way for a jury to begin considering next
month whether to sentence him to death.

Mr. Cevallos, 24, was convicted last month of murdering Andrea Lugardo Tarasoff,
a 40-year-old from Palisades Park, N.J. In October of last year he was convicted
of killing his girlfriend, Irma Sanchez, a crime for which he was sentenced to
30 years to life.

Seeking to save Mr. Cevallos from a death sentence, his lawyers argued to Judge
Oliveiri that Mr. Cevallos's rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations were violated. The treaty, ratified in 1963 by the United States,
Ecuador and about 160 other countries, requires that citizens of one country
arrested in another country be offered the opportunity to consult with the local
consulate or embassy representing their Government.

"It's what American citizens who are traveling abroad have, a right to get in
touch with their Government," Adam Jacobs, one of Mr. Cevallos's lawyers, said.

But the judge, while acknowledging that Mr. Cevallos should have been given that
right, refused to overturn his conviction, saying Mr. Cevallos's rights under
the United States Constitution were respected. He had two public defenders and a
fair trial, the judge said.

Mr. Jacobs and lawyers for the Government of Ecuador said they would appeal the
judge's decision and file a complaint with the State Department. They said that
if Mr. Cevallos had received help from his Government, the case may have turned
out differently.

Juan M. Leoro, the Ecuadorean Consul General in Jersey City, said his government
would have paid for a private criminal lawyer to handle Mr. Cevallos's case.

"It's not that we doubt the professionalism of the public defenders in any way,"
Mr. Leoro said. "But they have too much on their plates. We would have provided
a lawyer that concentrated solely on his case."

The case is of particular interest to the Ecuadorean Government because Ecuador
abolished the death penalty almost a century ago. Mr. Cevallos, who came to the
United States as a legal resident in 1993, has maintained that he is innocent.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

As Korea Faces Economic Crisis, Emigrants Feel a Sad Vindication

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1605 words


Heung Choi and her husband, Eung, came to America in 1974, long before South
Korea's economic miracle. Then, as they struggled and built a new life running a
small bookstore in Manhattan, they saw South Korea blossom with sudden riches,
and found themselves wondering about the immigrant's path they had chosen.

"In Korea, people would say, 'Immigrants are beggars,' " Mrs. Choi said. "So it
became hard to say 100 percent that we made a good choice to come over here."

But now, as South Korea tries to dig out from a staggering crisis in its
currency and economy, the tables have turned again. Although the Chois say they
are full of sorrow, rage and shame about the plight of their homeland, their
lives in America have suddenly taken on a new meaning. The burdens of
immigrating -- and learning a new culture and language -- were not a mistake,
after all.

"I am so relieved to be here," Mrs. Choi said.

The story of South Korea's economic crisis is for the most part a global tale of
multinational corporations and geopolitics, but it is also an American story,
intimate and personal -- and full of emotions that are far more complicated than
old-fashioned sympathy.

In Korean neighborhoods in New York and across the nation, the spasm of
austerity and patriotic self-denial that has gripped much of South Korea has
found its mirror image in a sense of complicated, ambiguous victory.

From greengrocer workers in Manhattan to shoppers in the strip malls of
Koreatown in Los Angeles, Korean-Americans said the humbling of their homeland
had produced an unexpected flush of vindication -- sometimes expressed openly,
sometimes only quietly, almost guiltily: A poorer South Korea makes the
sacrifices of immigrants in America easier to justify.

But at the same time, many said they were tortured and distressed and ashamed at
South Korea's economic humiliation, and they have thrown themselves into various
local efforts to show solidarity with the austerity drive back home.

Answering an appeal by the Korean Association of New York to "send $100 home,"
immigrants have stood in long lines at Korean-owned banks to transfer money to
relatives. Christmas parties have been canceled. The tradition of taking
co-workers and clients to dinner has become muted, hurting restaurants from
Flushing to Fort Lee, N.J. Store owners on Union Boulevard, the main Korean
commercial strip in Flushing, say that shoppers are simply not buying.

The monetary crisis has had more direct consequences as well -- especially in
areas tied to tourism, which has fallen off sharply. That has hurt restaurants,
hotels and travel agencies, particularly in New York and Los Angeles, which have
the two largest Korean communities in the nation.

In Los Angeles, the annual holiday influx of Koreans flying in to visit
relatives -- or to continue on to the gambling tables of Las Vegas -- simply did
not materialize this year. Export sales to South Korea have stalled.

"Deals that were supposed to close in recent weeks didn't," said Y. B. Kim, who
heads the Korean-American Family Services Center, a social services agency based
in Los Angeles. "It's almost impossible to do business with Korea at this
point."

But to a greater degree, by embracing the spirit of austerity, Korean-Americans
have hurt themselves.

"They're not spending money -- they're sending it home," said David Kim, the
owner of Ace Golf Shop in Flushing, which was empty and silent on a recent
afternoon.

The South Korean economy, meanwhile, has continued its wild ride. On Tuesday,
the nation's currency, the won, hit another low against the dollar, rising
slightly on Wednesday. The stock market in Seoul fell 7.5 percent on Tuesday and
4 percent more on Wednesday. (The markets were closed on Christmas Day.)
Political uncertainty and speculation run rampant about what policies
President-elect Kim Dae Jung will follow when he takes office in February.

Almost as unsettling, in the Koreatowns of America at least, is the seething
question of blame.

Through much of the 1990's, as South Korea grew rich, immigrants began to resent
the lavish spending habits of their newly affluent Korean cousins back home, and
to bridle at what they said were the sometimes patronizing attitudes about the
American immigrants' life and the often backbreaking work it demanded. The
immigrants predicted that dire consequences would result from the profligacy and
arrogance they witnessed. Now they say the crisis has proven them right, but at
a terrible cost.

"In a way, I think Korean immigrants are relieved by what has happened," said
Pyong Gap Min, a professor of sociology at Queens College who immigrated in the
early 1970's. "They can say, 'My choice to immigrate was better.' "

"But feelings are very conflicted," he added. "On the one hand, they are
relieved. On the other hand, it's their home country, so they are concerned."

Mr. Kim at the Ace Golf Shop in Flushing said he thought everything was changing
-- what it meant to be Korean and to be American and how to live between those
worlds. When he last visited South Korea in 1993, he said that people would meet
him and say, "There's an American beggar, let's buy him a beer."

"I think a lot more Koreans might prefer the American dream now," he said.

Indeed, in many ways there are two completely different American dreams for
Koreans in New York. One became familiar through the 1970's and 1980's as
immigrants entered the fruit and vegetable business. Families working together
through endless days in tidy shops became a symbol of immigrant success. Since
1980, the Korean-American population in the New York metropolitan area --
immigrants and their American-born children -- has doubled, to about 400,000,
according to the Korean Association of New York.

Growing wealth in South Korea in the 1990's pushed a second wave of arrivals,
this time with money in their pockets. At Columbia University's American
Language Program, for example, which costs more $30,000 a year for an
English-language immersion program, South Korea overtook Japan in the last few
years as the country with the most foreign students.

The rising wealth in Asia also encouraged many South Korean companies to expand
in America, but experts on the New York Korean community said that relatively
little money flowed back the other way. Few Korean-Americans in New York have
been hurt by, say, falling real-estate values in Seoul -- though travel agents
report many would-be investors from New York flying there now to look for
bargains.

At the Chois' bookstore, the economic effects are decidedly mixed. The price of
books shipped by Korean publishers has fallen because of the shifts in currency
exchange rates. But publishers, frantic for dollars, are demanding immediate
payment on everything they ship, and that more than cancels out any benefit.

"I thought nothing would affect here," Mrs. Choi said. "But here and there is
all connected, I see now. Everything is a circle."

But many attitudes and perceptions that have divided Koreans and
Korean-Americans still persist. At a meeting of Korean-born and American-born
Korean students arranged for a reporter at a Columbia University dormitory, one
student, Brian Chang, sputtered about the "disgusting" examples of waste, like
expensive cars, on which some South Korean students had spent their parents'
money.

"In some ways, I think Korea got too rich too fast and couldn't handle the
responsibility," said Mr. Chang, the son of Korean immigrants, who is studying
engineering management. Then he hastened to apologize to Korean-born friends in
the room who, he stressed, were not at all like that.

Ivy Kim is not so apologetic.

"The foreign students, they need this knock in the head," said Ms. Kim, a
23-year-old clerk in her mother's clothing store in Flushing, which is called
Rainbow Fashion. But she is also not without compassion. One of her best
friends, she said, is a foreign student -- a senior at the New York Institute of
Technology, who was one semester from graduation when the crisis in South Korea
struck.

Ms. Kim has been trying to talk her friend into living with her in Queens,
saving the $1,500 a month in Manhattan rent she is paying now, and finishing her
degree. The only other alternative for her friend, Ms. Kim said, is to return to
Korea immediately. Though her friend's family is still sending money, it doesn't
go far enough now to pay the bills.

Some students, from both wealthy and more humble circumstances, have already
left, or decided that they cannot stay.

Eunsook Jee, a 22-year-old college student with a shy smile and clunky
black-framed glasses, came to America last spring with no greater ambition than
to learn English. She took a job in a Korean restaurant by night and studied
English by day at Queens College. But her family has told her she must return
home, three months early, and this week she sat in a travel agent's office in
Flushing, checking prices.

The reasons are at least partly financial, Ms. Jee said, especially the nearly
doubled cost of her expenses in America. But perhaps from pride, or to save
face, her parents have offered another explanation as well, she said.

"They say they miss me," Ms. Jee said.

Mrs. Choi, at the bookstore, said the crisis reinforced her belief that
dependable, solid looking surfaces can lie.

"We thought we were doing so well,' she said. "Now all of sudden, for nothing,
there is no money in the bank -- we don't know how these things happen," she
said, referring to the South Korean economy. "I feel so, so, embarrassed, and so
annoyed -- very mixed."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 1998, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article on Dec. 26 about the effect of South Korea's economic turmoil on
Korean immigrants in New York referred imprecisely to costs at Columbia
University's American Language Program, where students from Korea form the
largest group. A full year's tuition is $12,693; the $30,000 figure represented
not only tuition but also room and board.


GRAPHIC: Photos: "I think Korea got too rich too fast," said Brian Chang, third
from left, the son of Korean immigrants. He and other Korean-American and Korean
students at Columbia University talked about South Korea's problems. Heung Choi
and her husband, Eung Choi, immigrated in 1974 and run a Korean bookstore in
Manhattan. "I am so relieved to be here," she said. "They're not spending money
-- they're sending it home," said David Kim, in his Queens golf shop.
(Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Political Truth Sent From Paris, Like Fashion;
U.S. Is No Different

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words



To the Editor:

Tony Judt concludes his Dec. 22 Op-Ed article with an analytical contrast
between Communism and Nazism: "There is a difference between regimes that
exterminate people in the inhuman pursuit of an arbitrary objective and those
whose objective is extermination itself."

That is a pretty frail distinction, since arbitrary objectives are so easy to
create, but the real danger is falling into the trap of failing to see how the
United States has also engaged in the extermination of people in the inhuman
pursuit of an arbitrary objective. Vietnam is but one example.

THOMAS R. MILLER
Oakland, Calif., Dec. 22, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

MAKING IT WORK;
Cover to Cover

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 145 words


Rabbi Amnun Khaimov and his band of Bukharan Jews had survived the Russians,
they had survived the Muslims, but as new immigrants in Corona, Queens, the
community was crumbling. "It is a dark time," the rabbi said.

A week after the article "The Rabbi's Lost Tribe" (Nov. 16), Rabbi Khaimov paid
a visit to his nemesis, Yitzchak Yehoshua, the most powerful Bukharan rabbi in
America, whom he had publicly called a thief. By both men's account, they came
to an understanding: there would be a thaw in their cold war. They would work
together to help the Bukharan Jews in Corona. The two shook hands on it. Things
have improved. The temple in Corona, where a number of Mr. Khaimov's followers
worship, now has heat. And today, a colleague of Rabbi Yehoshua's will host a
symposium at the synagogue to teach Jewish custom and culture to the Bukharans.
   CHARLIE LeDUFF

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Detention Centers Need Monitoring

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 269 words



To the Editor:

Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, is quoted by Anthony Lewis ("A
Generous Country," column, Dec. 22) as saying, in response to Mr. Lewis's
question about the Immigration and Naturalization Service's admitted
mistreatment of individuals at the United States border, "It's not the fault of
the law. . . . It's the fault of the I.N.S."

This is an evasive response, considering that the I.N.S. is a law enforcement
agency under the command of the Attorney General.

The Justice Department's handling of allegations against I.N.S. employees of
mistreatment of individuals in their custody shows that this mistreatment is a
well-established pattern, not merely "lapses," as Mr. Smith claims.

From 1994 to 1996, for example, the American Friends Service Committee in the
Rio Grande Valley filed 64 complaints -- most of them related to the I.N.S.'s
Port Isabel, Tex., detention center -- with the Department of Justice's watchdog
agency, the Office of the Inspector General. Not a single complaint was even
acknowledged by the inspector general.

And no wonder: as Human Watch-Americas has reported, "Many O.I.G. investigators
are former Border Patrol or I.N.S. agents," and "approximately 98 percent of
I.N.S. abuse cases are eventually handled by the I.N.S. itself."

If I.N.S. Commissioner Doris Meissner and Attorney General Janet Reno were
serious about correcting these abuses, they would allow independent review of
the I.N.S., including regular, unannounced monitoring of the detention centers
on the border and elsewhere.

MARK DOW
Brooklyn, Dec. 22, 1997

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 1, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Is Fueling Cities' Strong Growth, Data Show

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31


The Census Bureau today offered fresh evidence of the impact of immigration on
the country's population in this decade, reporting that several major
metropolitan areas -- notably New York, Los Angeles and Chicago -- grew strongly
even as many longer-term residents left for other parts of the country.

The influx of immigrants helped turn these areas, as well as the Washington, San
Francisco, Seattle, Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston regions, into some of the
biggest gainers in population in the country. Growth in those regions was also
aided by high numbers of births, another side effect of immigration because
immigrant families are more likely to be of child-bearing age, and immigrant
women tend to have higher birth rates than their American-born counterparts.

"If you look at some of the Frost Belt areas like New York and Chicago,
international immigration is very important," said Marc Perry, a demographer
with the Census Bureau. "Their population increases aren't coming from domestic
migration."

Two year-end studies, containing figures for 1990 through 1996, and interviews
with demographers indicate that two years from the end of the century, Americans
are a people in motion, willing to move often and across long distances in
search of better jobs, a more enjoyable or less expensive life style or a strong
support system of family and friends.

The data, from the Census Bureau, will undoubtedly add to the debate over
whether increased competition for jobs in areas where immigrants have clustered
is pushing out people who are already living there, or whether those who depart
would have left anyway, lured by better economic prospects elsewhere.

The impact of immigration on population patterns was derived from two studies
released today: one on population changes state by state and the other on
changes in the country's 273 metropolitan areas -- cities and their surrounding
suburbs.

Sifting through the Census Bureau's data reveals three trends that have
dominated population shifts in the 1990's: Growth remains strongest in the Sun
Belt states of the South and West, which contain the 50 metropolitan areas with
the fastest rates. Las Vegas, Nev., fueled by the economic engine of the
gambling industry, is the fastest-growing metropolitan area in the country. And
the impact of immigrants has been profound.

Perhaps most striking of these involves immigration.

The Census Bureau report on metropolitan areas indicated that 3 of the 10 areas
experiencing the fastest rate of growth -- McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, Tex.;
Laredo, Tex., and Brownsville-Harlingen-San Benito, Tex. -- are in the Rio
Grande Valley and are gateway cities for many immigrants from Mexico.

The report also noted that of the 10 metropolitan areas that have gained the
most people, 8 -- Los Angeles, Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, Washington, New York,
Chicago, San Francisco and Seattle -- have benefited from high levels of
immigration.

Even as some of these regions gain population over all, their central cores
continue to lose people. In New York, for example, Census Bureau demographers
estimate that although the metropolitan area gained nearly 389,000 people from
1990 through 1996, more than 900,000 migrated out from the core area of New
York's five boroughs, plus Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties. The Census
Bureau considers the New York metropolitan region to be this core area, Long
Island and parts of Southern Connecticut, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

In California, more than 1.2 million people left Los Angeles County from 1990
through 1996. But because of immigration and a high number of births, the Los
Angeles metropolitan area gained 963,626 people, making it the biggest gainer in
population of all the country's metropolitan areas.

The same held true last year for California as a whole, according to the report
on state-by-state growth. Last year, the state added more than 410,000 people,
far and away the largest numerical increase of any state. Census Bureau
demographers say that increase is the result of births and immigration, because
California continues to experience the strong levels of domestic out-migration
that it has throughout the 1990's.

As depicted in the Census Bureau reports, the experiences of the Los Angeles
metropolitan area and of Las Vegas graphically illustrate the difficulty in
determining whether immigrants are displacing longer-term resident in some
cities.

According to the Census Bureau, Las Vegas has been the fastest-growing
metropolitan region in the 1990's, increasing by 40.9 percent. Las Vegas' growth
far outpaced the city in the No. 2 spot, Laredo, which grew by 32.7 percent.

Las Vegas' growth rate is based on job growth tied either directly or indirectly
to the area's ever-expanding gambling industry. The rate of population growth is
even more stunning considering that, unlike Laredo, which is a relatively small
area, Las Vegas started out the decade already a large metropolitan area. In
1990, the region's population was 852,646. By July 1996, it stood at more than
1.2 million.

"That just jumps out at you," Mr. Perry said. "It's grown nearly 41 percent in
six years. And it's not starting from a low base."

But unlike Los Angeles, roughly 80 percent of the growth in the Las Vegas area
comes from movement of people already in the country, Mr. Perry said. And many
of those people come from Southern California.

A study conducted by the Department of Comprehensive Planning in Clark County,
Nev., showed that in 1993, 29 percent of the people who moved to the county that
year were from five counties in Southern California -- Los Angeles, Orange, San
Diego, Riverside and San Bernardino. All five of those counties have seen heavy
flows of immigrants in the 1990's.

Such a pattern has caused some demographers, like William Frey of the University
of Michigan, to speculate that low-skilled and low-income whites and blacks are
leaving some major cities in the face of increased competition for jobs from
immigrants, or when they see other economic opportunities elsewhere.

"This is what happens to the native born," Mr. Frey said in an interview today.
"They have other options. When they see increased competition, they go somewhere
else."

But Mr. Frey acknowledges that it is an open question whether those leaving an
area like Los Angeles are being forced out by competition from immigrants, or
lured away by the expanding economic opportunities in Las Vegas.

"There's both pushes and pulls for people who leave," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Table: "AT A GLANCE: Moving In, Moving Out"
A study released yesterday by the United States Census Bureau shows rapid growth
in the metropolitan areas in some states, fueled by immigration, births and the
movement of people already in this country. Table lists Metropolitan Statistical
Areas (M.S.A'.s) (defined as urban concentrations of at least 100,000 people)
with the fastest growth, 1990-1996. It also lists M.S.A.'s and Consolidated
Metropolitan Statistical Areas (defined as large groupings of metropolitan
areas) with the biggest population gains, over the same period.

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
