
                               1 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Yes, No and Maybe on Driver's Licenses

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 548 words


In the Democratic debate on Tuesday night, Tim Russert, the moderator, tried to
pin down  Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on letting illegal immigrants obtain
driver's licenses:

MR. RUSSERT: Senator Clinton, Governor of New York Eliot Spitzer has proposed
giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. You told the Nashua, N.H.,
editorial board it makes a lot of sense. Why does it make a lot of sense to give
an illegal immigrant a driver's license?

MRS. CLINTON: Well, what Governor Spitzer is trying to do is fill the vacuum
left by the failure of this administration to bring about comprehensive
immigration reform.

We know in New York we have several million at any one time who are in New York
illegally. They are undocumented workers. They are driving on our roads. The
possibility of them having an accident that harms themselves or others is just a
matter of the odds. It's probability. So what Governor Spitzer is trying to do
is to fill the vacuum.

I believe we need to get back to comprehensive immigration reform because no
state, no matter how well intentioned, can fill this gap. There needs to be
federal action on immigration reform. ...

After an exchange between Mr. Russert and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of
Connecticut, Mrs. Clinton jumped in:

MRS. CLINTON: I just want to add, I did not say that it should be done, but I
certainly recognize why Governor Spitzer is trying to do it. And we have
failed----

MR. DODD: Wait a minute. No, no, no. You said, yes, you thought it made sense to
do it.

MRS. CLINTON: No, I didn't, Chris. But the point is, what are we going to do
with all these illegal immigrants who are driving?

MR. DODD: Well, that's a legitimate issue. But driver's license goes too far, in
my view.

MRS. CLINTON: Well, you may say that, but what is the identification if somebody
runs into you today who is an undocumented worker----

MR. DODD: There's ways of dealing with that.

MRS. CLINTON: Well, but----

MR. DODD: This is a privilege, not a right.

MRS. CLINTON: Well, what Governor Spitzer has agreed to do is to have three
different licenses --  one that provides identification for actually going onto
airplanes and other kinds of security issues, another which is an ordinary
driver's license  and then a special card that identifies the people who would
be on the road.

MR. DODD: That's a bureaucratic nightmare.

MRS. CLINTON: So it's not the full privilege.

MR. RUSSERT: Senator Clinton, I just want to make sure what I heard. Do you, the
New York Senator Hillary Clinton, support the New York governor's plan to give
illegal immigrants a driver's license? You told the Nashua, N.H., paper it made
a lot of sense.

MRS. CLINTON: It----

MR. RUSSERT: Do you support his plan?

MRS. CLINTON: You know, Tim, this is where everybody plays gotcha. It makes a
lot of sense. What is the governor supposed to do? He is dealing with a serious
problem. We have failed, and George Bush has failed.

Do I think this is the best thing for any governor to do? No. But do I
understand the sense of real desperation, trying to get a handle on this?
Remember, in New York we want to know who's in New York. We want people to come
out of the shadows. He's making an honest effort to do it. We should have passed
immigration reform.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Punitive Arizona

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 177 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Blazing Arizona'' (editorial, Dec. 18):

Arizona's punitive immigration legislation might be the exact experiment the
rest of the country needs to witness to decide how best to handle the illegal
immigration problem.

Currently, a large faction of the country seems to think that we can simply
force undocumented immigrants to go away and that the country will not
experience any serious consequences.

If the Arizona experiment demonstrates that businesses close, labor dries up and
the local economy takes a plunge, the rest of America will wake up to the fact
that these undocumented people are integral to our economy and our daily lives.

In the short term, the Arizona immigrant community will suffer severely, but I
believe that if the rest of the country sees that undocumented immigrants are
vital to our society, we will see a very quick consensus develop for
comprehensive immigration reform.

It is quite possible that the unintended consequences of this legislation will
surprise its boosters. Don George

Atlanta, Dec. 18, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Furor Persists, but New License Plan Gets Support

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words


When Gov. Eliot Spitzer announced last month his plan to offer driver's licenses
to illegal immigrants, he did so with little notice to lawmakers or advocates on
either side of the issue, and even the administration was taken back by the
intensity of the outcry.

Now Mr. Spitzer has taken everyone by surprise again, announcing on Saturday --
at a hastily scheduled news conference in Washington -- a proposal under which
New York would offer three different types of licenses, including one available
to illegal immigrants, while complying with new federal security rules.

The plan drew some new support over the weekend, notably from Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg, who had expressed strong reservations about the original proposal. He
called the new version ''a clear step in the right direction.'' The heads of the
state troopers' union and New York's association of police chiefs also praised
the plan.

But Mr. Spitzer's revised plan was decried by his Republican opponents in the
Legislature, suggesting that the issue will continue to dominate the political
landscape in Albany. Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, accused the
governor of ''arrogantly insisting on giving driver's licenses to illegal
aliens.''

The proposal has also riled lawmakers and advocates who had been strong
defenders of Mr. Spitzer during weeks of public outrage over the original
version of the policy, under which New York would have granted a single license
to citizens, legal residents and illegal immigrants alike.

And it is too early to tell whether Mr. Spitzer's abrupt shift will allay
concerns among New Yorkers for whom the issue of who should get a driver's
license has become entwined with the debate over illegal immigration.

''When something is so emotional, it's hard to get people to leave their emotion
at the door and look more closely at some of the specifics,'' said Assemblyman
Joseph D. Morelle, a Rochester-area Democrat and an ally of the governor's.
''Hopefully, this change will give people an opportunity to do that.''

The revised plan will delay the early steps toward the new licensing procedures
from December until late next year, which may defuse some frustration among
county clerks, who, in most parts of the state, process driver's licenses on
behalf of the State Department of Motor Vehicles.

Kathleen C. Hochul, the Erie County clerk and a leading critic of Mr. Spitzer's
original proposal, said yesterday that she was grateful for the delay, though
she had not yet examined the details. ''This will give us a little more time to
figure it out,'' she said.

Under the revised plan, New York will offer a new, highly secure state driver's
license, known as Real ID. It would be available only to citizens and legal
immigrants and comply with new federal rules, and it could be used to board
domestic flights and enter federal buildings. Two other types of licenses would
be offered: an enhanced driver's license that New Yorkers who are citizens could
use to cross the Canadian border without a passport, and a less expensive,
limited license available to illegal immigrants and others that would not be a
valid federal identification.

The goal, said Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, was to defuse
concerns about security that had been raised in recent weeks while providing a
way for illegal immigrants to obtain licenses. The administration says that
would lower insurance rates, improve public safety and make people living here
illegally more visible.

The license available to illegal immigrants would contain no information about
the holder's immigration status. But some immigrants advocates worried yesterday
that most citizens and legal immigrants would eventually opt for one of the two
federally recognized identifications, branding the third type a de facto license
for illegal immigrants.

''It's separate but unequal,'' said Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, a Manhattan
Democrat who had backed the original plan. ''I'm very disappointed.''

If that becomes the case, the advocates said, illegal immigrants would most
likely not apply for licenses, defeating Mr. Spitzer's original purpose.

''He's kidding himself if he thinks this will bring people out of the shadows,''
said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition,
which organized a protest at Mr. Spitzer's Manhattan office yesterday. ''First
the governor told us, 'You will get apples,''' she added. ''And then he's
saying, 'Now you'll get rotten apples. And, you won't even get your rotten
apples now -- you'll get them later.' It's a double whammy and a double
betrayal.''

Still, after weeks in which Albany Republicans blasted Mr. Spitzer's original
proposal as a threat to national security, the revised plan earned some praise
from Michael Chertoff, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, who
said at Saturday's press conference that the overall proposal ''represents a
major step forward for security, both for New York and for the country.''

Mr. Chertoff, however, said he opposed granting licenses to illegal immigrants,
a fact seized upon by critics of the governor.

''It doesn't really address our concerns,'' said State Senator Tom Libous, a
Republican who is leading hearings on Mr. Spitzer's proposals. ''I think it's a
problem giving illegal immigrants driver's licenses. I think it's wrong and it
creates a security threat.''

And even some allies of the governor questioned whether Mr. Spitzer's proposal
had given the Bush administration a political victory. New York, they noted,
will now be the first large state in the country to agree to implement the new
federal rules, which have been criticized by liberals and conservatives as a
curtailment of civil liberties.

''To many of us, the worst part of the governor's new decision is his
determination to opt into the Real ID Act years before it was necessary,'' said
State Senator Eric Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat who had been a key
supporter of the governor. ''He is helping Chertoff and the Bush administration
rescue a failed public policy that was about to go down to defeat.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration: From Talking Point to Sore Point

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting from Washington,
and Nicholas Confessore and Marjorie Connelly from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words


It was a moment that crystallized Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's struggles in
Tuesday night's debate. Questioned about a plan to grant driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants, Mrs. Clinton  at first seemed to defend it, then suggested
she was against it, until finally, pressed for a direct answer, she accused the
moderator, Tim Russert, of playing ''gotcha.''

Her verbal twists and turns provided her opponents with fodder for their central
critique of Mrs. Clinton, which coursed throughout Tuesday's debate: that she
was trying to have it both ways on the issue, much as she was trying to portray
herself as antiwar while voting to authorize the use of force in Iraq.

Like the debate over Iraq, the exchanges over granting licenses to illegal
immigrants underscored the tensions for Mrs. Clinton as she seeks to court
various interest groups who are the building blocks of winning the Democratic
nomination.

She has recently intensified her efforts to win the caucuses in Iowa, where an
influx of illegal immigrants has raised concerns among many of the state's
long-term residents. But she must also court Hispanic voters who are expected to
wield greater clout this election season through early primaries in New York and
California.

Mrs. Clinton's struggles over the issue reflect the hesitancy earlier in the
presidential campaign over the Senate compromise immigration legislation last
spring, where she had not taken a stand as recently  as a week before it was
voted on. While there is broad agreement in both political parties about the
need for tighter border security, the thorniest issues in the immigration debate
center on how to handle the more than 12 million people who are already living
illegally in the United States.

Since the failure of immigration overhaul in Washington last spring, the path to
citizenship supported by many Democrats has been blocked. With no resolution in
sight, the burden has fallen to state and local governments, and their struggle,
reflected in the driver's license proposal by Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York, is
forcing leading presidential contenders to state specific positions.

''The Democrats clearly do not want to antagonize Hispanic voters,'' said
Muzaffar Chishti of the Migration Policy Institute's office at the New York
University law school. ''They are very important in swing states. At the same
time, there are many Democrats, especially in the labor unions, who are not as
liberal in immigration policies.''

Mrs. Clinton's campaign, moving rapidly to blunt criticism of her debate
performance, sought to clarify her remarks on Wednesday, as she offered general
support for Mr. Spitzer's revised proposal, which would create a three-tier
system that would provide government-issued identification for illegal
immigrants so they could legally drive.

Two of Mrs. Clinton's opponents, Senator Barack Obama and John Edwards, support
granting licenses to illegal immigrants, although Mr. Edwards has problems with
elements of Mr. Spitzer's proposal.

During the debate, Mr. Edwards accused Mrs. Clinton of saying ''two different
things in the course of about two minutes.'' On Wednesday, Mr. Obama told The
Associated Press that her debate performance ''left us wondering where she stood
on every single hard question from Iran to Social Security to drivers' licenses
for undocumented workers.''

''This may be smart politics by Washington standards,'' Mr. Obama added, ''but
it's not what America needs right now.''

Until Tuesday's debate, Mrs. Clinton had not had to confront the immigration
issue so starkly. Her adopted state of New York has a long history of dealing
with immigration issues, and Mrs. Clinton has heavily courted the immigrant
groups that are central to its  population mix.

Now she finds herself on different terrain, campaigning in important early
primary states like Iowa and South Carolina where candidates are routinely
pressed for their views on immigration from an electorate often agitated over
illegal immigrants.

Illustrating the political dangers of the issue, Mrs. Clinton found herself
under fierce attack Wednesday from  Republicans and conservative radio hosts for
her debate comments.

''I know there are some politicians like Hillary,'' Rudolph W. Giuliani told the
conservative talk radio host Glenn Beck. ''They say different things to
different people. They use different accents in different parts of the country.
I'm used to that about her now. I had never seen it happen all in one place, in
one minute.''

Mr. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor and formerly a  champion of the
rights of illegal immigrants, had himself previously defended an executive order
that instructed city agencies not to ask the immigration status of any person.

Mrs. Clinton's aides said her statement Wednesday expressing general support for
Mr. Spitzer's plan was intended to signal that she broadly supported his goal of
granting  driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. But they said she had not
studied -- and was not endorsing -- any specific plan.

Mr. Spitzer initially proposed a blanket program of giving full-fledged driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants. In the face of sharp opposition from state
lawmakers, he backed off and presented the tiered  system.

In issuing the statement, Mrs. Clinton was trying to deal with the concern that
she was not taking clear positions on issues. Still, the wording of the
statement was murkier than what many of her opponents have said in either
supporting or opposing Mr. Spitzer's initiatives.

After the debate, Mrs. Clinton did not again publicly address the issue herself,
but her campaign struck back at Mr. Obama by mocking his theme of ''the politics
of hope.''

''With each attack, Senator Obama undermines the central premise of his
candidacy,'' said Mark Daley, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign. ''The
politics of hope that once characterized his remarks has now been replaced by
the kinds of jabs one typically sees from candidates desperate to gain traction
in the polls.''

Making the matter even stickier, many opponents of driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants have seized on the possible national security implications.

Mrs. Clinton must contend with the implications of her positioning among more
than just caucus-goers in Iowa. Unions, traditionally key Democratic Party
supporters, are split over the issue, with many angry at proposals to create
guest worker programs that they see as undermining American workers.

Mr. Chishti, the immigration expert, said Hispanic voters, between the 2004 and
2006 elections, turned to Democrats in greater numbers than any other voting
block.''They do not want to risk losing that support,'' he said.

In the Senate compromise legislation last spring, Mrs. Clinton tried to push
through an amendment to make it easier for legal immigrants to bring family
members into the country, but she ultimately voted for the bill. Mr. Obama and
Mr. Edwards also had not taken a public position on the measure before the vote.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton greeted supporters on Tuesday at
the Democratic candidates' debate in Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN
HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans in Congress Propose Bills on Licenses

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8


House Republicans have begun to push bills opposing the plan of Gov. Eliot
Spitzer of New York to grant driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, seeking to
step up the pressure on Mr. Spitzer's fellow Democrats in Congress, who are
increasingly concerned that the issue may become a liability in next year's
election.

The most far-reaching measure is being sponsored by Representative Peter T. King
of Long Island, the ranking Republican on the House's Homeland Security
Committee. It would prohibit New York and other states from issuing driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants.

In an interview, Mr. King said that the Spitzer plan would raise national
security concerns and grant a privilege to illegal immigrants as federal
authorities are trying to stem illegal immigration. He said he plans to
introduce the measure next week and circulate it among members of both parties
to build support.

Mr. Spitzer had initially proposed a blanket program that would allow illegal
immigrants to apply for full-fledged driver's licenses. But after coming under
fire, he backed off and proposed a three-tier system that would provide
government-issued identification for illegal immigrants that would allow them to
drive legally, but could not be used to board planes or cross borders.

Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, chastised the Republican
efforts on Thursday, and said that the governor was trying to fill a void
created by the federal government's failure to enact new immigration policies to
deal with the millions of people who have entered the country illegally.

''Congress and the president should spend their time fixing the failed national
immigration policy, instead of preventing states from dealing practically with a
very real security concern placed on their doorsteps because of the federal
government's failure,'' she said.

Mr. King said he was working with Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New
York who is seeking the Republican nomination for president, on the issue, and
predicted that it could hurt Democrats in 2008. ''This could have an absolutely
devastating effect on the Democratic Party,'' Mr. King said. ''That is why the
governor is out there on his own. He is so politically tone-deaf.''

Some New York Democrats in Congress, particularly those from politically
moderate districts upstate and in the New York City suburbs, have already begun
to publicly criticize the Spitzer plan and urge the governor to abandon it
altogether.

Mr. King's is not the only measure circulating in Congress that takes aim at Mr.
Spitzer's plan.

Two Republicans -- Representatives Tom Latham of Iowa and John Randy Kuhl Jr. of
western New York -- have introduced a resolution calling on Congress to condemn
any proposal to issue licenses to illegal immigrants. The resolution would have
no binding effect on states. But its authors hope to draw attention to the
issue, and describe the resolution as a first step toward building opposition to
the policy, according to Congressional aides.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Move to Drop License Plan Wins Praise for Spitzer

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Danny Hakim contributed
reporting from Albany.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14


A day after abandoning his proposal to give driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants, Gov. Eliot Spitzer won the kind of wide acclaim from elected
officials that he could not win for the proposal itself.

From Albany to Capitol Hill, Democratic politicians voiced public words of
praise -- and breathed private sighs of relief -- at Mr. Spitzer's announcement
that he would scuttle the proposal, after a bitter seven-week battle that
battered the governor and turned New York into a battleground over illegal
immigration.

''I congratulate you, governor, for the attempt,'' said Representative Charles
B. Rangel, a Manhattan Democrat, at a news conference with Mr. Spitzer and some
members of Congress who, like Mr. Rangel, had supported his original plan. ''The
idea was right, the timing was wrong.''

In acknowledging one of his first major reversals as governor, Mr. Spitzer did
not spare his harshest critics, who he said had inflamed the debate with
anti-immigrant rhetoric that ''equated minimum-wage, undocumented dishwashers
with Osama bin Laden.'' He also said he still believed his proposal would have
benefited New Yorkers, citizens and immigrants alike, and lit into federal
officials for failing to fix the nation's immigration system.

But Mr. Spitzer was also more conciliatory than he had been, conceding that he
had tried but failed to win over skeptics.

''I am here today to respond to the vast majority of New Yorkers of good will
who have heard my best case and yet still disagree with my proposal,'' he said.

The governor's formal announcement followed a private breakfast with New York's
Congressional delegation. By most accounts, Mr. Spitzer seemed chastened,
telling delegation members that he had come to the conclusion that his proposal
was simply not sustainable in the current climate.

One participant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity about the closed-door
meeting, said Mr. Spitzer had come off as arrogant on past visits to Washington,
but not on this one. ''He was like, 'I tried and it didn't work out,''' the
participant said.

Some of Mr. Spitzer's most ardent antagonists were unwilling on Wednesday to
give him credit for the change of mind. Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority
leader of the State Senate, issued a statement criticizing the governor for the
weeks in which he resisted public opinion on the issue.

''Ultimately, it took an uprising from within his own party to force him to back
down today,'' Mr. Bruno charged.

Among Democrats, however, Mr. Spitzer's decision won praise not only from
moderates who thought his plan was extreme and would hurt the party in 2008, but
also from liberals who were displeased with the concessions he had already made
to placate opponents, including giving citizens and legal immigrants access to a
different type of license than illegal immigrants.

''I give real credit to the governor for coming in and acknowledging that it
wasn't the right time for this,'' said Representative Michael Arcuri, a
first-term Democrat from central New York who had opposed the plan. Mr. Spitzer,
he added, ''showed real mettle.''

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has taken fire in recent weeks for failing
to make clear whether she supported Mr. Spitzer's plan, was not present at the
delegation breakfast. But she issued a statement Wednesday afternoon in which
she expressed support for Mr. Spitzer's decision and stated that licenses for
illegal immigrants would not be on her own future agenda.

''As president, I will not support drivers' licenses for undocumented people and
will press for comprehensive immigration reform that deals with all of the
issues around illegal immigration,'' Mrs. Clinton said.

Mr. Spitzer and his aides have also said they are postponing the second most
controversial element of his plan: the adoption of a federally recognized
driver's license, known as a Real ID, that would not be available to illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Spitzer's announcement last month that New York would sign on to the Real ID
program had been a major coup for federal homeland security officials, who have
been urging states to adopt the program but faced resistance.

But on Wednesday, Mr. Spitzer and his aides said that New York's adoption of the
new license would ultimately depend on the federal regulations issued for its
implementation next year, and whether the Bush administration could ultimately
persuade other states to come along.

''How can it be a nationally secure driver's license if only 10 states are going
to it? In which case, it would make the entire debate academic,'' said Michael
A. L. Balboni, the governor's top homeland security aide. ''The federal
government has a tremendous amount of work to do to convince the nation that
Real ID was truly the way to secure this nation's air travel.''

But in an interview, Michael Chertoff, the secretary for the federal Department
of Homeland Security, said that in a conversation with the governor on Wednesday
morning, Mr. Spitzer gave no indication that he was changing course on Real ID.

Mr. Chertoff cited a memorandum of understanding written with state officials
last month. That memorandum, however, allows New York to back out of the
agreement if state officials provide  notice.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

One 'Family Man' vs. Another

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 481 words


This television advertisement for Mitt Romney, his first that directly takes on
a Republican rival --  in this case, Mike Huckabee --  will start running in
Iowa  on Tuesday.

PRODUCER Midnight Ride Media

THE SCRIPT A narrator says: ''Two former governors, two good family men. Both
pro-life; both support a constitutional amendment protecting traditional
marriage. The difference? Mitt Romney stood up and vetoed in-state tuition for
illegal aliens, opposed driver's licenses for illegals. Mike Huckabee? Supported
in-state tuition benefits for illegal immigrants. Huckabee even supported
taxpayer-funded scholarships for illegal aliens. On immigration, the choice
matters.''

ON THE SCREEN The advertisement opens with a photo of Mr. Romney campaigning,
before  side-by-side snapshots of Mr. Romney and Mr. Huckabee take over the
screen. Text appears below them, saying they are both ''pro-life'' and ''support
traditional marriage.'' Mr. Romney's image then appears by itself with a box
that declares that he vetoed in-state tuition for illegal immigrants and opposed
driver's licenses for them, with citations from newspaper articles. Then, Mr.
Huckabee's snapshot returns with a box that says he supported in-state tuition
for illegal immigrants and taxpayer-financed scholarships for them, with
citations.

ACCURACY Mr. Romney opposed driver's licenses for illegal immigrants early on in
his tenure as governor of Massachusetts and later vetoed a budget provision that
would have made illegal immigrants eligible for in-state college tuition. Mr.
Huckabee championed a bill while he was governor of Arkansas that would have
made illegal immigrants eligible for in-state college tuition and state-financed
college scholarships, as long as they met certain requirements.

SCORECARD Mr. Romney has seen the lead he held for months in Iowa evaporate
recently, and he now trails Mr. Huckabee in polls there. But Mr. Romney's
campaign believes Mr. Huckabee is vulnerable because of his past stances on
illegal immigration and questions about his fiscal conservative credentials. Mr.
Huckabee struck a decidedly moderate tone on the issue at times as governor,
arguing children of illegal immigrants should not be punished for the mistakes
of their parents. Mr. Romney, however, is grappling with his own problems on the
issue. News broke last week that a yardwork company he used on his home was
found for a second time to be using illegal immigrants. It remains to be seen
how effective this advertisement will be in peeling supporters  from Mr.
Huckabee, who recently came out with an immigration plan that sounds just as
tough as his rivals'. Moreover, many of Mr. Huckabee's hard-core evangelical
supporters appear to be drawn to him because of his faith and character, rather
than the issues. In addition, Iowans are known for their dislike of negative
campaigning. MICHAEL LUO

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michigan: No Id's For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 129 words


Michigan will no longer let illegal immigrants obtain driver's licenses, a
practice just seven other states continue to allow. The secretary of state,
Terri Lynn Land, who oversees the motor vehicle department, announced the policy
and said it would take effect Tuesday. The policy also bars people who are legal
but not permanent United States residents from obtaining licenses. Legislation
to allow those on temporary work or student visas to get licenses is pending in
the Legislature. The policy applies to first-time applicants for a Michigan
driver's license or identification card. Updated procedures for renewals will be
released soon. Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington
do not require drivers to prove legal status to obtain a license.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Is Split Over Hard Line On Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1406 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


A new Arizona law against employing illegal immigrants has shaken businesses,
scared workers, delighted advocates of stricter immigration controls and added
to tensions in a state split over who belongs here and who does not.

And that is even before the law's scheduled effective date, Jan. 1.

State officials are seeking to curb illegal immigration by choking the supply of
jobs with the law, which threatens to pull the business license of any employer
that knowingly hires an illegal immigrant.

It is an example of the scores of state and municipal laws meant to address
illegal immigration on the belief that the federal government has not done
enough to thwart it. But the Arizona version is among the toughest and could
test states' ability to crack down on the countless businesses that have relied
on illegal workers.

Arizona makes for a striking laboratory. Its estimated population of 500,000
illegal immigrants is among the highest and fastest growing in the country, and
illegal workers make up an estimated 9 percent to 12 percent of the work force,
mostly in low-skill jobs in the service, construction and landscaping
industries, according to research at Arizona State University.

Legal challenges to the law, signed in July by Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
Democrat, were filed by business and immigrant rights groups, asserting that the
law would usurp federal authority, lead to ethnic profiling and hinge on
sometimes inaccurate government records. A federal judge on Tuesday will
consider a temporary restraining order blocking the law from going into effect;
the judge rejected another challenge last week.

Businesses and immigration groups say they have already tallied some of the
effects of the law.

Advocates for immigrants contend that, at a minimum, hundreds of people
unauthorized to work have left the state or been fired. Some school districts
have at least partly attributed enrollment drops to the law. Though the housing
slump and seasonal economic factors make it difficult to pin down how much is
attributable to the new law, illegal workers say employers are checking papers
and are less inclined to hire them.

''They started asking everybody for papers one day, and those like me that
didn't have them were fired,'' said Luis Baltazar, a Mexican immigrant who
worked for a paving company until a few weeks ago and was soliciting work at a
day labor hiring hall here.

Another immigrant, Jose Segovia, said work had plummeted in the past few weeks,
more so than in the four previous Decembers he spent in Phoenix. ''Some of my
friends went back to Mexico,'' Mr. Segovia said, ''and I am thinking of going,
too, if it doesn't get better here.''

Michael Francis, who grows several crops near here, said that he requested and
kept documentation that his 150 employees were eligible to work, but that some
had left and he was having difficulty filling the jobs. ''The people from the
office buildings in Phoenix are not going to swarm the countryside to clip
onions,'' Mr. Francis said. ''There are just not a lot of people knocking on the
door to do this kind of work.''

Groups representing the state's 150,000 licensed businesses say the wording of
the law is vague and has led to confusion over whether it applies to all
employees or only those hired after  Jan. 1. The bill's sponsor, Representative
Russell Pearce, Republican of Mesa, told The Associated Press on Thursday that
the law applied to all employees, not just new hires.

As a result of the confusion, employers have scrambled to compile and check
paperwork, and a cottage industry of law forums and consulting is emerging.

''The legal costs of being investigated and prosecuted based on claims with
little or no merit could be substantial,'' said Glenn Hamer, the president of
the state Chamber of Commerce, one of the groups suing to block the law. ''This
could lead to fishing expeditions and will burden county attorneys from other
priorities like investigating murder, rape, child molestation.''

Arizona's law stands out.

The law calls for suspending a business license for at least 10 days on the
first offense and revoking it for a second one, effectively shutting down the
business. Several states call for pulling a business license after the federal
government has determined that an employer hired illegal workers, but Arizona's
law empowers the state to act alone.

Although it is already a federal offense to hire illegal workers, the law's
authors contend that more illegal workers will be found because it requires the
state's 15 county attorneys to investigate any complaint they deem not
frivolous.

''That's the problem,'' said Julie A. Pace, a lawyer representing business and
advocate groups opposed to the law. ''This is the federal government's
authority, not the state's.''

But backers of the law say the state's power to grant business licenses includes
the authority to set the criteria for them.

The county attorneys have not taken a position on the law as a group, but they
have worked toward developing a uniform process to file and weigh complaints.

Ms. Napolitano called the law flawed, but signed it anyway, saying it was better
than risking a possible ballot measure that could be ''even more draconian'' and
difficult to overturn. ''It was left up to Arizona because the federal
government has failed to act,'' she said.

Ms. Napolitano signed the legislation a few days after a Congressional effort to
revamp immigration laws failed, with one of its key sponsors, Senator John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, a presidential candidate, predicting a confusing
hodgepodge of state laws. Mr. McCain's campaign did not respond to a request for
comment on the state law Thursday night.

Jim Weiers, a Republican and the speaker of the Arizona House, said an ad hoc
group was preparing recommendations on what if any changes to make to the law.
But Mr. Weiers stood by it, suggesting that if the anecdotal reports of its
early impact were true, so much the better.

''If all this is happening then the law, before it has taken effect, is
working,'' he said. ''The whole idea was to make sure we are not going to be a
place people come to illegally to start a better life.''

Some businesses contend that the difficulties of verifying legal employment have
been exaggerated and that the law will eventually improve competition in the
marketplace if cheap, foreign labor is cut.

''We are out competing against businesses using illegal labor and not registered
as contractors,'' said Gary Hudder, an asphalt paving contractor who is
president of the Yavapai County Contractors Association in Prescott, which, in
contrast to the state contractors association, supports the law. ''This will
level the playing field,'' Mr. Hudder said.

Still, economists say the law could damage the economy.

''If you take 12 percent of the work force away, that is going to be a
problem,'' said Dawn McLaren, an economist at Arizona State University, adding
that people not currently working could never make up the difference. ''The
largest group to join the work force was during World War II, and that was a big
motivator. I don't think patriotism is going to drive this one.''

Some business owners said they worried that they would unfairly be singled out
by disgruntled employees or people who assume many Spanish-speaking workers are
illegal.

''We have had U.S. citizens give us false documents because law enforcement was
against them for whatever reason,'' said Saul Perez, who manages a construction
company here. ''This is not necessarily going to catch as many undocumented
workers as people believe.''

All of the state's businesses will be required to use the Department of Homeland
Security's E-Verify system, a pilot program that electronically checks Social
Security and other records to confirm legal employment status. An outside
auditor for the department warned this year that naturalized citizens were more
likely to be incorrectly flagged as unauthorized to work than American-born
workers, but a department spokeswoman said that the overall error rate was
''extremely low'' and that improvements were continuing.

Illinois, which had adopted a law barring use of E-Verify over accuracy
concerns, agreed Thursday not to enforce it until a lawsuit filed by the
Homeland Security Department was resolved. The state said it would consider
amending the law to address the federal government's concerns.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Day laborers looking for work in Phoenix on Wednesday. Some say
a law that takes effect Jan. 1 has made jobs harder to find
 People ''are not going to swarm the countryside to clip onions,'' says Michael
Francis, who is struggling to fill jobs in his fields. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA
SEGALL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill for Immigrant Students Fails Test Vote in Senate

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24


A bill to grant legal status to illegal immigrants who are high school graduates
was defeated Wednesday in a test vote  in the Senate, significantly dimming the
prospects for any major immigration legislation this year.

By a vote of 52 to 44, the bill failed to garner the 60 votes needed to proceed
to a debate on the Senate floor. The bill, sponsored by  Richard J. Durbin of
Illinois, the second-ranking Senate Democrat, would have given provisional legal
status to illegal immigrant students who completed high school if they either
attended college or served in the military for two years.

Lawmakers said Mr. Durbin's bill was a litmus test for the immigration issue
because it was the most politically palatable piece of the broad immigration
legislation backed by President Bush that failed last summer in the Senate.

Mr. Durbin's measure, called the Dream Act by its supporters, was tailored to
benefit young, successful students whose immigration status was the result of
decisions by their parents to come to the United States illegally, in many cases
when the children were small.

Republican sponsors of the bill included Senators Chuck Hagel of Nebraska and
Richard G. Lugar of Indiana.

The vote showed that Republican opposition remained resolute to any effort to
give legal status to illegal immigrants. It also eroded the support of some
Democrats for other immigration measures under discussion. Those include a bill
known as AgJobs that would give legal status to illegal immigrant farmworkers
and overhaul a guest worker program for agriculture. Employers are also asking
Congress to expand and streamline visa programs to bring in highly skilled legal
immigrant workers.

''They'll all be hard, every one of them,'' Mr. Durbin said of the other
immigration initiatives after the vote on his bill. He expressed frustration
that business groups backing the other measures had not rallied behind the
student bill.

Conservative Republicans voted against the bill on the same ground that they
opposed the legislation in June, maintaining that it rewarded immigrant
lawbreakers. But negative votes also came from Republicans and some Democrats
who were reluctant to reopen the bitterly divisive debate over immigration for
what they called a narrow piece of legislation.

The White House rejected Mr. Durbin's bill in a statement just before the vote,
saying it should not be adopted without strong enforcement measures against
illegal immigration. The administration said the bill would open a path to
citizenship for  such students that other immigrants, including many here
legally, would not enjoy.

Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican who strongly supported the
broader immigration legislation, voted no, saying the stand-alone Durbin measure
''weakens our position to get a comprehensive bill.''

By scheduling the vote for Wednesday, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and
the majority leader, fulfilled a promise he made last month after Republicans
blocked Mr. Durbin from attaching his bill to Defense Department spending
legislation. But Mr. Reid appeared pessimistic about the student measure's
chances, since he called the vote on short notice.

Mr. Durbin said he had pruned the bill to reduce its beneficiaries. To be
eligible for legal status, illegal immigrant students would have had to arrive
in the United States before they were 16 years old, have lived in this country
for at least five years and be under 30 on the date of passage. Still,
conservatives called the measure a ''backdoor amnesty,'' saying it could benefit
more than one million illegal immigrants.

Eleven Republicans voted for the bill. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the
Massachusetts Democrat who was a strong supporter, did not vote because he was
recovering at home from surgery on a blocked artery.

Among the least disappointed in the vote were several immigrant students who
would have benefited under the bill, who met in Mr. Durbin's office after the
vote.

''We're still really hopeful, and maybe even more excited even though this might
have been a temporary block in the road,'' said Tam Tran, a 24-year-old
immigrant born in Germany to Vietnamese parents, who recently graduated from the
University of California, Los Angeles.

''We're excited that it's gotten this far,'' said Ms. Tran, who is here on a
temporary legal status. She said knowing of the possibility of the measure had
motivated her to finish college.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Students' Family Members Are Deported

BYLINE: By TERRY AGUAYO and JULIA PRESTON; Terry Aguayo reported from Miami and
Julie Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 30


The parents and grandmother of two college students in Miami whose fight for
legal immigration status came to symbolize the hopes of illegal immigrant
students were deported to Colombia on Tuesday.

The parents, Julio Cesar Gomez and his wife, Liliana, arrived at Miami
International Airport in the morning and were placed by federal agents on a
commercial flight to Bogota. With them was Mr. Gomez's mother, Carmen Elisa
Perilla de Gomez, 84. They were deported after the family's final appeal failed
this month in a petition for political asylum first presented in 1992.

Mr. and Mrs. Gomez are the parents of Juan Sebastian Gomez, 18, and his brother
Alejandro, 20, both born in Colombia, whose illegal status became  publicly
known when the family was first detained by immigration agents on July 25.
Classmates of Juan  at Miami Killian Senior High School, citing his exceptional
academic performance, rallied the support of federal lawmakers, winning a
temporary reprieve from deportation for the two young men.

The Gomez brothers became public faces for hundreds of thousands students
nationwide who are illegal immigrants and could benefit if Congress adopted
legislation to give them legal status. The most recent effort, a bill sponsored
by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, failed to pass a procedural
test vote last week in the Senate.

The deportation of the Gomez parents and grandmother, the boys' only immediate
family in the United States, left it clear that the authorities would not extend
any special protection to parents even if their children  were to obtain  legal
status as students.

It left Juan and Alejandro with no means of economic support while they attend
Miami Dade College, said Cheryl Little, the executive director of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center, a legal group representing the brothers. Ms. Little
said she was working to  obtain  driver's licenses and work permits for the
youths so they could  find jobs to pay for their studies.

A statement by Immigration and Customs Enforcement said, ''The family had full
due process of law and exhausted all legal avenues of relief.'' Family members
''self-deported'' after officials allowed them time to  put their affairs in
order, the statement said.

After coming to the United States as tourists in 1990, Mr. and Mrs. Gomez stayed
beyond the terms  of their visas, starting a successful catering business. Mr.
Gomez sought asylum, saying he faced threats from leftist guerrillas in Colombia
because of his participation in a labor union there.

According to court papers, a brother of Mr. Gomez was assassinated by guerrillas
in 1987, and in recent years a niece and a nephew were murdered. On Oct. 19, the
Board of Immigration Appeals declined to reopen the case.

Juan Gomez, who was 2 when his parents arrived in Florida, drew attention by
earning a 3.96 high school grade point average and receiving the highest
possible score on 11 Advanced Placement examinations.

Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, and Senator
Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and a presidential candidate,
presented separate private bills on behalf of the brothers, which resulted in
the suspension of their deportation until 2009.

At the airport on Tuesday, the brothers were silent and calm,  and their father
appeared resigned, while their mother wept as she said goodbye to her sons. Mrs.
Perilla de Gomez, who came to the United States in 1991, arrived in a
wheelchair.

''It makes me sad to see that this country separates families,'' Mrs. Gomez
said. ''We've never been separated.''

Mr. Gomez defended the United States. ''This is the best country in the world,''
he said. ''I will continue to say that.''

The Durbin bill that was defeated last week excluded illegal immigrant parents
from any benefits under the measure, which would have given legal status to high
school graduates who finished two years of college or military service.
Opponents said it was an amnesty for immigrant lawbreakers that could draw
millions of new immigrants to the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julio Cesar Gomez, center, and his wife, Liliana, were deported
to Colombia yesterday. Their sons Juan, far right, and Alejandro, second from
right, had won a temporary reprieve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida Ends Shuttling Of Refugees To Canada

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 487 words


A Florida organization that assisted hundreds of illegal immigrants in fleeing
to Canada must close and return thousands of dollars it collected from the
immigrants, who believed they would be given legal status in that country,
Florida's attorney general said yesterday.

Complaining of stepped-up sweeps by American immigration officials, about 450
people made their way from Florida to Canada in recent months with guidance from
the organization, the Jerusalem Haitian Community Center, of Naples. Mostly
Mexicans and Haitians, they presented themselves as refugees seeking asylum.
Many are still waiting for hearings.

''While the state attorney general's office cannot enforce federal immigration
law in this case, my office can investigate potentially misleading or deceptive
practices, and I believe this organization was engaging in questionable
practices,'' said Bill McCollum, the state attorney general. Many of the
immigrants paid ''donations'' to the center of as much as $400,  his office
found.

The authorities in Windsor, on the Canadian side of the border at Detroit,
complained that they could not afford the costs of social services if the
arrivals continued. Most of all, advocates for refugees in Canada warned that
the odds of such immigrants being granted asylum were poor.

To win refugee status in Canada, immigrants must show a reasonable fear of
persecution connected to their race, religion, nationality or political
background.

Immigration lawyers say Haitians are far more likely to be allowed to stay in
Canada as refugees than Mexicans are. Even Haitians rejected for refugee status
will not be returned to Haiti for now. The government has put a temporary freeze
on deportations there, given Haiti's turmoil.

No such moratorium exists for Mexico.

Under an agreement with Mr. McCollum's office, Jacques Sinjuste, the center's
founder, must dissolve the center within four months and return some $170,000 he
had collected  for the trips.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Sinjuste, a Haitian immigrant who founded the
center in 2000, said he had stopped offering all immigration-related help and
was preparing to close the center. But he said he would move forward with plans
for day care and after-school programs.

''The immigration thing does not represent all of what I do,'' said Mr.
Sinjuste, 58. ''I have no regret, nothing at all. My big thing for my community
is to look after the minorities, and I'm still doing the same thing.''

While $32,000 has already been refunded, officials are uncertain how they will
find hundreds of other people owed money.

Janet Dench, the executive director of the Canadian Council for Refugees, said
she was relieved that the Florida center would soon be shuttered. ''Still, it's
very difficult for the people who have been exploited,'' she said. ''Getting
that $400 back may be trivial compared to the situation they now find themselves
in.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Michigan's Immigrants Could Face Tighter Rules

BYLINE: By CATRIN EINHORN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 449 words


Several Michigan lawmakers, frustrated with the defeat in Congress of an
immigration law overhaul, are proposing state laws to punish employers who hire
illegal immigrants.

The lawmakers, all Democrats from the state House, offered a package of bills
late last week  intended to crack down on employers, making it a felony to hire
an illegal immigrant knowingly. Violation could mean fines of up to $250,000 and
as much as five years in prison for repeat offenders.

The sponsors said the legislation would be formally introduced this month in the
House. ''We have no legal weapons right now in the state of Michigan,'' said
State Representative Kate Elbi, one of the sponsors. ''What we're doing is
giving our state the tools that we need.''

Adrian Vazquez, who works for the Michigan Organizing Project, an immigrant
rights group, said such a plan would destroy the lives of people who had raised
their families in Michigan and contributed to the economy. Illegal immigrants,
Mr. Vazquez said, should not have to pay for a broken immigration system; the
federal government should fix it.

A proposed change of federal immigration law was defeated in June. But at least
20 states have enacted laws this year addressing the employment of immigrants.
But the rush of state laws has also spurred a series of legal clashes with
federal law.

In Arizona, immigrant rights advocates and business groups sued the state in
federal court over a new law to force employers to check their workers'  legal
status   or risk having their business licenses suspended or revoked.

''These types of laws are very clearly pre-empted by federal law,'' said Tyler
Moran, the employment policy director with the National Immigration Law Center,
a plaintiff in the Arizona case. The State of Arizona has called for dismissal
of the case.

In Illinois, legislators passed a law that was sympathetic to illegal
immigrants, barring employers from using a federal database to verify if
potential employees were authorized to work. The Department of Homeland Security
has sued to block the law, arguing that it is unconstitutional because it seeks
to pre-empt federal law.

For now, states will most likely continue to pass their own immigration-related
laws, even as the legal turf remains murky, said Dirk Hegen, a policy associate
with the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Lawmakers in Michigan said they were aware of the potential for legal clashes
but confident of their proposals.

''We're going to word everything as correctly as we possibly can to make sure
that we pass state and federal constitutional muster,'' said Representative Mike
Simpson, another sponsor of the proposed legislation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about Michigan lawmakers who are proposing
state measures to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants misspelled the
surname of one lawmaker. She is State Representative Kate Ebli, not Elbi.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Phoenix Mayor Shifts on Officers' Asking for Immigration Status

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 3


Under pressure from advocates for stricter immigration laws, the mayor of
Phoenix said on Monday that he no longer backed a Police Department order
barring officers from routinely asking the immigration status of people it
arrested and announced a panel to study a policy change.

A spokesman for Mayor Phil Gordon, Scott Phelps, said the policy was ''written
for another time'' on the belief that the federal government ''would fulfill all
of its immigration responsibilities, and clearly that has changed.''

But Mr. Gordon, a Democrat, announced the change at a time when sentiment
against illegal immigrants has intensified in Phoenix after the shooting death
two months ago of a police officer, Nick Erfle, by an illegal immigrant. There
have also been weekly protests at a furniture store whose owners have pressed
the authorities to arrest day laborers who congregate there and who are believed
to be in the country illegally.

Mr. Phelps cited both the clamor over the police officer's shooting and the
protests as changes that forced Mr. Gordon to change his position.

''It is getting ugly out there,'' Mr. Phelps said, adding that the mayor wanted
to cool tensions with a policy change many rank-and-file officers supported for
a city, the nation's fifth largest, 150 miles from the Mexican border.

Like the police in several other big cities, including New York, Chicago,
Houston, Los Angeles and San Francisco, the Phoenix police have operated under a
20-year-old order barring officers in most cases from asking a person's
immigration status or detaining them for the sole purpose of determining it. The
policy is intended to foster greater cooperation with police investigations in
communities with large numbers of immigrants.

But the orders have come under fire.

Judicial Watch, a conservative legal group based in Washington, has a lawsuit
pending against Los Angeles, which enacted its policy in 1979. The group sent a
representative to Phoenix last week and said it was preparing litigation against
the city.

In August, the New Jersey attorney general, Anne Milgram, issued a directive to
local law enforcement agencies to check the immigration status of criminal
suspects after the authorities in Newark said a man charged in the killing of
three young people was in the country illegally and never had his status checked
in previous arrests.

The United States Justice Department inspector general said in a report in
January that of 99 state, county and municipal law enforcement agencies that
responded to a survey, 30 said they did not check the immigration status of
arrestees. Many other agencies do not have a formal policy either way, legal
experts said.

Law enforcement chiefs in the Phoenix area have generally opposed checking
immigration status with the notable exception of Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa
County, home to Phoenix.

Sheriff Arpaio has made it a practice of arresting people suspected of being in
the country illegally. His deputies apprehended eight people Sunday suspected of
violating immigration laws who were protesting at a furniture store that has
become a flash point of the immigration debate in Phoenix.

The owner of M.D. Pruitt's furniture store has hired off-duty sheriff's deputies
to keep day laborers off the property, drawing protests over the last six
weekends from immigrant advocates.

Police Chief Jack Harris of Phoenix, who did not attend the mayor's news
conference, said through a spokesman that, ''I welcome all input into any
proposed changes on this policy and will carefully consider all
recommendations.'' He has ardently defended the policy.

A number of critics, including bloggers, radio talk show hosts and the city
police union, had urged a change in the policy to reflect a surge of immigration
into Arizona in the past two decades after the federal government intensified
enforcement of the Mexican border in California and Texas.

Mr. Gordon said the government had not done enough to patrol the border and to
enact changes to immigration law to slow the pace.

He said he now advocated giving the police the authority to check the
immigration status of anyone accused of breaking the law, though he recommended
it be done in a way that did not lead to racial or ethnic profiling.

Mr. Gordon appointed a panel of two former United States attorneys, a former
state attorney general and a former county attorney to recommend changes to the
policy to the city manager and the chief by Dec. 31.

Chris Farrell, director of research at Judicial Watch, applauded the mayor.

''I'm glad he is finally coming to grips with the fact he is wrong and Chief
Harris is wrong,'' Mr. Farrell said. ''The existing order is deeply flawed.''

But Alfredo Gutierrez, a former Arizona lawmaker and immigrant advocate, said
Mr. Gordon had ''crumbled'' politically in a ''cowardly way'' before loud
anti-immigrant voices that did not necessarily represent the city.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators from the two sides of the illegal immigration
dispute, left, argued Saturday at a furniture store in Phoenix where day
laborers gather. Officer Nick Erfle, above, was shot to death two months ago by
an illegal immigrant.
  Mayor Phil Gordon discussing illegal immigration yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JACK KURTZ/ARIZONA REPUBLIC)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Rejects Challenge to Immigrant Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Dec. 8


A federal judge has thrown out a lawsuit that challenged a new Arizona law
barring businesses from knowingly hiring illegal immigrants, setting the stage
for the law to take effect in January.

In a ruling released Friday night, the judge, Neil V. Wake of Federal District
Court, said the business and immigrant rights groups that filed the challenge
sued the wrong government officials in trying to block enforcement of the law.

The ruling said the law gave only investigatory authority to the governor and
state attorney general, who were sued in the challenge.

Judge Wake said the power to enforce the law rested with county prosecutors, who
were not named as defendants.

The judge also said the business and immigrant rights groups had not shown that
they faced imminent crackdowns.

Opponents of the law argued that it would burden employers, and that the state
lacked the legal authority to regulate immigration. Supporters said it was
needed because the federal government had not adequately enforced a prohibition
on knowingly hiring illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blazing Arizona

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 650 words


On Jan. 1, Arizona intends to become the first state to try to muscle its way
out of its immigration problems on its own. That is when, barring a last-minute
setback in court, it is to begin enforcing a new state law that harshly punishes
businesses that knowingly hire undocumented immigrants. It is a two-strike law,
suspending a business's license on the first offense and revoking it on the
second. It is the strictest workplace-enforcement law in the country.

We have always said that workplace laws should be enforced vigorously -- as part
of a comprehensive, nationwide immigration system that doesn't just punish, but
tries to actually solve the problems that foster and sustain the breaking of
immigration laws. The boosters of the Arizona law, including the Minutemen
border vigilantes who have made ''January First!'' an anti-immigrant rallying
cry, have a much narrower goal: the biggest purge of illegal immigrants in the
Southwest since the federal government's Operation Wetback in 1954.

If that happens, the immigrants will take a big chunk of Arizona's growth and
economic vitality with them -- and not necessarily back across the international
border. The collateral damage will be severe as citizens and legal immigrants
are also thrown out of work, as businesses struggle to find workers in a state
with a 3.3 percent unemployment rate and as sleazy employers move more workers
off the books, the better to abuse and exploit them. And the national problem of
undocumented immigration will be no closer to a solution.

There are many compassion-and-common-sense criticisms of Arizona's Fair and
Legal Employment Act: stories about families torn apart, breadwinners deported
and citizen children on public assistance. They make little headway with the
law-and-order crowd. Nor does the fact that many hard-line defenders of
workplace enforcement show a lopsided devotion to federal laws; they seldom
complain when employers abuse undocumented immigrants and steal their wages,
even though those violations worsen job conditions and pay for American workers,
too.

For now, let's just point out that Arizona's plunge into enforcement-only
immigration policy highlights the folly and inadequacy of that approach,
particularly when it is left to a crazy quilt of state laws. America is a
country where millions of illegal immigrants have entered for years all but
invited and mostly not pursued. They have become integral to our economy,
although now -- thanks to harsher enforcement and the defeat of comprehensive
immigration reform in Congress -- most have no way to become legal, no options
except slipping back into destitution on the other side of the border.

There is no way for Arizona or any other state to get businesses back on a legal
footing without exacting a great economic and human toll.

It could be that Arizona's enforcement of the law will be calm and measured. But
we worry about Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix and two-thirds of the
state's population. Maricopa's county attorney, Andrew Thomas, and county
sheriff, Joe Arpaio, are prone to media-driven stunts. Sheriff Arpaio makes a
show of his meanness, hounding and humiliating prisoners and forming his
deputies into squads that check people's clothes and accents before demanding
their papers.

Arizona is home to many moderate politicians, like Gov. Janet Napolitano, who
were all too aware of the bill's problems, and yet it became law. Many say the
Minutemen and their allies had offered an ultimatum: approve this bill or face a
citizen's initiative on the 2008 ballot that would be even harsher and blunter,
and all but impossible to repair. That promise was reneged on; petitions for the
Minutemen's initiative are being collected now.

As Arizona exacts its punishment on the undocumented workers who have made it so
prosperous, it runs the risk of proving itself tough but not smart.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Law Banning the Hiring of Illegal Immigrants Is Upheld

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


A federal judge on Thursday upheld an Arizona law that prohibits businesses from
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants and rescinds the business licenses of those
that do.

The ruling by the judge, Neil V. Wake of Federal District Court, was a defeat
for employers who argued that it was an unconstitutional effort by a state to
regulate immigration.

The ruling was a victory for advocates of tougher immigration enforcement who
reject the  position that immigration enforcement is a federal responsibility.

Judge Wake rejected arguments by business groups that federal immigration law
severely restricted  Arizona's ability to punish people who knowingly employed
illegal immigrants.

He concluded that the Arizona law did not conflict with federal immigration law,
which he said specifically let states regulate business licensing.

The issue of the law's legality is pending before the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit because the business groups challenging it have
appealed an earlier order by Jude Wake in another case. The challengers are
expected to challenge the new ruling, too.

The Republican-controlled Legislature and Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat,
approved the law last year amid frustration over what they said were inadequate
federal efforts to confront illegal immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Reversal, Courts Uphold Local Immigration Laws

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 883 words


After groups challenging state and local laws cracking down on illegal
immigration won a series of high-profile legal victories last year,   the tide
has shifted as federal judges recently handed down several equally significant
decisions upholding those laws.

On Thursday, a federal judge in Arizona ruled against a lawsuit by construction
contractors and immigrant organizations who sought to halt a state law that went
into effect on Jan. 1 imposing severe penalties on employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants. The judge, Neil V. Wake of Federal District Court,
methodically rejected all of the contractors' arguments that the Arizona law
invaded legal territory belonging exclusively to the federal government.

On Jan. 31, a federal judge in Missouri, E. Richard Webber, issued a similarly
broad and even more forcefully worded decision in favor of an ordinance aimed at
employers of illegal immigrants adopted by Valley Park, Mo., a city on the
outskirts of St. Louis.

And, in an even more sweeping ruling in December, a judge in Oklahoma, James H.
Payne, threw out a lawsuit against a state statute enacted last year requiring
state contractors to verify new employees' immigration status.  Judge Payne said
the immigrants should not be able to bring their claims to court because they
were living in the country in violation of the law.

These rulings were a sharp change of tack from a decision in July by a federal
judge in Pennsylvania who struck down ordinances adopted by the City of Hazleton
barring local employers from hiring illegal immigrants and local landlords from
renting to them. In that case, the judge, James M. Munley of Federal District
Court, found that the Hazleton laws not only interfered with federal law, but
also violated the due process rights of employers and landlords, and illegal
immigrants as well.

Hazleton was the first city to adopt ordinances to combat illegal immigration,
laws that the mayor, Louis J. Barletta, said would make it ''one of the toughest
places in the United States'' for illegal immigrants. After the Hazleton
decision, many cities and towns that had been considering similar statutes
against employers and landlords dropped the effort, fearing legal challenges
that they would be likely to lose.

The recent federal decisions will probably give new encouragement to states and
towns seeking to drive out illegal immigrants by making it difficult for them to
find jobs or places to live.

''These are not equivocal decisions,'' said Kris W. Kobach, a law professor at
the University of Missouri, Kansas City, who was the lead lawyer in the Valley
Park case and assisted in the Arizona case. ''Both judges gave sweeping
victories to the cities and states involved,'' said Mr. Kobach, who was also one
of the leading lawyers representing Hazleton.

In another earlier, much-watched case, the City of Escondido, Calif., in
December 2006 dropped an anti-illegal immigrant housing ordinance and agreed to
pay $90,000 in lawyers' fees to the landlords and illegal immigrants who brought
a lawsuit.

By contrast, in the Valley Park decision, Judge Webber wrote that the residents
challenging the statutes had failed to ''create a genuine issue of material fact
on any of the allegations.'' He wrote that the city's employer ordinance ''is
not pre-empted by federal law.''

That decision was especially notable because earlier versions of the Valley Park
ordinances had been struck down in state court. After the state decision, the
city dropped its statutes barring illegal immigrants from renting housing,
turning to federal court only to defend its sanctions on employers.

Judge Payne of Oklahoma, ruling  Dec. 12 on state laws that took effect in
November, went furthest in questioning the rights of illegal immigrants.

''These illegal alien plaintiffs seek nothing more than to use this court as a
vehicle for their continued unlawful presence in this country,'' he wrote. ''To
allow these plaintiffs to do so would make this court an 'abettor of iniquity,'
and this court finds that simply unpalatable.''

In Arizona and Missouri, groups challenging the laws have said they will seek
new injunctions or appeal; the Hazleton decision is currently under appeal.

Lawyers fighting the local statutes said these were creating a nationwide
checkerboard of conflicting laws, and have generated discrimination against
Hispanics who are not illegal immigrants. As of November, 1,562 bills dealing
with immigration were introduced in state legislatures in 2007 and 244 became
law, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

''What certain states and communities are doing is taking matters into their own
hands that should be dealt with on a national level in a consistent manner,''
said Ricardo Meza, a lawyer in Chicago for the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund, which brought the Valley Park case. ''Where we see the big
danger with these laws is that they put a bulls-eye on every Hispanic's
forehead.''

Michael A. Olivas, a University of Houston law professor, said the recent
litigation showed the need for Congress to clarify the situation of illegal
immigrants. ''We lost the big enchilada, which was federal immigration reform
that would have trumped all these matters,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Louis J. Barletta of Hazleton, Pa., right, with Kris W.
Kobach, a lawyer for the city in its immigration-law case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KRISTEN MULLEN/CITIZENS' VOICE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Seeing Signs of Flight By Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1381 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


The signs of flight among Latino immigrants here are multiple: Families moving
out of apartment complexes, schools reporting enrollment drops, business owners
complaining about fewer clients.

While it is too early to know for certain, a consensus is developing among
economists, business people and immigration groups that the weakening economy
coupled with recent curbs on illegal immigration are steering Hispanic
immigrants out of the state.

The Arizona economy, heavily dependent on growth and a Latino work force, has
been slowing for months. Meanwhile, the state has enacted one of the country's
toughest laws to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants, and the county
sheriff here in Phoenix has been enforcing federal immigration laws by rounding
up people living here illegally.

''It is very difficult to separate the economic reality in Arizona from the
effects of the laws because the economy is tanking and construction is drying
up,'' said Frank Pierson, lead organizer of the Arizona Interfaith Network,
which advocates for immigrants' rights and other causes. But the combination of
factors creates '' a disincentive to stay in the state.''

State Representative Russell K. Pearce, a Republican from Mesa and leading
advocate of the crackdown on illegal immigration, takes reports of unauthorized
workers leaving as a sign of success. An estimated one in 10 workers in Arizona
are Hispanic immigrants, both legal and illegal, twice the national average.

''The desired effect was, we don't have the red carpet out for illegal aliens,''
Mr. Pearce said, adding that while ''most of these are good people'' they are a
''tremendous burden'' on public services.

On Monday, state lawmakers, concerned about shortages of workers and the failed
revamping of immigration law in Congress, which was pushed by Senator John
McCain of Arizona, pledged action.

Bills were announced that would create a state-run temporary worker program,
though it would need Congressional authorization. And last week Gov. Janet
Napolitano, a Democrat, offered to help the United States Labor Department
rewrite regulations designed to streamline visas for agricultural workers, who
growers say are increasingly hard to find.

While data for the last month or so are not available, there were already signs
of migration out of Arizona at the end of last year. In the fourth quarter of
2007 the apartment-vacancy rate in metropolitan Phoenix rose to 11.2 percent
from 9 percent in the same quarter of 2006, with much higher rates of 15 percent
or more in heavily Latino neighborhoods.

''You have many people moving out, but they are not all illegal,'' said Terry
Feinberg, president of the Arizona Multihousing Alliance, a trade group for the
apartment and rental housing industry. ''A lot of people moving are citizens, or
legal, but because someone in their family or social network is not, and they
are having a hard time keeping or finding a job, they all move.''

Elizabeth Leon, a legal immigrant and day care worker, said the families of two
of her charges abruptly left, forcing the state to take custody of the children.
Ms. Leon's brother, a construction worker who is not authorized to be in the
country, plans to leave, unable to find steady work; families at the
neighborhood school have pulled children out, Ms. Leon said, fearful of
sheriff's deputies.

''It is like a panic here,'' she said. ''This is all having an effect on the
community, mostly emotional.''

Juan Jose Araujo, 44, is here legally. His wife, however, is not and is pressing
for the family to return to Mexico because of the difficulty in finding a job
and what the family considers a growing anti-immigrant climate.

Although prosecutors in the state do not plan to begin enforcing the sanctions
against employers until next month, several employers have reportedly already
dismissed workers whose legal authorization to work could not be proved, as
required by the law.

''We don't have family or anything in Mexico,'' said Mr. Araujo, who has lived
in the United States for 24 years. ''I wouldn't have anywhere to go there, but
we have to consider it.''

Property managers report that families have uprooted overnight, with little or
no notice. Carlos Flores Vizcarra, the Mexican consul general in Phoenix, said
while he could not tie the phenomenon to a single factor, the consulate had
experienced an ''unusual'' five-fold increase in parents applying for Mexican
birth certificates for their children and other documents that often are a
prelude to moving.

Several school districts in heavily Latino areas have reported sudden drops in
enrollment. Official explanations are elusive because school officials have not
been able to interview families about why they left, but, anecdotally, people
point to the sour economy and the immigration crackdown among other factors.

The Cartwright Elementary School District in west Phoenix, for instance,
reported a loss of 525 students this school year (dropping the enrollment to
19,845), while in previous years enrollment had grown or remained stable among
its 23 schools. Meri Simmons, a spokeswoman for the district, said word of mouth
suggested that the economy and sanctions on employers played a role.

''We know we have a lot of empty houses,'' Ms. Simmons said.

Jobs in the construction industry, a major employer of immigrants, are growing
scarce, declining 8.6 percent in December compared with the previous year.

Juan Leon, a construction subcontractor and the husband of Elizabeth Leon, the
day care worker, said illegal immigrants had made it harder for legal residents
like him to find work. Companies that employ them can bid much lower on projects
than he can because they pay workers much less, Mr. Leon said.

''I hate to see families torn apart,'' he said of the current flight, ''but
there is no money to be made sometimes because some contractors who employ
illegal workers can do the job dirt cheap.''

Dawn McLaren, an economist at Arizona State University in Tempe who studies the
state's economic and migration trends, said it was likely that lack of work is
forcing people to move, probably to nearby states. But Ms. McLaren also
theorized that the slowing economy had caused a reduction in the flow of new
immigrants over the border.

Analyzing data back to the early 1990s, she said, a drop in Border Patrol
arrests -- they have been steadily declining the last couple of years --
typically preceded an economic downturn or slowing.

''It's a highly networked community,'' she said of border crossers. ''It costs a
lot to get here, and they generally have a job lined up here. People say, 'We
need people on the crew.' And they tell friends and relatives to come over.''

A persistent decline in the immigrant population could damage the overall
Arizona economy, Ms. McLaren said. A study by the Pew Hispanic Center released
in January said illegal workers made up close to 11 percent of the state's work
force of 2.9 million people in 2006, double the national estimate.

''What it looks like now is that a little bump in the economic road, especially
with the sanctions law, is looking like it might last a year or more,'' she
said.

Even as the economy slows and people leave, the matter of the state's sanctions
on employers is not settled.

The legal fight over the law, which a federal judge upheld Thursday, is headed
for the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The law punishes
employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants by suspending their business
license for 10 days on the first offense and revokingit for a second infraction.

Opponents call it an unconstitutional intrusion by the state on federal
immigration authority but the federal judge, Neil V. Wake, disagreed.

At the same time, signatures are being gathered for two ballot initiatives, one
that would toughen the law and another meant to soften it. If both end up on the
November ballot, the one with the most votes would prevail.

Ms. McLaren, the economist, said that in the end history showed it was difficult
to stop illegal immigration so long as jobs paid better in the United States
than at home. An economic rebound would probably draw people back here, no
matter the laws.

''They will find a way to adjust,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juan Jose Araujo is in the United States legally and has been
here for 24 years, but he is considering a return to Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF
TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Charges Retaliation by City Officers

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 738 words


The fine for a disorderly conduct summons can be as little as $25. But Waheed
Saleh, originally from Jenin in the occupied West Bank and now living in
Yonkers, did not want to pay it because, he contends, a principle was at stake.

So, four years and four months after exchanging words with a police officer as
Mr. Saleh smoked a cigarette outside Keenan's Bar and Grill in the Bronx, he
found himself on Tuesday in federal court in Manhattan defending, in his mind,
his constitutional rights.

In 2005, about a year after the disorderly conduct summons and after he had
filed a harassment complaint with the Civilian Complaint Review Board against
the police officer, Mr. Saleh was taken into custody by federal immigration
officials as an illegal immigrant, which he is.

Mr. Saleh says his detention, along with the threat of deportation to the West
Bank, was in retaliation for complaining about the police officer, Kishon
Hickman. Deportation proceedings are pending while the trial continues.

In his civil lawsuit, which seeks unspecified damages, Mr. Saleh contends that
his right to free speech and to petition the government for a redress of
grievances was abridged.

By telling immigration officials that he is illegally staying in the United
States, the police have committed an unconstitutional act of official
retaliation, Mr. Saleh contends. Mr. Saleh claims that the harassment extends to
an unjustified charge of unlicensed cab driving and suggests that entrapment was
at work.

There is a local issue, too. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in what is known as
Executive Order No. 41, issued in 2003, encouraged all residents to seek aid
from city agencies without fear that their immigration status would be used
against them. Mr. Saleh says the city failed to protect him under that order.

Added to the dispute is the mood of anti-Arab sentiment after the terror attack
on the World Trade Center in 2001. Mr. Saleh says he remembers the police
officer's ''very sharp'' tone when he said, ''Go back to your country.''

With Judge Sidney H. Stein presiding, two men and six women were selected as
jurors on Tuesday. (One woman in the jury pool said she would have difficulty
believing the testimony of an illegal immigrant; she was excused.)

The jurors heard opening arguments from both sides and testimony from Mr. Saleh.

Besides Officer Hickman, who has since been promoted to sergeant, the suit names
Capt. Kevin Nicholson as a defendant. Susan Scharfstein, a city attorney
representing officers, said in her opening arguments that Mr. Saleh was not
singled out for harassment by the two officers; his arrest on the unlicensed cab
driver charge followed a widespread crackdown on gypsy cab drivers. Far from
being a hapless target of official misconduct, she said, Mr. Saleh had been
given as many as 30 tickets and summonses for double parking, unlicensed cab
driving and other vehicular offenses.

And the Police Department did not conspire with immigration authorities to
retaliate against Mr. Saleh, as the lawsuit claims. Instead, the immigration
case against Mr. Saleh developed from a ''chance'' meeting between Captain
Nicholson, then a police lieutenant, and an immigration agent visiting Captain
Nicholson's precinct house.

But to Mr. Saleh's lead lawyer, Tushar J. Sheth, the case is indeed about
official retaliation. When the Police Department directly communicated with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement about Mr. Saleh's immigration status, ''they
did this to silence him, to hurt him,'' Mr. Sheth said.

Mr. Saleh, who now works in Yonkers installing security cameras, testified that
Sergeant Hickman was so bent on revenge that he induced an attractive female
acquaintance to flirt with him on May 22, 2004.

When she asked for a ride to a nearby spot, he agreed to drive her. When the
police stopped his car, the woman opened her handbag to give him $4, and he was
then ticketed for illegal cab driving, he testified.

The city is scheduled to cross-examine Mr. Saleh on Wednesday in an attempt to
undermine his testimony, presumably including the account of trickery by the
female passenger.

But two facts are not in dispute. Mr. Saleh challenged the original disorderly
conduct summons from November 2003 and lost, ultimately paying $100.

And the police review board examined Mr. Saleh's complaint of police harassment,
which was filed on Dec. 19, 2003. The board rejected the complaint.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Capt. Kevin Nicholson, left, and Sgt. Kishon Hickman at federal
court in Manhattan. A civil trial against the city began Tuesday
 Waheed Saleh leaving federal court. He is suing the city and the officers,
saying his constitutional rights have been abridged. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK
ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey's Immigration Crackdown

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 316 words


Illegal immigration is inherently a matter for the federal government, but local
police forces are increasingly conducting their own crackdowns. The police in
some New Jersey towns have been aggressively looking for immigration violations
and, predictably, it has been leading to abuses. The state should scale back
police involvement in immigration enforcement.

After the arrest of an illegal immigrant in connection with the murder of three
students in Newark last summer, New Jersey's attorney general, Anne Milgram,
ordered state and local police to question the people arrested for serious
crimes about their immigration status. The suspect in the Newark murders had
been free on bail despite previous felony arrests, partly because his
immigration status was never checked.

Some officers, however, have been going far beyond what Ms. Milgram authorized,
as Kareem Fahim recently reported in The Times. They are supposed to ask about
the immigration status of anyone arrested for an indictable crime or drunken
driving, but not for minor offenses. They are prohibited from asking about the
status of crime victims, witnesses and people requesting assistance. The police
are directed to report those without proper identification to federal
immigration authorities.

Lawyers and advocates for immigrants say that they have received reports that
some police departments, especially in rural areas, are routinely questioning
immigrants who are not covered by the directive, including some who were simply
passengers in cars pulled over for minor traffic offenses. These actions come
dangerously close to racial and ethnic profiling.

The number of immigrants referred to federal authorities has almost doubled
since Ms. Milgram issued her directive. Her office needs to undertake an
intensive program to impress upon police officers the limits of their powers and
the need to end the abuse.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 21, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Catch-22 of Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 719 words


To the Editor:

As the author of the Secure America Through Verification and Enforcement Act,
also known as the SAVE Act, I strongly disagree with ''Immigration, Off the
Books'' (editorial, April 17).

The SAVE legislation provides a bipartisan approach to address the crisis of
illegal immigration. It would take steps to eliminate the primary cause of
illegal immigration -- illegal employment -- by expanding the E-Verify program,
which is already being used by 59,000 employers, nearly a dozen states and all
federal agencies. It would have no direct costs to employers.

You say that the SAVE Act would use a ''flawed 'no-work' '' database comparable
to the ''no-fly'' list. E-Verify is actually coordinated through the Social
Security database. Many of the alleged errors within the database are easily
fixable, and E-Verify will ensure that it is being continually cleaned,
alleviating some of the backlog.

You criticize the proposed act based on a scoring by the Congressional Budget
Office. Like the C.B.O., you do not address the billions of dollars illegal
immigration currently costs state and local governments. You say that the bill
would spend money on ''thousands of immigration judges''; the act would hire
only 13 federal judges.  Heath Shuler

Member of Congress, 11th Dist., N.C.

Washington, April 17, 2008

To the Editor:

The same day I read your editorial, I read ''Immigration Sweep Ends in 280
Arrests at 5 Plants'' (news article, April 17), which reported that some of the
immigrants arrested had used Social Security numbers belonging to other people
and that a different raid revealed that at least one person had been arrested
for a crime that was committed by an immigrant using that person's
identification.

Law-abiding citizens and documented immigrants have nothing to fear from a
national database. Illegal immigrants do. The database is a small price for
citizens to pay to control our borders and ensure that our laws are obeyed.

It is no longer acceptable to American voters for illegal immigrants to break
the law, steal or falsify IDs in order to work, and then demand the rights and
privileges of law-abiding citizens.

Anthony Abreu

Jackson Heights, Queens, April 17, 2008

To the Editor:

Once again you've found yourself unable to support a way to undo the Catch-22 of
immigration reform -- how to welcome legal immigrants while closing the door to
illegal immigrants.

You discuss two House bills -- Sam Johnson's New Employee Verification Act, or
NEVA, and Heath Shuler's SAVE Act -- as being equally objectionable. But there
are crucial differences.

NEVA applies only to new hires and requires substantial pre-implementation
financing to clean up the Social Security database. This new-hires approach is
not intended ''to squeeze illegal immigrants out of the country,'' but rather to
stop the steady annual addition of hundreds of thousands of new unauthorized
workers.

Closing the back door would help pave the way for opening the front door to
address worker shortages and legalization for the millions already here.

NEVA offers an alternative that would avoid the pitfalls of the SAVE Act by
fixing the Social Security database and protecting citizens from job loss due to
faulty government data while shutting off the jobs magnet for illegal
immigrants.  Bruce A. Morrison

Bethesda, Md., April 17, 2008

The writer, chairman of a public affairs group, is a former representative from
Connecticut (1983-91) and former member of the United States Commission on
Immigration Reform (1992-7).

To the Editor:

Your April 17 editorial effectively demonstrated the threat that the SAVE Act
and the New Employment Verification Act pose to American workers. But there's
another casualty of these proposed laws that must be mentioned: security.

Should these bills pass, they would force millions into the black market,
creating a vast job network that could employ potential terrorists and
criminals. Legal markets are hard enough for the government to watch, but black
markets are impossible.

Millions of foreign or domestic criminals could hide in our labor black markets
if these laws pass. These costs must be considered. Alex Nowrasteh

Washington, April 17, 2008

The writer is an immigration policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise
Institute.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sheriffs Oppose Driver License Plan

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 29


Members of the New York State Sheriffs' Association voted on Monday to oppose
Gov. Eliot Spitzer's plan to offer driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

In a statement adopted during a membership meeting in Syracuse, the association
praised other parts of Mr. Spitzer's new three-tiered licensing plan, which
would offer a new, federally recognized secure license to citizens and legal
immigrants, but added, ''We do not feel that providing driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants is appropriate.''

The association recommended that Mr. Spitzer rethink that part of his proposal
and form a task force with law enforcement officials to consider alternatives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 8, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy in U.S. Is Criticized By U.N. Aide

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: GENEVA


The United States is not doing enough to protect immigrants' rights, a United
Nations human rights expert said Friday. The adviser, Jorge A. Bustamante, said
immigrants were often subject to indefinite detention and forced deportation.

Mr. Bustamante, an expert on migrant rights at the United Nations Human Rights
Council, said he had ''serious concerns'' about immigrants' condition in the
United States, ''especially in the context of deportation and detention
policies.''

He was presenting a report to the council about a visit to the United States
last May.

Mr. Bustamante, a Mexican, examined the United States-Mexico border in San Diego
and Tucson, two places where American officials are cracking down on illegal
entry into the United States.

Indefinite detention of immigrants was ''not uncommon,'' the report said.

''In some cases,'' it said, ''immigrant detainees spend days in solitary
confinement, with overhead lights kept on 24 hours a day, and often in extreme
heat and cold.''

The report said that the mandatory detention of illegal immigrants must be
stopped and that the United States should ensure that an independent court
examined such detentions within a short time.

''The overuse of immigration detention in the United States violates the spirit
of international laws and conventions and, in many cases, also violates the
actual letter of those instruments,'' Mr. Bustamante wrote.

Jan Levin, deputy political councilor with the United States mission to Geneva,
said Washington was disappointed with the report.

Ms. Levin said it ''contains significant misstatement and misinterpretations of
U.S. law and policy.''

Ms. Levin said the report focused on a narrow slice of the immigrant population
in the United States and failed to mention positive aspects.

''The United States has one of the most generous migration programs in the
world, including a clear path to citizenship,'' she told the council.

Ms. Levin added that from 2000 to 2006 the United States admitted more than six
million foreigners as lawful residents and gave citizenship to more than four
million people.

Mr. Bustamante's report said an increasing number of raids by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officers of houses and workplaces had ''terrorized immigrant
communities.''

He said he was particularly concerned about early morning arrests of immigrants
at home that involved force and separated families.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Small Businesses Face Cut In Immigrant Work Force

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1184 words

DATELINE: HYANNIS, Mass.


For years, William Zammer Jr. has relied on 100 seasonal foreign employees to
turn down beds, boil lobsters and serve cocktails at the restaurants, golf
course and inn he owns on Cape Cod and in nearby Plymouth.

This summer, however, the foreign workers will not be returning, and Mr. Zammer,
like other seasonal employers across the nation, is scrambling to find
replacements.

''It's a major crisis,'' he said. ''We're very short on work force. We'll be
looking at opening a little later, closing a little earlier, looking at how we
do our menus.''

Mr. Zammer is caught up in a Congressional standoff over immigration overhaul
that is punishing employers who play by the rules and that, advocates of change
say, could cost small companies billions in lost business.

In an effort to win support for a comprehensive immigration overhaul, the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus and its allies have blocked voting on legislation
that would allow employers to rehire foreign seasonal nonagricultural workers
independent of a 1991 quota.

As a result, the government is limited to issuing the 66,000 seasonal work visas
set when the visa program, known as H-2B, became law -- 33,000 for winter
workers and 33,000 for summer workers. Last year, more than 120,000 foreign
workers entered the country on H-2B visas.

For Cape Cod, the impact has been devastating. Employers will receive only 15 of
the 5,000 visas they had requested, according to the Cape Cod Chamber of
Commerce.

''It's just ruthless for the Hispanic caucus to do this, use it as a bargaining
chip,'' said Mr. Zammer, whose foreign workers -- mostly from Jamaica and
Eastern Europe -- normally make up 25 percent of his staff. ''We're working at
finding new people. We have to. But it's extremely difficult, because you end up
stealing from other people who are also trying to get help.''

Returning workers became exempt from the cap in 2005, when Congress passed the
Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, and President Bush signed it into
law. The act expired in 2007, and Congress passed a one-year extension that was
attached to the National Defense Authorization Act. The extension expired on
Sept. 30, 2007, the end of the 2007 fiscal year.

Employers say that unless Congress acts soon, they will have to scale back
operations, because the labor pool in many resort areas is not deep enough to
provide new workers, and many people do not want seasonal jobs.

Patti Ann Moskwa, owner of the Yankee Rebel Tavern on Mackinac Island, Mich.,
plans to cut back dinner hours because she will be understaffed this summer. She
said the 15 foreign workers who cooked and cleared tables at her restaurant were
more than employees.

''They're like our family,'' Ms. Moskwa said. ''You don't want to be the person
to call these people and tell them the government won't let them back. It's a
sad situation for us and the workers.''

Republicans in Congress have resisted immigration overhaul, insisting that the
focus be first on enforcing current laws. The Hispanic Caucus contends that a
broad overhaul  is needed and that legislation exempting returning foreign
workers from the cap on visas should be part of it.

''I recognize that H-2B visa fixes are an important part of the immigration
crisis,'' said Representative Joe Baca, Democrat of California and chairman of
the Hispanic Caucus. ''But that should be just another check mark in the column
as to why this Congress must take real action on immigration reform.''

A bipartisan coalition of 182 members of Congress has co-sponsored measures
sponsored by Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, and Senator
Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, that would allow returning workers
back.

''The H-2B visa program is being held hostage,'' said Representative Bill
Delahunt, a Democrat who represents Cape Cod. ''We're talking about a stimulus
package, and yet we're putting at risk regional economies from the East Coast to
the West Coast and many sections of the country in between.''

Representative Charles Boustany Jr., Republican of Louisiana, has introduced a
measure that calls for immediate consideration of Mr. Stupak's bill.
Congressional aides involved in the negotiations over the measure said
Democratic leaders were discussing a compromise measure with the Hispanic Caucus
and others.

Some advocates for business owners argue that employers who go to the trouble of
hiring legal employees are being unfairly punished.

''It's kind of sad that those who have followed the law, paid an inordinate
amount of money to follow the law by paying attorneys' fees, prevailing wage and
following the rules, are those who are getting hurt,'' said Don Mooers, an
immigration lawyer working with Save Small Businesses, a group of small business
owners lobbying for the cap to be lifted.

''I get that question every day, 'Why are we following the law when the guy down
the street isn't, and I'm the one who may face going out of business,' '' Mr.
Mooers said

Here on Cape Cod, the need for imported seasonal labor is especially acute, as
25 percent of residents are over 65 and high real estate prices have driven many
blue-collar workers elsewhere.

''We have a very old population, twice the national average of people on
Medicare and we're losing population to other parts of the country because of
our affordable housing problem,'' said Wendy Northcross, chief executive  of the
Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce. ''We're losing the population that could
potentially take some of our seasonal jobs.''

D. J. Vander Silk, owner of D. J.'s Lawn Service in Grand Rapids, Mich., said he
had planned to hire 30 workers from Mexico on temporary seasonal visas, but will
not get any. ''I feel like we're right on the edge,'' he said. ''There's a
robber outside the house and we're about to get hit in the head.''

Now Mr. Vander Silk and his 20 remaining employees are not accepting new clients
and are trying to recruit workers from Florida and the local community. The
homes he bought a few years ago to shelter the temporary workers will remain
empty for the near future.

''We're in uncharted waters,'' he said.

Sandy Munley, executive director of the Ohio Landscape Association, said the
industry employed about 3,000 H-2B workers in Ohio last year, and did not know
how many would return. Many contractors are giving away jobs to businesses with
adequate staffing, Ms. Munley  said.

''This industry tends to be very supportive of each other,'' she said, ''but I
don't think anything's ever come to this degree, where people are giving away
work. Typically,  contractors tend to get it done, but they all definitely say
this is historic in a sad way.''

Jim Royal, who operates Kelly Miller Circuses, said he could not find employees
to assemble big tops for his traveling circus. He usually relies on 25 H-2B
workers from Mexico.

''It's affecting virtually every circus in America,'' Mr. Royal said. ''We're
still on hold. We've applied and haven't gotten anything. We're trying
desperately to recruit, but the artists will probably have to help out.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: D. J. Vander Silk, owner of D. J.'s Lawn Service in Grand
Rapids, Mich., with mowers that may go unused for lack of workers. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
  William Zammer Jr., owner of restaurants on Cape Cod, will be forced to open
for summer tourists a little later than usual.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN CONATI FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPH: LIMITING FOREIGN WORKERS: The number of temporary
visas issued to nonagricultural foreign workers will be limited to 66,000 in the
2008 fiscal year, about half the number issued last year. (Source: U.S.
Department of State)  Graph showing the number of temporary work visas issued.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Illegal' Immigrants Touch a Live Wire

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 689 words


To the Editor:

Re ''What Part of 'Illegal' Don't You Understand?,'' by Lawrence Downes
(Editorial Observer, Oct. 28):

I am, by any standards, a liberal, and am therefore much disturbed by the
blanket terms ''immigrants,'' ''immigration'' and ''migrant workers'' when the
distinction between legal and illegal is not made. Many illegal immigrants are
admirable in their drive, determination and willingness to do whatever it takes
to get here and work here. But they are here illegally, send vast amounts of
money out of the country to their home countries and are often paid under the
table. The cost to taxpayers of supportive services outweighs the value of
illegal worker contributions.

Illegal is illegal no matter how touching, courageous or worthy the back story
is.

Hope Einstein Stamford, Conn., Oct. 28, 2007

To the Editor:

Lawrence Downes shares a laundry list of derogatory comments that he has
supposedly heard within the context of the immigration debate. He may be
listening to real voices, but he is not listening to the majority of people who
oppose illegal immigration.

We oppose illegal immigration because it is illegal, unfair and unwise. It is an
illegal act that seriously undermines the rule of law. It is a selfish act that
is terribly unfair to millions of other aspiring immigrants who patiently
participate in our legal immigration system. And it is an unwise act  because it
creates a class of people in this country who are uniquely vulnerable; and also
unwise because it sustains an underground culture and economy that could one day
convey, shelter and support a small number of people who wish to destroy our
cities, our freedom and our way of life.

Jordan Brunger Rincon, P.R., Oct. 28, 2007

To the Editor:

When my grandparents, European Jews, immigrated to the United States, the
immigration laws were loose. Cheap labor was needed. I can only assume that
their immigration was legal, though I have no particular evidence for this.

During the xenophobic fervor of the 1920s, Eastern as well as Southern Europeans
were excluded in favor of Western Europeans. Even during the Holocaust it was
extraordinarily difficult for Jews to flee from Germany and Poland into the
United States as a result of these racially biased laws.

The equitable solution to the perception that undocumented immigrants from Latin
America are criminals is to change the laws. As an incomparably and vastly
wealthy nation that chooses to spend many untold billions on an illegal war, we
could surely open up our gates still wider to the multitudes of Latinos whose
presence -- both documented and undocumented -- already contributes greatly both
to our economy and culture.

Perry Weiner Brooklyn, Oct. 28, 2007

To the Editor:

I am repeatedly frustrated by the implication by Lawrence Downes and others that
by default those who oppose illegal immigration are promoting (or at the very
least laying the ground for) a racist agenda.

The word ''illegal'' is not a dirty word. It is to the point and honest, as it
spells out the obvious difference in this case between those who are here
lawfully and those who are not. To suggest that it is a ''code word for racial
and ethnic hatred'' is disingenuous at best and only adds fuel to the fire. It
has been used over and over in an attempt to stifle honest discussion on this
topic as well as on a range of others.

We need an honest debate. Let's keep the question of race out of it.

Chris Kurtz Minnetonka, Minn., Oct. 28, 2007

To the Editor:

Lawrence Downes does a nice job of concretizing the problems resulting from
illegal, unlawful or undocumented immigrants. In my view, the primary concern
American citizens have regarding immigrants goes beyond their being ''illegal,''
''unlawful'' or ''undocumented.'' The 12 million immigrants we're concerned
about have undertaken a weaponless invasion. Yes, we have to be both
compassionate and sensible, but we have to do our best to prevent future
invasions simply to maintain the quality of life that has made this country so
attractive to foreigners.

Thomas F. Mader Walnut Creek, Calif., Oct. 28, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney Faces New Questions on Illegal Workers at Landscaping Firm

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 521 words


Mitt Romney, who has relentlessly wielded the issue of illegal immigration
against his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination in the past few
months, is facing an embarrassing new revelation that the landscaping company at
his home in Massachusetts was found for a second time to be employing illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Romney announced yesterday that he had fired the company, Community Lawn
Service of Chelsea, Mass. The announcement came just before The Boston Globe
published on its Web site the results of an inquiry it had been conducting over
the last two months on the firm.

The Globe had revealed a year ago in the waning days of Mr. Romney's
governorship of Massachusetts that the company, which Mr. Romney employed at his
home in Belmont, Mass., for more than a decade, was using illegal Guatemalan
immigrants.

The episode was highlighted in last week's Republican debate, when Rudolph W.
Giuliani scornfully responded to Mr. Romney's accusation that he had presided
over a so-called sanctuary city for illegal immigrants while mayor of New York
by saying Mr. Romney had a ''sanctuary mansion.''

After the discovery of the illegal workers a year ago,  Mr. Romney said in his
statement yesterday,  he ''gave the company a second chance with very specific
conditions.''

''They were instructed to make sure people working for the company were of legal
status,'' he said. ''We personally met with the company in order to inform them
about the importance of this matter. The owner of the company guaranteed us, in
very certain terms, that his company would be in total compliance with the law
going forward. The company's failure to comply with the law is disappointing and
inexcusable, and I believe it is important I take this action.''

Last Thursday, the day after the debate, The Globe interviewed two of the three
workers from the company who were working on Mr. Romney's lawn. Both admitted
they were illegal immigrants from Guatemala. One of them said the third worker
was also in the country illegally.

The Globe said the company's owner, Ricardo  Saenz, and his workers visited Mr.
Romney's property once a week, before heading over to his son Tagg Romney's
house.

Rival campaigns pounced yesterday, saying the new disclosure  pointed to Mr.
Romney's hypocrisy in his hard-line tone on the issue. Todd Harris, a spokesman
for Fred D. Thompson's campaign, released this statement: ''First Mitt Romney
was for illegal immigrants working on his lawn, and then he was against it, then
for it, and now I guess he's against it again. Sounds like his position on
amnesty.''

Katie Levinson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani, said, ''I think it speaks for
itself.'' Senator John McCain, whose campaign stalled over the summer in large
part because of his support for a Senate bill that would have offered a pathway
to citizenship for illegal immigrants, walked out of his hotel in Bedford, N.H.,
yesterday with a broad grin because he knew what reporters were about to ask.

He mimed a motion as if he were  pushing a lawn mower and said, ''I am more than
pleased with the fact I live in a condominium.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Where Would the 12 Million Go?

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 682 words


To the Editor:

''One Argument, 12 Million Holes'' (editorial, Jan. 18), about immigration, does
not discuss the enforcement paradox that brought us to the current crisis.

For decades, migrant workers came north for several months each year to harvest
seasonal crops, sending their wages home to their families. In the off-season,
they returned home, only to venture north again the following year, crossing the
border illegally but unmolested.

Our ballooning population of permanent illegal immigrants is, to a great extent,
the unintended legacy of the Clinton administration's strict border policy,
which represented a departure from decades of relatively lax enforcement.
Migrant workers who could no longer afford to risk semiannual border crossings
brought their families north to settle here once and for all.

Vain proposals to ''close'' the border are worse than insufficient. They would
increase the scale of the problem.

Mike Leonard  Stockbridge, Mass., Jan. 18, 2008

To the Editor:

If workplace enforcement was carried out effectively, perhaps the 12 million
illegal immigrants living in the United States would not have to be deported,
but would return home by themselves. (This could happen if employers faced jail
rather than a slap on the wrist.)

It is much better to be unemployed at home and with family than unemployed,
illegal and unwelcome in a foreign country.

As an immigrant myself, I am all for immigration, but in a rational and orderly
way.

Ernest Seinfeld  Jupiter, Fla., Jan. 18, 2008

To the Editor:

A better way to define the immigration problem is to consider the damage it does
to the home countries. We are essentially stripping these countries of their
most vital resource, their most eager-for-work citizens.

If the United States freely issued work visas, made depositing in home banking
accounts easy, and travel back and forth legal, more immigrants might return
home voluntarily, strengthening their own countries' economies and making future
immigration less likely.

Carter Tomassi  Berkeley, Calif., Jan. 18, 2008

To the Editor:

For many people, including the illegal immigrants in limbo and the even greater
number of Americans in an uproar, the cacophony of the Republican candidates
vying for the greatest volume with their anti-illegal immigration rhetoric is
not only unproductive; it's also misleading and needlessly prolongs an untenable
situation.

None of the Republican presidential candidates can, like some biblical
protagonist, exile an estimated 12 million people from the promised land through
attrition or mass deportation. Senator John McCain deserves praise for risking
his candidacy to cross borders and mend fences both within and without his
party.

As your editorial states, the Democrats have largely treaded the issue with
''eggshell timidity.'' They should realize that the immigration eggshell has
already shattered.

Wayne Trujillo  Denver, Jan. 18, 2008

To the Editor:

''Fearing Deportation but Clinging to Life and Homes in U.S.'' (news article,
Jan. 18) doesn't mention the negative effects illegal immigration has on
Americans and legal immigrants. Despite repeatedly stating that illegal
immigrants pay taxes, the article ignores the fact that they are a burden on
American taxpayers.

The Heritage Foundation reports that the average low-skilled immigrant household
receives $30,160 in government benefits but pays only $10,573 in taxes. So each
low-skilled immigrant household costs taxpayers $19,587 per household per year.

Illegal immigrants take jobs away from Americans and legal residents. The Center
for Immigration Studies estimates that low-skilled American workers lose an
average of $1,800 a year because of competition from low-skilled immigrants for
their jobs. And illegal immigration also leads to overcrowded schools and
hospitals.

Illegal immigrants are responsible for their own criminal actions and should not
blame law enforcement officials for the fact that they are subject to
deportation.

Lamar Smith  Ranking Member, House Judiciary Committee Washington, Jan. 23, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Moves to Ease Guest Worker Program

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 794 words


The Bush administration announced plans on Wednesday to overhaul the notoriously
inefficient federal guest worker program for agriculture, seeking to provide
more legal workers to American farmers who now rely primarily on illegal
immigrants.

Since legislation to give legal status to illegal immigrant farm workers failed
last year in Congress, the administration is now taking action that does not
require Congressional approval to streamline the existing guest worker program.

Most farmers have shunned the program, known as H2A for the type of visa the
foreign farm workers receive, because it was too cumbersome to meet their
fast-moving harvest labor needs.

Growers cautiously welcomed the proposed changes, saying they would be helpful
but would fall far short of solving the shortage of legal workers. Advocates for
farm workers warned that the measures would lower wages for those who are
already in the United States.

After Congress last year rejected several immigration bills that President Bush
supported, he first sought to move forward on the divisive issue by stepping up
enforcement against employers who hire illegal immigrants. Now the
administration is seeking to help farm employers hire immigrant workers legally.

The changes were announced at a news conference Wednesday morning in Washington
by Michael Chertoff, secretary of homeland security; Elaine L. Chao, labor
secretary; and Chuck Conner, deputy agriculture secretary. They unveiled
proposed rule revisions that will be open for public comment for 60 days.
Administration officials said they hoped to have the final rules in place in
time for the summer harvest.

Under the proposed rules, the Labor Department would accept farm employers'
statements that they had tried to recruit local workers and had found none who
were qualified and available. Currently, farmers must  repeatedly go to state
employment offices to show that they have conducted the required search for
American workers. The new application process would allow employers to bypass
those state agencies and apply directly at two federal centers.

''We want to substantially reduce that time-consuming, cumbersome back-and-forth
with multiple government offices for employers,'' said Leon R. Sequeira,
assistant secretary of labor.

The Labor Department would also start random audits of H2A employers, and would
greatly increase the fines if farmers failed to meet required conditions.

Fines for employers found to have displaced American workers by hiring foreign
ones would  increase to $15,000 from $1,000. Fines for violating the terms of an
H2A guest worker's contract would increase to $5,000 from $1,000.

The new rules would increase the time allowed for employers to conduct required
inspections of housing they must provide for guest workers. Labor officials
would use a different, more localized survey to determine the wages that
employers must pay guest workers.

The Department of Homeland Security would allow employers to request numbers of
workers without specifying names of individuals they wanted to hire, and would
also make it easier for immigrant farm workers to move from one job to another
without leaving the United States, officials said. Ms. Chao said that as many as
800,000 current farm workers, or about two-thirds  of the agricultural work
force, were illegal immigrants. ''There simply are not enough U.S. workers to
fill the hundreds of thousands of agricultural jobs'' in the country, she said.

Farmers have avoided the current H2A program because it is so sluggish. It
currently supplies only about 75,000 foreign workers out of 1.2 million farm
workers employed at peak harvest, or less than 2 percent.

''We welcome any reforms that will help family farmers hire people who are
legally able to work in the United States,'' said Doug Mosebar, president of the
California Farm Bureau, a growers' organization.

Mr. Mosebar said Congress should pass legislation known as AgJobs, which would
provide a path to legal status for illegal immigrants, to resolve farm labor
instability.

Advocates for farm workers said the wage rates proposed under the new rules
would be lower than current pay.

''We're concerned this proposal will allow thousands of agricultural employers
to bring in cheap foreign labor from poor countries and undermine the standards
of farm workers in this country, which already are too low,'' said Bruce
Goldstein, executive director of Farmworker Justice.

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which calls for reducing immigration, said, ''It looks as though the government
is relaxing the rules to make it easier for agricultural employers to hire
workers at whatever wages they want to dictate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 19, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Suffolk Building Sites, Sweeps For Illegal Workers Net Just One

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words


To great fanfare in October 2006, Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive,
signed a new law requiring 6,000 contractors working for the county to affirm
that their employees were not illegal immigrants, prompting fear of impromptu
inspections and roundups of Hispanic men.

Since then, county officials have found exactly one worker without proper
immigration documents, after conducting two sweeps of a total of 33 contractors
last summer and fall. A second worker at the same construction company, North
Star Concrete, was initially suspected, but the $9,500 fine regarding his status
was dismissed when the company produced proper documentation.

''All that fuss over the need for this law and they only cite one guy?''
complained Ricardo Montano, a Suffolk County legislator who opposed the
initiative, officially called Local Law 52. ''Where are all the illegal workers
Steve Levy was talking about?''

Mr. Levy, a Democrat, has built a national reputation for taking a hard line
against illegal immigration by proposing a bill to outlaw loitering by day
laborers and bringing federal officials into the county jail to check inmates'
immigration status. His spokesman, Mark Smith, said that the county never
planned on widespread enforcement of the new law, and that the fact that only
one undocumented worker had been found was testament to its power.

''It's really meant to keep the contractor honest as a deterrent approach, as
the I.R.S. does with its audit process,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Not everyone is
going to get audited, and the vast majority is going to comply.'' He added, ''We
never had a predetermined number, that we were going to catch X number of
people.''

The owners of North Star, Mario and Abilio Salgado,  declined to be interviewed
for fear of further alienating county officials, and would not name the cited
worker. Their lawyer, Robert J. LaReddola, said that he would continue to press
the county's Labor Department to dismiss the remaining $9,500 fine, and that the
company had paid all taxes and insurance for the employee, whom it hired through
Laborers' Local 66, thinking he had a valid federal tax identification number
and union card.

''This law is arbitrary and unfair and maybe unconstitutional,'' Mr. LaReddola
said. ''They're putting the fear of God into these men.''

The case is being closely watched by both immigrant advocates and the
construction industry, especially because the county Legislature is now
considering a bill to expand the requirement to confirm workers' legal status to
cover all 15,000 licensed contractors in Suffolk, not just those doing work for
the government.

Introduced last month by Brian Beedenbender, a protege of Mr. Levy's, the bill
would carry stiffer penalties, including the loss of county licenses and up to
four years in jail. It is scheduled for public hearings beginning March 4 and
could come up for a vote by March 18.

Suffolk County is one of several municipalities nationwide to have experimented
with such laws after seeing sharp increases in their Hispanic populations, which
are often blamed for spikes in crime and overtaxed social services, schools,
hospitals and jails.

Judges in Arizona, Missouri and Oklahoma have recently turned back contractors'
challenges of similar laws in those states, though earlier, a federal judge had
blocked Hazleton, Pa., from enforcing a law barring businesses from hiring
illegal immigrants and landlords from renting them rooms (the city is appealing
the ruling).

Mayor Louis J. Barletta of Hazleton said that as soon as the laws were enacted
there, ''People were loading vans and trucks and literally leaving town in the
middle of the night, so it would be fair to assume they were illegal.''

''It's illegal to hire illegal aliens, so you have to go after the magnet: the
businesses drawing them in,'' he said.

Mr. LaReddola, the North Star lawyer, says the Suffolk legislation had upset
contractors, who were baffled by ''a myriad of confusing immigration laws.'' In
addition to making job estimates and calculating square footage, he says,
contractors are now trying to brush up on the difference between a resident
alien card and an alien registration card, and how an H-1B visa (for high-tech
workers) differs from an H-2B visa (for temporary nonagricultural jobs) from an
L-1 visa (usually for corporate employees).

''You're asking construction guys to do the work of attorney generals,'' he
said, adding that a slip-up with one employee could ruin a company's reputation
for years.

But Mr. Smith, the county spokesman, said the local law should change nothing
for law-abiding contractors, since there has long been a federal law to similar
effect: Section 1324a of Title 8 of the United States Code declares it unlawful
to hire undocumented immigrants. Mr. Levy's ''Affidavit of Compliance'' simply
has contractors swear to follow those laws ''with respect to the alien and
nationality status'' of workers.

Mr. Levy created the law, Mr. Smith said, because the county could not get
federal authorities to enforce their law; he feared that businesses hiring
undocumented immigrants for low wages would undercut contractors who follow the
law.

Mr. Smith said inspections had been limited so far to heavy construction
companies, on the theory that they were more likely to hire illegal workers. No
extra money has been allocated or task forces formed. Typically, a pair of
officials -- one from the county's Department of Labor and one from the
Department of Public Works -- has been sent to a construction site to see who is
working and get a list of employees from the foreman, then to check workers'
documents at the contractors' main offices.

North Star, which has 50 employees and is based in Farmingville, long a
flashpoint of controversy over immigrant day laborers, was pouring concrete at
the county Fire Academy in November when county officials showed up asking for
papers.

Steve Flanagan, the business manager for Laborers' Local 66 in Melville, N.Y.,
said he could not immediately identify the North Star worker who was caught by
the county.

But Mr. Flanagan said North Star brought several Hispanic workers to the hiring
hall last summer, produced the Social Security cards and photo identification
required for new union members, and promised to employ the men for two years and
file their names with the Internal Revenue Service.

''North Star came in with paperwork and it looked legit -- a Social Security
number and a photo ID -- and now they're trying to pin it on us?'' Mr. Flanagan
said.

Mr. Smith said that county officials had not yet decided whether to report
illegal immigrants found during the inspections to federal authorities. (A
separate Levy initiative authorized local police officers to report suspected
illegal immigrants to federal immigration authorities .)

Mr. Beedenbender, the county legislator, said that if his law is approved, it
would also be selectively enforced by current county officials, with more money
and employees to be budgeted depending on the number of complaints about
violators.

The proposal the law has the support of the Democratic majority in the county
Legislature, but has drawn sharp rebukes from Mr. Montano and Vivian
Viloria-Fisher, two Hispanic Democrats who have fallen out with Mr. Levy because
of what Mr. Montano calls his ''anti-Hispanic stance.''

''These laws are all a public relations ploy playing to an anti-immigrant
mentality,'' he said. ''Steve Levy has used the community as political punching
bag. He's alienated all the Hispanic leaders with his demagoguery. I'm Puerto
Rican, so he can't deport me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, created and signed the
bill requiring contractors working for the county to affirm that their employees
are legal residents of the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rhode Island: Order to Combat Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
14

LENGTH: 117 words


Linking the presence of undocumented workers to the state's financial woes, Gov.
Donald L. Carcieri signed an executive order that includes steps to combat
illegal immigration. The order requires state agencies and companies that do
business with the state to verify the legal status of employees. It also directs
the state police and prison and parole officials to work harder to find and
deport illegal immigrants. The governor, a Republican, said that he understood
illegal immigrants faced hardships, but that he did not want them in Rhode
Island. Under his order, the state police will enter an agreement with federal
immigration authorities permitting them access to specialized immigration
databases.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Immigrants Saved Social Security

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 336 words


Immigration is good for the financial health of Social Security because more
workers mean more tax revenue. Illegal immigration, it turns out, is even better
than legal immigration. In the fine print of the 2008 annual report on Social
Security, released last week, the program's trustees noted that growing numbers
of ''other than legal'' workers are expected to bolster the program over the
coming decades.

One reason is that many undocumented workers pay taxes during their work lives
but don't collect benefits later. Another is that undocumented workers are
entering the United States at ever younger ages and are expected to have more
children while they're here than if they arrived at later ages. The result is a
substantial increase in the number of working-age people paying taxes, but a
relatively smaller increase in the number of retirees who receive benefits -- a
double boon to Social Security's bottom line.

We're not talking chump change. According to the report, the taxes paid by
other-than-legal immigrants will close 15 percent of the system's projected
long-term deficit. That's equivalent to raising the payroll tax by 0.3
percentage points, starting today.

That is not to suggest that illegal immigration is a legitimate fix to Social
Security's problems. It is another reminder, however, of the nation's complex
relationship with undocumented workers. Would the people who want to deport all
undocumented workers be willing to make up the difference and pay the taxes that
the undocumented are currently paying?

It is also a reminder of Social Security's dynamism. As society and the economy
evolve, so does the system, responding not only to changes in immigration and
fertility, but also in wage growth and other variables. As such, it is adaptable
to the 21st century, if only the political will can be found to champion the
necessary changes. Those include modest tax increases and moderate benefit cuts
that could be phased in over decades -- provided the country gets started soon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Major Immigrant Smuggling Ring Is Broken in Phoenix, Police Say

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


In a case highlighting this city's prominent role in the smuggling of illegal
immigrants across the border, the authorities conducted a series of raids on
Thursday, arresting what they said were the leaders of a ring that helped
transport hundreds of people to way stations in Phoenix.

In some ways, it was just a typical day here, where the police regularly
discover houses with dozens of people held by smugglers until they can pay their
passage from Mexico. In a separate operation, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials and the Maricopa County sheriff here announced the arrests
of more than 100 people suspected of being in the country illegally who were on
probation for various crimes.

But the raids on Thursday morning, by a task force of state, local and federal
officers, provided a glimpse behind what the authorities described as one of the
more elaborate operations that bring thousands of people across the border in
this state, which has more illegal crossings than any other.

At dawn, officers swarmed houses, mostly in western  Phoenix, seizing ledgers,
money, weaponry and people suspected of involvement in a major, lucrative cell
that controlled the transportation of people from a  border town, Naco,  to
Phoenix.

The authorities made 20 arrests, including those of two Cubans  accused of
directing the operation. They also detained 210 illegal immigrants and
discovered 13 so-called drop houses that were way stations for smuggled
immigrants, the police said. In all, the authorities  planned to arrest about 75
people, they said.

Oddities abounded along the way.

At the house of one man described as a ringleader, the police found several
hundred roosters bred and grown for his cockfighting hobby. Another housed a
shrine with a life-size statue of Jesus and a pile of $1 and $5 bills and
burning candles at his feet, apparently  offerings for good fortune.

In another house, a large family photo of a suspect showed him holding a baby,
the hand gripping the girl displaying four large, ostentatious rings. An antique
four-poster bed filled a small bedroom.

''We often see 'Scarface' or 'Godfather' posters,'' said Lt. Vince Piano of the
Phoenix Police Department, a lead investigator. ''That's the mentality.''

Roger Vanderpool, the director of the Arizona Department of Public Safety, said
toppling organizations like the one on Thursday was central to disrupting
smuggling.

''It's organized crime,'' Mr. Vanderpool said. ''Going after the head of the
snake, cutting it off, is the effective way of dealing with organized crime.''

Several years ago, as border crackdowns in California and Texas funneled illegal
immigrant traffic into Arizona, Phoenix supplanted Los Angeles as the prime
transshipment point in the Southwest for human smuggling, federal investigators
say.

The role has brought increased violence, including assaults and occasionally the
killing of people unable to make full payment for their crossing, shootouts
among smugglers stealing one another's human cargo and kidnapping.

There has been a surge in the discovery of drop houses, where illegal immigrants
are kept while waiting to be transported to destinations across the country,
aided by an extensive freeway network here not heavily guarded by a Border
Patrol focused to the south.

Where drop houses were rarely found a decade or so ago, nearly 100 were
discovered last year in Phoenix and several so far this year, including one on
Thursday afternoon with 35 people. This suggests that despite reports of
immigrants'  leaving Arizona under pressure from the economic downturn and a
crackdown by the authorities, others continue to arrive.

The group arrested on  Thursday morning, the authorities said, primarily drove
people who had just crossed the border at Naco to Phoenix, nearly 200 miles
away. They often had their own security escort to ward off bandits known as
bajadores.

The suspects were said to have worked with a smuggling ring that is based in
Naco, Mexico.

The two men described as ringleaders, Jose Luis Suarez-Lemus of Peoria, Ariz.,
and Roel Ayala-Fernandez of Phoenix,  were charged by the state attorney
general's office with several crimes, including human smuggling, money
laundering, conspiracy and participating in a criminal syndicate. They may also
face federal charges.

The immigrants, who were charged about $2,500 for their transit, were smuggled
across the border through the San Pedro River Riparian National Conservation
Area, a remote desert site, the authorities said.

The group typically transported two to four loads of six to 10 people a day
mainly using rental cars, perhaps several hundred people in all, the authorities
believe. The organization made as much as $130,000 a week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terry Goddard, the attorney general of Arizona, left, with Mayor
Phil Gordon of Phoenix.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Immigrant Smugglers Sentenced

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 70 words


A National Guardsman was one of two men sentenced to at least three years in
federal prison for helping smuggle illegal immigrants through a Border Patrol
checkpoint. The National Guardsman, Sgt. Clarence Hodge Jr., 36, of Fort Worth,
and Jerry Zuniga, 29, pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy to transport
illegal immigrants. Mr. Hodge was sentenced to 38 months, and Mr. Zuniga, of
Laredo, to three years in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detaining Immigrants: We Still Have a Constitution

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 259 words


To the Editor:

Re ''No Need for a Warrant, You're an Immigrant'' (Week in Review, Oct. 14):

While we applaud you for highlighting some of the draconian enforcement tactics
used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement throughout the country to arrest and
detain immigrants, we believe that the article may have left the impression that
federal immigration enforcement officials are somehow exempt from constitutional
parameters, like the Fourth Amendment's protection against unreasonable searches
and seizures.

No matter your immigration status, color, sex or ethnicity, this country still
allows law enforcement limited authority to make a warrantless arrests. Yet an
I.C.E. officer's badge does not trump the Constitution or federal regulations,
which do not give unlimited authority to question a foreign national and most
certainly not to barge into a home without a warrant or permission.

Congress's failure to pass meaningful immigration reform and the coming
elections have made our current immigration law dysfunction more of an optical
political football than ever. No matter what the political wind shift, though,
we should never tolerate trampling constitutional protections in the rush to
prove who can be the toughest, especially as to the most vulnerable in our
society, citizen or noncitizen.

The phrase ''law enforcement professional'' must never become a joke.

Kathleen Campbell Walker  David W. Leopold Washington, Oct. 17, 2007

The writers are, respectively, president and vice president, American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S., Stymied 21 Years, Drops Bid to Deport 2 Palestinians

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 793 words


The government has reached a settlement in a landmark deportation case, ending
an effort of nearly 21 years to expel two Palestinians accused of aiding a
militant branch of the Palestine Liberation Organization. The men will be
allowed to apply for United States citizenship in three years.

The long and tortuous case, considered by civil liberties groups an important
test of both immigrants' rights and antiterrorism law, had gone before the
Supreme Court once and a federal appeals court four times, in addition to its
repeated trips to the Board of Immigration Appeals, which hears appeals from
decisions of immigration judges around the country.

The two Palestinians, Khader Hamide and Michel Shehadeh, were the last
defendants in the celebrated L.A. Eight case, which began in January 1987 when
seven Palestinian men and the Kenyan wife of one of them, all residents of
Southern California, were arrested on charges of aiding the militant group, the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Charges against six were
eventually dropped, leaving only Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh, the main
defendants.

Despite amending charges against them at least six times, their lawyers said,
the government failed to convince any judge that they had done anything illegal.
In throwing out the latest round of the case earlier this year, Bruce J.
Einhorn, an immigration judge, described it as ''an embarrassment to the rule of
law.''

The government's decision to close the case, reached Tuesday, was announced
yesterday by the Board of Immigration Appeals, to which Judge Einhorn's decision
had been appealed.

The Justice Department directed all questions to immigration officials. Virginia
Kice, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, said the
government had settled what she called its oldest current high-profile case
because Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh were no longer a threat.

''At the time the men were charged, the government believed they were a threat
based on their membership in a terrorist organization,'' Ms. Kice said. ''Based
on current analysis, we have no information that they are a threat.''

Both Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh were legal residents of the United States when
arrested. At first they were charged with spreading world Communism, then a
deportable offense, and ultimately, under the USA Patriot Act, with providing
material support for terrorism. The government designated the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine a terrorist organization in 1997.

The defendants always maintained their innocence, saying that they had simply
been lobbying to free Palestinians from Israeli occupation and that their
actions, including distribution of the group's magazine and raising charitable
contributions, were protected under free-speech rights.

Lawyers for the two men said the government's fruitless battle was an example of
bogus terrorism charges made on the ground of guilt by association.

''Our society has to be able to tolerate individuals in this country who
lawfully support organizations abroad fighting for change,'' said Marc Van Der
Hout, a San Francisco lawyer who handled the case from the beginning for the
National Lawyers Guild.

David D. Cole, a professor of constitutional law at Georgetown University,
fought the case on behalf of the Center for Constitutional Rights, as did
various lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.

''It is very hard for any administration to drop a case that has been labeled a
terrorism case,'' Mr. Cole said. ''Once the charge has been made, the easy
choice is to keep on pressing. The hard choice is to stop and say this doesn't
make sense.''

He said the Bush administration had presumably agreed to do so because it was
unlikely to face questions about its willingness to fight terrorism.

Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh said the case had exacted a heavy personal toll,
leaving their lives constantly unsettled even as they raised families. Since
they were fighting deportation, Mr. Hamide, for example, decided not to visit
his dying father in Bethlehem in 1997, because, he said, the United States would
have barred his return.

''I feel like Mount Everest came off my shoulders,'' Mr. Hamide said of the
latest development in a telephone interview from Los Angeles.

Both men said the United States cast far too wide a net in pursuing terrorism
suspects. They accused the government of using the law to punish those whose
political positions it dislikes.

''The case was like a sword hanging over our head all the time,'' said Mr.
Shehadeh, currently a research associate at San Francisco State University.
''They should protect the American public from real dangers, not fabricated ones
like in our case.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Khader Hamide emerged victorious with Michel Shehadeh.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GAUTHIER/LOS ANGELES TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN OTHER WORDS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 164 words


The Work Never Ends

Comprehensive reform of our inadequate immigration laws has failed in
Washington, at least for now.

So Assemblyman Tim Bishop, a Democrat from Southampton, is trying to get Long
Island the workers it needs -- legally extending the exemption to the H-2B visa
program.

Lengthening the two-year-old exemption would allow tens of thousands of seasonal
employees who have previously worked in the United States to return and fill
some jobs.

Yes, that's right: jobs are going unfilled. The idea that immigrants take jobs
from Americans was a lie.

Without the exemption, only 66,000 H2-B visas can be granted nationally. In
fiscal year 2006, with the exemption in place, 122,511 were issued. On Long
Island, such workers are mostly utilized during the growing season.

Clearly the market needs at least twice as many seasonal foreign workers as the
law allows. The government should lift this arbitrary employment cap.

The Times of Northport and East Northport, Oct. 25

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2007



CORRECTION: The  ''In Other Words'' column last Sunday misstated Tim Bishop's
position. He is a congressman, not an assemblyman.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Prosecutors Appeal Immigration Fraud Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 123 words


Prosecutors have appealed a judge's decision to dismiss an immigration fraud
case against Luis Posada Carriles, an anti-Castro militant and former C.I.A.
operative. Mr. Posada, 79, is wanted in Venezuela on charges that he plotted the
deadly 1976 bombing of a Cuban jetliner from Caracas. Prosecutors filed the
appeal Monday with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in
New Orleans. The case against Mr. Posada was dismissed in May after the judge,
Kathleen Cardone of Federal District Court in El Paso, concluded that federal
authorities used trickery, fraud and deceit in trying to pursue a case against
Mr. Posada, who was accused of lying on an application and during an interview
to become a naturalized citizen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suspect's Immigration Status in Question

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and NATE SCHWEBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 587 words


Rodolfo Godinez, one of six suspects in the Aug. 4 shooting deaths of three
young people in a Newark schoolyard, will be detained by immigration authorities
even if he is able to post $3 million bail, Essex County prosecutors said
yesterday.

Mr. Godinez was arraigned in Superior Court on 16 charges, including three
counts of first-degree murder. He pleaded not guilty. Prosecutors said the
authorities were still trying to determine the immigration status of Mr.
Godinez, who is from Nicaragua.

Two of Mr. Godinez's co-defendants have been charged with sexual assault in the
case, although officials would not identify the victim. Officials indicated that
there had been ''a strong gang element'' to the crimes.

The prosecutors' comments came after a court appearance yesterday by Mr.
Godinez, who was extradited to New Jersey from Maryland last week. Mr. Godinez,
24, was arrested in a Maryland boarding house in August and had fought
extradition.

Paula T. Dow, the Essex County prosecutor, called Mr. Godinez one of the
''significant players'' in the murders.

''He will not be getting out of jail,'' she said.

The killings in Newark quickly became a part of a national debate about illegal
immigration after the authorities revealed that one of the suspects, Jose
Lachira Carranza, was an illegal immigrant from Peru who could have been
detained after one of two previous arrests. In the weeks that followed Mr.
Carranza's arrest, a Republican presidential candidate, Tom Tancredo, stood on
the steps of Newark's City Hall and denounced the city's leaders as complicit in
the killings, saying they allowed Newark to become a ''sanctuary'' for illegal
immigrants.

In late August, New Jersey's attorney general ordered local police departments
to start inquiring about the immigration status of criminal suspects. But others
said that the problem was illegal guns, and not immigration. After the killings,
Newark's leaders proposed an ordinance that they said would stem the flow of
unlicensed firearms to the city.

Mr. Godinez and the other suspects in the case are accused of killing Iofemi
Hightower, 20, Dashon Harvey, 20, and Terrance Aeriel, 18, on a school
playground. During the investigation, the authorities played down a link between
gang activity and the killings, saying that the crimes might have been a robbery
that went awry. But Thomas A. McTigue, an assistant prosecutor, said yesterday
that ''there was clearly a significant gang component to this.''

He added, ''All of the defendants have some ties to MS-13,'' in a reference to
the violent gang formed by El Salvadoran refugees in Los Angeles in the 1980s.

Prosecutors are still seeking to charge the three juvenile suspects in the case
as adults. All three are scheduled to have hearings next month, Mr. McTigue
said.

During the court appearance, Judge Donald J. Volkert Jr. asked Mr. Godinez
whether he had a Social Security number.

Mr. Godinez said that he did.

The judge asked for the number.

''I don't remember it,'' Mr. Godinez said.

The $3 million bail set for Mr. Godinez included half a million dollars stemming
from an outstanding arrest warrant from 2003. Mr. Godinez was accused of taking
part in the violent robbery of three people outside a bar in Irvington, N.J.

Mr. McTigue said that the surviving victim of the shootings, Natasha Aeriel, had
left the hospital. Investigators have said that Ms. Aeriel provided the first
breaks in the case, identifying Mr. Carranza from a photograph soon after she
was shot.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shalga Hightower, mother of Iofemi Hightower, a Newark shooting
victim, in court yesterday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY MIKE DERER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Japanese Immigration Controls Worry Foreigners

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 17


Japan has tried hard in recent years to shake its image as an overly insular
society and offer a warmer welcome to foreign investors and tourists. But the
country is about to impose strict immigration controls that many fear could
deter visitors and discourage businesses from locating here.

On Tuesday, Japan will put in place one of the toughest systems in the developed
world for monitoring foreign visitors. Modeled on the United States'
controversial U.S.-Visit program, it will require foreign citizens to be
fingerprinted, photographed and questioned every time they enter Japan.

The screening will extend even to Japan's 2.1 million foreign residents, many of
whom fear they will soon face clogged immigration lines whenever they enter the
country. People exempted from the checks include children under 16, diplomats
and ''special permanent residents,'' a euphemism for Koreans and other Asians
brought to Japan as slave laborers during World War II and their descendants.

The authorities say such thorough screening is needed to protect Japan from
attacks by foreign terrorists, which many fear here because of Japan's support
for the United States in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

But the measures, part of an immigration law enacted last year, have been
criticized by civil rights groups and foreign residents' associations as too
sweeping and unnecessarily burdensome to foreigners. They note that the only
significant terrorist attack in Japan in recent decades was carried out by a
domestic religious sect, which released sarin nerve gas in the Tokyo subway in
1995, killing 12 people.

Some of the most vocal critics have been among foreign business leaders, who say
the screening could hurt Japan's standing as an Asian business center,
especially if it is inefficiently carried out, leading to long waits at
airports. Business groups here warn that such delays  could make Japan less
attractive than rival commercial hubs like Hong Kong and Singapore, where entry
procedures are much easier.

The business groups also contend that the screening runs counter to recent
efforts by the government to attract more foreign investment and tourism.

''If businessmen based here have to line up for two hours every time they come
back from traveling, it will be a disaster,'' said Jakob Edberg, policy director
in the Tokyo office of the European Business Council. ''This will affect real
business decisions, like whether to base here.''

Business groups also fault the government for  bungling the few attempts it has
made at explanation. Two weeks ago, the justice minister created a commotion
when he defended the new measures by stating that ''a friend of a friend'' who
belonged to Al Qaeda had entered the country repeatedly using forged passports.
The government scrambled to say that the minister, Kunio Hatoyama, had never had
direct contact with the alleged Qaeda member.

However, some civil rights groups worry that the government is using terrorism
to mask a deeper, xenophobic motive behind the new measures. They say that
within Japan, the government has justified the screening as an anticrime
measure, playing to widely held fears that an influx of foreigners is
threatening Japan's safe streets.

These groups also note that fingerprinting of foreigners is not new here. Until
fairly recently, all foreign residents  were routinely fingerprinted. That
practice was phased out after years of protest by foreign residents and civil
rights groups.

''Terrorism looks like an excuse to revive to the old system for monitoring
foreigners,'' said Sonoko Kawakami at Amnesty International in Japan. ''We worry
that the real point of these measures is just to keep foreigners out of Japan.''

One request made by the European Business Council, the American Chamber of
Commerce in Japan and other business groups is to add special lines at airports
for foreign residents, and especially frequent business travelers.

Until now, foreign residents have been allowed to use the same lines at airport
immigration as Japanese citizens, speeding their entry. But the new law will bar
them from doing so.

Only the Tokyo area's main international airport at Narita has agreed to set
aside lines for foreign residents. Others, including the nation's second-largest
airport, Kansai International near  Osaka, will force these residents to line up
with other foreigners, who even before the new screening often waited an hour or
more to pass through immigration.

That irks Martin Issott, 59, a Briton and the regional director for a British
chemical company who has lived in Japan for 20 years. Mr. Issott said he used
the Kansai airport two or three times a month for business trips. He uses the
immigration line for Japanese citizens and never waits more than five minutes.
He said he feared that the change in rules would result in long waits at the end
of every trip.

''I have no problem complying with the letter of this law,'' said Mr. Issott,
who lives in the western city of Kobe. ''But I am utterly disgusted that they
haven't found a way to make this quicker and more painless.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Surge Brings New Immigration Backlog

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 822 words


Immigration authorities are swamped in new bureaucratic backlogs resulting from
an unanticipated flood last summer of applications for citizenship and for
residence visas, officials said.

In July and August alone, the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services
agency received 2.5 million applications, including petitions for naturalization
as well as for the entire range of immigrant visas. That was more than double
the total applications it received in the same two months in 2006, said a
spokesman, Bill Wright.

In the 2007 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, the agency received 1.4 million
petitions from legal immigrants to become United States citizens, about double
the number of naturalization petitions in the 2006 fiscal year, Mr. Wright said.

The surge began after Jan. 31 when the immigration agency announced fee
increases averaging 66 percent for most applications, official figures show. The
increases went into effect July 30. The contentious tenor of the immigration
debate also prompted legal immigrants to apply for citizenship. ''We did our
absolute best to foresee the surge we would have,'' Mr. Wright said. ''We
certainly were surprised by such an immediate increase with such a volume.''

The deluge has been so great that the agency is struggling to send out notices
acknowledging it has received the applications. According to a special Web page
the agency set up for applicants, as of Nov. 16 the agency's processing center
in Texas is sending out receipts for naturalization petitions that arrived by
July 26. The processing center in Vermont is just now acknowledging
naturalization petitions that came in by July 30.

Also contributing to the surge are about 300,000 applications in July and August
for legal permanent resident visas, commonly known as green cards, from highly
skilled immigrants. The jump in applications for the employment-based green
cards resulted from the resolution of a mix-up in June between Immigration and
Citizenship Services and the State Department, which is responsible for making
visas available. The agencies had first invited the applications, then said they
would not be accepted. They then reversed course, agreeing to accept them.

Immigration officials said it could take more than a year to decide many of the
recent applications.

The processing backlogs are different from the visa backlogs that have burdened
the United States immigration system for years. Because of annual limits on all
green cards, immigrants from some countries like Mexico and the Philippines
often have to wait decades for visas to become available. Now the agency has
fallen behind on the bureaucratic work of logging in applications and deciding
whether to grant visas or allow immigrants to become United States citizens.

In addition to the fee increase, the rush of naturalization requests was also
prompted by anti-immigrant language  in the debate over immigration policy this
year, lawyers and advocates for immigrants said. Also, the immigration
authorities had announced they were preparing a new, more difficult test for
aspiring citizens, which they unveiled in September.

''People are scared,'' said Ignacio Donoso, an immigration lawyer at the Monty
Partners firm in Houston. ''And they want to avoid the fees, and they do not
want to face a more demanding test. So you are going to have people running like
mad to apply, yet the government doesn't hire any more staff to handle it.''

Citizenship and Immigration Services is required by Congress to draw most of its
operating budget from fees. When the agency head, Emilio T. Gonzalez, announced
the fee increases in January, he pledged that the agency would become more
efficient and reduce wait times for deciding applications. Fees for
naturalization, for example, increased 66 percent, to $675 from $405.

The agency plans to use the higher revenues to hire 1,500 employees, an increase
of about 10 percent over its current staff of 15,000, Mr. Wright said. For the
time being, agency employees have volunteered to work overtime to help clear the
backlog.

Much of the rush for naturalization came from legal Latino immigrants. Hispanic
organizations, including the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials Educational Fund, and Univision, the Spanish-language
television network, led a nationwide naturalization campaign this year in which
hundreds of thousands of longtime legal immigrants signed up to become citizens.

Immigration officials said they would work to complete naturalization petitions
in time for new citizens to vote in the elections next November. They strongly
denied that the delays had any partisan political motivation.

''We know what this issue is,'' Mr. Wright said, but he cautioned there were
limits to how much the agency could expedite its procedures.

''We are not going to sacrifice quality or security to speed up just to get the
numbers,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The  immigration agency was flooded by requests in 2007. Above,
a citizenship ceremony for thousands in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK
FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newark: Claim of Improper Questioning

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 181 words


The New Jersey attorney general said yesterday that a city police official acted
improperly by asking about the immigration status of two journalists who
witnessed a crime scene in September, violating a state directive on immigrants
and law enforcement. The journalists, a freelance photographer and the editor of
The Brazilian Voice newspaper, reported to the police that the photographer had
found a woman's body in a Newark alley. They were questioned about their
immigration status by the official, Deputy Chief Samuel A. DeMaio, the attorney
general's office said. The directive, introduced in August, tells the police to
ask the immigration status only of those arrested on indictable offenses or for
drunken driving. In a statement, Attorney General Anne Milgram, above, said  the
directive ''specifically prohibits police from inquiring about the immigration
status of any victim, witness or person requesting police assistance.'' The
Newark police director, Garry F. McCarthy, said the Police Department would
review the matter before deciding whether to reprimand Chief DeMaio.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Divide, Seen From Three Angles

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 454 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Immigration Wilderness'' (editorial, Nov. 23):

It's sad that anti-immigrant sentiments are now fast escalating in the United
States, a country where election-year politicians sing praises of its history of
immigration, assimilation and diversity.

Since the Senate immigration bill fell apart in June, right-wing xenophobia has
added fuel to government persecution of people whose only crime has been their
desire to live and work with dignity.

From a moral point of view, separating a mother from her breast-feeding child,
raiding a factory and severing parents from their wages, and denying a working
family its all-important driver's license are anything but American.

All of the above are gross violations of civil and human rights -- rights that
we earned through centuries of struggle and sacrifice. How can we be so
oblivious to that precious history?

Partha Banerjee

Brooklyn, Nov. 23, 2007

To the Editor:

The nation should be in ''an angry place'' when it comes not to immigration, but
to illegal immigration.

My grandfather was a legal immigrant from Turkey, and my wife is a legal
immigrant from Shanghai. In the latter case, we went through the lengthy,
frustrating and expensive process required by our laws to make that happen.
That's how it is supposed to work in the United States.

Now to read that applicants for citizenship must wait months even for a receipt
and up to 18 months to process an application should put us all in ''an angry
place.'' That's the right place to be in response to our government's failure to
provide immigration services to those of us who follow the rule of law.

The collapse of the rule of law is evident in the complacency surrounding the
influx of illegal aliens and to our government's failure to enforce the law.

Henry Emurian

Baltimore, Nov. 23, 2007

To the Editor:

Lost in the name-calling surrounding immigration is any discussion of
emigration. It's as if immigrants just materialize at our borders.

For most migrants, the decision to leave hearth and home is fraught with
anguish, even filled with peril. Why don't we stop throwing brickbats and begin
a conversation about the causes of mass migration?

Let's start debating family planning, education and economic policies that help
poor people help themselves.

The right policy choices could make emigration -- and immigration -- less of an
agonized choice for millions. We might even bring a spark of intelligence to our
own political debates along the way.  John Seager

Washington, Nov. 23, 2007

The writer is the president of Population Connection, an organization that
advocates stabilizing world population at a level that can be sustained by
Earth's resources.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Suit Is Seeking To Expedite Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 690 words


A federal lawsuit was filed yesterday in California against immigration
authorities, seeking to help legal immigrants whose petitions for citizenship
have been held up by delays in background checks performed by the F.B.I.

The lawsuit, a class action, was filed in federal court in Santa Ana, on behalf
of four immigrants who have lived legally in the United States for many years
and are eager to become citizens. After filing naturalization petitions, each
has waited a year or more without being approved because the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has not completed a required criminal record check. They have
received no explanation for the delays, according to the suit.

''I want to be assimilated into the system here; I want to vote for the
president,'' said Abbas Amirichimeh, a 41-year-old immigrant from Iran who has
been living legally in the United States since 1994 and is a plaintiff in the
suit.

Mr. Amirichimeh applied for citizenship in May 2003, and has been told only that
his petition is delayed because the background check is not complete. ''I'm just
getting a runaround and nobody really cares,'' he said in a telephone interview
yesterday.

Backlogs of F.B.I. background checks from past naturalization petitions are
dogging the Citizenship and Immigration Services agency at a time when it is
swamped with 1.4 million new petitions from aspiring citizens in the past year.
In a report in June, Prekash Khatri, the ombudsman of the immigration agency,
said the F.B.I. checks ''may be the single biggest obstacle to the timely and
efficient delivery of immigration benefits'' by the agency.

Christopher Bentley, an agency spokesman, acknowledged a backlog but said the
cases were a relatively small part of the overall workload of background checks.
Of more than 1.5 million checks the agency ordered from the F.B.I. in the year
ending Sept. 30, 90 percent cleared within six months, he said.

Of about 300,000 name checks waiting to be completed, Mr. Bentley said, about
half have been hung up in the system for more than six months.

Mr. Bentley and F.B.I. officials would not comment on the lawsuit, saying it was
pending litigation. It was filed by the National Immigration Law Center, a
public interest law group in Los Angeles, and the American Civil Liberties
Union.

Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is in charge of deciding
naturalization petitions, contracts with the F.B.I. to carry out the background
checks. Basic checks against the bureau's roster of criminals are computerized
and go quickly, officials said.

But because of policy changes in 2002 as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks, the
F.B.I. must check not only the name of the applicant but also any references to
that name in its files, officials said. The reference files are not all in
computer databases and some must be searched manually, Richard Kolko, a
spokesman for the bureau, said.

Those files include names of people who committed no crimes, including victims
and witnesses, F.B.I. officials said. They said they had been consolidating and
modernizing the databases. The lawsuit seeks to force Citizenship and
Immigration Services to impose deadlines for completing all the checks and
challenges the expanded searches.  The lawsuit is the first to include
citizenship applicants who have not already passed the required civics
examination administered by an immigration officer. By law, the agency is
required to decide on naturalization petitions within 120 days after the
candidate passes that test.

Lawyers said the likelihood was small that legal immigrants who applied for
naturalization would have a criminal  background because any  record was a legal
bar to becoming a citizen.

Jim Moorhead, 56, another plaintiff, is a British citizen who said he had lived
as a legal immigrant in the United States for 30 years. In 1991, Mr. Moorhead
was named a citizen hero by Los Angeles County when he captured an armed robber.
A name check delay has held up his citizenship petition for two years.

''I've given 30 years of my life to America,'' he said, ''and now I can't even
do the right thing by becoming a citizen.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Groups Refile Suit Over Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
33

LENGTH: 87 words


Civil rights groups filed a new federal lawsuit challenging an  Arizona law that
would cancel the business licenses of employers found guilty of hiring illegal
immigrants more than once in three years. An earlier suit by the groups,
including the American Civil Liberties Union, was dismissed on Friday by Judge
Neil V. Wake of Federal District Court, who said they had sued the wrong
government officials. The groups said they expected the new lawsuit would
address the judge's concerns. The law is to take effect Jan. 1.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Frees Imam to Fight Deportation

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa.


An immigration judge here  released an Islamic leader from Pittsburgh on $5,000
bond on Wednesday while he fights an effort to deport him to Turkey after having
lived in the United States for 19 years.

The case of the imam, Kadir Gunduz, 48, has upset not only Muslim leaders, but
also people of other faiths who say immigration officials  have taken a hard
line on visa applications for religious workers since the Sept. 11 attacks and
look for small errors to start deportation proceedings.

The Rev. Donald Green, executive director of Christian Associates of Southwest
Pennsylvania, an ecumenical organization that has worked with Mr. Gunduz, said,
''Here's a guy who has tried to follow the process and do things legitimately,
and now it seems the government, in its paranoia about religious workers and
anyone who is an outsider, wants to deny him the access to permanent
residency.''

Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of  the Homeland Security Department,
said it was looking more closely at visas for religious workers, but not because
of 9/11.  ''We have given greater scrutiny ever since we conducted a
religious-worker review and found a high fraud rate of 33 percent,'' said Shawn
Saucier, an agency spokesman.

That study was completed in August 2005. Starting in July 2006, the agency began
site visits to the sponsoring religious groups. A visit last August was cited
in denying Mr. Gunduz's applications for work  authorization and permanent
residency.

In the visit, officials said, the agency found that Mr. Gunduz's status at the
Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, where he is one of two imams, had ''changed
significantly since the petition was filed'' in 2000, court papers show.

In that period, Mr. Gunduz moved from head imam handling administrative duties
to directing the chaplaincy program and working with prison and jail inmates,
while remaining an imam.

Mr. Gunduz's lawyer, Robert Whitehill, said the change was a technicality that
should not prevent Mr. Gunduz from becoming a permanent resident.

After the applications were denied, on Dec. 4, Mr. Gunduz was taken into custody
in Pittsburgh and transported 175 miles east to the York County Prison.

Mr. Gunduz arrived in 1988 in the United States on a student visa to work for a
psychology doctorate. He left the university to work at the Islamic Center in
the mid-'90s and was given a hardship waiver to remain in the country because
his son, now 16, has severe mental and physical disabilities.

He and his wife, Saime, have three children, all United States citizens. Ms.
Gunduz's status is tied to that of her husband.

In 2000, the Islamic Center requested that he be allowed to remain as a
temporary religious worker. The request was approved in 2002, and the couple
sought  permanent residency. Mr. Gunduz awaits  a hearing on his appeals  in the
next year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kadir Gunduz

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Custody Resolved, a Move Looms

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: MEMPHIS


An 8-year-old girl taken from an American couple and returned to her Chinese
parents after a seven-year custody fight faces another big adjustment: moving to
China.

The girl, Anna Mae He, rejoined her parents, Shaoqiang and Qin Luo He, in July,
under orders from the Tennessee Supreme Court. She had lived with an American
couple who took her in as an infant to help her financially struggling parents
and then refused to give her back.

Now, with  the custody fight resolved, Anna's family faces deportation. Her
father says it is time to head home to China.

''Next month, we're going to do the paperwork with a federal immigration
judge,'' Mr. He said recently at his family's small, two-bedroom apartment on
the outskirts of Memphis.

Mr. He came to Tennessee to attend graduate school at the University of Memphis,
but his student visa expired years ago. He was allowed to remain in the United
States because of the custody fight, which began in May 2000 and ended with the
court ruling in January.

''We always wanted custody to move back to China as a family,'' Mr. He said.

An immigration judge agreed four years ago to delay ruling on the Hes'
immigration status, but Mr. He said that decision could come anytime now.

''If deported, we might never come back again,'' Mr. He said. ''With a voluntary
departure, we don't get an order.''

Mr. He said he expected to return to China by the end of February. A Memphis
church, New Sardis Baptist, has begun a  drive to help pay for the family's
move.

Ashok Kara, a family psychologist working with the Hes on Anna's transition,
said the girl was warming toward her parents and was getting along well with her
brother, Andy, 7, and her sister, Avita, 5.

''At least on the surface, things are moving in a very positive direction,'' Dr.
Kara said. ''She's happy. She talks. She laughs. She jokes. Although beneath the
surface where things are not easily observed, we don't quite know what's going
on.''

A third grader, Anna earned all A's and E's on her latest report card. ''She
participates well when called up,'' her teacher wrote. ''I enjoy having her in
class.''

Anna's former foster parents, Jerry and Louise Baker, won a court order five
years ago barring the Hes from any contact with Anna, so she is still just
getting to know her family.

But piled up on a living room sofa one recent evening to watch cartoons, Anna,
Andy and Avita shared the easy laughter of comfortable playmates.

Anna ignored questions about China or the pending move, focusing instead on the
TV and a book of children's poetry called ''Falling Up.'' She did find time,
though, to occasionally poke Andy in the side with a foot, setting off bouts of
giggling.

''She has been learning Chinese, but she's a little bit afraid of the
language,'' her father said. ''She told me it's very difficult, this language.
But she's becoming more curious about China. She asks about the schools, the
teachers, the children, what's the subjects that are taught.''

Anna was born in January 1999 with her parents facing hard times financially and
legally. Mr. He was accused of sexual assault by a female student at the
university, a charge that cost him his scholarship and student stipend though he
was acquitted at trial.

The Bakers, a suburban Memphis couple with four children of their own, were
introduced to the Hes through a private foster-care organization. They
volunteered to take in Anna for a few months but decided later to adopt her,
even though the Hes wanted her back.

The Bakers accused the Hes of being unfit parents and argued that Anna would
have a better life in America than in China.

In 2004, a Memphis judge took away the Hes' parental rights on grounds of
abandonment, a decision that drew widespread criticism as culturally and
ethnically biased.

The Tennessee Supreme Court ruled that the Hes thought they were giving up their
daughter for a short time so she could get health insurance and lost custody
largely because of their ignorance of American law. It ordered the family to be
reunited.

Dr. Kara said he had hoped Anna would have more time to bond with her family
before moving to a country with an unfamiliar culture and language.

''But the way things were set up, they were allowed to stay here until a
resolution, and the resolution has taken place,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anna Mae He with her mother, Qin Luo He. Anna is getting to know
her family after years of living with foster parents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN
PULFER FOCHT/MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL, VIA WORLD PICTURE NETWORK)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Manhattan: Former Immigration Official Sentenced

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METRO BRIEFING NEW YORK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 114 words


A former supervisor with the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services office
in New York was sentenced in Federal District Court on Thursday to 42 months in
prison for taking bribes in exchange for granting citizenship to ineligible
applicants, prosecutors said. The defendant, Jimmie Ortega, 59, of Lindenhurst,
N.Y., admitted that from 2004 to 2006, he used his position as an adjudications
officer to obtain citizenship for at least 20 immigrants in exchange for
payments of  $1,500 to  $4,000, said Michael J. Garcia, the United States
attorney in Manhattan. Mr. Ortega, who retired in April 2006, pleaded guilty
last  July to conspiracy and soliciting bribes, prosecutors said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rushing and Posturing in Danbury

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 282 words


Congress's failure to pass meaningful immigration reform last year dispersed the
debate to dozens of municipalities nationwide. On Monday night, the City Council
in Danbury, Conn., will consider a question being asked in too many cities and
towns: whether local police should become enforcers of federal immigration law.

Danbury's mayor, Mark Boughton, is championing the idea, which -- as experience
has  shown in other parts of the country -- is a bad one. The police usually
have enough to do, and if immigrants are afraid to talk to police for fear of
being deported, it can cripple a department's effectiveness in immigrant
communities.

Proposals to deputize local police to do a job that more appropriately belongs
to Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have become common. The agency
has trained police in several dozen localities.

Mr. Boughton says he wants the police to root out undocumented immigrants with
criminal records,  including those wanted in their own country. His urgency is
difficult to understand. Crime in Danbury, already low, dropped 8 percent  last
year. Mr. Boughton is so eager -- and so eager to preclude debate -- that he
used the city's emergency-alert telephone system last week to ''poll'' Danbury's
citizens on the issue. Most who responded approved, but the poll was not
scientific and the calls politicized the issue even more.

Cities like Danbury, which  have sizable foreign-born populations, risk
inflaming tensions if they make such decisions without a full public debate.
Danbury's citizens, starting with members of the City Council, need to ask many
questions about Mr. Boughton's proposal. The first one should be: Why the rush?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2008 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Speed Deportation Of Criminals Behind Bars

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 783 words


Federal authorities expect to identify and deport more than 200,000 immigrants
this year who are convicted criminals serving time in prisons and jails across
the country, the country's top federal immigration enforcement official said
Monday.

The effort to speed the deportation of foreign-born criminals is part of a
campaign by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to help federal and
state prisons reduce the costs of housing immigrants, the official, Julie L.
Myers, assistant secretary of homeland security and head of the agency, said in
an interview.

In 2007, Ms. Myers said, the agency, known as ICE, brought formal immigration
charges against 164,000 immigrants who are behind bars nationwide for crimes
committed in this country. Many of those immigrants are still in the United
States and are also slated for deportation this year, she said. By comparison,
in 2006, the agency identified 64,000 immigrants behind bars, most of whom were
deported.

The big increase in deportations will place ''a significant burden,'' on ICE's
detention centers, she said, and on the airplanes, mostly from the Justice
Department, used by the agency to fly immigrants back to their home countries.
Last year, Congress authorized $200 million for programs to deport immigrant
criminals.

Under current law, immigrants convicted of crimes are deported only after
serving their sentences in this country. Foreigners behind bars, Ms. Myers said,
include large numbers of immigrants who were legal residents, but lost their
legal status as a result of being convicted of crimes.

Ms. Myers said the agency would work with states to devise parole programs
allowing immigrants imprisoned for nonviolent crimes to reduce their prison time
if they agreed to be deported immediately upon release.

The issue of immigrants in county jails and state prisons has been a sore point
in many states. At city council meetings and in local elections, taxpayers
vented frustration at having to pay for the imprisonment of illegal immigrants
convicted of crimes committed in this country.

The Bush administration, after failing to win legislation last year to give
legal status to illegal immigrants, has rapidly increased  enforcement, placing
a ''huge priority'' on deporting criminal immigrants, Ms. Myers said.

In general, immigrants end up in prison at significantly lower rates than people
born in this country, said Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociology professor at the
University of California, Irvine, who studies immigrants and crime. Among men
between the ages of 18 and 39, Mr. Rumbaut has found, Americans are five times
more likely to land in prison than immigrants.

In 2007, ICE sent 276,912 immigrants to their home countries, including many who
were had never been arrested for crimes, but were deported for civil immigration
violations.

In the past year, Ms. Myers said, agents have stepped up efforts to find
immigrants behind bars and complete immigration proceedings so they could be
deported directly from prison without being released into the streets.

Ms. Myers, who was confirmed in late December after serving a year in the post,
said the agency would intensify the crackdown this year with increased criminal
prosecutions of employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

''There should be more of those,'' she said of such prosecutions. Last year, the
agency totaled $30 million in fines and forfeitures against employers, but fewer
than 100 executives or hiring managers were arrested, compared with 4,100
unauthorized workers.

Ms. Myers said ICE agents were frustrated that employment cases had moved slowly
in the courts and had not been treated as serious crimes by federal prosecutors
and judges.

''This can't be that we are the only ones who want to have these laws
enforced,'' she said.

Some employers, Ms. Myers said, were moving on their own to fire immigrant
workers who lacked proper authorization and to tighten their hiring practices.
She cited an Electrolux factory in Springfield, Tenn., that fired more than 150
immigrants in December after ICE arrested a handful of its workers.

''Do I think we have solved this problem? No,'' Ms. Myers said of the hiring of
illegal immigrants. ''Do I think we are starting to make an impact? I think
we're starting to.''

On a separate issue, Ms. Myers confirmed that the agency adopted a new policy
last week requiring a court order for medical staff members to give sedation
drugs to immigrants being deported. The decision, in a Jan. 9 memorandum,
responded to a lawsuit in California by the American Civil Liberties Union on
behalf of two immigrants who were forcibly drugged during attempts by ICE to
deport them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday  about plans by the federal Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency to deport immigrants convicted of crimes misstated
how soon the agency would complete some deportations. Although the agency
expects to start deportation proceedings this year against more than 200,000
immigrants serving criminal sentences in prisons and jails, the individuals will
be removed when they complete their terms -- not necessarily in 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Julie L. Myers is in charge of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigrants Facing a Longer Wait

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 748 words


Because of an unprecedented surge in immigration applications last summer, legal
immigrants will have to wait much longer during the next two years to receive
visas or naturalization papers, the top official of the federal agency that
issues those documents said Thursday.

In a statement before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, the
official, Emilio T. Gonzalez, the director of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, said that from now until 2010 the agency would take an average of 18
months to process petitions from legal immigrants for citizenship, up from 7
months or less last year. Visas for permanent residents sponsored by relatives
in the United States will take one year, up from the current average of six
months or less, he said.

The announcement was awkward for Mr. Gonzalez, whose agency has long been
criticized as a slow and confounding bureaucracy. In January 2007, when he
announced a midyear fee increase of 66 percent for handling immigration
documents, Mr. Gonzalez pledged to use the money to reduce the waiting time for
naturalization to five months and for permanent resident visas to four months by
the end of 2008.

He also promised that the higher fees, which took effect July 30, would allow
the agency to ''prevent future backlogs.''

But at the hearing on Thursday, Mr. Gonzalez said the prospect of higher fees
had helped prompt a crush of more than three million applications of all types
in June, July and spilling into August, a surge that he called ''unprecedented
in the history of immigration services of our nation.''

In June and July, he said, naturalization petitions spiked by nearly 350 percent
compared with the same two months in 2006.

In the 2007 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, the agency received 1.4 million
citizenship applications, nearly double the number in the previous fiscal year.
In the past, naturalization applications dropped off soon after surges provoked
by fee increases, Mr. Gonzalez said.

Under questioning from subcommittee members, Mr. Gonzalez said he could not
guarantee that immigrants who applied to become citizens last summer would be
naturalized in time to vote in the November elections.

''It is really going to depend on where they filed and how clean their file
is,'' Mr. Gonzalez said. ''There are a lot of moving parts,'' he said, adding,
''We are working this as quickly as possible.''

He said some offices had been overwhelmed by ''a deluge.'' According to agency
figures, 145,251 naturalization applications were received by December in Los
Angeles and 94,213 in Miami.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, the California Democrat who leads the subcommittee,
said she was frustrated with the waits for immigrants eager to become citizens.
''We are not accepting that at this point,'' she said.

Ms. Lofgren agreed with Mr. Gonzalez that delays for citizenship applicants were
caused by, among other things, criminal background checks required by the
F.B.I., which has a backlog of more than 300,000 such inquiries, including about
150,000 of more than six months, immigration officials said.

Jonathan Scharfen, the deputy director of the immigration agency, said the
F.B.I. at one time had only 20 workers assigned to the checks, which often
require manual review of paper records. The agency has since added 20 staff
members and 220 contract workers to the task, Mr. Scharfen said.

By the end of last year, officials said, Citizenship and Immigration Services
had sent receipt notices for all but a handful of the applications that arrived
during the year. At one point last fall, the agency was struggling just to
confirm that applications had been received.

Mr. Gonzalez said the agency planned to spend up to $480 million in fees from
the recent applications to hire 1,800 employees in addition to 1,500 new workers
who were already being selected and trained. The immigration agency pays for its
operations almost entirely from fees.

Another witness at the hearing, Rosemary Jenks, said she had ''come to dread the
phrase 'backlog reduction.' '' Ms. Jenks, the director of government relations
for NumbersUSA, a group that favors reduced immigration, said previous efforts
by immigration agencies to handle surges like the recent one led officials to
take ''risky shortcuts.''

Mr. Gonzalez said on the whole, however, that the agency viewed the surge as
good news. Immigrants are ''demonstrating a deep desire to participate fully in
this country's civic life,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Application Overload: Last year's fee increase for immigration
documents has driven up the number of applications, causing significant delays
in wait times. Past fee increases have not caused such a large surge in
applications.(Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services) Chart details
the following in a bar graph: Citizenship and green card applications
Other visas and services
 Fee hike

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrant Vote

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 459 words


The Nevada caucuses today will be the first test of the mood of immigrant voters
since comprehensive immigration reform was killed.

Nevada is the first state on the election calendar with a sizable Hispanic vote,
and among them will be a substantial number of immigrants. We don't know who
they'll choose, but we do know they are anxious. They have endured the racially
tinged rhetoric used to sink immigration reform; they have witnessed Republican
candidates exploiting the xenophobic nastiness. Families have been torn apart as
illegal immigrants have been deported, leaving their citizen children behind.

Meanwhile, applications for citizenship have surged. About 1.4 million
immigrants applied for citizenship in the fiscal year that ended in September,
according to government estimates. That was double the number from the same
period the year before. One motivation was a desire to beat a 66 percent
increase in the application fee in July. But anxiety over the government's
crackdown on illegal immigrants and anger at Republicans' efforts to make
immigrants into the whipping boys of American politics, were big motivators. The
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials expects at least
9.3 million Hispanics to vote in November, 1.7 million more than in 2004. We
hope the emergence of new immigrant voters will help temper the immigration
debate.

President Bush largely got it right on immigration. He recognized the
hard-working nature of immigrants, even those who arrived illegally. He said the
nation needed a path to legal status. According to exit polls, Mr. Bush drew
about 40 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2004 -- a record for a Republican
presidential candidate.

But just one current Republican contender, John McCain, offers anything but
lock-step allegiance to the enforcement-only approach now. In a poll late last
year by the Pew Hispanic Center, only 23 percent of Latinos identified
themselves as Republicans, down from 28 percent in 2006. Hispanics who
identified themselves as Democrats surged from 49 percent to 57 percent.

The Latino voters' group expects Hispanics to account for 11 percent of the vote
in Nevada, a state that Mr. Bush -- with 39 percent of the Hispanic vote -- won
by a mere 2.6 percentage points in 2004.

It is of utmost importance that the government deal promptly with the flurry of
new citizenship applicants. Mr. Bush has agreed to a proposal from Senator
Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, to do just that. Still, immigration
authorities expect waits of 18 months, which would prevent many applicants from
becoming citizens in time for the November election.

The citizenship and voter registration drive in immigrant communities should be
celebrated by both parties.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Terror Suspect Is Charged Anew

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A man acquitted of terrorism conspiracy charges after a lengthy criminal trial
has been accused of nearly identical offenses by federal immigration officials
who want to deport him to Haiti.

The charges were filed Tuesday against the man, Lyglenson Lemorin, 33, a member
of the so-called Liberty City Seven group accused of plotting with a man they
thought was from Al Qaeda to destroy the Sears Tower in Chicago and bomb Federal
Bureau of Investigation offices in Miami and elsewhere.

Mr. Lemorin was acquitted in December after a two-month trial, with jurors
deadlocking on the remaining six defendants. Prosecutors are trying the six
before a new jury, with testimony in its second day on Wednesday. Mr. Lemorin is
expected to testify for the defense in this trial.

Mr. Lemorin is a permanent legal resident with no criminal record, but a day
after his acquittal he was taken to an immigration center and officials
announced they would begin deportation proceedings.

Immigration law provides for a much lower burden of proof than the ''beyond a
reasonable doubt'' standard required for a verdict in a criminal case, making it
easier for the government to deport someone using the same facts that led to an
acquittal in a criminal trial.

Mr. Lemorin's lawyer, Charles Kuck of Atlanta, said,  ''We are going to go ahead
and contest the charges.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lyglenson Lemorin is facing terrorism conspiracy charges.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, VIA REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Union Says Immigration Policy Doesn't Go Far Enough

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 126 words


The union representing 2,500 rank-and-file Phoenix police officers said Tuesday
that a new policy requiring the police to ask the immigration status only of
people under arrest does not go far enough and could allow illegal immigrants to
commit more crimes. The policy announced Friday by Mayor Phil Gordon and an
advisory panel applies to misdemeanor and felony arrests but not civil traffic
stops. The police would have the option to send written notification to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement on people detained but not arrested. Mark
Spencer, president of the union, the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, said a
suspect's immigration status was already  checked at the county jail under a
sheriff's department policy, making the Phoenix policy moot.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latinos Seek Citizenship In Time For Voting

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 586 words


A lawsuit filed Thursday in a federal court in New York by Latino immigrants
seeks to force immigration authorities to complete hundreds of thousands of
stalled naturalization petitions in time for the new citizens to vote in
November.

The class-action suit was brought by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund on behalf of legal Hispanic immigrants in the New York City area
who are eager to vote and have been waiting for years for the federal
Citizenship and Immigration Services agency to finish their applications. The
suit demands that the agency meet a nationwide deadline of Sept. 22 to complete
any naturalization petitions filed by March 26.

Latino groups hope to summon the clout of the federal courts to compel the Bush
administration to reduce a backlog of citizenship applications that swelled last
year. According to the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group
in Washington, more than one million citizenship petitions were backed up in the
pipeline by the end of December, the majority from Latino immigrants.

Despite protests over the delays from lawmakers, Latino groups and immigrant
advocates, the immigration agency is currently projecting wait times of 16
months to 18 months to process the petitions.

''The reality is that large numbers of Latinos will not be able to vote in the
elections because of these delays,'' said Cesar A. Perales, president of the
defense fund. ''Now the world will know that the Latino community expects the
Bush administration to get this done on time.''

Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services,
said he could not comment on pending litigation.

''Our commitment is to work through the naturalization applications as quickly
as we can without compromising the security and integrity of the process,'' Mr.
Bentley said.

The lawsuit, filed in the Southern District of New York, asserts that the agency
violated immigrants' due process rights by routinely failing to finish their
applications within a 180-day time period that Congress has set as a standard.
It also asserts that the Bush administration did not follow regulatory
procedures in November 2002 when it ordered the Federal Bureau of Investigation
to deepen its background checks of citizenship applicants.

Foster Maer, a lawyer for the defense fund, said it would soon file motions
asking the court to order the agency immediately to meet the September deadline,
which is intended to leave new citizens time to register to vote.

Manuel Martinez, 35, a legal immigrant from Mexico who is a plaintiff in the
suit, filed his petition in January 2006. It has been delayed because the F.B.I.
has not completed the required background check, he said. He said he suspected
the problem was that he has a common Hispanic name.

''I want to be a citizen yesterday, not tomorrow,'' said Mr. Martinez, who has
lived in the United States since 1990. ''I am really worried about the economy,
and the deficit is too much. I need to vote.''

A fee increase, raising naturalization costs 80 percent to $595, went into
effect on July 30. Legal immigrants were also spurred to seek citizenship by
worries about the divisive debate over immigration and by citizenship campaigns
by Latino groups.

''It is astonishing the government should be so unresponsive to immigrants who
have enthusiastically taken all the steps to become Americans,'' said Janet
Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino group that
supported the suit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top Immigration Official to Resign in April

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 425 words


Emilio T. Gonzalez, the immigration official who promised to bring an ethos of
corporate efficiency to the immigration bureaucracy but instead found his agency
overwhelmed in record backlogs and delays, announced Thursday that he would
resign on April 18.

Mr. Gonzalez, who has been director of the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services since January 2006, is one of a number of Bush
administration officials who can be expected to leave in coming months, and
there is no sign that he is leaving under pressure.

His resignation highlights the gap between his ambitious goals to speed the
agency's work and its performance, with waiting times up to 18 months for
citizenship applications, more than triple the five months that Mr. Gonzalez
promised in January 2007.

He decided to step down to bring an end to nine years of commuting between
Washington and Miami, where his family lives, he said in a message to the
agency, part of the Homeland Security Department.

In a statement, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff called Mr. Gonzalez
''an extraordinary director who is leaving an indelible mark on the
transformation and modernization'' of the agency.

Initially Mr. Gonzalez, a naturalized citizen who was born in Cuba, made strides
in reducing the notorious backlogs that cause anguish and uncertainty for many
immigrants who seek to follow the law.

By September 2006, as a result of changes that he introduced, the work
accelerated, with application times down to seven months.

Then Mr. Gonzalez championed 66 percent average fee increases that took effect
last July. Coupled with the effects of a bureaucratic mix-up last summer over
visas for highly skilled workers, the fee increases led to 2.5 million
applications of all kinds in the months before the higher fees took effect. The
agency pays for its operations almost entirely from fees.

Mr. Gonzalez's statement that he could not foresee the surge was criticized by
immigration lawyers and lawmakers who noted that tens of thousands of applicants
would not be naturalized in time to vote in November.

''The backlog is worse than ever,'' said Crystal Williams, deputy director of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''Anybody who has observed
immigration for any amount of time could have and did in fact predict the
surge.''

Several lawmakers called on President Bush to appoint a successor swiftly.

''I hope they will put someone in who is a really strong manager, not an
ideologue,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Goal Set for Reducing Backlog on Citizenship Applications

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 445 words


Immigration officials said on Friday that they expected to complete about
930,000 citizenship applications in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, reducing a
huge backlog in a time frame that would allow many new citizens to register to
vote in the November elections.

The  projection from the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services agency
came as its director, Emilio T. Gonzalez, praised his staff in a statement,
saying it had reduced overall waiting times for immigrants seeking to become
American citizens to a maximum of 16 months, from an 18-month projection Mr.
Gonzalez  made in January.

But the agency's internal figures on the  applications that remain in the
pipeline indicate that to meet its goal it will have to work much faster than it
has in recent months. Of 1,051,186 naturalization applications the agency is
processing, 75 percent are still in the early phases of being logged in and
placed in line for scheduling of several required steps, the figures show.

Only 262,780 applications are in the  time-consuming later phases, when
applicants must submit fingerprints and pass required background checks, and
English  and civics tests, according to the figures, which were provided by
Congressional staff members.

Lawmakers from both parties and  Latino immigrant groups have criticized Mr.
Gonzalez's agency for underestimating a surge of citizenship applications in the
last year, which was driven not only by anticipation of fee increases but also
by rising interest in the presidential race. The delays threatened to leave more
than one million immigrants who applied last summer to become citizens without a
chance to vote in November.

Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for the  agency, said officials there expected to
complete by Sept. 30 all the naturalization applications received last June and
more than half from July, the peak months of the surge.

She said the agency was not timing naturalizations to the November elections.
''We don't do anything based on the election cycle,'' she said, adding that the
applications would be evaluated ''without compromising national security or the
quality or integrity of the immigration system.''

Lawmakers noted that even if the agency met its projection, hundreds of
thousands of immigrants who had applied since June would not be naturalized in
time to vote in  November.

''Certainly we welcome any progress that U.S.C.I.S. makes in clearing up the
backlog,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is
chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. ''But even their
best projection leaves half a million people out in the cold, unable to vote.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 4, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawsuit Challenges Immigration Raids in New Jersey

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 478 words


Immigration agents systematically entered homes and made arrests without proper
warrants during raids to round up immigration fugitives in New Jersey, according
to a federal lawsuit filed Thursday.

The lawsuit, brought by lawyers at the Center for Social Justice at Seton Hall
Law School in Newark, will provide a constitutional test of law enforcement
methods often used by immigration agents since May 2006 when they began
operations across the country to track down and deport immigrants who had been
ordered to leave by the courts.

The suit, against officials of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, on
behalf of 10 plaintiffs, including two United States citizens, contends that
teams of ICE agents used ''deceit or, in some cases, raw force'' to gain
''unlawful entry.''

The lawsuit claims that agents, sometimes misrepresenting themselves as local
police officers hunting for criminals, entered homes where no fugitives being
sought were present and detained residents without showing any legal cause.
Immigration agents have broad authority to question foreigners about their
immigration status, but they may not enter a home without either a warrant or
consent.

A spokesman for the immigration agency, Michael Gilhooly, said he could not
comment on pending litigation. The suit was filed in Federal District Court in
New Jersey.

Speaking generally, Mr. Gilhooly said all fugitives who were targets of ICE
searches had been ordered deported by immigration judges.

''They became fugitives when they chose to ignore the judge's order,'' Mr.
Gilhooly said, adding that operations to arrest fugitives ''are planned after
meticulous investigation and surveillance.''

In the last two years, immigration authorities have faced intense political
pressure to track down fugitive illegal immigrants. In most cases, the
immigrants overstayed visas or were caught when they tried to sneak into the
country over a land border, then failed to appear at hearings, leading judges to
order them to be deported.

Last year, ICE agents arrested 30,408 immigration fugitives, according to
official figures, about double the number for 2006.

One plaintiff in the lawsuit, Maria Argueta, has been a legal immigrant since
2001. During a predawn operation in January  at her home in North Bergen, N.J.,
the lawsuit claims, ICE agents persuaded Ms. Argueta to open her door by telling
her they were police officers searching for a wanted criminal.  Ms. Argueta  was
detained and held for 36 hours.

Another plaintiff, Arturo Flores, a United States citizen, said ICE agents
showed no warrant when they forced their way into his house in Clifton, N.J.,
in November 2006 and conducted a  search. A third plaintiff, Veronica Covias, a
legal immigrant in Paterson, N.J., said  agents pushed open her door in March
2007 even though she demanded that they show her a warrant.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jury Rules Against Gypsy-Cab Driver in Rights Case

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 588 words


A gypsy-cab driver's claim that two New York City police officers violated his
constitutional rights by reporting him to immigration authorities was rejected
on Friday by a federal jury in Manhattan.

The cabdriver, Waheed Saleh of Yonkers, contended during a four-day trial in
Federal District Court that a police officer in the Bronx had been harassing him
by giving him tickets.

When he filed a complaint against the officer with the Civilian Complaint Review
Board, Mr. Saleh said, the officer and his supervisor retaliated by telling
immigration authorities that he had overstayed his visa. The authorities then
began deportation proceedings.

Mr. Saleh argued that the officers, Sgt. Kishon Hickman, and his supervisor,
Capt. Kevin Nicholson, had violated his First Amendment right to petition the
government for redress of grievances, and asked for unspecified damages. The
jurors deliberated for about two hours before rejecting that claim. They found
in favor of the city, which argued that far from harassing Mr. Saleh, the police
were simply enforcing the law by giving him tickets for offenses like
double-parking, disorderly conduct and driving an unlicensed taxi. ''This case
is about Mr. Saleh, a man who consistently violated the law  --  state, city and
federal  --  and who was angry and frustrated at the police officers who
enforced the law,'' said Jennifer Amy Rossan, an assistant corporation counsel
for New York City, in her closing argument earlier on Friday.

Mr. Saleh's lawyer, Tushar Sheth of the Asian American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, said on Friday that despite the verdict he believed that the
case had focused attention on what he said was a routine Police Department
practice of reporting the names of noncitizens who have been arrested to
immigration authorities.

''I think it's the wrong outcome,'' Mr. Sheth said. ''I think his rights were
violated. But there is a policy issue here. There is immigration enforcement
going on, and we don't know about it.''

City policy prohibits city agencies from asking people who come into contact
with them about their immigration status, unless they are suspected of engaging
in illegal activity, Ms. Rossan said in an interview on Friday.

If someone is arrested and admits  that he is not a citizen, that information
may be forwarded to immigration authorities, Ms. Rossan said.

But she said  the city policy did not apply in Mr. Saleh's case. She said he was
in the United States on an expired visitor's visa, and had told the police about
his illegal status. She said an immigration official happened to be working in
the officers' station house on an unrelated matter, and asked officials whether
they knew of any illegal immigrants who were a danger to the community. Captain
Nicholson then named Mr. Saleh, Ms. Rossan said.

Mr. Saleh drove an unlicensed gypsy cab that ferried passengers from the subway
station at 231st Street and Broadway to their homes, Mr. Sheth said.

Mr. Saleh testified that he had received 25 to 35 tickets, the city's lawyer
said. The complaint to the  citizens' review board  was later ruled unfounded.

Ms. Rossan said Mr. Saleh was well known to the police for unruly behavior, like
getting into a fight with another driver over a parking spot and flying into a
rage over the price of cigarettes at a bodega.

Mr. Saleh is appealing an order of deportation. His wife died of brain cancer in
1999, and he is supporting an 11-year-old son and a 9-year-old daughter who live
in the occupied West Bank.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 6, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Francisco Reaches Out To Immigrants

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The city of San Francisco has started an advertising push with a very specific
target market: illegal immigrants. And while the advertisements will come in a
bundle of languages -- English, Spanish, Chinese, Russian, Vietnamese -- they
all carry the same message: you are safe here.

In what may be the first such  campaign of its kind, the city plans to publish
multilanguage brochures and fill the airwaves with advertisements relaying
assurance that San Francisco will not report them to federal immigration
authorities.

Mayor Gavin Newsom said the campaign was simply an amplification of a
longstanding position of not cooperating with immigration raids or other
enforcement. The city passed a so-called sanctuary ordinance in 1989.

Still, Mr. Newsom said, it never hurts to advertise. ''It's one thing to have a
policy on paper,'' he said. ''It's another to communicate it directly to people
who could be impacted.''

The television and radio campaign will tell immigrants they have ''safe access''
to public services, including schools, health clinics and -- perhaps most
importantly -- the police, something that local law enforcement officials say is
a chronic problem in emigre communities.

''It is a trademark of a criminal predator to convince victims that because of
the victims' immigration status that they -- not the predator -- will be treated
as the criminal,'' said Kamala Harris, the city's district attorney. ''We want
to remove that tool from the criminal's tool belt.''

Ms. Harris said particular problems in immigrant communities include human
trafficking, fraud and elder abuse, which she said was widely underreported.

San Francisco is  not alone in its sanctuary status; New York, Detroit and
Washington have policies that discourage the police from enforcing immigration
law. Nevertheless, the campaign's announcement prompted a round of eye-rolling
among anti-immigration forces in California and Washington, many of whom are
still galled by the city's 2007 decision to grant identification cards to anyone
who could prove residence, regardless of legal status.

''I guess it's what you expect from San Francisco,'' said Ira Mehlman of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, which lobbies for
stronger immigration enforcement. ''But now, not only are they helping people
break the law of the federal government, they are advertising it. I don't know
of any other city actually looking for illegal immigrants.''

Rick Oltman, national media director for Californians for Population
Stabilization in Santa Barbara, said the campaign could actually be a boon for
other Bay Area cities if it drew illegal immigrants out of those communities and
into San Francisco.

''The only people who are the losers here are the people of San Francisco who
are going to hate the way the city looks in two or five years, when the illegal
immigrant population grows massively,'' said Mr. Oltman, who said such
populations had a negative effect on crime, education, health and the
environment.

But Mr. Newsom said his advertising campaign was less a hard sell than a hard
look at the reality of  immigration policy.

''We're not arguing against common-sense reforms,'' he said. ''We're not arguing
against reforms at all. But in lieu of that, we're doing the best we can to say
if they see a crime report it, and if they have a child educate them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, Outsourced

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 610 words


Not content to botch immigration policy all by itself, Congress has handed large
parts of the job to others to mishandle. It gave the homeland security czar the
czarist powers to overturn any law and ignore any court to seal the border. Now
Michael Chertoff is clear-cutting a forest of regulations to wall out Mexico by
the end of the year. And through the program known as 287(g), his agency is
parceling out duties to a growing number of local police and sheriff's
departments, raising an army of junior deputies in the war on illegal
immigrants.

To see how unhinged things have become, it pays to zero in on the squalid doings
in Maricopa County, Ariz. It is home to Phoenix, the country's fifth-largest
city, and the largest 287(g) program anywhere.

It is run by the county sheriff, Joe Arpaio, who has built a national reputation
for toughness through years of cruelty to prison inmates and an insatiable
appetite for publicity. Where most departments have only handfuls of officers
trained to enforce federal immigration laws, Sheriff Joe, as he is known, has
160. Their efforts are supplemented by what the sheriff says, without apology,
is a 3,000-member ''posse.''

For months now, Sheriff Joe has been sending squads of officers through Latino
neighborhoods, pulling cars over for broken taillights or turn-signal
violations, checking drivers' and passengers' papers and arresting illegal
immigrants by the dozen.

Because he sends out press releases beforehand, the sweeps are accompanied by TV
crews and protesters -- deport-'em-all hard-liners facing off against immigrant
advocates. Being Arizona, many of those shouting and jeering are also packing
guns. Sheriff Joe, seemingly addicted to the buzz, has been filmed marching down
the street shaking hands with adoring Minutemen.

If this doesn't look to you like a carefully regulated, federally supervised
effort to catch dangerous criminals, that's because it isn't. It is a series of
stunts focused mostly on day laborers, as Sheriff Joe bulldozes his way toward
re-election.

The sheriff says he is keeping the peace, but it seems as if he is doing just
the opposite -- a useless, reckless churning of fear and unrest. Mayor Phil
Gordon of Phoenix has denounced him, saying the raids are interfering with
undercover city police officers and federal agents. The mayor of Guadalupe
implored him to leave her community alone. State and county officials have
pointed out that Sheriff Joe has ignored tens of thousands of outstanding
criminal warrants while chasing day laborers and headlines. They say he has
grossly violated the terms of his 287(g) agreement -- which calls for federal
oversight of local police -- and have called on Washington to rein him in.

''Do you think I'm going to report to the federal government?'' he said. ''I
don't report to them. If they don't like the contract, they can close it up.
That's all.''

''By the way,'' he said, ''we do have a 3,000-person posse -- and about 500 have
guns. They have their own airplanes, jeeps, motorcycles, everything. They can
only operate under the sheriff. I swear 'em in. I can put up 30 airplanes
tomorrow if I wanted.''

The federal government so far seems unconcerned.

''He has stayed within the bounds of the agreement,'' Matthew Allen, special
agent in charge of immigration and customs enforcement in Arizona, told The
Arizona Republic. Jim Pendergraph, an I.C.E. official from Washington, told the
paper that after driving to Guadalupe to watch Sheriff Joe in action: ''I saw
nothing that gave me heartburn.''

It's past time for Congress to hold hearings on these agreements, starting with
a subpoena for Sheriff Joe.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Official Had Controversial Photos Deleted, Report Says

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The nation's top immigration enforcement official ordered the destruction of
photographs of an office Halloween party that showed a white agency employee
dressed as a black detainee, according to a Congressional investigation whose
report was released on Tuesday.

The Democratic staff of the House Committee on Homeland Security said Julie L.
Myers, the assistant secretary of homeland security for immigration and customs
enforcement, ordered that the photos be removed from a digital camera in a
''coordinated effort to conceal'' her role in awarding one of the top costume
prizes to the employee.

The report said Ms. Myers, who was acting assistant secretary at the time, might
have moved to cover up the events to avoid derailing her Senate confirmation.

The Congressional committee provided no evidence of an intentional cover-up.

Kelly A. Nantel, an agency spokeswoman, confirmed Tuesday that Ms. Myers had
ordered that the photographs be deleted, but said she had done so because she
belatedly realized that the costume was inappropriate and that it would be
offensive if the photos were included in any agency publications.

But Ms. Nantel said that Ms. Myers never tried to cover up that the event had
occurred. In fact, Ms. Myers sent a message to all agency employees two days
after the party acknowledging that ''a few of the costumes were inappropriate.''

''To suggest she somehow coordinated a cover-up is absolutely false,'' Ms.
Nantel said.

News reports about the offensive costume first surfaced last year, after an
employee who attended the party at the agency headquarters filed a complaint
with the homeland security committee.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which has 16,000 employees, enforces
immigrations laws and operates detention centers holding about 30,000 people
awaiting trial or deportation.

Ms. Myers had been a judge at the Halloween contest. The staff member who won
the ''most original costume'' prize wore a dreadlock wig, what looked like a
prison jumpsuit and black face paint.

''I'm a Jamaican detainee from Krome -- obviously, I've escaped,'' the employee,
referring to a detention center in Miami, announced to the judges, provoking
laughter, according to the Congressional report.

Ms. Myers then posed for photographs with the employee -- whose name was not
released -- smiling for the camera.

The report said that, under orders from Ms. Myers, the employee was reprimanded
after the party and told that he would be relocated from the agency headquarters
to a field office. The Congressional committee staff said that the move was an
effort to conceal the event.

Photographs of the winning costume were not, however, permanently deleted from
the camera. Agency employees were able to recover them, and a picture of a
smiling Ms. Myers next to the winner is in the report.

Ms. Myers's nomination to oversee the immigration agency was delayed while
questions surfaced about her qualifications and her ties to the White House and
to some senior officials. Ms. Myers, a niece of Gen. Richard B. Myers of the Air
Force, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was confirmed by the
Senate in December.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julie L. Myers, an assistant secretary of homeland security, had
a role in awarding a top prize to a white employee dressed as a black detainee
for an office Halloween costume contest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Perfectly Legal Immigrants, Until They Applied for Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

DATELINE: SELINSGROVE, Pa.


Dr. Pedro Servano always believed that his journey from his native Philippines
to the life of a community doctor in Pennsylvania would lead to American
citizenship.

But the doctor, who has tended to patients here in the Susquehanna Valley for
more than a decade, is instead battling a deportation order along with his wife.

The Servanos are among a growing group of legal immigrants who reach for the
prize and permanence of citizenship, only to run afoul of highly technical
immigration statutes that carry the severe penalty of expulsion from the
country. For the Servanos, the problem has been a legal hitch involving their
marital status when they came from the Philippines some 25 years ago.

Largely overlooked in the charged debate over illegal immigration, many of these
are long-term legal immigrants in the United States who were confident of
success when they applied for naturalization, and would have continued to live
here legally had they not sought to become citizens.

As applications for naturalization have surged, overburdened federal examiners,
under pressure to make quick decisions and also weed out any security risks,
prefer to err on the side of rejection, immigration lawyers and independent
researchers said. In 2007, 89,683 applications for naturalization  were denied,
about 12 percent of those presented.

In the last 12 years, denial rates have been consistently higher than at any
time since the 1920s.

Though precise figures are not available, an increasing number of these denials
involve immigrants who believed they were in good legal standing, according to
lawyers and researchers. Under the law, a number of grounds for naturalization
denial can lead to an order of deportation, and appeals are more limited than in
criminal cases.

''It's no wonder there are so many illegal immigrants,'' said Brad Darnell, an
electrical engineer from Canada living in California who applied for citizenship
but is also now fighting deportation. ''The legal method is so intolerant and
confusing.''

A legal immigrant since 1991, Mr. Darnell is married to an American and has two
American-born sons. But after he presented his naturalization application last
year, Mr. Darnell discovered that a 10-year-old conviction for domestic violence
involving a former girlfriend, even though it had been reduced to a misdemeanor
and erased from his public record, made him ineligible to become a citizen -- or
even to continue living in the United States.

Since 1996, when an immigration law overhaul first brought intensified scrutiny
of citizenship applications, at least 85,000 naturalizations have been turned
down each year.

The record year was 2000, when 399,670 applications were denied, one-third of
those presented, according to an analysis by the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan research organization. More recent denial rates remain high, but
have fallen from the peak because more immigrants have prepared with civics
classes and immigrant advocates before applying to become citizens, researchers
said.

In three recent cases in Florida, aspiring citizens thought their green cards
entitled them to vote or register to vote before they were sworn in as
Americans. When the immigrants reported their elections activities on their
applications, not only were their naturalizations rejected, but they were also
ordered to leave the country, according to their lawyer, Jeffrey Brauwerman.

In a current Florida case, a British-born businessman saw his naturalization
derailed and was detained for deportation because he forgot to update his home
address with the immigration agency, Mr. Brauwerman said. He was charged with
ignoring a notice in which immigration examiners mistakenly accused him of a
felony he had never committed.

In a case that drew Congressional attention this year in Illinois, Marin
Turcinovic, an immigrant from Croatia, was twice denied citizenship because he
did not show up at the immigration office to be fingerprinted. As his lawyer
explained to no avail, Mr. Turcinovic was a quadriplegic, dependent on a
ventilator and unable to leave his home.

Mr. Turcinovic died in April 2004 without becoming a citizen, creating an
immigration crisis for his French widow, Corina, who had taken care of him. In
January Representative Daniel Lipinski, Democrat of Illinois, presented a bill
that halted her deportation.

Immigration officials say denials have increased in the last decade because
naturalization applications are increasing. They note that approvals are rising
as well. In 1996 naturalizations soared for the first time to more than one
million, and they remained above 450,000 each year through 2007.

''Whenever we see a period when large numbers decide to apply, there tend to be
larger numbers of people who are not ready or might not meet the requirements,''
said Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Officials said the majority of denials went to applicants who failed a required
civics and English language test or fell short of residency requirements. Those
immigrants generally can try again.

But as the case of the Servano family illustrates, some denials come as a shock
to both the applicants and the communities they call home.

Dr. Servano's mother, five siblings and eight of his wife's siblings became
naturalized citizens, including one brother and two brothers-in-law who made
careers in the Navy. His four children are Americans by virtue of being born
here. He has been a legal immigrant in the United States for 25 years.

Following an outcry from neighbors, patients and local officials, Department of
Homeland Security officials in December temporarily suspended the Servanos'
deportation. The Servanos and their supporters, including Senator Arlen Specter,
Republican of Pennsylvania, are using the unusual reprieve to pursue new legal
efforts to resolve the couple's case.

For the federal government and for many Americans, naturalizations -- the legal
process by which legal immigrants become citizens -- are a measure of
immigrants' willingness to join the society and embrace its civic values.

To become a citizen, a legal permanent resident must have lived in the United
States more or less continuously for five years, or three years for the spouse
of a citizen. The immigrant must demonstrate good moral character and allegiance
to the Constitution, and pass a test of English ability and civics. Since 2002,
citizenship applicants also undergo an extensive background check by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

Applicants fail the moral character standard if they have been  convicted of
certain sex, drug or gambling charges or are ''habitual drunkards.'' They also
can fail if they give ''false testimony,'' a term immigration lawyers say is
subject to broad interpretation.

Dr. Servano and his wife, Salvacion, lived for years in the United States with
no inkling they might have violated the law. They met in the Philippines when
she was a nurse and he was a young traveling doctor. Her strict father insisted
she marry, they said, but his family wanted him to wait.

In the early 1980s, their mothers came separately to the United States as legal
immigrants and petitioned for residence visas, known as green cards, for Pedro
and Salvacion under the category of unmarried children. But between the time the
visas were requested and when they were issued in 1985, Pedro and Salvacion,
hoping to escape conflicting parental demands, secretly married in the
Philippines.

Unaware that their marriage could have violated the terms of their green cards,
the Servanos settled in the United States. He completed a second medical
residency here and began to practice in blue-collar towns where he made house
calls and was known for  attention to everyday ills. He and Salvacion married in
New Jersey in 1987. They renewed their green cards punctually.

''My goal is to be fully functional and integrated into the society,'' Dr.
Servano said. They presented their 1991 naturalization applications without
seeking a lawyer.

Immigration inspectors reviewing their applications discovered a record of their
Philippine marriage. Accused of lying, they were ordered deported. In years of
immigration court appeals, the Servanos had no opportunity to present broader
evidence of their character, their lawyers said.

People in Selinsgrove and nearby Sunbury, Susquehanna Valley towns where Dr.
Servano practices, were surprised to hear in October that the couple had
received a final order with a November date for their deportation. Aside from
his medical work, he and his wife had bought  two blighted buildings on the
square in Sunbury, refurbishing them with apartments and offices. Mrs. Servano
opened a store, selling lottery tickets, homemade Filipino bread and DVDs in
Tagalog, a Philippine language.

In November, more than 100 residents gathered in the Sunbury square for a
candlelight vigil on behalf of the Servanos. Thousands of Filipinos in the
United States have signed petitions supporting them.

''The fact that they want to displace and get rid of people we here feel are
exceptionally good citizens quite frankly just doesn't make any sense,'' said
Mayor Jesse C. Woodring of Sunbury.

The Servanos, huddled on the couch in their home in a Selinsgrove development,
seemed numb at the prospect of returning to the Philippines.

''I live here, so I like America now,'' Mrs. Servano said. ''For 25 years we've
been here; we didn't even visit the Philippines. So it's really hard.''

Their son, Peter, 16, an American, expressed his siblings' anguish about being
forced to separate either from their parents or from the only home they know.

''I want to stay here because all my friends are here, and I've grown up here,
so it would be hard to leave,'' Peter said. ''But it would be hard not to go.''

Michael Gilhooly, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which
handles deportations, said the Servanos' removal had been  suspended based on
new information from Mr. Specter about their humanitarian role. Other
immigration officials said the Servanos could recover their legal status by
applying for new green cards as parents of citizen children.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Pedro Servano and his wife, Salvacion, legal residents
facing deportation, and two of their children, Phoebe and Steven. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A12) GRAPH: HARDER TO BECOME A
CITIZEN: Denials of petitions for naturalization began to surge after an
overhaul of immigration laws in 1996. In 2007, about 12 percent of the nearly
750,000 people applying for citizenship were rejected. (Source: Department of
Homeland Security) (pg. A12)  Graph showing citizenship is getting harder and
harder for legal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, Off the Books

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 571 words


Every American who has a job or wants one should be following the debates in
Congress over bills to crack down on illegal hiring. Employment verification is
one of the few ideas still lurching around the Capitol after last year's Senate
shootout mowed down a forest of immigration reforms. It's boring and complicated
-- it's about databases -- but unlike other immigration fixes, it affects every
worker and employer in America, native-born or not.

Two House bills -- the SAVE Act, sponsored by Heath Shuler, and the New Employee
Verification Act, sponsored by Sam Johnson -- are designed to squeeze illegal
immigrants out of the country by making it impossible for them to find work.

Immigration reform is always tricky, but employment verification is where the
details get demonic.

It starts with a flawed database that everyone would have to rely on to get work
or change jobs. Think of the ''no-fly'' list, the database of murky origins with
mysterious flaws that you, the passenger, must fix if you are on it and want to
fly. These immigration bills seek to take small, badly flawed ''no-work'' lists
and explode them rapidly to a national scale. With an error rate of about 4
percent, millions of  citizens could be flagged as ineligible to work, too.

That's only part of the price. The Congressional Budget Office says the SAVE Act
would cost $40 billion over 10 years, adding up lost tax revenue and spending on
things like thousands of immigration judges. It is likely to overwhelm the
Social Security Administration, which already is swamped with disability
benefits and retiring baby boomers. It won't do much for small businesses that
would have to pay to comply.

The problem is not with employment verification itself. Illegal immigrants
should not be allowed to work, and any system that is rational and lawful needs
to be backed up with a hiring database. The trouble with these bills is that
they don't fix the database errors first, and they are strict enforcement-only
measures, uncoupled from any path to legalization for undocumented workers.

Imagine that we end up with an airtight workplace verification system built on a
perfect database -- but without a path to legalization. In that world, an honest
company that learns it has undocumented workers has the unhappy choice of firing
them or taking them off the books. How many would choose option B?

Sleazy employers who already hire under the table would be encouraged, since the
millions of workers stranded in the shadows would have nowhere else to go. (They
will not deport themselves en masse, no matter what the Minutemen say.) American
workers would then be more vulnerable to competition from illegal labor, not
less.

Some employers, meanwhile, would readily abuse the system, prescreening job
applicants, avoiding or discriminating against non-natives, not letting workers
know their rights, firing them at will.

Remind us, again, why we wanted this so badly?

Oh, to protect American workers.

Doing that means, at the very least, fixing the employment database before
beginning a huge, untested worker-verification experiment and imposing it only
as part of a broader reform that allows the eight million undocumented workers
to become legal. Otherwise, we would be giving countless employers and workers
the incentive to go off the books, which would be exactly where we started,
billions of dollars and countless lost jobs ago.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spitzer Dropping His License Plan

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 13


Gov. Eliot Spitzer is abandoning his plan to issue driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants, saying that opposition is just too overwhelming to move forward with
such a policy.

The governor, who is to announce the move formally on Wednesday, said in an
interview Tuesday night that he did not reach the decision easily.

''You have perhaps seen me struggle with it because I thought we had a
principled decision, and it's not necessarily easy to back away from trying to
move a debate forward,'' he said.

But he came to believe the proposal would ultimately be blocked, he said, either
by legal challenges, a vote by the Legislature to deny financing for the
Department of Motor Vehicles or a refusal by upstate county clerks to carry it
out.

''I am not willing to fight to the bitter end on something that will not
ultimately be implemented,'' the governor said, ''and we also have an enormous
agenda on other issues of great importance to New York State that was being
stymied by the constant and almost singular focus on this issue.''

Mr. Spitzer's plan touched off a national debate over whether issuing licenses
to illegal immigrants would make the state more secure or improperly extend a
privilege to them that should be reserved for legal residents.

Opposition to the proposal sent his poll numbers plunging and stalled his
broader agenda.

The decision is likely to be a relief to many of his fellow Democrats in Albany
and in Washington, who feared the issue could haunt them into next year's
election season.

In the interview, the governor sounded disappointed but resigned. He
acknowledged that he would be criticized for changing course on the issue for
the second time in three weeks. (''You think so?'' he said facetiously when a
reporter suggested as much.)

''Part of leadership is listening to the public's opposition,'' he said.
''Having heard that, and assessed the realities of implementing this policy,
part of leadership is realizing that getting results is more important than
sticking to what may be a principled position.''

Mr. Spitzer first unveiled his initiative in September, when he announced that
the Department of Motor Vehicles would begin issuing driver's licenses without
regard to immigration status and said he wanted to bring illegal immigrants
''out of the shadows.''

But the proposal, which was formulated with scant consultation with other
politicians, set off a backlash far greater than the administration had
anticipated.

So late last month, the governor shifted course and said the state would offer
three tiers of licenses: a limited driver's license that illegal immigrants
could obtain, which could not be used for boarding planes or crossing borders; a
secure, federally recognized license known as Real ID, which would be available
only to legal residents; and an even more secure identification for people who
travel across the border to Canada frequently, which would comply with the
Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative.

But the revised plan pleased almost no one.

On Tuesday night, the governor said the state would make the third tier of
license available for frequent border crossers, and continue offering the same
driver's license it offers now, but not extend eligibility for it to illegal
immigrants.

He said the state would put on hold the plan to adopt the Real ID, which has
been championed by the Bush administration. The governor said he wanted to wait
until federal regulations for Real ID licenses were issued next year before
deciding how to proceed.

Mr. Spitzer's decision to abandon his plan comes as a poll released Tuesday by
Siena College found that seven in 10 New York voters who had heard about it --
and more than 80 percent of the 625 registered voters polled had -- opposed it.
It also found that for the first time, more people viewed the governor
unfavorably than favorably.

The governor and his aides said that they were not reacting to the slumping poll
numbers, but acting pragmatically. That the dispute had even tripped up Senator
Hillary Rodham Clinton, who stumbled to answer a question about it in a
presidential debate, ''was symptomatic of where we were,'' he said.

''The issue was gaining traction not based on thoughtful discourse, but based on
sound bites and less than careful analysis,'' he added.

Mr. Spitzer's latest shift is likely to further complicate his relations with
Hispanic lawmakers, who heartily supported his original policy but were upset
when he moved to a three-tier system. Some felt that offering a lesser tier of
license to illegal immigrants would stigmatize them and attract the suspicions
of law enforcement.

''I stood up on a very tough issue,'' the governor said. ''I may not have
succeeded in implementing the policy they desired, but I didn't hesitate to
stand up when not many have done so.''

The governor said he hoped the storm would pass and that the state would be able
to begin tackling other issues.

Even before the license plan was unveiled, he and Republican lawmakers were
locked in a standoff, some of it over policy but much of it the result of a feud
between the governor and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader.

Asked how his new position would be received, Mr. Spitzer responded: ''The
reaction will be what it is.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republican Rivals Continue Attacks on Immigration

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 984 words


The back and forth between Mitt Romney's and Rudolph W. Giuliani's presidential
campaigns over illegal immigration continued yesterday, with each side impugning
the other's record on the issue.

Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, has in particular sought to
wield the issue against his Republican rivals, focusing on Mr. Giuliani, the
former mayor of New York City, and Mike Huckabee, the former governor of
Arkansas.

He has been broadcasting a television advertisement that declares a hard-line
stance against illegal immigration and has sent out a mailing that rebukes the
policies of Mr. Giuliani, though not by name.

Mr. Giuliani has fought back vigorously, portraying the issue as yet another in
a long list, along with abortion, gay rights and gun control, in which Mr.
Romney has shifted his position to score political points.

''Campaign Trail Mitt Romney's newfound interest in illegal immigration stands
in stark contrast to his record as governor,'' Katie Levinson, Mr. Giuliani's
communications director, said in a statement yesterday.

But advocates on both sides of the debate in Massachusetts, who made clear they
were not supporters of Mr. Romney, said yesterday he could make a legitimate
case for being consistent on the issue while governor, even if he had markedly
ratcheted up his rhetoric on the campaign trail.

''It's kind of impossible to call Romney a flip-flopper on this issue,'' said
Ali Noorani, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigration and Refugee
Coalition, which lined up against Mr. Romney on several measures affecting
illegal immigrants.

Mr. Noorani said Mr. Romney, along with his Republican opponents, was being
politically opportunistic in seeking to capitalize on the issue but added that
he had a ''track record in Massachusetts where he pretty much railed against
documented and undocumented immigrants.''

Coming from the other end of the ideological spectrum, Steve Kropper, a
co-chairman of the Massachusetts Coalition for Immigration Reform, which
campaigns against illegal immigration, described Mr. Romney as an ally.

''I'm not a Romney supporter,'' Mr. Kropper said, ''but I observed firsthand how
he took a courageous position that we supported, which was at odds with the
State Legislature and perhaps even the mood of the state.''

Mr. Kropper and Mr. Noorani said Mr. Romney, early in his administration,
opposed driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, and later vetoed a budget
provision that would have made illegal immigrants eligible for in-state college
tuition and signed an agreement with federal authorities that deputized state
troopers for immigration enforcement.

Mr. Giuliani's campaign has singled out the agreement deputizing state troopers
for scorn because Mr. Romney's campaign has failed to mention that it was signed
just before Mr. Romney left office, when he was about to run for the presidency,
and that it was rescinded shortly afterward by his successor without ever taking
effect.

The agreement was also announced shortly after The Boston Globe revealed Mr.
Romney had used illegal immigrants for yard work at his home. Nevertheless, Mr.
Kropper said the order was ''consistent with the positions he'd taken before.''

Mr. Romney has deviated from one area, however, since announcing his candidacy.
In an interview in November 2005 with The Globe, he spoke approvingly about
measures being considered in Congress that would have offered a path to
citizenship for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country,
provided they cleared certain hurdles. But this summer, when a United States
Senate bill with similar provisions was being considered, he called it
''amnesty.'' Grass-roots outrage derailed the bill. In taking aim at Mr.
Giuliani, Mr. Romney has criticized his embrace of an executive order he
inherited as mayor that protected illegal immigrants from being reported to
immigration authorities when using city services.

Mr. Giuliani has defended the policies, saying they were necessary for public
health and to ensure that illegal immigrants came forward to report crimes.

But in criticizing New York City for its so-called sanctuary city policies, Mr.
Giuliani's campaign said, Mr. Romney was being hypocritical, in that as governor
Mr. Romney did not take action against municipalities like Cambridge, Somerville
and Brookline that had similar resolutions.

''Neither him, nor his administration, said anything to any of us,'' said the
mayor of Somerville, Joseph Curtatone, a Democrat.

Colorado last year passed a statute intended to curtail such policies. Mr.
Romney says as president he would withhold federal financing from ''sanctuary
cities.''

But Mr. Kropper said any such effort would have gone nowhere in Massachusetts.
''I suppose if he wanted to grandstand, he could have started cracking down,''
he said.

In recent days, Mr. Giuliani's campaign has seized on a new line of attack,
arguing that Mr. Romney lacks standing on the issue because the number of
illegal immigrants in Massachusetts grew sharply while Mr. Romney was governor.

But Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior research associate at the Pew Hispanic Center,
said the accusation was misleading because the number of illegal immigrants had
ballooned across the country, with many fanning out since the mid-1990s from New
York, California, Texas, Florida, Illinois and New Jersey.

The number of illegal immigrants in Massachusetts grew from an estimated 155,000
to 200,000 from 2000 to 2004, an increase of 29 percent, according to the Urban
Institute.

But states, like North Carolina, which Mr. Passel said could not be described as
particularly tolerant of immigrants, saw their illegal-immigrant populations
grow more than 90 percent in that same period.

''It's not because they were immigrant-friendly or not immigrant-friendly but
because that's where the jobs were,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rudolph W. Giuliani, campaigning yesterday at the Maple Tree
restaurant in Oak Park, Ill.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS)
 Mitt Romney, at a health care forum in Des Moines yesterday, has been directing
attacks at Mr. Giuliani and Mike Huckabee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN
SANDERS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Candidate Calls for Raid On Immigration Bill Event

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 288 words


Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, a Republican presidential candidate
whose fierce opposition to illegal immigration is the center of his campaign,
contacted the immigration service yesterday demanding that agents raid a
senator's news conference.

The afternoon event on Capitol Hill was held by Senator Richard J. Durbin,
Democrat of Illinois and the leading sponsor of a bill that would give legal
status to illegal immigrants who are high school graduates, if they attend
college or serve in the United States military for two years. The bill is
scheduled to come up for an important procedural vote in the Senate this
morning.

Mr. Tancredo announced yesterday morning that he had contacted Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the federal agency, calling for the arrest of illegal
immigrants he said would attend the news conference.

''If we can't enforce our laws inside the building where American laws are made,
where can we enforce them?'' Mr. Tancredo said in a statement.

Participating in the news conference were three immigrant students who would
benefit if Mr. Durbin's legislation passed; two were born in Germany, and one
was from Costa Rica. All were in the United States on temporary legal status,
said Joe Shoemaker, Mr. Durbin's spokesman.

Mr. Shoemaker said the senator was surprised and offended by Mr. Tancredo's
effort.

''Congressman, have you no shame?'' Mr. Durbin said in a statement, indirectly
comparing Mr. Tancredo to Senator Joseph McCarthy and his anti-communist
hearings in the 1950s.

A spokeswoman for the immigration agency, Kelly Nantel, confirmed that officials
had received a letter from Mr. Tancredo and were reviewing it. She said the
agency took no action yesterday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Immigration: Walls or Bridges?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 847 words


To the Editor:

Your Oct. 22 editorial ''Ain't That America'' correctly describes the
increasingly racial and socioeconomic dimensions that are shaping the illegal
immigration debate and people's perceptions. Despite our proud identity as a
nation defined by immigrants and the Statue of Liberty, America remains
vulnerable to the most destructive of human tendencies, fear of the unknown,
which often escalates into hatred.

Mainstream America was largely unfamiliar with Hispanic culture until recent
years. As the foreign presence, language and customs swept across the country
seemingly overnight, the confusion is excusable. What is inexcusable is the
incendiary rhetoric by a vocal and political minority that is perpetuating this
widespread fear by denouncing immigration as an illegal invasion with designs to
usurp American culture, traditions and even the English language.

The average American, unfamiliar with the complexities of the issue, watches and
listens as the demagogues project their outrage against a backdrop of brown
faces speaking Spanish.

My hair is black, my skin is brown and I sometimes speak Spanish. I am also a
sixth-generation Coloradan, but try telling that to people who ask me when I
arrived in the States. With luck, as your editorial suggests, the politicians
with the power to resolve the illegal immigration impasse will cross their
self-protective borders built to escape and evade the issue and build a bridge
across, rather than a wall around, the immigration problem.

Wayne Trujillo

Denver, Oct. 22, 2007

The writer is the editor of Latino Suave.

To the Editor:

Illegal is illegal, and skin color, religion, nationality and language have
nothing to do with it. There are millions of legal Americans who would like to
work, but can't compete with the below-minimum-wage income that illegal
immigrants accept.

To stand against illegal immigration is not a form of abuse. This country was
built with legal immigrants, like my Italian-American grandfather, who proudly
became an American citizen and did not hide in the shadows. I applaud Lou
Dobbs's efforts, as do the majority of Americans -- legal Americans -- both
Democratic and Republican.

Paul Casali

New York, Oct. 22, 2007

To the Editor:

Your editorial missed a chance to contribute  to the debate on immigration we
sorely need. I am a naturalized citizen and would not therefore be called a
''nativist,'' I suppose, which doesn't sound friendly at all.

But I have many questions about the recent immigration bill, which didn't pass.
Where is the forum where I can address them without being branded a racist or a
demagogue if I don't agree that there is nothing the matter with being an
illegal immigrant?

I see hypocrisy on both sides. The United States Chamber of Commerce wants to
continue the flow of cheap labor, and the unions like the prospective new
members. Where is the debate that does not degenerate into either ridiculing an
opponent as The Times does with Lou Dobbs or calling the other side names? Is
there no room for honest questions? Do we have to agree first and discuss later?
Sounds dictatorial to me. Helma Lanyi

Washington, Oct. 22, 2007

To the Editor:

I just got back from a trip to England and the Czech Republic. I had to wait my
turn and not jump ahead of other people as I navigated the new security system
and entered foreign countries as a guest.

There is something inherently wrong with saying, Well, even though a person
broke our law to get into the United States, let's forget that fact, and what
about the thousands who have played by the rules and still are on the other side
of the fence?  What needs to be established is a blue-ribbon study group that is
agreed to by both parties and that both parties agree to carry out the
recommendations.  Tom Harig

St. Louis, Oct. 22, 2007

To the Editor:

Your editorial argues that the current immigration policy, of catching a few
undocumented workers and harassing and frightening the rest, cannot work. On the
contrary, it works perfectly.

The purpose of federal immigration policy, or lack of such, is not to protect
the moral rights of immigrants -- it is to maintain long hours, low wages,
nonexistent benefits and a complete lack of job security as the national labor
standard.

With a minimum of effort and expense the current policy keeps workers,
undocumented and citizen alike, in a state of terror too volatile and precarious
to risk organizing and demanding their due. Larry Goldsmith

Mexico City, Oct. 22, 2007

To the Editor:

The put-up or shut-up solution: Have each Republican presidential candidate
pledge not to accept one peso or dime from any organization, union or business
that is not 100 percent immigration compliant. Pledge further not to eat at a
restaurant, stay at a hotel or attend a convention anywhere in the United States
unless immigration compliance can be demonstrated.

The real choice is this:

(a) Work on behalf of comprehensive immigration reform.

(b) Continue to be a demagogue and a hypocrite. Jim Velasco

Chicago, Oct. 22, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shifting His Stance on Licenses, Spitzer Is Expected to Back Federal ID

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 26


In a major shift, the Spitzer administration is expected to embrace federal
legislation that will make driver's licenses more secure in coming years, a move
that had been thought to be at odds with its own plan to allow illegal
immigrants to apply for licenses.

Gov. Eliot Spitzer is delaying a planned trip to Portugal to make the
announcement at a press conference in Washington, D.C., on Saturday, and is
expected to appear with officials from the Department of Homeland Security.

Last month, the administration proposed allowing illegal immigrants to apply for
the same New York driver's license that citizens and legal immigrants can
obtain, without noting anywhere on the license that the applicants were not able
to show they were legal residents.

But under the new plan, the administration is expected to support two tiers of
license, a person briefed on the announcement said. One would be a new federally
recognized, highly secure license known as a ''Real ID,'' which will require,
among other things, proof of legal residency. Citizens could also apply for a
less stringent second class of licensee, which would also be available to
illegal immigrants.

Under federal law, the Real ID will be phased into use by 2013. After that new
federal laws will require a Real ID or a passport to board an airplane in the
United States.

The shift comes as the governor has faced a firestorm of criticism both from
Republicans and from within his own party. More than a dozen county clerks, who
operate Department of Motor Vehicles offices  upstate, have refused to carry out
the policy, even though they are considered agents of the governor's
administration.

This week, in Erie and Niagara Counties, the clerks even said they would report
those who could not prove residency to the local sheriff. And a recent poll from
Siena College found that 72 percent of respondents opposed the plan.

''This plan makes it easier, far easier, for driver's licenses to fall into the
wrong hands, like those of potential terrorists,'' said Kathleen Marchione, the
president of the New York State Association of County Clerks, at a hearing this
month.

Mr. Spitzer said the state would be more secure having identification records of
more people, and said it could improve road safety and lower insurance costs.

''We are not talking about letting more people into this country; we are talking
about being practical about those who are already here,'' he said.

The plan did win him support from the Hispanic community; how his latest plan
will reshape the debate remains to be seen. For many critics, a separate license
could allay their concerns, though it could make illegal immigrants uneasy about
obtaining one.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Glare of Fires Pulls Migrants From Shadows

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and WILL CARLESS; Dan Frosch contributed
reporting from Denver, and Carolyn Marshall from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 26


Out of the burning brush, from behind canyon rocks, several immigrants bolted
toward a group of firefighters, chased not by the border police but by the
onrush of flames from one of the biggest wildfires this week.

Their appearance startled the firefighters, who let them into their vehicles.
But with the discovery of four charred bodies in an area of heavy illegal
immigration, concern is growing that others may not have survived.

''Their hands were burned, and they were clearly tired and grateful,'' Capt.
Mike Parkes  of the State Department of Forestry and Fire Protection reported on
what his firefighting team saw.

Immigrants from south of the border, many illegal, provide the backbone of
menial labor in San Diego, picking fruit, cleaning hotel rooms, sweeping walks
and mowing lawns.

The wildfires, one of the biggest disasters to strike the county, exposed their
often-invisible existence in ways that were sometimes deadly.

The four bodies were found in a burned area in southeastern San Diego County, a
region known for intense illegal immigration. It is near Tecate, where a chain
securing an evacuated border crossing was cut and people were seen flowing into
the United States until the Border Patrol arrived, said Michael J. Fisher, the
chief patrol agent in San Diego.

As firefighting continued on Friday, makeshift camps for immigrants in the
northern part of the county stood largely abandoned. Some immigrants were said
to be hiding in even more remote terrain. Others sought help from churches.

''I was pretty scared. We had to leave in the middle of the night, and we went
to the church,'' said Juan Santiago, a immigrant worker in the Rancho
Penasquitos neighborhood, just south of the hard-hit Rancho Bernardo area.

Terri Trujillo, who helps the immigrants, checked on those in the canyons,
urging them to leave, too, when she left her house in Rancho Penasquitos ahead
of the fires.

Ms. Trujillo and others who help the immigrants said they saw several out in the
fields as the fires approached and ash fell on them. She said many were afraid
to lose their jobs.

''There were Mercedeses and Jaguars pulling out, people evacuating, and the
migrants were still working,'' said Enrique Morones, who takes food and blankets
to the immigrants' camps. ''It's outrageous.''

Some of the illegal workers who sought help from the authorities were arrested
and deported. Opponents of illegal immigration, including civilian border watch
groups, seized on news that immigrants had been detained at the Qualcomm Stadium
evacuation center as evidence of trouble that illegal immigrants cause.

The Border Patrol also arrested scores of illegal immigrants made visible by the
fires. Agent Fisher of the Border Patrol said 100 had been arrested since the
fires started Sunday.

He said that the agency never abandoned enforcing the border and that agents
helped with removals and rescues. Fire blocked some access points to border
areas, but Agent Fisher said, ''We were very conscious in making sure our border
security mission was met.''

Some people have speculated, including on the Web, that immigrants might have
set some of the fires, as has occurred with campfires lighted in fields.

The authorities have not given any causes linked to immigration.

Two men, one in San Diego County and the other in Los Angeles, who were arrested
on arson charges, accused of setting small fires this week, are believed to be
deportable, a federal immigration official said.

The San Diego police detained people suspected of stealing at Qualcomm Stadium.
Six were handed over to the immigration authorities when it became apparent that
they might be in the United States illegally.

The Border Patrol said the six, and at the group's request, an American juvenile
with them, were returned to Mexico.

The American Civil Liberties Union said it had received reports that people had
been denied help at shelters because they lacked proper identification.
Officials have been checking identification to prevent people not affected by
the fires from taking advantage of the free food, clothes and other services.

The concerns of the rights group drew a rebuke from Representative Brian P.
Bilbray, a Republican who represents areas along the border.

''People are dying because we can't control our border,'' Mr. Bilbray said.
''That's what they should be screaming about. Anyone who knows the land and the
illegal activity in that rugged terrain knows there was no way we would avoid
deaths in this.''

Wayne A. Cornelius, a political scientist at the University of California, San
Diego, who studies border questions, said that if the past was a guide there
would be more friction over the fires and their effects on illegal immigrants.

''San Diego likes its illegal migrants as invisible as possible,'' Mr. Cornelius
said. ''So whenever something happens that calls attention to their presence, it
is fodder for the local anti-immigration forces.''

In one sign of  cooperation, a Mexican firefighting team from Baja California
helped American firefighters with a major blaze along the border early in the
week.

For the immigrants, the fires may have dried up some work. But some speculate on
strong work prospects like cleanups. By early afternoon near a heavily damaged
neighborhood in the Rancho Bernardo area, four men stood on a corner, waiting
for work offers.

''It is a shame what happened,'' said a man who gave just his first name,
Miguelito. ''But we think there will be jobs to clean or build.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Waiting for work in Rancho Penasquitos, a part of San Diego
affected by the fires. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(pg.A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dangerous Political Strategies

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 511 words


New York's brief legislative session last week produced little lawmaking but
lots of venting about Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to give driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants.  Undocumented immigrants will need only to prove who they
are, by providing a valid passport, and that they can drive safely, by taking a
road test.

It is a sensible idea that many security experts believe could assist the
authorities in identifying those who simply want to drive to work and would
emerge from the shadows once they obtained a license. That, in turn, would allow
police to focus on those who stayed in the shadows.

But to hear the heated rhetoric, you would think Mr. Spitzer had invited every
terrorist in Afghanistan to take a New York driving test. Reinforced by
anti-immigrant fervor, such rhetoric has got the blood boiling, a temperature
that many believe is good for Republican politics. The immigration debate has
given some Republicans real hope that they can keep their last shred of control
in New York, a two-seat majority in the State Senate.

Perhaps more troublesome for Mr. Spitzer, however, is that some of his fellow
Democrats were whispering the same thought last week. They fear that their hope
of winning the entire Statehouse -- all three branches -- could be evaporating
over the driver's license debate.

The governor's occasionally intemperate responses add to their concerns. Mr.
Spitzer too often treats his foes like villains instead of opponents. Most
Democrats think that real worries about immigration and security can be best
addressed without making the worriers seem like racists.

Most of these Democrats realize that the governor is correct on this issue, but
they cannot figure out how to sell it. They fear that the opposition will too
easily make it sound as if they are soft on terrorism -- a tactic that the
G.O.P. is expected to use in national elections as well.

Democrats need to gather their strength, and Mr. Spitzer needs to help them
marshal the substantial arguments for this cause. If this is about security, Mr.
Spitzer wins. His plan is safer than the one we have now.

Moreover, the Republican opposition -- two bills and a few threatened lawsuits
last week -- could cause the G.O.P. real heartaches with Hispanic voters in the
future. Last week, for example, Assemblyman David Townsend, a Republican from
Oneida County, charged that Mr. Spitzer's license policy was really a trick to
allow ''illegal immigrants'' to vote for Hillary Clinton for president. The
charge was ridiculous; you don't need a driver's license to vote in New York.
But Mr. Townsend said elections officials could wind up having to welcome
millions of sneaky illegal voters at the polls by saying, ''Come on in, Senor.''

Comments like that one should send chills up any Hispanic-American spine because
they raise the old question of whether this anti-immigrant fury cloaks a more
dangerous passion. Savvy Republicans recognize that their party -- any party --
will thrive in this country only if new citizens believe they are truly welcome.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Governor Is Accused Of Betraying Principles

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 665 words


Gov. Eliot Spitzer's retreat from his plan to permit illegal immigrants to
obtain the same kind of driver's licenses as other New Yorkers drew angry
reactions yesterday from civil liberties advocates and immigrant groups, some of
whom described the shift as a stunning betrayal.

The governor has been under fierce assault from conservative groups and others
since proposing last month to allow illegal immigrants to get New York driver's
licenses. But joined by the federal secretary of homeland security, Michael
Chertoff, in Washington yesterday, the governor announced a starkly different
version of his plan.

It calls for separate tiers of licenses. New Yorkers who could provide stringent
proof of legal residency could get the new federally recognized license known as
Real ID. The licenses available to illegal residents would not serve as federal
identification.

''What a huge political flip,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the
New York Immigration Coalition.

''He's now embracing and letting his good name be used to promote something that
has been widely known in the immigrant community as one of the most
anti-immigrant pieces of legislation to come out of Congress,'' Ms. Hong  said.

She said having separate licenses would amount to a scarlet letter for illegal
immigrants. ''I know I'm speaking for millions of immigrants when I say I just
feel so thoroughly betrayed.''The separate licenses could also serve as an
invitation for law enforcement to arrest anyone carrying one on immigration
charges, said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil
Liberties Union. She added that the new proposal could send illegal immigrants
further into the shadows, compelling them to drive with forged  or no licenses
and without insurance.

''This flip-flopping is bowing to the fear-mongering of the Bush administration
and turns New York into a poster child for policies based on fear rather than
public safety,'' she said.

The move comes less than a week after Mr. Spitzer met with Senate Democrats and
vowed to keep fighting for his driver's license plan, which many viewed as
antithetical to  the Real ID law.

Real ID is expected to be phased in by 2013. After that, federal agencies that
now allow standard state-issued licenses for identification will require the
Real ID  or other federally accepted identification, like a passport, for
boarding a plane.

Lawmakers in several states have opposed the legislation, saying it would be
costly to implement --  the states must pay for it -- and  compromise privacy.

Seventeen states have passed laws defying it, and many others are considering
following suit, according to a Web site sponsored by the A.C.L.U.,
realnightmare.org, which tracks such bills.

With Mr. Spitzer's endorsement, New York would be the first big state to embrace
the plan, Ms. Lieberman said.

''Real ID was on the road to failure, and it is indeed disappointing that
Governor Spitzer is coming to its rescue,'' she said.

Some people, though, called yesterday's announcement a step in the right
direction.

''I'm pleased to see the governor is finally listening to the people of New York
State,'' said Kathleen Marchione, president of the New York State Association of
County Clerks, which opposed issuing illegal immigrants standard licenses.

Among the issues still of concern, Ms. Marchione said, is whether illegal
immigrants should be allowed to get licenses at all. More than a dozen of the
county clerks -- who operate the Department of Motor Vehicles' offices upstate
-- had said they would not carry out the earlier plan, some vowing to report to
the local sheriff license applicants who could not prove residency.

Some supporters of the governor's former plan said yesterday's announcement
seemed to strike a good balance.

''We need a policy that is safer and more secure,'' said Siobhan Dennehy,
executive director of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center, ''and this
combination does that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spitzer Tries New Tack on Immigrants' Licenses: A Multi-Tiered System

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; James Risen contributed reporting from Washington..

James Risen contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1303 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 27


In a major shift, Gov. Eliot Spitzer is backing off his plan to allow illegal
immigrants to obtain the same kind of driver's licenses as other New Yorkers,
after weeks of furor over the proposal.

Instead, the governor said on Saturday, illegal immigrants in the state would be
able to obtain a license that would permit them to drive but would not be
accepted as identification to board planes or cross borders.

Other New Yorkers who can prove that they are legal residents of the United
States would be eligible for federally recognized ID cards. These would serve as
driver's licenses and would be accepted as identification for a number of
purposes, including boarding planes and entering federal facilities.

The move followed a wave of criticism over the governor's proposal, with many
Democrats warning that Mr. Spitzer had put the state party in political peril.
The new plan also reflects the increasingly complicated security requirements
that have been developed by the federal government since the Sept. 11 attacks.

The plan will probably do little if anything to quell the controversy over the
issue, as people on both sides of the debate in New York expressed concern about
it on Saturday.

And the State Legislature, which has expressed concern about any extension of
licenses to illegal immigrants, would probably be required to provide the funds
for the new system, which is expected to be costly.

And even though Mr. Spitzer announced his new plan at a news conference in
Washington with Michael Chertoff, the secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security, Mr. Chertoff explicitly did not condone the move by New York and some
other states to allow illegal immigrants to apply for any kind of driver's
license.

''I don't endorse giving licenses to people who are not here legally, but
federal law does allow states to make that choice,'' Mr. Chertoff said in a
statement. ''What we can do is insist that licenses that do not meet federal
requirements be clearly so labeled. New York has agreed to do that.'' Still, he
said the plan in total ''represents a major step forward for security, both for
New York and for the country.''

In an interview, the governor called the new plan ''the perfect resolution'' and
said it was ''not at all a shift'' from what he had previously laid out.

Under the plan, New Yorkers who are here legally can obtain a federally
recognized identification card known as a Real ID. The highly secure
identification card is  expected to be phased in nationwide by 2013, but would
be introduced in New York next year. It could be used for identification to
board domestic flights instead of a passport.

In addition, for frequent border crossers, like residents near the Canadian
border, an even more secure license could be used to cross borders as well as
board planes. This license, almost a substitute for a passport, would comply
with the stricter requirements of a program called the Western Hemisphere Travel
Initiative and would require applicants to prove they are citizens.

The most limited class of license, available to both citizens and illegal
immigrants, would not require proof of legal residency. This final kind of
license would have a lower fee than the other licenses, would be demarcated
''not valid for federal purposes,'' or some similar designation, and could not
be used to board planes or cross borders.

Citizens will have to apply at the Department of Motor Vehicles for the first
two kinds of licenses, but could potentially continue to renew by mail for the
third kind.

''This is the perfect policy outcome,'' the governor said. ''You get Real ID,
which Congress has determined is the right security measure, you get driver's
licenses to undocumented immigrants, which I believe is the right policy at
every level, and we are getting the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative.'' Mr.
Spitzer insisted that his plan was not a compromise with the federal government.

Yet he and Mr. Chertoff both made it clear that several related issues had been
resolved at the same time, suggesting horse-trading between Albany and
Washington over the thorny issues of illegal aliens, national identification
cards and easy crossing of the New York-Canadian border.

Mr. Spitzer stressed that the agreement was the result of an ''evolution'' in
talks between New York and the Department of Homeland Security over how to
define and implement the Real ID program. Only eight states do not require
drivers to prove legal status to obtain driver's licenses:  Hawaii, Maine,
Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington.

Under Mr. Spitzer's plan, New York is likely to become one of the first states
to offer the new federal license; it intends to start as soon as the middle of
next year. The governor had previously opposed granting two classes of driver's
license right away, but did not rule out eventually creating a second class of
license that would comply with new federal Real ID regulations. By moving up the
timetable for complying with the federal license, after two weeks of
negotiations with Mr. Chertoff, the governor said he was getting a better
outcome, and he emphatically denied he was shifting course.

The Spitzer administration emphasized that there would not be a special class
just for illegal immigrants, saying that some citizens who did not travel often
might opt for the cheaper class of license. However, advocates for immigrants
said the multi-tiered system of identification and the clear marking of one
license as ''not valid for federal purposes'' would stigmatize those who carry
it and could potentially make the police suspicious. .

Mr. Spitzer's move displeased some people on both sides of the debate.

Frank Merola, the clerk in Rensselaer County who said he would refuse to carry
out the governor's policy, said that the latest twist was ''a sign of
desperation.''

''No matter how he wants to cut this into different pieces, he's still giving
licenses to people who are here illegally,'' he added.

Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, who had supported the governor's initial policy,
expressed disappointment. ''That's a position that, initially, many of the
advocates and myself opposed, a two-tier,'' he said. ''It's separate, but
certainly not equal.''

Among other things, he and other advocates have worried that creating a separate
class of license that illegal immigrants could obtain would make them fearful of
doing so, lest they attract attention to their status.

''I think the administration could have handled this a little bit better,'' Mr.
Espaillat added.

But Assemblywoman Carmen Arroyo, chairwoman of the New York State Puerto
Rican/Hispanic Task Force, said in a statement that the new plan ''not only
satisfies his promise of fairness to the immigrant community but ensures that
New York has a driver's license that is nationally recognized as the most secure
system in the country.''

Bill Sherman, the chief of staff for the Assembly Republican leader, James N.
Tedisco, said, ''today's flip-flop by Governor Spitzer shows his policy was
wrong.''

He said any plan to offer illegal immigrants a license was reason for concern.
''We're still asking the governor to delay any changes to the policy until
everything is sorted out,'' he said.

The governor faced a firestorm of criticism both from Republicans and from
within his own party since he unveiled his policy last month. More than a dozen
county clerks, who operate Department of Motor Vehicles offices upstate, have
refused to carry out the policy, even though they are considered agents of the
governor's administration.

Last week, in Erie and Niagara Counties, the clerks -- including a Democratic
appointee of the governor's -- even said they would report those who could not
prove residency to the local sheriff.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Part of 'Illegal' Don't You Understand?

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 713 words


I am a human pileup of illegality. I am an illegal driver and an illegal parker
and even an illegal walker, having at various times stretched or broken various
laws and regulations that govern those parts of life. The offenses were trivial,
and I feel sure I could endure the punishments -- penalties and fines -- and get
on with my life. Nobody would deny me the chance to rehabilitate myself.  Look
at Martha Stewart, illegal stock trader, and George Steinbrenner, illegal
campaign donor,  to name two illegals whose crimes exceeded mine.

Good thing I am not an illegal immigrant. There is no way out of that trap. It's
the crime you can't make amends for. Nothing short of deportation will free you
from it, such is the mood of the country today. And that is a problem.

America has a big problem with illegal immigration, but a big part of it stems
from the word ''illegal.'' It pollutes the debate. It blocks solutions. Used
dispassionately and technically, there is nothing wrong with it. Used as an
irreducible modifier for a large and largely decent group of people, it is badly
damaging. And as a code word for racial and ethnic hatred, it is detestable.

''Illegal'' is accurate insofar as it describes a person's immigration status.
About 60 percent of the people it applies to entered the country unlawfully. The
rest are those who entered legally but did not leave when they were supposed to.
The statutory penalties associated with their misdeeds are not insignificant,
but neither are they criminal. You get caught, you get sent home.

Since the word modifies not the crime but the whole person, it goes too far. It
spreads, like a stain that cannot wash out. It leaves its target diminished as a
human, a lifetime member of a presumptive criminal class. People are often
surprised to learn that illegal immigrants have rights. Really? Constitutional
rights? But aren't they illegal? Of course they have rights: they have the
presumption of innocence and the civil liberties that the Constitution wisely
bestows on all people, not just citizens.

Many people object to the alternate word ''undocumented'' as a politically
correct euphemism, and they have a point. Someone who sneaked over the border
and faked a Social Security number has little right to say: ''Oops, I'm
undocumented. I'm sure I have my papers here somewhere.''

But at least ''undocumented'' -- and an even better word, ''unauthorized'' --
contain the possibility of reparation and atonement, and allow for a sensible
reaction proportional to the offense. The paralysis in Congress and the country
over fixing our immigration laws stems from our inability to get our heads
around the wrenching change involved in making an illegal person legal. Think of
doing that with a crime, like cocaine dealing or arson. Unthinkable!

So people who want to enact sensible immigration policies to help everybody --
to make the roads safer, as Gov. Eliot Spitzer would with his driver's license
plan, or to allow immigrants' children to go to college or serve in the military
-- face the inevitable incredulity and outrage. How dare you! They're illegal.

Meanwhile, out on the edges of the debate -- edges that are coming closer to the
mainstream every day -- bigots pour all their loathing of Spanish-speaking
people into the word. Rant about ''illegals'' -- call them congenital criminals,
lepers, thieves, unclean -- and people will nod and applaud. They will send
money to your Web site and heed your calls to deluge lawmakers with phone calls
and faxes. Your TV ratings will go way up.

This is not only ugly, it is counterproductive, paralyzing any effort toward
immigration reform. Comprehensive legislation in Congress and sensible policies
at the state and local level have all been stymied and will be forever, as long
as anything positive can be branded as ''amnesty for illegals.''

We are stuck with a bogus, deceptive strategy -- a 700-mile fence on a
2,000-mile border to stop a fraction of border crossers who are only 60 percent
of the problem anyway, and scattershot raids to capture a few thousand members
of a group of 12 million.

None of those enforcement policies have a trace of honesty or realism. At least
they don't reward illegals, and that, for now, is all this country wants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Real ID That Spitzer Now Embraces Has Been Widely Criticized

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 674 words


Gov. Eliot Spitzer's plan to provide three kinds of driver's licenses, two that
would meet new federal security regulations and a third that would be available
to illegal immigrants, has put New York on pace to be among the first states to
adopt the federal identification program known as Real ID.

Mr. Spitzer seemed to be ignoring the federal mandate several weeks ago when he
announced that illegal immigrants would be allowed to get the same type of
license as other state residents.

The proposal set off intense criticism -- a Siena College poll of 620 registered
voters found that 72 percent opposed it -- even as Mr. Spitzer made clear that
he would consider creating a class of driver's licenses in the future to abide
by federal regulations.

Mr. Spitzer's new position, announced on Saturday in Washington, places New York
among a handful of states agreeing to implement a federal identification system
that has faced intense opposition from civil libertarians, immigration advocates
and many lawmakers. Concerns focus on privacy protection and the costs to states
that implement the Real ID program.

The program is supposed to be phased in nationally by 2013, but Mr. Spitzer
wants to put his plan in place next year.

''The costs involved in this program are by no means insignificant,'' said Jim
Harper, director of information policy studies at the Cato Institute, a
libertarian policy group in Washington.

The Department of Homeland Security puts the price of the program nationally at
$23 billion over 10 years, while the National Governors Association estimates
that the cost to states will exceed $11 billion in the first five years alone.
Still, Congress appropriated just $40 million for start-up costs in 2006,
leaving the burden of paying for most of the costs largely to the states.

''There's going to be an irreducible expense that falls on you, and that's part
of the shared responsibility,'' the secretary of homeland security, Michael
Chertoff, said in August at a meeting of the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

The Real ID law, which Congress passed two years ago, sets national standards
for state-issued documents like driver's licenses and other identification
cards, requiring applicants to prove citizenship or legal residency to obtain
them. One of the goals of the legislation was to make identification documents
harder to forge.

Under the program, an estimated 245 million drivers will have to renew their
licenses in person and present a form of photo identification and documents
proving date of birth, Social Security number and address.

Proponents of the act say that it responds to recommendations of the 9/11
Commission and that its stricter and standardized rules could keep terrorists
and illegal immigrants from obtaining legitimate identification.

But 17 states have passed laws defying the mandate, while others are considering
similar measures.

One criticism that has been raised is that the personal information will be
entered in databases that will be shared by every state, raising questions about
how the data will be secured and how safe its storage will be.

''That's an identity thief's dream,'' said Christopher Calabrese, counsel for
the American Civil Liberties Union's technology and liberty program.

Mr. Calabrese said that Mr. Spitzer's proposal to create a driver's license that
would appeal largely to undocumented immigrants presents ''a much more dangerous
condition'' for them.

''What we're going to have,'' he said, ''is a list of undocumented aliens, and
there's no way New York will be able to keep the federal government's hands off
this list and protect the people whose names are on the list.

''Spitzer may have had the best of intentions at first,'' Mr. Calabrese
continued, ''but he buckled to political pressure and it seems now that his good
intentions have backfired.''

Mr. Spitzer's new plan would also create an even more secure type of license,
which would be particularly useful for New Yorkers who frequently cross into
Canada.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chertoff Push Over Licenses Led to a Shift

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 30


The phone call from a top aide to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland
security, came two weeks ago, and the message was clear: The department was
concerned that Gov. Eliot Spitzer's plan to grant driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants would undermine a federal initiative to roll out a new highly secure,
nationally recognized license.

The prospect of Mr. Chertoff coming out publicly against Mr. Spitzer's plan
caused deep anxiety among Spitzer administration officials, said Michael A. L.
Balboni, the governor's deputy secretary for public safety, who received the
call.

The governor and his aides felt they had few options.

The license plan had already set off angry attacks from Republicans and unease
among Democratic allies, and had made the governor a target of national groups
rallying for tougher immigration policies.

Mr. Spitzer agreed with Mr. Chertoff to a compromise plan on Friday under which
the state would offer three levels of driver's licenses beginning next year,
including a limited license that illegal immigrants could obtain but that could
not be used to board airplanes or cross borders.

The announcement has done little to quiet the fury Mr. Spitzer set off on Sept.
21 when he declared, without consulting  the Legislature, that New York would
offer driver's licenses to the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
living in the state, as a way of making the roads safer and bringing them ''out
of the shadows.''

An examination of five weeks of policy twists, during which Mr. Spitzer
alienated allies and emboldened enemies, reveals a governor almost stubbornly
certain of himself and disinclined to consult with those who could be helpful in
politically selling or smoothing the way for a divisive initiative.

Most lawmakers first heard about the initial policy when the governor announced
it, saying, ''The D.M.V. is not the I.N.S.''

County clerks who would have to carry out the policy were not consulted. Nor was
Mr. Chertoff's department.

''There's a very consistent pattern here of not consulting with his friends,''
said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat. ''I must say, at
this point, people don't understand what the thinking and the planning was.''

Aides to the governor, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they had  not
foreseen the intensity of opposition the license plan would touch off.

Mr. Spitzer saw it as simply keeping a promise he had made during his campaign
last year.

And it was consistent with his desire, after battling the Legislature for a
frustrating six months, to govern by exercising the powers of the executive
agencies under his control, without legislative interference.

His policy advisers and David J. Swarts, the motor vehicles commissioner, worked
quietly on the policy for several months. They presented it to the governor, and
then he moved on it.

''We finished, got to a conclusion, said, 'O.K., now let's announce it,''' Mr.
Spitzer recalled in a recent interview. ''It was not a whole lot more than
that.''

It did not take long for opponents to make themselves heard. Within a week,
county clerks began to rebel. Even New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg,
typically a friendly voice, raised concerns.

Though they acknowledge that they failed to anticipate the reaction fully, Mr.
Spitzer and his staff also argue that the issue is so visceral that laying more
groundwork might not have made much difference.

''I don't think it would matter if Lou Dobbs saw us standing next to some police
chief,'' said one aide to the governor, referring to the CNN anchor, who has
been leading an almost nightly crusade against Mr. Spitzer's policy.

The governor moved to shore up support, enlisting Latino lawmakers and other
Democrats to appear with him at press conferences. He also tried to rally them
in closed-door meetings before a special legislative session last week.

State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr., a conservative lawmaker from the Bronx, strongly
defended the governor, arguing for the policy in emotional language on the
Senate floor.

Mr. Diaz took aim at the governor's chief political rival, Joseph L. Bruno, the
Senate majority leader, for first supporting the plan and then reversing
himself.

But even as Mr. Diaz and others stood up for Mr. Spitzer, talks had begun with
the Department of Homeland Security about revising the plan.

Mr. Balboni, a former Republican senator, said he was initially ''not enthused
about the idea'' of having the state adopt the national Real ID card, which has
been opposed by some civil liberties groups and immigration advocates. But he
came to believe, he said, that it was a way of getting illegal immigrants into
the system.

The Spitzer aides also felt they had gained key concessions on Real ID. They
included getting the Department of Homeland Security to forgo forcing states to
start using more expensive material for their licenses and to ease the timeline
so the state did not need to immediately increase staffing levels at the
Department of Motor Vehicles, which would have been costly.

But when the governor's new plan was announced, he lost support from just about
everyone. Those who stood by granting the licenses to illegal immigrants felt
betrayed. Those Democrats uneasy with the initial plan wondered if this change
would solve the problem.

And opponents of the initial plan either declared victory, or vowed to continue
to block Mr. Spitzer from issuing any kind of license to illegal immigrants.

Again, many allies felt they were not given a heads up that the announcement was
coming.

''I believed the governor, I trusted him,'' said Mr. Diaz. ''Bruno has been good
to me, but I criticized him. Now I'm going to have to go back to the Senate
floor and apologize because the governor decided to turn his back on us and make
a deal with Washington.''

Assemblyman Jose R. Peralta, a Queens Democrat, said, ''We went out there to
defend undocumented immigrants and individuals who were being targeted as far as
not being allowed to get licenses, and we were on the road to doing that until
this agreement with the federal government.''

Even Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Legislature's top Democrat, and David
A. Paterson, the lieutenant governor, were not told that there would be a shift
in strategy until late Friday, the night before the governor announced the deal.

To try to smooth some of the anger, Mr. Spitzer invited Mr. Diaz and a
half-dozen other lawmakers, most of them Hispanic and defenders of the original
plan, to an Upper East Side diner on Sunday morning to explain his decision.

Feelings were frayed, and the meeting grew emotional. At one point, Mr. Spitzer
asked Mr. Diaz to lower his voice because they were in a public place.

''You made me make a fool out of myself,'' Mr. Diaz told the governor.

Mr. Spitzer and his aides told the lawmakers that they had been reluctant to
send word of the new proposal before they  completed negotiations with the Bush
administration, which took until the end of the day Friday. And they were
clearly worried about what Mr. Chertoff would do if they did not go along.

While Mr. Spitzer tries to repair ties with his old allies, his handling of the
issue has only made his Republican foes more determined to keep after him. And,
given that the new license system is a year off, and legislative approval will
likely be necessary to finance part of it, Albany could see many more months of
intense argument over the issue.

''I really don't believe this is the end of the story,'' said Senator Eric T.
Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

License Issue Figures Large in New York Races

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and PAUL VITELLO.

Nicholas Confessore reported from Buffalo and Paul Vitello from Long Island.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1553 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO


When she arrived at an assisted living center for a candidates' forum here
recently, Kathleen C. Hochul, the Erie County clerk, spent a few minutes
explaining what county clerks do. As the audience listened sleepily, Ms. Hochul,
a no-nonsense lawyer, quickly reeled through an explanation of housing permits,
business registrations and her plan to shorten lines at the downtown auto
bureau.

And then, Ms. Hochul, a Democrat, made a point -- as she often does these days
-- of describing one service she most definitely does not intend to offer.

''I do not support the governor's plan to give driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants,'' she said to whooping cheers and applause. ''I have a problem with
that, ladies and gentlemen.''

So do lots of other local office seekers across the state. The plan, which Gov.
Eliot Spitzer unveiled with little warning in September, has triggered
widespread opposition and injected into the normally sedate off-year elections
volatile debates over immigration policy and terrorism.

And much anger remains even after Mr. Spitzer revised his plan last Saturday,
saying the state would also offer two other kinds of licenses, neither of which
would be available to illegal immigrants and both of which would satisfy new
federal security rules. Even under the new plan, critics point out, illegal
immigrants could still get a state license.

''Nothing's changed,'' Ms. Hochul said in an interview on Tuesday. ''It's all
anyone wants to talk about.''

None of the state's top officials or legislators is on the ballot in Tuesday's
elections. But dozens of clerks, county executives and town supervisors are. And
in some areas, Mr. Spitzer's proposal has the potential to overwhelm the more
parochial concerns on which such contests usually turn.

For Mr. Spitzer himself -- now struggling to regain the overwhelming public
support that sent him to office in a landslide -- Tuesday's election will be the
first chance to gauge whether the anger he now faces is merely a passing storm,
or something more lasting.

Republicans have seized on the controversy and say it is energizing their
voters.

In Nassau County, for example, the issue has come to dominate the tight race for
a seat on the County Legislature that, if won by the Republican candidate, would
swing control of the body back to that party, dealing a significant blow to
state Democrats. The Democratic incumbent, David L. Mejias, said he opposed the
initial plan, and he called the governor's revised version ''unworkable.''

But his Republican opponent, Joseph Belesi, has nonetheless painted him as a
close ally of the governor -- and his license plan -- in a series of fliers and
mailings that have blanketed the district.

''This issue resonates with the people here because they see it as illegal, and
immoral, and I think it has shifted things in my favor,'' said Mr. Belesi, a
retired police officer.

Mr. Spitzer's new policy has sent a particular shudder through the ranks of
county clerks, 23 of whom are up for re-election Tuesday. In most counties, the
clerks process driver's license applications on behalf of the State Department
of Motor Vehicles.

A majority of those clerks voted for a resolution condemning the policy during a
hastily called meeting of the state clerks' association last month, and some
have said they would refuse to enforce the policy, which is scheduled to take
effect late next year.

Ms. Hochul went a step further. If anyone comes to the main clerk's office
seeking a license with a foreign passport but without a valid visa stamp, Ms.
Hochul said, she will process the application -- and then pass the person's name
on to the county sheriff as a possible violator of immigration law.

The clerk of neighboring Niagara County is making similar plans, and others may
follow. Kathleen A. Marchione, the clerk of Saratoga County and head of the
clerks' association, said that the governor's revised plan had done little to
allay the clerks' concerns.

''Our position as an association has not changed,'' Ms. Marchione said. ''This
is still a major issue for us.''

But perhaps no local official has been put on the spot quite like Ms. Hochul
(pronounced HOKE-ul).

Though Erie County residents seem to support one part of Mr. Spitzer's new plan
-- the introduction of two kinds of federally recognized licenses, one of which
could be used by United States citizens to cross the Canadian border without
passports -- Ms. Hochul said that they continued to oppose allowing illegal
immigrants to obtain the new plan's third tier of license, akin to the current
standard driver's license.

''This has really become the centerpiece of this race,'' Ms. Hochul said.
Buffalo is a border city, she notes, and memories of the six Qaeda recruits,
American citizens of Yemeni descent, who once lived in nearby Lackawanna are
still fresh.

In fact, Ms. Hochul's husband, an assistant United States attorney for the
Western District of New York, was the lead prosecutor on the case. The six men,
who had traveled to a Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan in 2001, pleaded guilty
three years ago to charges of providing support to a terrorist organization.

Moreover, Ms. Hochul is herself a Spitzer appointee; she got the job in April
after Mr. Spitzer appointed David J. Swarts, the previous Erie clerk, to be the
new state commissioner of motor vehicles. Ms. Hochul even held a meet-and-greet
for Mr. Spitzer at her home during last year's campaign.

''I support him on the environment. I support him on worker's comp reform. I
support him on job creation. I support what he's doing on the waterfront here,''
Ms. Hochul said. ''But this is an issue I disagree with him very strongly on.
And he knows that.''

Ms. Hochul abstained from voting on the clerks' resolution last month. But she
has since registered her disagreement with Mr. Spitzer in myriad ways. She has
asked the State Legislature to hold hearings in Buffalo on the issue, sent
letters of protest to the governor and to Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo. She
also requested a formal opinion from the Erie district attorney on whether the
new policy is legal and enforceable.

But her Republican challenger, William A. O'Loughlin Jr., whose otherwise uphill
bid for the Erie clerk's job has received a boost from public outrage over the
licensing issue, has said that is not enough. Mr. O'Loughlin, a local
businessman and councilman on  the Amherst town board, had previously built his
campaign around promises to extend the office hours at satellite bureaus and to
root out patronage in the operation.

Now Mr. O'Loughlin tells campaign audiences that he, unlike Ms. Hochul, will go
to jail rather than enforce Mr. Spitzer's driver's license policy.

If the governor ''brings along a contingent of state police and says, 'Here's
two illegal immigrants, give them a driver's license or I'll put you in jail,'
I'll say, 'Show me the handcuffs,' '' Mr. O'Loughlin said in an interview.

Though no public polling is available on the race, interest in the licensing
issue is intense. The two candidates spent most of a recent 90-minute debate
discussing Mr. Spitzer's policy, which has dominated local talk radio. Their
positions on the issue are often the first thing the candidates are asked about,
and each is running television advertisements explaining how they will oppose
the policy.

''We wanted to talk about our record during the last seven months,'' said Ms.
Hochul, sounding wistful. She noted that she had expanded electronic filing,
created a new call center and added satellite auto bureaus during her brief
tenure. But the license issue, she said, is ''all anyone wants to talk about.''

The clerks' protests are not likely to have much practical effect on illegal
immigrants seeking licenses. The Spitzer administration estimates that about 80
percent of those   seeking licenses will do so in the 10 counties -- including
Nassau, Suffolk, Onondaga and the five boroughs of New York City -- where the
state runs its own D.M.V. offices rather than relying on county clerks to
process the paperwork.

But the issue has brought a swift response from local lawmakers and candidates.
About 20 county legislatures are considering resolutions condemning the new
policy or orders to their county clerks not to comply, and several have already
passed such legislation, according to Ms. Marchione, the Saratoga County clerk.

Meanwhile, candidates who may never have mentioned illegal immigration now find
their positions on the licensing issue closely scrutinized.

Mr. Belesi, for example, has been arguing that Mr. Mejias spoke against the
governor's plan only after Mr. Belesi made an issue of it -- a criticism that
seems to frustrate Mr. Mejias. ''As a county legislator, I never spoke out
against the genocide in Darfur, either. I had no reason to raise the issue of
the governor's license plan because it had nothing to do with the business of
the Legislature.''

Ms. Hochul, for her part, is not about to let anyone mistake her position. ''I
feel very strongly that the Erie County Auto Bureau should not facilitate
violations of immigration law,'' Ms. Hochul explained. Asked how many illegal
immigrants she expects to come in seeking  licenses, Ms. Hochul responded with a
single word.

''None,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathleen C. Hochul, the Erie County clerk, at a candidates'
forum. She opposes licenses for illegal immigrants.
 As a Spitzer appointee, Kathleen C. Hochul, the Erie County clerk, has been put
on the spot. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michigan: Company Controller Pleads Guilty

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 97 words


The controller of a nationwide janitorial service entered a guilty plea in
Federal District Court to conspiracy to defraud the federal government and to
harboring illegal immigrants, said Hagen W. Frank, an assistant United States
attorney. The controller, Christina A. Flocken, 59, of Longwood, Fla., is
accused of hiring out cleaning crews staffed with illegal immigrants to a
Michigan resort. The government's investigation of the service,
Rosenbaum-Cunningham International Inc., based in Florida, led to the arrests in
February of more than 200 immigrants, mostly Mexican citizens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Deaths Near Border Fall

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 7


The number of illegal immigrants who died crossing the southern border fell for
the second straight year, officials said Wednesday.

Four hundred people died while entering the United States from Mexico in the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, down 12 percent from the 453 deaths in the
previous year. A record 494 deaths were reported in the fiscal year that ended
in September 2005.

A spokesman for the Border Patrol, Lloyd Easterling, said that although the
number was still too high, ''We feel we have made significant progress this
year.''

The Border Patrol attributed the lower numbers to better enforcement that led to
fewer illegal crossings and to 2,500 new agents in the field, who can spread out
more to seek out immigrants crossing in remote and perilous terrain. The primary
cause of death was exposure to heat. Other causes include vehicle and train
accidents, drownings, fatigue and banditry.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Border Deaths Drop

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 135 words


The number of illegal immigrants who died crossing the southern border fell for
the second straight year, officials said. Four hundred people died while
entering the United States from Mexico in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
down 12 percent from the 453 deaths in the previous year. A record 494 deaths
were reported in the fiscal year that ended in September 2005. A spokesman for
the Border Patrol, Lloyd Easterling, said that although the number was still too
high, ''we feel we have made significant progress this year.'' The Border Patrol
attributed the lower numbers to better enforcement that led to fewer illegal
crossings and to 2,500 new agents in the field, who can spread out more to seek
out immigrants crossing in remote and perilous terrain. The primary cause of
death was exposure to heat.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Case of Mother Torn From Baby Reflects Immigration Quandary

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words


Federal immigration agents were searching a house in Ohio last month when they
found a young Honduran woman nursing her baby.

The woman, Saida Umanzor, is an illegal immigrant and was taken to jail to await
deportation. Her 9-month-old daughter, Brittney Bejarano, who was born in the
United States and is a citizen, was put in the care of social workers.

The decision to separate a mother from her breast-feeding child drew strong
denunciations from Hispanic and women's health groups. Last week, the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency rushed to issue new guidelines on the
detention of nursing mothers, allowing them to be released unless they pose a
national security risk.

The case exposes a recurring quandary for immigration authorities as an
increasing number of American-born children of illegal immigrants become caught
up in deportation operations. With the Bush administration stepping up
enforcement, the immigration agency has been left scrambling to devise
procedures to deal with children who, by law, do not fall under its jurisdiction
because they are citizens.

''We are faced with these sorts of situations frequently, where a large number
of individuals come illegally or overstay and have children in the United
States,'' said Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for the agency. ''Unfortunately,
the parents are putting their children in these difficult situations.''

Yesterday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement released new written guidelines
for agents, establishing how they should treat single parents, pregnant women,
nursing mothers and other immigrants with special child or family care
responsibilities who are arrested in raids.

The guidelines, which codify practices in use for several months and apply
mainly to larger raids, instruct agents to coordinate with federal and local
health service agencies to screen immigrants who are arrested to determine if
they are caring for young children or other dependents who may be at risk. The
agents must consider recommendations from social workers who interview detained
immigrants about whether they should be released to their families while
awaiting deportation.

The new guidelines were a response to intense criticism from officials in
Massachusetts about one raid, at a backpack factory in New Bedford in March.
They do not specifically address the American citizen children affected by
raids, whose numbers have only become clear in recent months.

About two-thirds of the children of the illegal immigrants detained in
immigration raids in the past year were born in the United States, according to
a study by the National Council of La Raza and the Urban Institute, groups that
have pushed for gentler deportation policies for immigrant families.

Based on that finding, at least 13,000 American children have seen one or both
parents deported in the past two years after round-ups in factories and
neighborhoods. The figures are expected to grow. Over all, about 3.1 million
American children have at least one parent who is an illegal immigrant,
according to a widely accepted estimate by the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington.

Under the 14th Amendment, any child born in the United States is a citizen and
cannot be deported. But with very rare exceptions, immigration law does not
allow United States citizen children to confer legal status on parents who are
illegal immigrants, until the children are 18 years old. While the federal
government does not keep statistics on the children of deportees, immigration
lawyers said that most immigrants who are deported take their children with
them, even if the children are American citizens.

''Children have no rights to keep family members here because they are
citizens,'' said Jacqueline Bhabha, a lecturer at Harvard Law School who
specializes in citizenship law. When parents face deportation, she said, the law
''penalizes United States citizen children by forcing them to choose between
their family and their country.''

Ms. Umanzor, 26, was arrested in her home on Maple Street in Conneaut, Ohio, on
Oct. 26 and was released 11 days later on orders of Julie L. Myers, the head of
the immigration agency. While in detention, Ms. Umanzor did not see her daughter
Brittney, who had been fed only breast milk before her mother's arrest. Ms.
Umanzor remains under house arrest with Brittney and her two other children in
Conneaut, 70 miles east of Cleveland, under an order for deportation. Her
lawyer, David W. Leopold, has asked that her deportation be delayed on
humanitarian grounds.

Ms. Umanzor had been at home with two of her three children, both American
citizens, when the immigration agents arrived, along with a county police
officer carrying a criminal warrant for a brother-in-law of Ms. Umanzor who also
lived in the house.

As the agents searched, Ms. Umanzor breast-fed her jittery baby, she recalled in
an interview after her release.

The baby was born in January in Oregon, where Ms. Umanzor's husband, also
Honduran and an illegal immigrant, was working in a saw mill.

Through a quick records check during the raid, the immigration agents discovered
a July 2006 order of deportation for Ms. Umanzor, who had failed to appear for a
court date after she was caught crossing a Texas border river illegally.

The agents detained her as a fugitive. She was forced to leave both Brittney and
the other American daughter, Alexandra, who is 3, since the agents could not
detain them.

''Just thinking that I was going to leave my little girl, I began to feel
sick,'' Ms. Umanzor said of the baby. ''I had a pain in my heart.''

Ms. Umanzor turned over her daughters to social workers from the Ashtabula
County Children Services Board, who had been summoned by the immigration
authorities. In all, the social workers took in six children who lived in the
Maple Street house, including Ms. Umanzor's oldest child, a son born in
Honduras. They also included three children of Ms. Umanzor's sister, an illegal
immigrant who was at work that day. Four of the children were born in the United
States.

In jail and with her nursing abruptly halted, Ms. Umanzor's breasts become
painfully engorged. With the help of Veronica Dahlberg, director of a Hispanic
women's group in Ashtabula County, a breast pump was delivered on her third day
in jail. Brittney, meanwhile, did not eat for three days, refusing to take
formula from a bottle, Ms. Dahlberg said.

After four days, the county released all six children to Ms. Umanzor's sister,
who  managed to wean Brittney to a bottle.

On Nov. 7, after two dozen women's health advocates and researchers sent a
letter protesting Ms. Umanzor's detention, Ms. Myers issued a memorandum
instructing field officers ''to exercise discretion'' during arrests by
releasing nursing mothers from detention unless they presented a national
security or public safety risk.

In cases where the breast-feeding children were United States citizens and
entitled to public services, Ms. Myers urged the officers to seek assistance
from social agencies to ''maintain the unity of the mother and child.''

In their study, released this month, La Raza, a national Hispanic organization,
and the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington,
examined three factory raids in the past year, in Greeley, Colo.; Grand Island,
Neb.; and New Bedford. A total of 912 adults arrested in the raids had 506
children among them, three-quarters of whom were under 10 years old. About 340
of those children were born in the United States.

The study found that the children faced economic hardship after one or both of
their bread-winning parents were detained or deported. Many families hid for
days or longer in their homes, sometimes retreating to basements, the study
reported. Although many children showed symptoms of emotional distress, family
members were reluctant to seek public assistance for them, even if the children
were citizens, fearing new arrests of relatives who were illegal immigrants.

Groups advocating curbs on immigration say that children of illegal immigrants
cannot be spared the consequences of their parents' legal violations just
because they are American citizens.

''Children are not human shields,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. ''Nobody wants to hurt anybody's
kids. But any time parents break the law, it has an impact on their children.''

Joseph Hammell, a lawyer from the Minnesota firm of Dorsey & Whitney who is
conducting a separate legal survey of recent raids for the Urban Institute,
noted that the authorities were guided by immigration law, which includes few of
the protections for citizen children that are basic in family and criminal
courts.

''In the context of immigration and deportation proceedings,'' Mr. Hammell said,
''we are completely out of step with our societal values of protecting the best
interests of our children.''

Ms. Nantel, the immigration agency spokeswoman, said the primary responsibility
for the plight of the American children of illegal immigrants rests with parents
who violated the law. ''It's a challenging situation'' for the agency, Ms.
Nantel said. ''It's unfortunate that children are impacted negatively by the
decisions of their parents.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Saturday about an illegal immigrant mother who was
separated from her baby, an American citizen, after a search by immigration
agents in Ohio misstated the minimum age when American citizens can petition for
their parents to immigrate legally to this country. It is 21, not 18.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Saida Umanzor, an illegal immigrant who was detained last month
and separated from her 9-month-old, Brittney Bejarano.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT SHAW
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Walking A Tightrope On Immigration

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words


THE Republican presidential candidates talk about illegal immigration as if they
were  in an arms race on toughness. The Democratic candidates have begun to
tread more warily on the issue, as their debate last week in Las Vegas showed,
but they still favor the language of accommodation over alarm.

Each approach, political strategists and officials warn, could have costs next
November. Pollsters on both sides agree there is widespread anxiety, even anger,
about the impact of illegal immigration. But an increasingly influential
Hispanic electorate could be turned off by a hard line from the party they
turned to in increasing numbers in the last two presidential elections.

Much will depend, strategists say, on how the candidates balance their
statements.

''A Republican who only talks border control or a Democrat who only talks about
benefits and services for illegal immigrants are going to find themselves in a
lot of trouble next fall,'' said Dan Schnur, a Republican strategist who worked
on Senator John McCain's presidential bid in 2000.

Looking at the Republicans at this point, it is often hard to find much
difference among most of the leading contenders. They sound just as tough as
the candidate who has been the angriest on immigration, Representative Tom
Tancredo of Colorado, whose   shoestring campaign recently began to run a
television commercial in Iowa declaring that Islamic terrorists roam free in the
United States because of an unsecured border.

The Republicans have railed against ''amnesty'' and ''sanctuary cities.'' They
have promised to build a fence on the Mexican border to keep ''illegals'' out.

''The ratcheting up of the language to win the Iowa caucuses may seem like the
thing to do, but we'll pay a price,'' said John Weaver, a Republican strategist
who worked for Mr. McCain's presidential campaign.

Mr. Weaver left in the summer as Mr. McCain's candidacy stalled, in part because
of fallout over his vocal support for an immigration bill in the Senate that
would have toughened border security but also offered a pathway to citizenship
for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already here. ''We cannot be a
white male cul-de-sac party and survive.''

Grass-roots outrage derailed the bipartisan compromise that Mr. McCain had
backed in the Senate. He now says he got the message that the border must be
secured first.

Democrats have dwelled less on the issue and are becoming increasingly cautious,
especially after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's stumble in a debate two weeks
ago as she tried to explain her position on whether illegal immigrants should be
able to get a driver's license, as had been proposed by New York's governor,
Eliot Spitzer.

Mr. Spitzer backed down from his proposal last week in the face of stiff
opposition, but at the Democratic debate in Las Vegas on Thursday, Mrs.
Clinton's chief rivals, Senator Barack Obama and John Edwards, both struggled to
explain whether they supported the concept. Mr. Obama said yes, with caveats;
Mr. Edwards said no, with more caveats.

Their thrashing about on the question reflects the growing concern among
Democrats that Republicans might use the issue against them next November,
painting them as soft on enforcement and accommodating of lawlessness.

Some polls show that the majority of Americans agree with proposals backed by
most Democrats in the Senate, as well as some Republicans, to establish a path
to citizenship for  immigrants here illegally, provided they clear certain
hurdles. But  the surveys also show that most feel the country needs to do more
to secure its borders and oppose awarding driver's licenses.

An ABC News poll conducted in September found that   54 percent of Americans
believed that illegal immigrants do more to hurt the country than help; 34
percent said they do more to help; 6 percent said they neither help nor hurt; 7
percent were unsure.

''While agreeing with us on policy, people are nevertheless extraordinarily
angry,'' said Mark Mellman, a Democratic strategist. ''The tone of the Democrats
consistently fails to reflect that anger. In that sense, we're out of sync with
the public.''

Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, compared voter sentiment to the
growing desire even among Democrats in the early 1990s for an overhaul of the
welfare system, pointing to exasperation about illegal immigration especially
among certain groups -- those with only a high school education,
African-Americans and people in rural areas.

Many Democrats point to the Republican Party's precipitous slide in California
after Gov. Pete Wilson's re-election in 1994 as proof of the cost of a harsh
tone toward immigrants. Mr. Wilson backed Proposition 187, a ballot measure that
barred certain social services, health care and public education for illegal
immigrants. It was approved by voters but later overturned by the courts.

Democrats argue that Mr. Wilson's support for the measure ultimately led
Hispanics to come out in droves against Republicans.

But Mr. Schnur, who worked for Mr. Wilson, said Republicans struggled not just
because of their harsh stance but also because of other issues, like abortion
and the environment.

''Hispanic backlash is only one element in a pretty complicated political
question,'' said Mr. Schnur, who pointed out that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a
moderate Republican, won in 2003 campaigning against driver's licenses for
illegal immigrants. A sizable percentage of Hispanics also voted for him, or a
fellow Republican, Tom McClintock, over Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, who is
Hispanic. Perhaps recognizing the need to temper his comments, Mitt Romney, the
presidential candidate who is increasingly using immigration to go after his
rivals for the Republican nomination, often hastens to add, after a weighted
speech about ''sanctuary cities'' and ''amnesty,'' that he has no problem with
''legal'' immigrants.

One of those rivals, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who as mayor of New York offered a
more accommodating tone toward illegal immigrants, has said that once the border
is secure, those  who are productive citizens and have not committed crimes
should get a chance at citizenship.

Nevertheless, the sound bites on the trail are dominated by denunciations. Fred
D. Thompson, the former Tennessee senator, has coupled his plans for border
enforcement with a call for English to be made the country's official language.
Republican pollsters argue that Hispanics are hardly monolithic as a group and
have nuanced views on immigration, as well as other issues, that could put them
in line with the party.

''This idea that all Hispanics are focused on immigration as the most important
issue for them is like saying all women only care about abortion,'' said
Kellyanne Conway, a Republican pollster who is working for Mr. Thompson's
campaign.

But some leading Republicans, including Ken Mehlman, the former national party
chairman, Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, a Cuban-American who recently stepped
down as the party's general chairman, and Jeb Bush, the former governor of
Florida, have warned about the harsh tone in their party.

Michael Gerson, a former speechwriter for President Bush, wrote in an opinion
article in The Washington Post recently  that the electoral math  made it
shortsighted for the Republicans to use immigration as a ''weapon.''

''At least five swing states that Bush carried in 2004 are rich in Hispanic
voters -- Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada, Colorado and Florida,'' he said. ''Bush
won Nevada by just over 20,000 votes. A substantial shift of Hispanic voters
toward the Democrats in these states could make the national political map
unwinnable for Republicans.''

Florida is a particularly good example of how complicated the issue can be. The
more liberal non-Cuban Hispanics now outnumber the influential Cuban-Americans
there, but even the traditionally conservative Cubans, who largely supported the
Senate measure, could abandon Republicans if they are perceived as overloading
on anti-immigration bombast.

Simon Rosenberg, founder of the New Democrat Network, has marshaled survey data
to show the potential for a momentous shift in party affiliation, noting that in
2000 and 2004, Mr. Bush worked hard to reach out to Hispanics, pushing up the
Republican percentage of their vote to 40 percent in 2004 from 21 percent in
1996.

But in the 2006 midterm elections, after Republicans began taking a more
confrontational stance toward illegal immigrants, their share of the Hispanic
vote slipped to 30 percent.

''Getting on the wrong side of a demographic trend, like the growing Hispanic
electorate, can make a political party a minority party for a long time,'' Mr.
Rosenberg said. Hispanics accounted for 8 percent of voters last year.

Those calling for Republicans to moderate their language point to past losses,
like Pat Buchanan's runs for the presidency  in 1992 and 1996, which were heavy
on anti-immigrant talk. More recently, they said, J. D. Hayworth, a hard-line
incumbent Republican representative in Arizona, lost his race in 2006, as did
Randy Graf, a member of the border-enforcing Minuteman group, who also ran in
Arizona.

''In the past it's always been fool's gold,'' said Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow
at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative organization, who worked on behalf of
the bipartisan immigration bill in the Senate.

But the Republican candidates face a conundrum. Polls show that the Republican
voters in early-voting states like Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina
clearly harbor strong negative feelings about the issue, as do voters in the
swing states Ohio and Missouri. A Quinnipiac University poll last week, for
example, found that 84 percent of Ohio voters opposed driver's licenses for
illegal immigrants.

Consider a recent forum for Mr. Thompson at a retirement community in Bluffton,
S.C. Four out of six questions from the audience were on the topic. Most were
similar in tone to a comment hurled by one woman, who described herself as a ''
'Law and Order'  freak'': ''If you go to KFC, unless you call out a number or
something, they don't understand what you're saying.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Revised Rule For Employers That Hire Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 620 words


The Bush administration will suspend its legal defense of a new rule issued in
August to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants, conceding a hard-fought
opening round in a court battle over a central measure in its strategy to curb
illegal immigration, according to government papers filed late Friday in federal
court.

Instead, the administration plans to revise the rule to try to meet concerns
raised by a federal judge and issue it again by late March, hoping to pass court
scrutiny on the second try. The rule would have forced employers to fire workers
within 90 days if their Social Security information could not be verified.

The government's proposal was a response to an indefinite delay to the rule
ordered Oct. 10 by the judge, Charles R. Breyer of Federal  District Court in
San Francisco. Judge Breyer found that the government had failed to follow
proper procedures in issuing the rule and that it should have completed a survey
of its impact on small business.

He also found that the Social Security database the government would use to
verify workers' status was full of errors, so the rule could lead to the
dismissal of many thousands of workers who were American citizens or legal
immigrants.

In a four-page motion filed Friday, the government, without acknowledging any
flaws in the original rule, asked Judge Breyer to suspend the case so the
Department of Homeland Security could rewrite the rule and conduct the
small-business survey, which it expects to do by March 24. The government said
that it wanted to ''prevent the waste of judicial resources'' and that it was
confident the amended rule would ''fully address the court's concerns.''

Homeland Security officials said they were not abandoning the rule and were
still considering an appeal of Judge Breyer's ruling. For now they are
''planning to provide an answer to the small number of minor issues that the
judge raised in his opinion,'' Laura Keehner, a spokeswoman for the department,
said.

The legal challenge was brought by an odd-fellow alliance of labor unions and
business groups, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the San Francisco Labor Council
as well as the United States Chamber of Commerce.

''It's clear the government has given up defending an indefensible rule,'' said
Lucas Guttentag, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, another group
bringing the lawsuit. ''But now they're hoping to rush through another
half-baked rule without addressing the fundamental flaws. It's like putting
lipstick on Frankenstein.''

The rule laid out procedures for employers to follow after receiving a notice
from the Social Security Administration, known as a no-match letter, advising
that an employee's identity information did not match the agency's records.

The employer would have had to fire an employee who could not provide verifiable
information within 90 days, or face the risk of prosecution for knowingly hiring
illegal immigrants. Those immigrants often present fake Social Security numbers
when applying for jobs.

Judge Breyer also stopped Social Security from sending out about 141,000
no-match letters, covering more than eight million workers, which contained
instructions from Homeland Security about the rule. Social Security sends the
letters to clarify workers' information so it can correctly credit taxes
deducted from their wages.

Some businesses welcomed the rule because it clarified what they had to do to
avoid immigration raids. But the labor unions cited a report from the inspector
general of the Social Security Administration finding that 12.7 million of the
records of United States citizens in the agency's database contained errors that
could lead to them being fired.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sanctuary Was a Lovely Word. Then the G.O.P. Got Hold of It.

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN.

E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words


When they finally got down to business, after being serenaded by a guitarist on
YouTube, it took the Republican presidential candidates 11 1/2 minutes Wednesday
night for one of them to acknowledge that illegal immigrants are human beings.

Not bad. Nearly 26 minutes passed before any of them -- New York's former mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani broke the ice -- got around to uttering the word ''Bush.''
You'd have thought from the general mood that the president's name carried the
MRSA bacterium.

Illegal immigrants fared better, though not by much. After a good deal of talk
about how undesirable they are, Senator John McCain of Arizona chose to inject a
more humanistic note into the debate. Sure, let's secure the borders, Mr. McCain
said, but don't forget another dimension.

''We need to sit down as Americans and recognize these are God's children as
well,'' he said, ''and they need some protections under the law, and they need
some of our love and compassion.''

Those remarks practically made him a radical at the Mahaffey Theater in St.
Petersburg, Fla., where the debate was held.

Until then, the immigration discussion had turned on ''so's your old man''
name-calling between Mr. Giuliani and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts.

For months, the two of them have been in a race to see who can put more distance
between himself and many of his past policies. Wednesday night, each elbowed the
other sharply over illegal (or if you prefer, undocumented) immigrants (or if
you prefer, aliens). God's children? God's illegitimate children is more
accurate, to hear them tell it.

Their spat was about who used to give those people greater succor: Mr. Giuliani
as leader of a ''sanctuary city,'' or Mr. Romney as lord of a ''sanctuary
mansion,'' where the lawns were mowed by illegal/undocumented new arrivals.
Neither man cared to be seen as Blanche DuBois in reverse, giving kindness to
strangers.

This is the year when ''sanctuary'' became a dirty word. It used to sound so
lovely, didn't it? Beats a heart that did not soar when Quasimodo rescued
Esmeralda while crying ''Sanctuary!'' in ''The Hunchback of Notre Dame''?
Nowadays, if you are a Republican, anyway, you don't want to be tied to that
word any more than to ''Bush.''

Democrats are hardly having an easy time themselves. If Senator Hillary Rodham
Clinton had done any more twisting on driver's licenses for illegal immigrants,
she could have opened her own pretzel stand.

But the immigration issue is especially fierce among the Republican candidates.
Building a fence along the border with Mexico appeals greatly to them. This
reflects, in part, a desire for law and order, in part economic discontent. It
is also a product of security fears, although you have to wonder why no fence is
being built up north. Canada has been the pathway for some Islamic terrorists,
not Mexico.

There is, too, an ascendant xenophobia toward anyone who speaks English with, as
Mr. Romney put it, ''a funny accent'' (a phrase that an unkind soul might say
could apply to several of the candidates, Democrats and Republicans both).

Barely a word was said the other night about legal immigrants doing the country
any good. Indeed, Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado urged an end for now
to all immigration. Unmentioned was an inconvenient fact: Had that policy been
applied to both sets of his Italian-born grandparents, there would have been no
Representative Tancredo at the debate.

BY coincidence, a New York research group, the Fiscal Policy Institute, issued a
report this week underlining the importance of immigration here in Sanctuary
City and, for that matter, throughout New York State.

Legal or illegal -- the report made no distinction -- immigrants were said to
account for nearly one-fourth of the state's total economic output. Most of them
speak English, according to the study. More and more own their own businesses.
Upstate and in the city's suburbs, most own their own homes.

Without them, the report suggested, the city's revival over the last 25 years
might never have been.

Of course, nothing remotely along those lines was discussed at the Mahaffey.

David Rovine, the theater's general manager, said by phone yesterday that
immigrants were probably among the workers who got the place ready for the
debate. But their papers had been checked. ''Everybody's legal,'' he said.

That should come as a relief to the candidates. Imagine how embarrassing it
would have been to duke it out in a sanctuary theater.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, left, and Rudolph W. Giuliani before the Republican
debate on Wednesday. They traded barbs on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT
STROSHANE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newark: Immigration Arrests Rise

BYLINE: By AP

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METRO BRIEFING NEW JERSEY; Pg.
6

LENGTH: 70 words


Federal immigration authorities arrested twice as many illegal immigrants in New
Jersey in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30 as they did during the previous
one, according to figures released yesterday. Of the 2,079 people arrested on
immigration charges during the last fiscal year, 270 had criminal histories in
addition to being in the country illegally, the federal Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney Goes Negative

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 244 words


Just in time for Christmas, Mitt Romney's presidential campaign has begun
mailing out one of the more overtly negative attacks in New Hampshire, attacking
rivals on immigration and looking to give them a black eye -- literally.

A pamphlet sent to homes this week shows a landscape through a chain-link fence,
with the words, ''Our next president's policies on illegal immigrants will
define America for generations to come.''

Inside are photos of some of Mr. Romney's rivals for the Republican nomination:
Senator John McCain of Arizona, Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee and Rudolph W.
Giuliani of New York. Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani are shown with blackened left
eyes.

The pamphlet goes on to provide misleading information about the rivals'
positions on immigration. It says, for instance, that Mr. McCain supports giving
Social Security to illegal immigrants. In truth, Mr. McCain supported
legislation that would allow illegal immigrants who come forward, pay fines,
then wait their turn to become citizens the chance to collect Social Security --
but only after they are citizens.

On the same day voters were receiving the pamphlet, the New Hampshire Union
Leader was criticizing Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, in a
front-page editorial for employing illegal immigrants to care for his yard. The
newspaper, which has endorsed Mr. McCain, asked how Mr. Romney could manage the
country if he could not manage his own backyard.

MARC SANTORA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 8, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Huckabee Immigration Plan Emphasizes Security

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 451 words


Mike Huckabee, the Republican presidential candidate,  released a plan for
tougher immigration enforcement and border security yesterday, pledging to
complete a border fence between the United States and Mexico by July 2010 and
ruling out a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants unless they returned
first to their country of origin.

Mr. Huckabee has taken heat in recent weeks from his rivals for the Republican
nomination, especially after his impassioned defense at a Nov. 28 debate of
merit scholarships to children of illegal immigrants while he was governor of
Arkansas. In that debate, he responded to attacks on his immigration record by
saying, ''We're a better country than to punish children for what their parents
did.''

In the proposal he released yesterday, Mr. Huckabee did not address whether he
still supported such benefits for illegal immigrants. But in detailing his plan
for stepped-up enforcement, he said immigrants who failed to register within 120
days and then leave  the country would be deported and barred from re-entry for
10 years.

In addition to completing the fence and installing an ''interlocking'' camera
surveillance system on the Mexican border, he said he would increase the number
of Border Patrol agents. Employers who hire illegal immigrants would also be
subject to penalties under his proposal.

Mr. Huckabee's plan also includes an increase in the number of visas for
''highly skilled and highly educated applicants.''

Rivals for the nomination said his proposal did not square with his record.

''Governor Huckabee is now forced to put out an immigration plan that
contradicts everything he did as governor,'' said Jeff Sadosky, a spokesman for
Fred D. Thompson, the former Tennessee senator. ''Credibility and experience
matter; it's a shame when you have neither on these important issues.''

In Iowa, the Huckabee campaign has gained ground in recent weeks.

A Newsweek poll released yesterday showed  Mr. Huckabee with a clear lead over
Mitt Romney among voters who said they were likely to take part in the Jan. 3
caucuses in Iowa,  39 percent to 17 percent. Earlier polls had the race  much
tighter. The Newsweek poll put Mr. Thompson and Rudolph W. Giuliani at 10
percent and 9 percent, respectively.

Mr. Romney endured tough questioning from reporters in Des Moines yesterday
about revelations last week that a yardwork company he employed was found for a
second time to be using illegal immigrants.

Pressed on whether he should have been more vigilant, given his tough talk on
immigration, he grew testy.

''Let's say I go to a restaurant,'' he said.  ''Should I make sure that all the
waiters there are all legal? How would I do that?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Huckabee released an immigration plan yesterday that
endorses a  border fence and calls for tougher enforcement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN MORTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 10, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Candidates Firm On Immigration

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla., Dec. 9


In front of what will probably be their most pro-immigration audience,
Republican candidates toned down their rhetoric but told Spanish-language
television viewers in a debate on Sunday that they would take strong measures to
close off the country's borders to illegal immigration.

The candidates were forced into a difficult balancing act by the debate,
broadcast on Univision, as they tried to offend neither the Hispanic audience
nor the Republican base many of them have tried to appeal to by taking a hard
line on illegal immigration. The topic has led to some of the fiercest rhetoric
in past debates.

Most of the seven candidates took a softer tone on Sunday, even as many spoke of
working to eradicate illegal immigration. Some spoke of trying to send some of
the 12 million people who are estimated to be in the United States illegally
back to their native countries.

They sandwiched their remarks between gauzy paeans to legal immigration and the
values of immigrants.

The debate, less than a month before the voters of Iowa and New Hampshire cast
the first ballots, came as the battle to the Republican presidential nomination
assumed greater intensity and uncertainty. Candidates found themselves fending
off attacks on their records, and a shifting field threatened to throw some
campaign strategies into disarray.

The sudden rise of Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas who was hardly
considered a factor a month ago, has shaken up the race and thrust him into the
center of controversies.

He began the day defending his record on ''Fox News Sunday,'' where he argued
that when he called in 1992 for taking steps to isolate people with AIDS, he was
not advocating a quarantine. Then Rudolph W. Giuliani was questioned
aggressively on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' about his judgment, his record and his
business dealings.

Mr. Huckabee said that when he called for isolating AIDS patients, ''we didn't
know as much as we do now about AIDS.'' But as early as 1986, the United States
surgeon general, C. Everett Koop, had stated that AIDS was not spread by casual
contact.

Mr. Giuliani, on ''Meet the Press,'' found himself on defense for nearly the
entire hour. He was questioned about Bernard B. Kerik, who was his police
commissioner when he was mayor of New York City and who was recently indicted;
the security arrangements that were made when he began an extramarital affair as
mayor; and his decision to quit the Iraq Study Group, which was supposed to come
up with a way forward in Iraq, at a time when he was giving many lucrative
speeches.

At the debate, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who lost considerable political
capital last spring when he supported an overhaul of the nation's immigration
laws to offer some illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, criticized some of
his opponents for the tone they have used in discussing immigration. That tone,
he said, has cost the Republican Party vital support from Hispanic voters.

''I'll give you some straight talk,'' he said. ''I think some of the rhetoric
that many Hispanics hear about illegal immigration makes some of them believe
that we are not in favor, or seek the support of Hispanic citizens in this
country.''

In the debate, which was sponsored by Univision and held here at the University
of Miami, questions in Spanish were translated for the candidates, and their
answers in English were then translated for the audience.

Mitt Romney, who was an outspoken critic of the proposed immigration law and who
sent out a mailing on the subject last week with a chain-link fence on the
cover, was forced to again defend himself for employing a lawn service that used
illegal workers at his home in Massachusetts, where he was governor.

At the debate, Mr. Romney, who once said on Fox News that he would tell illegal
immigrants to ''go home,'' used a different tone to describe his policy. ''Those
who have come illegally, in my view, should be given the opportunity to get in
line with everybody else,'' he said, ''but there should be no special pathway
for those that have come here illegally to jump ahead of the line or to be come
permanent residents or citizens.'' Mr. Giuliani said the nation's first priority
should be securing the border and establishing a tamperproof identification
card. But he seemed to suggest that there could be a path to granting legal
status to illegal workers once that is done.

''When we have control of our borders, when we preserve the legality of
immigration, we can then turn to the people who are here, we can have them get
the tamperproof ID cards, and the people that come forward and sign up, they can
pay taxes,'' he said. The people who do not do that, he said, ''should be
expelled from the United States.''

Mr. Huckabee, who has voiced compassion for illegal immigrants and who has had
to defend a proposal he supported as governor of Arkansas to offer
taxpayer-financed scholarships to the children of illegal immigrants, recently
issued a proposal that focuses on strict penalties for illegal immigration. At
the debate he said the illegal immigrants should go ''to the back, not the front
of the line,'' and said they should start the process by going back to their
native countries.

One candidate, Tom Tancredo, who has based his campaign on heated rhetoric about
illegal immigration, boycotted the debate, saying in a statement that the very
idea of having the forum in Spanish was un-American and that those who
participated were simply ''pandering'' to Hispanic voters. The debate was
originally planned for September, but most of the candidates declined to appear
then, citing scheduling conflicts.

Several of the candidates praised legal immigration emphasized their ties to the
Hispanic community. Representative Duncan Hunter of California recalled that he
was once ''a practicing lawyer in the barrio.'' And Mr. Giuliani said he was the
mayor of ''the largest Hispanic city -- maybe not in the hemisphere, but in the
United States.''

Representative Ron Paul of Texas did not appear to tailor his message at all,
drawing loud boos when he called for engaging with Fidel Castro in Cuba.

The changing dynamic of the race was evident in the way Mr. Huckabee and Mr.
Giuliani found themselves on defense on the talk shows Sunday morning.

On ''Meet the Press'' Mr. Giuliani was asked, in light of the National
Intelligence Estimate that found that Iran had suspended its nuclear weapons
program in 2003, about the views of one of his foreign policy advisers, Norman
Podhoretz, who has been a vocal proponent of bombing Iran as soon as possible.
Mr. Giuliani said he would not eliminate the option of a pre-emptive military
strike against Iran because it would build pressure for a diplomatic solution,
but he added that such action should be taken only as a last resort.

Mr. Giuliani, known for testy responses to pointed questions as mayor, displayed
in the combative interview a lighter side, as he often does on the campaign
trail. He even took a page from the playbook of a Democratic rival, Senator
Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, and laughed off tough questions.

When the program's host, Tim Russert, asked Mr. Giuliani about the work that his
firm did for Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, who has accused President
Bush of genocide, and about other clients, Mr. Giuliani laughed hard, leading
Mr. Russert to interject, ''These are all accusations being made in a very
serious way about your business.''

Mr. Giuliani, who said he would not disclose a client list for his private
business, said the claim that his firm had represented Mr. Chavez was a stretch.
He said the firm had merely represented Citgo, which he described as an American
company. Citgo is the American subsidiary of Venezuela's state-owned oil
company. His firm announced that it had severed ties with Citgo last June, after
reports of Mr. Chavez's connection to the firm surfaced. The firm said the
decision had not been influenced by politics.

At the debate here Sunday night, though, Mr. Giuliani had tough words for Mr.
Chavez. ''I actually agree with the way King Juan Carlos spoke to Chavez,'' he
said, referring to the suggestion by the king of Spain last month that Mr.
Chavez should ''shut up.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Republican candidates for president who gathered yesterday in
Florida for a debate that was shown on Hispanic television, from left: Mike
Huckabee, Fred D. Thompson, Mitt Romney, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Ron Paul, John
McCain and Duncan Hunter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(pg. A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In New Ad, Romney Attacks Huckabee on Immigration

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE; Michael Cooper and Michael Luo contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 628 words


Mitt Romney's presidential campaign plans to begin running a negative television
advertisement  today in Iowa highlighting Mike Huckabee's record on immigration,
escalating the warfare between the two Republican candidates as they scramble
for support in the nation's first nominating state.

The advertisement starts by saying both men are ''good family men'' who oppose
abortion. But then it says that Mr. Huckabee, as governor of Arkansas, supported
in-state tuition benefits for illegal immigrants and taxpayer-financed
scholarships for illegal immigrants.

The commercials are being released as recent polls have shown Mr. Huckabee now
leading among early caucusgoers in Iowa, displacing Mr. Romney, who has seen a
drift of Christian conservatives and others toward Mr. Huckabee, a former
Baptist minister. The immigration issue is a potent one in Iowa, which has had a
steady influx of illegal immigrants in recent years.

A spokesman for the Huckabee campaign, Joe Carter, said of the advertisement:
''We're just kind of disappointed that he's taking this kind of approach. We'd
just ask people to compare our proposal on immigration and his, and our record
on immigration and his.''

In recent days, Mr. Huckabee has taken a tougher tone in discussing illegal
immigration, calling for much stricter border enforcement and forcing those
illegal immigrants who want to become citizens to return first to their
homelands.

The Huckabee campaign released two new television advertisements yesterday, one
focusing on his immigration platform. Called ''Secure Borders,'' the commercial
features a tough-talking Mr. Huckabee addressing a cheering crowd and coming out
against sanctuary cities and amnesty for illegal immigrants, and in favor of
building a border fence.

The battle over Mr. Huckabee's immigration record comes as his years as governor
of Arkansas are drawing more scrutiny. On Monday, The Associated Press, in a
review of Mr. Huckabee's record on acts of clemency, found that he had granted
1,033 pardons and commutations in his 10 years as governor. This compares with
507 clemencies granted by his three predecessors in the 17 years they were in
office.

Those who benefited included the guitarist Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones,
for a traffic offense; David Hale, a Whitewater government witness; and
prisoners who critics say had a personal connection to Mr. Huckabee.

Pardons by Mr. Huckabee have become a hot campaign issue, especially as he has
come under attack for his controversial role in paroling a rapist, Wayne DuMond,
who later raped and killed another woman before being captured.

While the DuMond case continues to follow Mr. Huckabee on the campaign trail,
the large number of acts of clemency were controversial within Arkansas while
Mr. Huckabee was governor.

''People in Arkansas felt that Huckabee didn't fully explain in detail the
reasons for the large number of pardons,'' said Andrew J. Dowdle, assistant
professor of political science at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville.
''These pardons contributed to a diminishing of his luster in Arkansas.''

On the campaign trail yesterday in Miami, a fellow Republican candidate, Fred D.
Thompson, criticized Mr. Huckabee's shift in his position on lifting the Cuban
embargo. As governor, Mr. Huckabee backed lifting the embargo, saying it hurt
the state's farmers. But yesterday, Mr. Huckabee told reporters that he would
now veto any legislation to lift it and had come to understand the point of view
of many Cuban-Americans.

Mr. Thompson accused Mr. Huckabee of changing his views to appeal to voters.
''It raises issues when politicians change their view on a dime to appeal to a
particular group of people right before an election,'' Mr. Thompson said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Moves to Front and Center of G.O.P. Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and PAUL VITELLO; Paul Vitello reported from Council
Bluffs, Iowa. Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 828 words


Mike Huckabee wrote a book this year in which he lamented the ''seething anger''
surrounding the immigration debate, advocated giving illegal immigrants a path
to citizenship and concluded that in the debate ''some of the rage is fueled by
prejudice.''

But on Tuesday Mr. Huckabee welcomed the endorsement in Iowa of Jim Gilchrist,
the founder of the Minuteman Project, who has sent volunteers to the Mexican
border to report illegal immigrants and who has been quoted in news accounts as
warning that Congress could set off an ''insurrection'' if it offered amnesty to
them.

It was the latest example of Mr. Huckabee's shift toward a harder line on
immigration, which has emerged as a hot-button issue in the race for the 2008
Republican presidential nomination.

The latest New York Times/CBS News poll found that 8 percent of Republican
primary voters named immigration or illegal immigrants as the most important
problem facing the country -- just behind the war, and tied with the economy.

Others are changing their tone, too. Rudolph W. Giuliani, who once said as mayor
of New York that he welcomed hard-working illegal immigrants to the city, was
quoted Tuesday in an excerpt from a new book as saying that he would have liked
to deport all of the city's illegal immigrants but had been forced to bow to
reality.

In Iowa, Mr. Gilchrist praised Mr. Huckabee's plan ''to solve this illegal alien
invasion problem.''

The endorsement came the same day that one of Mr. Huckabee's rivals, Mitt
Romney, began a negative advertising campaign focusing on some of the moderate
immigration positions that Mr. Huckabee had embraced in the past, including his
support for a proposal to give in-state tuition rates to the children of illegal
immigrants.

The issue is likely to be front and center on Wednesday as the Republicans hold
their last debate before the Iowa caucuses.

Mr. Romney, whose strategy for the Iowa caucuses has been challenged by the new
strength Mr. Huckabee has shown in recent polls, was endorsed Tuesday by
National Review, the conservative magazine, which called him ''the most
conservative viable candidate'' in the race.

Mr. Huckabee, a former Baptist preacher, said that he was flattered to be the
subject of the first negative advertisement of the race, and added that the
timing of Mr. Gilchrist's endorsement was coincidental but ''providential.''

Mr. Huckabee defended the tuition proposal at a debate two weeks ago, saying,
''We're a better country than to punish children for what their parents did.''
But last week he appeared to harden his tone, unveiling a new immigration plan
that would give illegal immigrants 120 days to register with the government and
leave the country before they could apply to immigrate or visit; it called for
deporting those who did not and barring their re-entry for a decade.

The hard line Mr. Huckabee is now taking differs markedly from his tone in the
past. In his book ''From Hope to Higher Ground,'' which was published in January
by Center Street, he wrote, ''It would be sheer folly to attempt to suddenly
impose a strict enforcement of existing laws, round up 12 million people, march
them across the border, and expect them to stay.''

Mr. Huckabee also called in the book for ''giving those here illegally a process
through which they pay a reasonable fine in admission of their guilt for the
past infraction of violating our border laws and agree to strictly adhere to a
pathway toward legal status and citizenship.'' He did not mention sending them
back to their native countries.

Mr. Giuliani has also changed his tone on immigration. He was quoted in The
Washington Examiner on Tuesday as saying that when he was mayor of New York, he
realized that the Immigration and Naturalization Service was not about to deport
the estimated 400,000 illegal immigrants in New York.

''If they could, I would have turned all the people over,'' Mr. Giuliani said in
the interview, which was given for the new book ''Meet the Next President: What
You Don't Know About the Candidates'' (Threshold Editions), by Bill Sammon, a
reporter for The Examiner. ''It would have helped me. I would have had a smaller
population. I would have had fewer problems.''

In 1994 as mayor, Mr. Giuliani said the opposite.

''Some of the hardest-working and most productive people in this city are
undocumented aliens,'' he said. ''If you come here and you work hard and you
happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in
this city. You're somebody that we want to protect, and we want you to get out
from under what is often a life of being like a fugitive, which is really
unfair.''

More than three-quarters of Republican primary voters described illegal
immigration as a ''very serious'' problem for the country in the latest
nationwide New York Times/CBS News poll, which was conducted Dec. 5-9. Fewer
than half of Democratic primary voters described the issue as very serious.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rudolph W. Giuliani is quoted in a new book as taking a harder
line on illegal immigration than he took as mayor of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FRED PROUSER/REUTERS)
Mitt Romney began an advertising campaign that criticized Mr. Huckabee's
previous moderate positions on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS)
 Mike Huckabee has changed his tone since his book in January suggested a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lives Are Growing Harder, Hispanics Say in Survey

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 916 words


After a year of stepped-up enforcement against illegal immigration and polarized
debate on the issue, about half of the Hispanics in the United States now fear
that they or a relative or close friend could be deported, a report released
Thursday by the Pew Hispanic Center found.

About two-thirds of Hispanics said their lives had been made more difficult by
the political fight over immigration and the failure of Congress to address the
situation of illegal immigrants, the Pew survey found. Roughly half the
Hispanics in the poll said the heightened attention to immigration had had a
directly negative impact on them, in some cases making it harder for them to
find jobs or housing.

Some 41 percent of Hispanics said they or someone close to them had had a
personal experience of discrimination in the past five years, an increase of 10
percent since 2002 of Hispanics' reporting such experiences, the survey found.

Yet despite their worries about the political climate, almost three-quarters of
Hispanics are happy with their lives, the survey found, and they are
overwhelmingly optimistic that their children will be more successful than they
have been.

The findings came in the annual survey of Hispanics by the Pew center, a
nonpartisan organization in Washington that is a leading source of demographic
and opinion research on Latinos in this country. The study included Hispanics
born in the United States and immigrants born in other countries.

The survey did not include questions about the legal status of the immigrants
who responded. Based on census data, Pew researchers have estimated that about
one-quarter of all Hispanics are illegal immigrants.

Some 47 million Hispanics in the United States are the nation's largest
minority, making up about 15 percent of the population. They are a  fast-growing
group among voters. Almost one million Latino immigrants applied in the past
year to become naturalized citizens, many with the hope of voting in the 2008
presidential election.

The study indicated that the increase in high-profile immigration raids at
workplaces and in immigrant communities over the past year has had a strong echo
effect among Hispanics across the country. Two-thirds of Hispanic immigrants
said they worried about the possibility of a deportation hurting their family.
Strikingly, even among Latinos who are United States citizens and so run no risk
of being deported, about one-third said they feared it could happen to a
relative or friend.

''It suggests that Latinos in this country are part of extended families and
communities living in a political and policy climate where this concern is part
of their lives,'' Paul Taylor, the acting director of the Pew Hispanic Center,
said in a conference call to discuss the survey.

About 12 percent of Hispanics in the survey said they had faced difficulties
finding or keeping a job as a result of the public clamor over immigration, and
15 percent said they had had a harder time finding housing. About one-fifth
said they had been asked more frequently in the past year to show documents to
prove their immigration status.

While about half of non-Hispanics in the country favor the crackdown, Hispanics
strongly oppose it, the study found. Three-quarters of Latinos disapprove of
raids at job sites, while 51 percent of non-Hispanics approve. Latinos most
vigorously oppose cooperation between federal immigration agents and local
police officers, with 79 percent opposing those measures.

Fifty-five percent of Hispanics said they opposed immigration status checks
during the application process for driver's licenses. By contrast, 85 percent of
non-Hispanics said immigration status should be checked during the licensing
process. Non-Hispanics were polled in a separate Pew survey.

The survey's conclusions resonated with Hispanics in different regions consulted
by telephone Thursday. Narciso Camarillo, 37, a naturalized citizen born in
Mexico who owns a pizza parlor in the Bronx, said he knew three illegal
immigrants in his immediate social circle who feared deportation.

''Every day I wonder what will happen to them tomorrow,'' Mr. Camarillo said.
The authorities ''are coming down more and more on the immigrants,'' he said.

Maria Covarrubias, 62, another Mexican immigrant who has gained American
citizenship, said she was dismayed by how Mexicans had been portrayed in news
reports and the televised presidential debates.

''They say we are drunks and bad people, but they could not live without us,''
said Mrs. Covarrubias, who came to the United States 12 years ago and lives in
Sacramento. ''The politicians want our vote, but they don't want us.''

The worries are shared by some native-born Hispanics. ''Even people who have
been here for 20 years are afraid to go out,'' said Patricia Pineda, 19, who was
born in Torrance, Calif., and now lives near Los Angeles. Ms. Pineda said she
was registering to vote to support a presidential candidate who would offer
legal alternatives to illegal immigrants.

Despite their concerns about the current atmosphere, about 71 percent of
Hispanics surveyed described the overall quality of their lives as good or
excellent. More than three-quarters said they were confident that their children
would grow up to have better-paying jobs than theirs.

The survey was conducted by telephone from Oct. 3 through Nov. 9 with a sample
of 2,003 Hispanic adults, with a sampling margin of error of plus or minus 2.7
percentage points.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: IMMIGRATION ISSUES: A large number of Hispanics worry about
deportation and believe that the political debate over immigration has made
their lives more difficult, according to an annual survey. (Source: Pew Hispanic
Center) 64% believe the immigration debate has made life more difficult. 12% say
they have had more trouble getting or keeping a job. 53% worry that they, a
family member or close friend could be deported. 15% say they have had more
difficulty finding or keeping housing. 19% say they have been asked for
documents to prove their immigration status more often than in the past.
DEPORTATION FEARS IMPACT OF IMMIGRATION DEBATE 75% disapprove of workplace
raids. WORKPLACE RAIDS Chart showing that many Hispanics worry about the
possibility of being deported.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Focuses on Immigration

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 431 words


This is the first television commercial by Rudolph W. Giuliani's campaign that
focuses solely on the issue of illegal immigration. The 30-second advertisement,
called ''Will,'' began airing Thursday in New Hampshire.

PRODUCER 08Media

THE SCRIPT Mr. Giuliani, occasionally speaking directly to the camera, says:
''People are frustrated over immigration because the government has been talking
about solving this for 20 or 25 years, and it's just gotten worse. What we need
here is leadership. Build a fence. Train the Border Patrol. Have a BorderStat
system. Have a tamperproof ID card. And then if you become a citizen, you have
to be able to read English, write English, speak English and understand American
civics. We can end illegal immigration. The technology exists to do it, the
people exist to do it. Now we need the political leadership and will to get it
done. I'm Rudy Giuliani, and I approve this message.''

ON THE SCREEN The spot opens with black-and-white photos of protesters,
frustrated by illegal immigration, holding signs saying things like ''Close
Borders Now.'' As Mr. Giuliani describes the failure of Washington to solve the
problem, and promotes his own plan, there are images of police cars, high-tech
drones and other law enforcement tools that would be used to seal the border. It
closes with images of immigrants reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.

ACCURACY The Giuliani in this commercial would probably be unrecognizable to
those familiar with his  role in championing immigration and fighting against
the exploitation of illegal immigrants during his years as mayor of New York
City, when he said: ''You're one of the people who we want in this city. You're
somebody that we want to protect.''

SCORECARD The advertisement seems to capture the passion surrounding the issue,
and Mr. Giuliani, whose own history on the topic is well known, tries to strike
a measure of balance by showing images of both the tools that would be used to
crack down on illegal immigration as well as photos of immigrants becoming
citizens. It is a change in tone from the way Mr. Giuliani talked about the
issue a decade ago, but does not seem hateful, so in this way he appears to be
tapping into Republican anger over immigration without sounding too strident. On
its own, the advertisement makes a convincing case that Mr. Giuliani is focused
on ending the flow of illegal immigrants, although it does not wrestle with the
nettlesome and much more divisive problem of what to do with the millions of
illegal immigrants already living in the United States.

MARC SANTORA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tancredo Said to Be Withdrawing

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: DENVER


Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, whose forceful opposition
to illegal immigration vaulted him to national prominence, plans to announce he
is abandoning his long-shot bid for the presidency, a person close to Mr.
Tancredo said Wednesday.

Mr. Tancredo, a five-term congressman, planned to make the announcement at a
news conference in Des Moines, on Thursday, the person, speaking on condition of
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for Mr. Tancredo or his
campaign, told The Associated Press.

Mr. Tancredo's campaign would say only that he planned a ''major announcement''
Thursday.

Mr. Tancredo has consistently polled at the back of the nine-man Republican
field. He has based his campaign on opposition to illegal immigration, a top
issue in many areas of the country. He has run television advertisements that
link lax border security to terrorist attacks, rape and other crimes.

Fears about illegal immigration raised Mr. Tancredo's profile, but did not
translate into support as reflected by his low standing in national and state
polls and his limited fund-raising.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration and the Candidates

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL IN OFFICE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1399 words


Even by the low standards of presidential campaigns, the issue of immigration
has been badly served in the 2008 race. Candidates -- and by this we mean the
Republicans, mostly -- have been striking poses and offering prescriptions that
sound tough but will solve nothing. They have distorted or disowned their pasts
and attacked one another ferociously, but over appearances, not ideas -- over
who can claim to be the authentic scourge of illegal immigrants, and who is the
Lou-Dobbs-Come-Lately.

Voters deserve much better than what these candidates have given them. The
Democrats have done better, though they have not always responded with the
courage and specifics this difficult issue demands. Before voters pick a
candidate and a president, they should insist on serious answers to questions
like these:

What should be the role of immigrant labor in our economy? How does the country
maximize its benefits and lessen its ill effects? Once the border is fortified,
what happens to the 12 million illegal immigrants already here? Should they be
expelled or allowed to assimilate? How? What about the companies that hire them?

And what about the future flow of workers? Should the current system of legal
immigration, with its chronic backlogs and morbid inefficiencies, be tweaked or
trashed? What is the proper role of state and local governments in enforcing
immigration laws? And will a national identity card for immigrants bring on Big
Brother for everyone?

The first thing to know about the Republicans' immigration debate is that it is
not much of a debate. The candidates speak essentially with one voice, calling
for a bristling border and stiffer penalties against companies that hire the
undocumented. Some call for new instruments of law and order, like tamper-proof
ID cards.

There is wide support for stricter enforcement. Not many people favor the
underground economy. No one is calling for more immigrants to sneak over the
border or to overstay their visas, or for less oversight and looser hiring rules
in the workplace. Pretty much every candidate in both parties wants the
government to bolster the border -- even Bill Richardson, the Democratic
governor of New Mexico, who calls the fence ridiculous. (He wants more military
boots on the ground.)

The problem is that the country cannot build a fence or send troops and expect
its problems to go away. Huge numbers of illegal immigrants never go anywhere
near the border: about 40 percent enter legally and overstay their visas. Nor
can the government purge workplaces of illegal workers without doing vast damage
to the economy. At some point it must address the 12 million undocumented, who
cannot be deported en masse.

Most of the Republicans have no answer for what to do with those 12 million,
except to argue for ''attrition through enforcement,'' the hard-liners' strategy
of making immigrants' lives miserable and waiting for them to leave. Some of the
Republicans have called on the government to identify and track all who overstay
their visas, without specifying how to do that or pay for it.

Instead of answering these questions, the Republican candidates have spent their
time blasting one another as coddlers of illegal immigrants and supporters of
''amnesty.'' This has proved tricky, however, for the candidates who in previous
lives had to deal with immigration in the real world, where immigrant energy and
low-end labor -- both legal and illegal -- tend to bolster economies and make
life easier for everyone.

Only two years ago, while governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney spoke favorably
of a Senate bill that offered illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.  Now he
says he hates amnesty, condemns Rudolph Giuliani for having been mayor of a
''sanctuary city'' and has accepted endorsements from hard-liners like Sheriff
Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., who hounds immigrant day laborers as
aggressively as he chases headlines.

Mr. Romney still has had a hard time explaining his own connections to illegal
immigration. He was caught -- twice -- having a landscaping company with
undocumented workers tend to his lavish property. When pressed on that he got
testy. ''Let's say I go to a restaurant,'' he said to reporters. ''Should I make
sure that all the waiters there are all legal? How would I do that?''

It is a good question -- especially since some 12 percent of the workers in the
food service industry are believed to be undocumented -- and one we would like
Mr. Romney and his fellow candidates to answer seriously.

Mr. Romney is not the only one struggling to reconcile his past policies with
his present ambitions. Mr. Giuliani once welcomed undocumented immigrants and
sued the federal government to preserve an executive order that shielded them
from deportation. Now he links immigration and terrorism in the same breath, and
talks of cracking the whip through databases and enforcement schemes with names
like BorderStat.

For a while it looked as if Mike Huckabee would be a sensibly contrarian
Republican. As governor of Arkansas he supported financial aid for
illegal-immigrant students, and when Mr. Romney rebuked him for it in a debate,
he scolded right back,  ''Our country is better than that, to punish children
for what their parents did.'' Then this month  he did a stunning backflip,
unveiling his ''Secure America Plan,'' which would require the expulsion of all
illegal immigrants within 120 days. And  last week, after the assassination of
Benazir Bhutto, he used the turmoil in Pakistan as an argument for building a
border fence, and said the United States needed to watch whether ''there's any
unusual activity of Pakistanis coming into the country.''

The single voice of reason in the Republican camp is Senator John McCain. He was
an original sponsor of a comprehensive immigration bill that married enforcement
with a guest-worker program and a path to citizenship for those who earn it. For
this he saw his presidential hopes nearly blown to bits. He is hanging on,
though. He was AWOL for a time when the Senate bill was killed last summer, but
has since regained his voice. He speaks of immigrants as ''God's children'' and
stoutly defends the path to citizenship for the undocumented. Given what he has
gone through, his stance is close to heroic.

The Democratic candidates start in a better place, since they and their party
are largely on record as firmly supporting the pillars of comprehensive reform.
There are no demagogues in their ranks.

But there are timid fumblers, like Senator Hillary Clinton, who first supported
then rejected a plan by Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York to let illegal immigrants
earn driver's licenses. She was right at first to defend Mr. Spitzer's logic,
but wrong to then back away from the firestorm that he ignited. She did not
inspire confidence as someone who will have the courage to do what is necessary
and right even if it is controversial.

Mrs. Clinton, like Mr. Richardson, Senators John Edwards and Barack Obama, and
the rest of the Democratic field, did vigorously support the one piece of
legislation that might have led the country out of its immigration morass. That
was the ambitious Senate bill that died under a Republican-led assault in June.

The bill was flawed, but it contained the seeds of true reform. It chose
assimilation over expulsion for the 12 million. It leveled with Americans by
acknowledging that a border fence would never end lawlessness by itself. It
grasped a fundamental moral truth that the Republicans -- again, with the
notable exception of Mr. McCain -- have rejected. The truth is this: Americans
cannot expect immigrants to serve them -- to make their beds and meals, feed
their babies and ailing parents, and pick their crops -- while living in fear
and hopelessness.

One of the strong arguments for passing immigration reform last summer was that
it was a last chance. If Congress did not seize it, the presidential race would
blot out hopes of reform for two years or more.

Congress did not seize it, and all the problems are still there. The issue has
left the country divided, fretful and ambivalent, and voters are yearning for
honesty and thoughtfulness. The Republicans are not giving it to them. The
Democrats should fill the vacuum. They have said the right things. Amid all the
Republican shouting, it would help if they would speak louder.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giuliani, Backer of Electronic Border Fence, Had Tie to Company Developing It

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1314 words


On the presidential campaign trail, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani often
promotes the installation of electronic monitoring devices at the border to stem
illegal immigration, without mentioning that until a few months ago, he was
partner in a company trying to market such technology.

Mr. Giuliani and his consulting company were part owners of SkyWatch L.L.C., a
closely held start-up company that says it has developed a sensor capable of
monitoring illegal border crossings. SkyWatch, in collaboration with Raytheon, a
large military contractor, is now looking to market the technology to the
federal government and elsewhere.

Mr. Giuliani's company, Giuliani Partners, was invited to join the venture more
than two years ago by Abdol Moabery, then the chief executive of SkyWatch's
parent company, who went on to help the Giuliani campaign raise money in
Florida.

As part of its work, an executive of Mr. Giuliani's company met several times
with development teams at Raytheon. But the financial relationship ended in
September when Giuliani Partners gave up its ownership stake in SkyWatch without
compensation.

For nearly a year, Mr. Giuliani has extolled the benefits of a technological
approach to border security. Among his efforts has been a radio advertisement,
which went on the air in August, called ''Fence,'' in which he spoke of the need
for a ''technological fence'' at the border.

''You stop illegal immigration by building a fence, a physical fence and then a
technological fence,'' Mr. Giuliani said in the ad. ''You then hire enough
border patrol so they can respond in a timely way.''

But neither in the ad, nor in other campaign settings where the issue has come
up, has Mr. Giuliani mentioned his involvement with a company developing this
technological fence.

No one has suggested that Mr. Giuliani adopted his position because of his
relationship with SkyWatch. He has continued to promote the concept since his
relationship with the company ended, including during recent campaign
discussions. A spokeswoman for his campaign said Mr. Giuliani's longstanding
support for a technological fence was not related to his involvement with
SkyWatch. ''It's one part of Rudy's comprehensive plan to end illegal
immigration because it makes sense and is good policy,'' the spokeswoman, Maria
Comella, said.

Last month, SkyWatch and Raytheon announced that the sensor, capable of
monitoring more than 400 square miles from atop a tower, was available for sale.
Industry analysts say the technology has a lucrative future, including a
possible role in a multibillion-dollar federal program to help secure the
nation's borders.

Gary Reese, the manager of SkyWatch, said the company ended its involvement with
Giuliani Partners when it became clear the consulting company could not meet its
contractual obligations. He said Giuliani Partners had essentially bartered for
a 12.5 percent share of SkyWatch by committing to develop business and marketing
plans and to raise $7 million in capital. But the companies amicably parted ways
when those commitments were not reached, Mr. Reese said.

Mr. Giuliani's company was not paid for the work it performed, other than to
receive a share of the company, which it has since relinquished, Mr. Reese said.

Pasquale J. D'Amuro, the Giuliani Partners executive who oversaw the project,
explained the split by saying that he had found the technology promising but did
not feel it had progressed to a point where he could promote it to potential
investors.

Mr. Giuliani declined to be interviewed for this article. In response to a
question last summer, he told an interviewer for The New Yorker that his role
with the project would not give it any advantage in securing a federal contract
were he to become president.

Dennis F. Thompson, a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government who
has written extensively on political ethics, said Mr. Giuliani should have
mentioned his ties to SkyWatch when promoting the fence concept in his campaign.

''We should know as citizens when a candidate makes a proposal of this sort who
stands to benefit,'' Professor Thompson said. ''If the candidate himself is one
of the beneficiaries, we want to take that into account.''

Professor Thompson said the potential conflict is more acute when the candidate
is an active partner in a closely held company, as opposed to a shareholder in a
public corporation.

Mr. Giuliani disclosed his ownership interest in SkyWatch last May in a federal
financial disclosure form that candidates must file. The listing does not
specify the products SkyWatch is developing. For the three other companies in
which Mr. Giuliani's company held an ownership stake, the form describes the
specific products or services they offer.

The value of the SkyWatch holding is not specified on the form, and is lumped in
with the total value of Mr. Giuliani's consulting work and other businesses.

Candidates for president often take measures with their investments to avoid an
appearance of conflict of interest. Last June, for example, Senator Hillary
Rodham Clinton sold off the assets of a blind trust she owned, including shares
of Raytheon stock.

Reducing illegal immigration has been a touchstone issue in the race for the
Republican Party's presidential nomination, and Mr. Giuliani has often been
accused by other candidates of having run ''a sanctuary city'' as mayor of New
York.

A major element of his own position on the issue involves creating technological
fences to block illegal immigrants at the border. On Feb. 5, 2007, the day he
filed his statement of candidacy papers, Mr. Giuliani pushed the idea during a
television appearance on the Fox News program ''Hannity & Colmes.''

''I support security at the borders,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''I do think that with
the fence, the fence honestly has to be a technological fence.''

According to SkyWatch, the new sensor, called the Eagle-300, can continuously
monitor at 360 degrees, even while zooming in to examine multiple targets.
Existing sensors lose the ability to monitor everything else when they focus on
a single object, creating gaps in the field of view, according to the company.

The Department of Homeland Security expects to spend at least $7.6 billion on
its Secure Border Initiative through 2011 and has picked Boeing to develop a
plan that includes technological fence applications.

Mr. Reese said SkyWatch has pitched its technology to Boeing, the federal
government and other countries.

John Slye, an analyst of federal markets for Input, a Virginia-based consulting
company, said he knew of no other company using such technology. He called the
SkyWatch product a ''quantum leap.''

''I think you can easily say within the government side you're looking at the
potential market of tens of millions of dollars,'' he said.

Last January, Raytheon signed on to build the Eagle-300 for SkyWatch on a fast
track.

Mr. D'Amuro said he, but not Mr. Giuliani, had attended meetings with Raytheon.
He said neither of them had any contact with the federal government on the
project.

Mr. Moabery, a former New Yorker, runs G A Telesis, a Florida commercial
aviation leasing and finance company. He left SkyWatch in December 2006. Mr.
Moabery remains a shareholder in its parent company, Mr. Reese said.

The Giuliani campaign declined to say how much money Mr. Moabery has brought
into the campaign. Mr. Moabery held a fund-raiser at his Florida home last
March, which Mr. Giuliani attended. G A Telesis executives and their spouses
have given the Giuliani campaign $20,200, according to federal  filings.

''My enthusiasm and support of RG's campaign results from my having lived in NY
during his tenure as mayor,'' Mr. Moabery wrote in an e-mail message on
Thursday, in response to questions about his backing of Mr. Giuliani. ''I felt
he did a fantastic job.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seeking Republican support, Rudolph W. Giuliani spoke Thursday
in Fort Walton Beach, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fearing Deportation but Clinging to Life and Homes in U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1463 words

DATELINE: WAUKEGAN, Ill.


She is a homeowner, a taxpayer, a friendly neighbor and an American citizen. Yet
because she is married to an illegal immigrant, these days she feels like a
fugitive.

Whenever her Mexican husband ventures out of the house, ''it makes me sick to my
stomach,'' said the woman, who insisted on being identified only by a first name
and last initial, Miriam M.

''I'm like, 'Oh, my God, he took too long,'<0>'' she said. ''I'll start calling.
I go into panic.''

Over the last year, thousands of illegal immigrants and their families who live
here have retreated from community life in Waukegan, a microcosm of a growing
underground of illegal immigrants across the country who are clinging to homes
and jobs despite the pressure of tougher federal and local enforcement.

From Illinois to Georgia to Arizona, these families are hiding in plain sight,
to avoid being detected by immigration agents and deported. They do their
shopping in towns distant from home, avoid parties and do not take vacations.
They stay away from ethnic stores, forgo doctor's visits and meetings at their
children's schools, and postpone girls' normally lavish quinceaneras, or 15th
birthday parties.

They avoid the police, even hesitating to report crimes.

''When we leave in the morning we know we are going to work,'' said Elena G., a
47-year-old illegal Mexican immigrant and Waukegan resident of eight years who
works in a factory near here. '' But we don't know if we will be coming home.''

Last year, federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested more than
35,000 illegal immigrants, including unauthorized workers and immigration
fugitives, more than double the number in 2006. They sent 276,912 immigrants
back to their home countries, a record number.

Since about three-quarters of an estimated 11.3 million illegal immigrants
nationwide are from Latin America, and many have spouses, children or other
relatives who are legal immigrants and citizens, the sense of alarm has spread
broadly among Hispanics.

A survey by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington,
found in December that 53 percent of Hispanics in the United States worry that
they or a loved one could be deported.

Stores catering to Hispanic immigrants in places like Atlanta and Cincinnati
have closed because of the drop in customers. Michael L. Barrera, president of
the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, said anecdotal reports had
indicated that small storefront businesses had been the hardest hit by a sharp
decline in spending by immigrants.

''The raids have really spooked them in a big way,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a
Princeton demographer who has studied Mexican immigrants for three decades.

Based on his own surveys and recent reports from other scholars doing field
research in the Southwest and in North Carolina and other states, Professor
Massey said the ''palpable sense of fear and of traumatization'' in immigrant
communities was more intense than at any other time since the mass deportations
of Mexican farm workers in 1954.

Federal immigration officials say that stepped-up enforcement over the last year
by the Bush administration and some local authorities has persuaded growing
numbers of illegal immigrants to return home. But in places like Waukegan, a
racially mixed middle-class suburb north of Chicago, most have chosen to stay,
held by families and jobs.

This city has been an immigrant landing for generations. Latinos have been
coming since the 1960s and now are 40 percent of the population of 91,000. The
number of illegal immigrants among them swelled in the last decade.

Despite their illegal status, those immigrants found steady jobs in factories
and landscaping. Lacking Social Security numbers, they used Internal Revenue
Service taxpayer numbers to open stores and businesses, enroll in the community
college and take out bank loans to buy cars and homes.

The welcome began to fade four years ago, when the city government increased
fines and penalties for driving without a license. Since Illinois requires a
valid Social Security number for a license, many illegal immigrants lost their
cars when they could not afford the fees for impounded vehicles.

Last summer the City Council voted to enter an agreement with Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the federal agency, to train Waukegan police officers to
initiate deportations of immigrants who were convicted felons. While city
officials insisted the officers would handle only cases of imprisoned criminals,
rumors spread that the traffic police would check the immigration status of
anyone they stopped.

Also, in recent months federal immigration agents conducted two big raids
nearby.

''People came to me and said, 'Father, when did we become the enemy?'<0>'' said
the Rev. Gary M. Graf, a Roman Catholic priest whose Waukegan parish includes
many Latino immigrants.

City officials said that the tougher traffic ordinances were not intended to
single out illegal immigrants or Hispanics, but to reduce accidents with
uninsured drivers.

''The only reason we did it was for safety,'' Mayor Richard H. Hyde said. ''We
don't want anybody on the road that doesn't have a license.''

Nonetheless, for many residents fear has become a daily companion. One woman, a
37-year-old naturalized citizen who was born in Central America but grew up in
Waukegan, has decided to stay away from the city even though her mother still
lives here. The woman, a lawyer practicing in the Chicago area, fell in love
with an illegal immigrant from Guatemala.

After they were married in 2004, she realized that under immigration law it
would be difficult for him to become legal, even though she is a citizen.
Because he had crossed the border illegally, seeking legal status would require
him to return to Guatemala for years of separation, with no guarantee of
success. She abandoned plans to move back to Waukegan. She and her husband feel
safer in Chicago, with its large Hispanic population.

''I know everything about Waukegan; it's my town,'' said the woman, who asked to
remain anonymous because of her husband's status. ''I know the high school, the
first Mexican restaurant. I should feel free to go in and out whenever I want
to. But it's not the same freedom anymore.''

Raimundo V., 30, an illegal Mexican immigrant who has lived here for 13 years,
said he canceled repairs on his home, which he owns, stopped buying in local
stores, and was trying to save as much money as he could in case he should be
arrested and deported.

''My expectation here is to be prepared for anything that comes,'' Raimundo
said.

Miriam M. and her husband, married in 2004, own a tidy house on a peaceful
street and are raising four children from previous marriages, all United States
citizens. He runs his own landscaping company, paying business and property
taxes.

Even though Miriam M. is a citizen, it is difficult for her husband to obtain
legal papers, since he entered illegally from Mexico 12 years ago. She did not
focus on her husband's illegal status when she first met him.

''Boyfriend and girlfriend, you don't think much about it,'' she said. ''All
right, maybe I didn't want to think much about it.''

Now he stays close to home and avoids downtown Waukegan, driving around the city
limits when he can.

Another immigrant, L. Gomez, 36, a Colombian recently on her way to becoming
legal, said she had gone to the police and the courts in years past for
protection from a violent husband. Since the crackdown, she said, she has
avoided the authorities, even when her husband threatened her.

Hispanic business owners in Waukegan complain of a sales slump that they said
went beyond the effects of a sluggish national economy.

''People are turning away from Waukegan business and going elsewhere to invest
or to buy,'' said Porfirio Garcia, a Mexican-American who is president of
Exit/Re-Gar Realty, a real estate brokerage firm.

At the Belvidere Mall, which caters to Hispanic customers, Maria Sotelo, a legal
Mexican immigrant, said she was closing her store there after 17 years because
her sales dropped in the last six months to $500 a week from $5,000. She sold
satin and voile dresses for quinceanera parties and T-shirts from Mexican soccer
teams.

''Since it all started with immigration, people don't come here anymore,'' Ms.
Sotelo said.

Mr. Hyde and other city officials said they expected to wait several years
before Congress adopted new laws to control illegal immigration. Meanwhile, the
mayor said, he will do what he can by enforcing local law.

''Do I believe in closing the borders?'' Mr. Hyde said. ''Do I believe in
putting troops down there? You bet your life. Illegal is illegal, and that's the
end of the conversation, really.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Belvidere Mall in Waukegan, Ill., a store owner said,
''Since it all started with immigration, people don't come here anymore.''
 A husband and wife now avoid going to familiar public places for fear that he,
an illegal immigrant, might be deported.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Children of Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 103 words


To the Editor:

Re ''One Argument, 12 Million Holes'' (editorial, Jan. 18):

A policy of ''attrition'' would have undocumented immigrants ''willingly'' leave
the country after being subject to severe enforcement measures in their homes
and workplaces.

According to a 2004 study by the Urban Institute, about three million children
who are American citizens live in households with at least one undocumented
parent.

What is to become of these children if a policy of ''attrition'' is implemented?

Maxine L. Margolis

New York, Jan. 18, 2008

The writer is professor emerita of anthropology, University of Florida.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Issues Start Rush to Citizenship by Hispanics

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1419 words


Spurred by the widespread crackdown on illegal immigration and by the
contentious tone of the national immigration debate, Latinos are gearing up for
Tuesday's voting with an eye toward making Hispanics a decisive voting bloc
nationwide in November.

After decades of relatively low Hispanic electoral participation, last year more
than a million legal Latino immigrants applied to become citizens, with many
saying they had done so to be able to vote. Since then, newly naturalized
Hispanic-Americans and citizens since birth have turned out at voter
registration fairs and political discussion groups, and pressed relatives to
register.

Last week's primary in Florida, the first state with a big Hispanic population
to vote, gave a demonstration of their potential clout. Hispanic voters, who
were 12 percent of  those voting -- a strong turnout for a primary -- handed the
decisive edge in the Republican contest to Senator John McCain of Arizona over
Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, according to exit polls by
Edison/Mitofsky.

The two candidates were essentially even among white voters, with 33 percent for
Mr. McCain and 34 percent for Mr. Romney. But Latino voters, including
Cuban-Americans and others, favored Mr. McCain by 54 percent to 14 percent for
Mr. Romney. (Mr. McCain is known among Latinos for backing an immigration bill
offering legal status to illegal immigrants that was defeated last year by
conservatives from his party.)

On the Democratic side, Hispanics also contributed to the 16-point victory in
Florida of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York over Senator Barack Obama
of Illinois, with 59 percent of Latinos voting for her and 30 percent voting for
him.

Hispanics regard voting this year as a strategy of self-defense, said Sergio
Bendixen, a pollster based in Miami. For many of them, Mr. Bendixen said, ''the
immigration debate has not been about immigration policy; it has been about
whether Hispanics belong in America.''

Hispanics ''feel they need to vote to show they are a group that cannot be
abused or discriminated against,'' said Mr. Bendixen, who surveys Hispanics for
the Clinton campaign.

On Tuesday, 24 states that include nearly 60 percent of the nation's Hispanic
electorate will be voting in primaries or caucuses. Voting that day will be 7 of
the 10 states with the highest percentages of Hispanics among their voters,
including New Mexico, where Hispanics constitute more than one-third of the
electorate (Democrats will caucus there); California, where they are about 23
percent; and Arizona, where they are about 17 percent.

The electoral energy has been channeled by a voter registration campaign that
has built new links between local Hispanic organizations and major
Spanish-language media, led by Univision, the national television network.

Both Republican and Democratic strategists say that strong immigration
enforcement and tough talk against illegal immigration by the Republican
candidates, with the exception of Mr. McCain, have antagonized Hispanics in
general.

''The hard-line rhetoric on immigration is turning off all Latinos,'' said
Lionel Sosa, a Republican advertising executive in San Antonio who handled
Hispanic outreach in the presidential campaigns of Ronald Reagan and both
President Bushes. ''When people talk about building a wall and sending those
Mexicans back, it comes off as anti-Latino. We say: 'You're talking about my
family, and I don't like it.' ''

One newly energized and mobilized Hispanic voter is Silvia Benitez, 45, who was
born in Mexico but has been living in Arizona for more than a decade. A
community outreach worker in a federal preschool program in Phoenix, Mrs.
Benitez sat on the sidelines in the elections of 2004 and 2006 as a legal
immigrant.

This election, she said, will be different. Among several recent immigration
measures Arizona adopted were the nation's toughest sanctions against employers
who hire unauthorized workers, which took effect Jan. 1.

''We don't feel safe as a community,'' Mrs. Benitez said. ''Some people judge
you now because of how you appear, your skin color, your English accent.''

Frustrated that President Bush, in her estimation, had failed to push through a
bill to give illegal immigrants a path to become legal, Mrs. Benitez applied for
citizenship last year and took her oath as an American in October.

With her measured voice and folded hands, Mrs. Benitez does not look like a
firebrand. But she is talking like one. ''It is about time for us to take action
and make a big movement of political change for Latinos,'' she said.

Another Phoenix resident, Silvia Trinidad, 20, is among a fast-growing group of
young Hispanics who have recently reached the voting age of 18. A legal Mexican
immigrant since she was a child, Ms. Trinidad is studying criminal justice in
college and working for the county sheriff as a detention officer, hoping to
become a police officer. She signed up last fall to become a citizen.

''Every vote counts,'' Ms. Trinidad said, ''and I will be able to vote against
the laws they are trying to make now against the immigrants.''

Ricardo Tavizon, 29, a recently naturalized citizen who sells used cars in South
Phoenix, said he wanted to vote to challenge immigration enforcement and to
represent other immigrants who are not citizens.

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees International
Union, said he was surprised by the response to the voter registration campaign,
called Ya Es Hora, Ve y Vota or ''Now is the time, go and vote.'' .

''In 42 years of organizing, I've never seen this level of interest in an
election,'' said Mr. Medina, whose union is part of the drive.

After helping hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants apply for citizenship
last year, the campaign now aims to persuade six million unregistered Hispanics
to sign up to vote by November, he said. An estimated 18.2 million Hispanics are
eligible to vote.

That goal is plausible, Hispanic leaders said, because of the coordination
between community groups, and the newspapers of ImpreMedia, which include El
Diario La Prensa of New York, and Univision. The television network is running
five public service advertisements about the registration drive, while the
newspapers print guides to voter registration. The campaign includes major
groups like the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
Educational Fund, a bipartisan organization, and the National Council of La
Raza.

Hispanic voters may cast deciding votes again on Tuesday. Nationwide, Senator
Obama has pulled to a tie with Senator Clinton, at 41 percent each, according to
a CBS News poll released Sunday. In Arizona, Mr. Obama is ahead among Latinos,
by 53 percent to 37 percent for Mrs. Clinton, according to a poll by Mason-Dixon
for McClatchy/MSNBC. But in California, where Hispanics make up nearly
one-fourth of Democratic voters, Mrs. Clinton has a lead of 52 percent to 19
percent for Mr. Obama, a Field poll conducted from Jan. 25 to Feb. 1 found.

Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama support giving legal status to illegal immigrants.
But she has far stronger name recognition among Hispanic voters, polls show.

In the Republican races, Mr. McCain holds a wide margin of support among
Hispanics over Mr. Romney, who promised tougher action against illegal
immigrants. But Mr. McCain may pay for his Hispanic support by losing ground
with conservatives. On Monday, Roy Beck, the president of NumbersUSA, one of the
biggest groups battling illegal immigration, sent out an e-mail alert that he
said went to 1.5 million supporters, urging them to vote against Mr. McCain.

Based on recent trends, a surge in Hispanic voter registration would strongly
favor the Democratic Party in November, since 57 percent of registered Hispanics
identify themselves as Democrats while 23 percent align with the Republicans,
according to a study in December by the Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington
research group. While immigration is a litmus-test issue for many Latinos, it is
not their only concern. Polls show that the war in Iraq, the economy and
education are also on their minds.

With the voter registration drive just starting, its full force will not be felt
until November. But Hispanic leaders' goals are clear.

''It is not inconceivable,'' said Cesar Conde, executive vice-president of
Univision, ''that Hispanics will have the key role in electing the next
president of the United States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Silvia Trinidad will ''vote against the laws they are trying to
make now against the immigrants.''
Ricardo Tavizon said he wanted to represent other immigrants who have not become
citizens.
Silvia Benitez took her oath as an American in October. She will vote for the
first time on Tuesday in Arizona's primary.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A Growing Group: The 24 states holding primaries and
caucuses today have nearly 60 percent of the nation's Hispanic electorate. Since
2000, the number of Hispanics eligible to vote in the U.S. has grown from about
14 million to 18 million.
 PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE WHO ARE HISPANIC IN EACH STATE. (Source:
Pew THE NEW YORK TIMES Hispanic Center)   Chart shows bar graph for percentages
in each state.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tennessee: Tyson Lawsuit Is Thrown Out

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 105 words


A federal judge threw out a lawsuit that accused Tyson Foods Inc. of hiring
illegal immigrants to depress wages. The judge, Curtis L. Collier of Federal
District Court in Chattanooga, on Wednesday granted the company's motion for a
summary judgment in the 2002 suit. The suit by four employees sought
compensation, contending the Arkansas company violated the Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act by hiring illegal immigrants who were willing to
work for wages below those acceptable to Americans. The judge's order said
''plaintiffs failed to demonstrate Tyson was harboring or concealing illegal
aliens'' at its plants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minutemen Fight Change in Highway Cleanup Site

BYLINE: By WILLIE BANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


When California awarded the San Diego Minutemen, a group well known for its
border monitoring in search of illegal immigrants, a permit last Nov. 21 to
clean a stretch of highway including the Border Patrol checkpoint at San Onofre,
complaints from immigrant advocacy groups and Hispanic lawmakers were swift and
strong.

Opponents said they feared violent confrontations between the Minutemen and
immigrants, and in January, the state agreed. It rescinded the group's
Adopt-a-Highway assignment along two miles of Interstate 5 and offered an
alternative in eastern San Diego County.

But the founder of the San Diego Minutemen, Jeff Schwilk, was not to be moved.
The group filed a federal lawsuit earlier this month arguing that the decision
violated its constitutional rights to free speech, due process and equal
protection under the law. The Minutemen are asking for permission to work at the
original site, as well as for the payment of legal fees and $50,000. A hearing
is scheduled for March 14 in the United States District Court in San Diego.

A lawyer for the Minutemen, Howard Kaloogian, a former Republican state
assemblyman who represented north San Diego County, said that in removing the
group and its sign from I-5, the State Department of Transportation gave in to
the opposition and granted a ''heckler's veto,'' which has been ruled to be
unconstitutional under the First Amendment in most cases.

In a letter telling Mr. Schwilk of the decision, Pedro Orso-Delgado, the
department's district director for San Diego and Imperial Counties, cited
''questions regarding public safety'' because of the proximity of the checkpoint
and an adjacent California Highway Patrol inspection center. Mr. Orso-Delgado's
alternative was a stretch along State Route 52, far from any border checkpoint.

''Our safety concerns revolve around the possibility of a confrontation between
groups of opposing viewpoints'' in the I-5 area and preventing ''safety risks
for those people and motorists,'' Mr. Orso-Delgado said in a statement.

Besides their border patrols, the Minutemen have attracted attention for
protesting at gathering sites for day laborers in San Diego County. The Southern
Poverty Law Center, a civil rights group, in a report issued last summer, cited
racial remarks toward Mexican immigrants by Minutemen at the sites.

An advocate for immigrants' rights, Joanne Yoon, who was among those monitoring
the Minutemen at such sites, filed a lawsuit last year accusing Mr. Schwilk and
Ray Carney, another opponent of illegal immigration, of defamation. Ms. Yoon
said the two men had widely disseminated e-mail messages that used epithets to
disparage her sex and her Korean ethnicity.

Mr. Schwilk denied the accusations in the law center's report, and said Ms.
Yoon's suit was ''based on false information.'' He added, ''Nothing I've ever
said in an e-mail has anything to do with violating the Adopt-a-Highway
criteria.''

Accusations of Minutemen violence against immigrants were discussed on Jan. 22,
at a meeting with the director of the Transportation Department, Will Kempton,
and three members of the Legislature's Latino Caucus, two of the lawmakers said.

Senator Gilbert A. Cedillo, Democrat of Los Angeles, and Assemblywoman Lori
Saldana, Democrat of San Diego, said the Minutemen should be barred from the I-5
site because of the Adopt-a-Highway program's prohibition against groups that
''advocate violence, violation of the law or discrimination.''

Ms. Saldana said,  ''I thought it might not be best to put a group that brings
those emotions near a Border Patrol checkpoint.''

But David Blair-Loy, the legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union
affiliate in San Diego and Imperial Counties, told Mr. Orso-Delgado in a letter
that the program's eligibility criteria might be unconstitutional. ''Advocacy of
conduct, even illegal conduct, is not the same as engaging in that conduct,''
Mr. Blair-Loy wrote.

The department, he said, ''may not disqualify'' the Minutemen because of their
''viewpoints, however repugnant those viewpoints may be to many.''

In his letter to Mr. Schwilk, Mr. Orso-Delgado said that an agency
investigation into accusations of ''violent behavior and/or advocacy of
violence'' by the Minutemen might determine its future participation in the
program.

Mr. Orso-Delgado, through a spokesman, declined to comment on specifics of these
accusations.

Mr. Schwilk said that none of his group's members had ever been arrested for
violence against illegal immigrants. The group's Web site says that membership
is open to anyone regardless of ethnicity and that the group does not ''tolerate
racism in any way, shape or form.''

The group's only litter-removal effort along I-5, on Jan. 17, before the
Transportation Department's decision, went off without incident, Mr. Schwilk
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Tactics To Control Immigration Are Unveiled

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 606 words


Bush administration officials said Friday that they would begin using new
technology to create a virtual fence along sections of the border with Mexico,
and that construction had been completed on 302 miles of physical fence.

Further intensifying the crackdown on illegal immigration, the administration
will unveil new rules in coming weeks requiring all federal contractors to
participate in a system, known as E-Verify, to confirm the legal immigration
status of their workers, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and
Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey said at a joint news conference in
Washington.

Next week, civil fines for employers who hire illegal immigrants will increase
by 25 percent, the officials said. Current fines are $2,200 for a first offense
and up to $10,000 for repeat offenses.

The Justice Department plans more aggressive prosecution of illegal immigrants
and employers who hire them, adding about 50 federal prosecutors in border
states, Mr. Mukasey said.

The administration is pushing ahead to extend fencing at the 2,000-mile Mexican
border despite skepticism from many sides. Opponents of illegal immigration
argue that the virtual fence technology is flawed and ineffective, while many
officials and residents in border states say that real fences are expensive and
block access to land and water for ranchers and farmers, but do little to stop
illegal border crossers.

Administration officials have acknowledged that public doubts about President
Bush's border enforcement policies contributed to the failure last year of a
bill he backed that would have given legal status to illegal immigrants.

After a year of trial and error, Mr. Chertoff said, border authorities have
approved and are ready to use a suite of surveillance equipment that has been
called P-28, because it was tested along 28 miles of border near Tucson. The
technology, manufactured on a $20 million contract by Boeing, includes ground
sensors and cameras mounted on 90-foot-high towers that relay images directly to
Border Patrol command centers and vehicles.

In tests last year, the system failed to consistently communicate images and
location information to agents on the ground. But Mr. Chertoff said, ''We're
convinced at this point all of the defects have either been cured or they're so
immaterial we're prepared to take a credit'' from Boeing.

As part of a $2 billion investment in border enforcement projects over the next
two years, the administration will also use up to 40 mobile ground radars and
six unmanned aerial surveillance drones, Mr. Chertoff said.

Border Patrol agents, who now number 15,400, will increase to 18,000 by the end
of the year, doubling the size of the force since Mr. Bush took office in 2001.

Mr. Chertoff and Mr. Mukasey said that a surprisingly effective recent
initiative did not involve fencing at all.

In a few high-traffic border areas, federal prosecutors have started to bring
charges -- misdemeanors, in most cases -- against all immigrants caught entering
illegally, holding most in jail. Previously, illegal crossers who agreed to
leave the country voluntarily were not prosecuted.

In Yuma, Ariz., where prosecutors brought 1,200 cases against illegal crossers
in the last three months of last year, the number of immigrants caught crossing
illegally dropped 70 percent in those months. In 45 days after the program
started in Laredo, Tex., arrests of illegal crossers dropped 33 percent.

Officials believe that fewer arrests indicate that fewer immigrants are trying
to cross.

The prosecutions had ''an unbelievable deterrent effect,'' Mr. Chertoff said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Seek Help in Criminal Deportation

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words


LAST summer the Suffern police arrested a 17-year-old illegal immigrant after he
was found peeping into a girls' bathroom at the village recreation center.

The teenager spent about a month in the Rockland County Jail after pleading
guilty to trespassing and weapons possession charges (he had a switchblade
knife) and was released for time served, Chief Clarke Osborn said. The next day,
he was arrested again and charged with burglarizing a car wash.

In the future, an illegal immigrant charged with a crime in Suffern might not
still be around, if the village completes plans to join what is known as a 287
(g) partnership with the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
agency known as ICE. ''If we were dealing with 287 (g) after the first
incident,'' Chief Osborn said of the 17-year-old arrested last summer, ''we
could have filed deportation papers immediately.''

Suffern and Brewster are looking to join the 287 (g) partnership, which allows
local law enforcement officers to work essentially as ICE agents and file
immigration violation charges.

Since 287 (g) began in 2002, 630 officers from 37 jurisdictions nationwide have
been trained, but the program has been criticized.

Protesters rallied when the Common Council in Danbury, Conn., approved a measure
this month to seek a 287 (g) partnership. When Morristown, N.J., endorsed a 287
(g) bid last April, opponents presented petitions with more than 3,000
signatures.

Gail Golden, co-chairwoman of the Rockland Immigration Coalition, said that if
the local police become partners with ICE agents, immigrants would be afraid to
go to the police.

''Battered women will be afraid to call the police, people who know that there
are drugs sold in their neighborhood won't call,'' she said. ''People who feel
there is gang activity won't call.''

In New York, the plans have hit a snag. To participate in 287 (g), local
departments need to be in partnership with a facility like a county jail to hold
detainees. But the State Commission of Correction told Rockland County in a
January legal opinion that state law prevents county jails from accepting
immigration detainees presented by local officers.

Steven C. Mannion, a lawyer hired by Suffern to handle its 287 (g) application,
said he had asked the state to reconsider its opinion. He also said local
officers could process detention paperwork but a supervising ICE officer could
make the actual commitment to the county jail.

As for concerns raised by immigrant groups, Mr. Mannion said the program was
aimed at serious criminals. ''We're not going to be going after landscapers and
nannies and people who are otherwise law abiding,'' he said.

The village is looking to train about a half-dozen officers, hopefully by the
end of the summer, Mr. Mannion said. Under a 287 (g) program, illegal immigrants
can face deportation if they are already charged with a crime, Mr. Mannion said.
Additionally, when police officers encounter illegal immigrants in arrests and
traffic stops, they will see if the person has any convictions. If not,
deportation will not be pursued, Mr. Mannion said.

Local officers trained under 287 (g) learn how to avoid racial profiling and how
to use ICE and  Homeland Security Department databases to find out a person's
immigration status, said Richard Rocha, an immigration agency  spokesman. Since
2006 local officers have identified more than 42,000 people for possible
immigration violations. On average, those identified under 287 (g) are held
locally for two weeks to 60 days and a maximum of 120 days, Mr. Mannion said.

The issue of where to house detainees is one that Assemblyman Greg Ball, a
Republican from Carmel, wants to address. He will conduct a symposium about 287
(g) in April, inviting law enforcement officers from counties in New York, New
Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania.

Illegal immigrants like the one in Suffern are not always automatically deported
despite criminal charges, Chief Osborn said. ICE gets directly involved only in
very serious crimes, jails often do not have room to house deportation detainees
and some cases fall through the cracks, he said.

''That's one of the reasons we're looking to do it so we can step up and give
ICE a hand,'' Chief Osborn said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Agent's Trial in Killing of Illegal Immigrant Starts in Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


In a patch of desert just north of Mexico, what began as a relatively routine
interception a year ago ended when a Border Patrol agent shot and killed an
illegal immigrant at close range.

Whether the agent's action was murder or self-defense is being resolved at a
trial that began this week in the heated atmosphere over illegal immigration.

The agent, Nicholas W. Corbett, 40, was charged with second-degree murder,
manslaughter and negligent homicide for a shooting that prosecutors say was
unprovoked as the immigrant, Francisco Javier Dominguez, 22, was surrendering.

The prosecutor, Grant Woods, a former state attorney general, said Wednesday at
the trial that Agent Corbett had lied to supervisors about what occurred.
Scientific evidence, Mr. Woods said, overwhelmingly supported the accounts of
Mr. Dominguez's companions, all relatives.

''We all respect the Border Patrol and law enforcement, but you don't kill
somebody who is trying to surrender,'' he told the jury.

Agent Corbett's lawyer, Sean Chapman, said the agent, who has been assigned to
administrative work, opened fire after Mr. Dominguez, angry and frustrated at
the prospect of being arrested, had threatened to ''crush his skull'' with a
stone.

The accounts by his companions are unreliable, Mr. Chapman said, because they
were ''corrupted and influenced'' by Mexican consular officials who met them
afterward. The Cochise County Sheriff's Department, he added, ''did a horrible
investigation.''

Tensions along the border are increasing. Human rights groups on both sides
accuse the Border Patrol of overly aggressive tactics. The agency says its
officers face increasing violence from smugglers frustrated at tightened
enforcement.

The Border Patrol would not comment on the trial, a rare criminal prosecution of
an agent for on-duty action. The only other agent in a recent murder trial was
acquitted in 1994, also in Arizona.

The agency recorded 987 assaults on agents in the last year,  often with stones,
almost three times the 2002 number.

In the last two years, officials said, agents have killed 12 people and injured
116. A spokesman for the patrol, Ramon Rivera, said other data was not
available.

The patrol has said  it tries to respond with nonlethal weapons when possible,
but even that has caused friction. This month, Mexico demanded that the patrol
stop firing tear gas into Tijuana neighborhoods to stop the throwing of stones
at agents.

The case of two other agents, Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos, continues to
linger. They were convicted two years ago in federal court in Texas of assault,
civil rights violations and other charges in the shooting of an unarmed drug
smuggler. That case has been a cause celebre for conservative commentators. They
have argued in vain for a presidential pardon for the agents.

About a dozen supporters of Agent Corbett demonstrated on Tuesday at the
courthouse, carrying American flags and signs reading ''Free Corbett'' and
''Support the Border Patrol.''

Agent Corbett nodded and shook their hands as he walked in with his lawyers and
then gave a quick glance at a shrine that human rights groups had set up in Mr.
Dominguez's honor.

The rights groups say this case is part and parcel for a patrol too quick to use
deadly force. ''If Agent Corbett is not found guilty, it will send a message to
all members of the Border Patrol that they are free to do as they wish,
including murdering migrants,'' said a spectator at the trial, Cecile Lumer of
Citizens for Border Solutions, a group in Bisbee.

Agent Corbett and Mr. Dominguez's family members sat on opposite sides of the
courtroom. Mr. Dominguez's mother, Maria, sobbed when Mr. Woods displayed a
photo of her son, who worked at a factory in New York.

The shooting was 100 yards from the border. Mr. Woods said Mr. Dominguez was
trying to take relatives to the New York region to work. After the Border Patrol
saw them and others in their group broke off, the Dominguez group tried to
return to Mexico. Agent Corbett drove up, circled them in his truck and exited
holding his gun, Mr. Woods said. He ordered group members to their knees and
struck Mr. Dominguez as he struggled, to make him comply. Mr. Dominguez, Mr.
Woods added, was shot from less than a foot away.  The bullet entered under an
armpit, pierced the heart and lodged in the abdomen. Mr. Dominguez died at the
scene.

Mr. Chapman did not dispute that Mr. Dominguez had been shot at close range,
saying it was in self-defense because he was about to strike Agent Corbett with
a stone.

''Nicholas Corbett did not want to shoot this man,'' Mr. Chapman said. ''But if
he hadn't done it, he might be dead today.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Agent Nicholas W. Corbett (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED HONDA/SIERRA VISTA
HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Border And The Ballot Box

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; COUNTING HEADS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2314 words


ON June 7 of last year, a bill to overhaul the nation's immigration system -- a
bill supported by President Bush and the Democratic leaders of Congress -- died
in the Senate. It died mostly because of grass-roots opposition, and its
downfall appeared to serve as an announcement of the issue's new political
potency. For much of 2007, immigration seemed certain to play a dominant role in
the 2008 presidential campaign.

After the bill failed, Senator John McCain, the early Republican front-runner
whose championing of the bill had made him look soft on illegal immigration,
faded in the polls. The new Republican front-runners, Rudolph W. Giuliani and
Mitt Romney, were trading accusations over who had been nicer to illegal
immigrants in the past. ''It's been wonderful,'' Representative Tom Tancredo,
the most emphatically anti-immigration candidate,  said during a Republican
debate in November, ''because all I've heard is people trying to out-Tancredo
Tancredo.''

The backlash even had a familiar feel to it. In the last few decades, the
country has experienced its fourth great immigration wave. Each of the other
three -- in the 1850s, 1880s and early 1900s -- also caused a political
reaction, the first and most famous being the rise of the Know Nothing movement.
History looked as if it would repeat itself, albeit in a milder form, this year.

And so it has. It's just that the lessons of the past aren't quite what they
first appeared to be.

Immigration has a fantastically complicated political history in the United
States. It has produced enough populist anger to elect Know Nothing mayors of
Chicago, Philadelphia, Washington and San Francisco, all in the 1850s and, more
recently, to help Lou Dobbs reinvent his television career and become a
best-selling author. But when national politicians have tried to seize on such
anger, they have usually failed -- and failed quickly. ''While immigration has
always roiled large sections of the electorate,'' said Eric Rauchway, a
historian at the University of California, Davis, ''it has never been the basis
for a national election, one way or the other.''

That appears to be truer than ever in 2008. Mr. McCain will  all but   clinch
the Republican nomination on Tuesday with victories in the Ohio and Texas
primaries. In the Texas campaign, except for a couple of obligatory questions
about a border fence during a Democratic debate, immigration has been the dog
that didn't bark. The candidates who would have made an issue of it exited the
race long ago.

There is, however, one more historical parallel to consider: as a political
matter, immigration probably won't go away on its own. The anti-immigration
movements of the past may not have created presidents, but they did change the
country. The Chinese Exclusion Act helped cut the immigration rate by more than
40 percent at the close of the 19th century. The Nativist movement of the 1910s
and 1920s had even more success passing laws to reduce the flow.

Unlike those earlier immigration waves, the current one includes a large number
of illegal immigrants, which creates its own political dynamic. The subject also
plays into the  economic anxiety of today that  stems  from decades of slow wage
growth and is now aggravated by the possibility of a recession. Perhaps most
important, this immigration wave could turn out to be the biggest of them all.
Last month, the Pew Research Center reported that the percentage of Americans
born overseas would break a century-old record sometime before 2025, if current
trends continued.

So, eight months after the Senate's immigration bill collapsed, immigration has
managed to fade into the background without really becoming  less important. The
next president isn't likely to be elected on immigration, but he or she is going
to have to reckon with it.

ON a snowy December morning last year, Mr. Romney held a campaign event at a
general store in Windham, N.H. Among the Republicans who had packed inside to
hear him was a young mother, there with a child, and she asked Mr. Romney
whether as president he would make sure that New Hampshire residents who worked
in Massachusetts could qualify for in-state college tuition in Massachusetts.

There were any number of good-natured ways to deflect the issue (not one a
president decides, of course). Mr. Romney chose none. ''I can tell you this,''
he replied. ''If there is going to be an in-state tuition break, it's going to
be for citizens, not for illegals.'' This was a swipe at Mike Huckabee, who had
favored allowing illegal immigrants living in the state to pay the in-state
tuition when he was governor of Arkansas.

In retrospect, those final weeks of 2007 -- just before actual voting began --
look like the recent high point for criticisms of illegal immigration. Consider
that Mr. Huckabee was the one Republican candidate who seemed even friendlier to
immigrants, including illegal ones, than Mr. McCain. In the November debate when
other candidates tried to out-Tancredo each other, Mr. Huckabee instead
upbraided Mr. Romney for his views on in-state tuition. ''In all due respect,
we're a better country than to punish children for what their parents did,'' Mr.
Huckabee told him. ''We're a better country than that.''

In early January, he won the Iowa caucus in an upset of Mr. Romney. Shortly
before the caucus, Mr. Tancredo became the first candidate to quit the campaign,
evidently fearful that he would not even attract a respectable protest vote.

It's hard, in fact, to see how a single 2008 Republican candidate benefited from
anti-immigration rhetoric. All the while, Mr. McCain's campaign bus was being
followed around the early-voting states by a white van called the ''Amnesty
Truth Express.'' Outside his Florida headquarters in West Palm Beach, a few days
before he won the primary that established him as the clear front-runner, the
van displayed a sign reading, ''McCain Equals Amnesty.''

How could Mr. McCain's resurgence happen only six months after Americans deluged
members of Congress with phone calls opposing an immigration bill that would
have provided a path to citizenship for many people in the country illegally?
And how could it happen when several states, including Arizona and Colorado,
have recently implemented laws to make life harder for these immigrants? The
country's previous backlashes offer something of a guide.

Immigration was first mentioned in a party platform in 1848, according to Rita
Simon, a sociologist at American University, just a few years after the potato
famine brought an enormous emigration from Ireland. By the 1850s, the Know
Nothings were a far stronger political force than anything similar today. They
ran a former president, Millard Fillmore, in the 1856 presidential election, and
he received 22 percent of the vote. For a time, anti-immigrant forces seemed as
if they might dominate the new Republican Party.

In the end, though, the minority of Republicans who staunchly opposed the Know
Nothings -- including Abraham Lincoln and William Seward -- won the day. As the
1850s came to a close and Southern states began talking about secession,
immigration no longer seemed like a big enough issue to determine elections.

The Nativist reaction of the early 20th century started with a similar
virulence. In the aftermath of World War I, ''there was just this fear that
millions of people were going to pour in,'' said Mae Ngai, a Columbia University
historian. ''You could read the discussion from the 1910s and think you were
looking at something from today, if you just took out 'Italians' and put in
'Mexicans' ''

Anti-immigrant sentiment probably did help Herbert Hoover beat Al Smith -- a
Catholic, like many immigrants at the time -- in 1928. But after Congress
overwhelmingly passed new immigration restrictions in 1924, the main political
fight over immigration occurred not between the parties, but within the
Democratic Party, with those who wanted to embrace the Ku Klux Klan battling
those who did not. Franklin D. Roosevelt was in the latter group.

Mr. Rauchway, the historian, argues that the ultimate failure of anti-immigrant
politics is part of a larger failure of class-based politics in the United
States. Running against the rich -- or the poor -- has rarely worked in this
country. Instead, immigrant-bashing has been most successful when it tapped into
broader racial fears, as it did in both the 1850s and the 1920s. Notably, the
economy was booming in the '20s.

''As it becomes less and less acceptable to be racist,'' Mr. Rauchway said,
''immigration is not going to be as politically effective.''

Polling data supports this argument. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted
last May -- in the midst of the debate over the immigration bill -- 57 percent
of respondents said that most recent immigrants contributed to this country, up
from 34 percent when the question was asked in 1986. Only 28 percent in last
year's poll said that most immigrants caused problems, down from 44 percent in
1986. The Gallup Poll also shows increasing sympathy for immigrants.

Social science, in turn, tends to support these tolerant views. Successive
generations of Latinos -- from immigrants to their children and grandchildren --
have made enormous economic and educational progress over the last half-century,
according to research by James Smith of the RAND Corporation. The crime rate
among immigrants is lower than it is for native-born Americans, says Anne
Morrison Piehl, an economist at Rutgers. The same even appears to be true of
illegal immigrants: relative to their overall numbers, they are underrepresented
in the nation's prisons.

Yet it still is difficult to look at the current situation and conclude that
last summer's defeat of the immigration bill will be the last such political
explosion. The current immigration surge not only raises the old questions about
whether today's arrivals are somehow unfit to be Americans, as the Germans, the
Irish, the Chinese and the Italians were accused of being in past immigration
waves; it also sows doubts about the competence of the federal government. As
Ms. Ngai has written, illegal immigration ''seems to undermine something
fundamental to the very existence of a nation.''

In the 1990s, the number of illegal immigrants grew by 770,000 a year, according
to Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at Pew. Recent efforts to tighten border
security have helped reduce that annual total to 550,000 in this decade, but
this still represents more than a third of total annual immigration. The mere
fact that so many immigrants are here illegally, living in the shadows,   may
make it harder for them to achieve the usual American success story.

It also prevents the country from having control over its immigration policy --
over how much weight should be given to family ties or to different job skills,
for instance. The bulk of illegal immigrants have little education, which means
that they worsen economic inequality (even if their impact is often greatly
exaggerated). Their presence in the labor market reduces the cost of many items
-- from home construction and child care to fruit and vegetables -- but does so
by holding down wages for the native high-school dropouts who compete for those
jobs.

Even if border security continues to improve, it seems unlikely ever to be
foolproof. Just recently, the federal government backed away from a plan for an
electronic fence because of technical glitches. Many experts say that a more
honest immigration policy has to start inside this country -- namely, with the
government ending its wink-and-nod attitude toward employers who hire illegal
immigrants.

There are small signs it is beginning to do so. Michael Chertoff, the secretary
of homeland security, announced a week ago that 53,000 employers were now using
an electronic system to check new workers' Social Security numbers, more than
twice as many as last year.

Politically, the success of a policy like this one would have the potential to
persuade voters that the government was serious about enforcement. Skepticism on
that very point helped kill last year's immigration bill. If Americans believed
enforcement was real, they might then accept higher levels of legal immigration,
as well as a citizenship path for immigrants now here illegally.

''The only scenario I can see for reform is one that tries to damp down the
frenzy about illegal immigration,'' Christopher Jencks, a Harvard sociologist
who has studied the subject, said. To varying degrees, Mr. McCain and his
Democratic opponent -- whether Hillary Rodham Clinton or Barack Obama -- will
most likely try to balance security and openness in the general-election
campaign. Mr. McCain, who says he was chastened by the reaction to the
immigration bill, has so far emphasized border security more than the Democrats
have.

No matter how it happens, the country will almost certainly need an influx of
new arrivals in coming decades. The baby boomers are about to start turning 65.
Someone will have to take their place in the work force -- and help pay their
Medicare and Social Security bills.

After a year of political whiplash, it seems safe to conclude that the
anti-immigration fervor was never as bad as it seemed but isn't permanently
gone, either. As ever, we Americans like to say that we live in a nation of
immigrants. But we are also prone to believing that the last great immigrants
were the ones who arrived decades ago. The country can never quite make up its
mind how open it should be.

It was in 1882, after all, that Congress significantly restricted immigration
for the first time, by passing the Chinese Exclusion Act. Only four years later,
the Statue of Liberty -- ''the Mother of Exiles,'' in the words of the Emma
Lazarus poem inscribed inside the statute -- rose above New York Harbor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anti-Chinese An illustration of a massacre published in
Harper's Weekly, 1885. Chinese laborers were attacked by white coal miners.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)
Anti-Catholic Burning of St. Augustine Roman Catholic Church in Philadelphia,
1844. As immigration soared, so did nativist reaction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN
CORBIS)
GRANTED ENTRY: European immigrants who were processed at Ellis Island wait for
the ferry that will carry them to New York City, circa 1900. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
BETTMANN/CORBIS)
SENT BACK: A California border agent with an illegal immigrant, 1993.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID TURNLEY/CORBIS)
OUT OF THE PICTURE: Mitt Romney made clear his tough immigration stance.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIF
PARSONS)
 CHART: IMMIGRATION RATE IN U.S.: Spikes in the 1840s, '50s and '80s led to
violence. A backlash in the early 20th century brought sharp curbs on
immigration. (Source: Pew Research Center)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Counties Shortchanged In Immigrant Costs, Study Says

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Counties along the Mexican border from California to Texas are shortchanged
millions of dollars a year in costs related to prosecuting and jailing illegal
immigrants, according to a study released Wednesday.

The study was  by the University of Arizona and San Diego State University on
behalf of the United States/Mexico Border Counties Coalition, a group
representing the 24 border counties.

Cumulatively, the counties spent $1.23 billion from 1999 to 2006 to process
illegal immigrants in the justice system, the study found. Federal programs
offset only a fraction of those costs, and often did not receive the maximum
level of financing that they are authorized to receive, the study said.

''This is a huge problem because we can't keep up with fixing roads, the others
costs of law enforcement, keeping up health agencies,'' said Paul Newman, a
member of the board of supervisors in Cochise County, Ariz., a hot spot for
illegal border crossings. ''It is a big hit on counties that per capita are
unable to meet other needs.''

The border counties coalition has long complained that the federal government
does not adequately finance the costs of illegal immigration borne by local
governments. The group commissioned the study, a follow-up to reports started in
1999,  to document the extent of the problem.

Some of the biggest costs absorbed by the counties are in the criminal justice
system, the study found. The cost of arresting, incarcerating and housing
illegal immigrant criminal suspects had more than doubled since 1999, to $192
million in the 2006 fiscal year, the report said.

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president of the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute in Washington, said that the report shined light on the impact of
illegal immigration, and that  the problem would probably  continue. ''There is
failure across the immigration system,'' he said, ''and the failure lands
squarely in Washington, with the Congress more than the federal government.''

Laura Keehner, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, agreed,
while defending the federal government's effort to curb illegal immigration.

Aside from doubling the size of the Border Patrol and putting in fencing and
other security measures, Ms. Keehner  said, the government is also increasing
jail space for illegal immigrants detained by local agencies and increasing
federal manpower in local communities by teaming federal immigration agents with
local police officers.

The study was paid for by a $150,000 Justice Department grant secured with the
help of Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona,  an author of a  2007 bill   to
overhaul immigration laws.

The report is available at bordercoalition.org.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about a study that concluded that counties
along the Mexican border are being shortchanged in costs related to prosecuting
and jailing illegal immigrants gave an incorrect address for the Web site that
posted the report. It is bordercounties.org.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Road to Dystopia

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 548 words


The search for a silver bullet to slay illegal immigration continues.
Hard-liners are turning the country upside down looking for it.

They are looking in Washington, where Senate Republicans last week offered more
than a dozen bills to further enshrine mass deportation as the national
immigration strategy. It is a grab bag of enforcement measures that will be
useful for tough-talking campaign commercials, but will not actually solve
anything.

Republicans and some Democrats in the House are trying to force a vote on a bad
bill called the SAVE Act, which among other things would force all workers,
including citizens, to prove they have a right to earn a living -- a bad idea
compounded by the notoriously bad state of federal government records.

The error rate in just one database, the Social Security Administration's, is
believed to be more than 4 percent, making it likely that many thousands of
Americans would face unjust firings and discrimination, and waste a lot of time
and effort trying to clear their names.

The harsh-enforcement virus has spread far beyond the Capitol. In states like
Oklahoma, laws have been enacted to force illegal immigrants further
underground, off official registries and into anonymity, by denying them
identification like driver's licenses. In a growing number of states and
counties, politicians are offering up police officers to the federal government
for immigration posses. From Prince William County, Va., to Maricopa County,
Ariz., officers who pull people over for minor traffic infractions are checking
immigration papers, too.

Many law-enforcement professionals say this is reckless and self-defeating,
because it sends a deep, silencing chill into immigrant communities. Citizens
and legal residents will inevitably be hassled for looking Latino. And it is
expensive; Prince William's new law is expected to cost $26 million over five
years, plus a few million more to outfit police cars with cameras, as a hedge
against lawsuits.

Maybe some people do not mind that immigration zealotry is sending the country
down a path of far greater intrusion into citizens' lives, into a world of
ingrained suspicion, routine discrimination and economic disruption. Is that
what we want -- to make the immigration system tougher without fixing it? To
make illegal immigrants suffer without any hope of ever becoming legal, because
that is amnesty?

Could it be that tightening the screws relentlessly on illegal immigrants, even
if some citizens suffer in the process, is all for the greater good?

Which is -- what exactly? To drive a large cohort of workers out of a sputtering
economy? To take more people off the books? To prop up the under-the-table
businesses that inevitably evade such crackdowns? To worsen wages and working
conditions for all Americans, since nobody works more cheaply and takes more
abuse than a terrified, desperate immigrant?

This is a country that runs on routine amnesties. Where would the courts be
without plea bargains, or state budgets without periodic tax forgiveness? Are
illegal immigrants the one class of undesirables for whom common sense,
proportionality, discernment, good judgment and compassion are unthinkable?

It is frightening to think that this country's answer could be an emphatic yes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Immigrant's Kin Can Sue Over Care

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 161 words


The family of a deceased illegal immigrant who said he was denied medical care
for cancer can sue the federal government, a federal judge ruled. The man,
Francisco Castaneda, a Salvadoran immigrant, was denied a biopsy for a painful
lesion on his penis for 11 months, despite doctors' recommendations, according
to records cited by the judge. He  later received a diagnosis  of  penile cancer
and died on Feb. 26 at age 36. Mr. Castaneda had been in immigration custody
because he was in the country illegally. He told staff members at the San Diego
Correctional Facility in March 2006, about the lesion, the judge, Dean
Pregerson, of Federal District Court, wrote in a decision released Tuesday. A
physician assistant requested a biopsy as did several doctors. But, Judge
Pregerson wrote, a doctor at the federal Division of Immigration Health Services
would not admit Mr. Castaneda to a hospital, saying her agency considered it
''an elective outpatient procedure.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Referrals by Police Draw Scrutiny

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1848 words

DATELINE: WOODBURY, N.J.


A green-card holder from Guatemala said he was asked about his immigration
status last month when he went to pick up his nephew from the West Deptford,
N.J., police station.

An illegal immigrant from Mexico was arrested March 5 when the car in which he
was a passenger was pulled over for rolling through a stop sign in South
Harrison Township, N.J.

Seven months after the state attorney general, Anne Milgram, ordered local
police departments in New Jersey to question people they arrest for certain
crimes about their immigration status and to report illegal immigrants to
federal authorities, the rate of such referrals has nearly doubled.

But immigrants and their advocates say that some people have been unfairly swept
up in the dragnet because of overzealous enforcement or confusion over how Ms.
Milgram's directive was supposed to be implemented, creating a chilling effect
on some immigrants' relationships with the police.

''This is imposing an incredible human cost on these immigrants,'' said Maria
Juega of the Latin American Legal Defense and Education Fund. ''They fear
contact with authority. Any remote or direct link with the government is now a
risk for an immigrant.''

The directive was announced last August amid outrage after a triple murder in
which one of the suspects was an illegal immigrant who had been released on bail
after previous arrests. It urged officers to inquire about citizenship and
nationality when booking people for felonies or drunken driving.

From September through February, New Jersey law enforcement agencies referred
8,874 cases to a United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement center in
Vermont, up from 4,589 for the same period a year earlier. In the latest period,
there were also 1,501 referrals to a Newark office of the federal agency, and
while officials could not provide the previous year's numbers, they said there
had been a noticeable increase.

According to statistics from the federal agency, of the more than 10,000 New
Jersey referrals since September, 1,417 people were charged with immigration
violations. Through January, immigration authorities placed detainers on an
additional 1,468 people -- giving federal agents the right to hold suspects who
are released from jail. A spokesman for the agency said it could not immediately
provide the number of people who had been deported.

Scott Weber, the field office director for the enforcement office in Newark,
said that in roughly a third of the cases, his agency would file a detainer or
immigration charges; another third involved individuals who could be deported
after their court cases; and the rest might be United States citizens or legal
residents.

''We're most proud of the way this has facilitated communication,'' Mr. Weber
said. ''We're not asking agencies to do anything other than their job, or to
take into custody anyone they wouldn't have.''

Mr. Weber said the federal agency was mindful that the directive prohibited
racial profiling. ''There's been good adherence to the directive in spirit and
word,'' he said.

In an interview, Ms. Milgram said the directive had helped keep serious
criminals in prison, as federal immigration authorities detained those who had
''murdered people, who stabbed people, who were arrested for D.W.I. or who
molested kids,'' but who might otherwise have been released on bail, on parole
or at the end of their sentences.

But advocates for immigrants said the directive caused collateral damage; they
cited cases in which people had been questioned about their status during
routine traffic stops -- especially in rural areas -- or witness interviews.
That, Ms. Milgram has said, should not happen. Misdeeds like carrying a fake
driver's license that lawyers say rarely result in jail time now can lead to
deportation.

''I do think these are potentially serious offenses,'' Ms. Milgram said. ''A
false driver's license is a felony. That's a policy question. That, to me, is
not a criticism of the directive.''

While Ms. Milgram said that only two credible complaints about the new policy
had come to her office, immigration advocates said it was unlikely that those
here illegally would lodge complaints about the local police with the state
attorney general.

Ms. Milgram said she planned to release data about the directive to the public
later this year. For now, state and federal officials were unable to say where
the large increase in referrals was coming from, and some prosecutors said in
interviews that they had not yet tallied the number of deportable arrests that
local departments report to them.

What is clear is that the directive is being enforced unevenly across the state.

Mark W. Ott, the police chief in Bridgeton, a South Jersey town of about 22,000,
said his department had referred 36 cases to the immigration authorities since
August; a police spokesman in Newark, the state's largest city -- and the site
of the schoolyard slayings that inspired the directive -- said that the police
there had referred none.

Police departments in Camden County made 37 referrals, after arrests on charges
ranging from shoplifting to assaulting a police officer. Here in Gloucester
County, the prosecutor's office said that the police had notified them of eight
referrals since January 2007.

Lt. Anthony Traina of the Paterson Police Department said he had not yet
compiled the number of referrals that had been made since the directive was
issued. ''We don't actively look for this stuff,'' Lieutenant Traina said.
''Everyone comes here from another country. Our investigations rely on an open
dialogue with the community. It hasn't changed.''

Ms. Milgram's order tells the police to ask about immigration status when
arresting someone for what are known as indictable offenses, and then to notify
Immigration and Customs Enforcement if it is suspected that the person is here
illegally. The directive forbids officers from asking the immigration status of
witnesses or crime victims, or of persons ''requesting or receiving police
assistance.''

These two aspects of the order both played out in West Deptford, a township of
20,000 in Gloucester County, after Eldar Salazar was pulled over on Feb. 13 by
an officer who said he was driving 39 miles an hour in a 25-mile-an-hour zone.

The police said that Mr. Salazar, a janitor who does not speak English,
presented a fake driver's license and was arrested.

The police chief in West Deptford, Craig J. Mangano, said that one of his best
officers had made the arrest and had the right to ask about immigration status.
But an uncle of Mr. Salazar's, Francisco Escobar, 45, who has a green card and
works as a cook at a steak house, said, ''I feel like the police are chasing
illegals.''

He added: ''My nephew didn't drink. He didn't get into trouble. He just
worked.''

And now it looks as though Mr. Salazar could be deported.

The rest of Mr. Escobar's account raised the possibility that some officers
either do not understand or are ignoring the language of the directive. When his
nephew called him after being arrested, Mr. Escobar said, he went to the police
station and spoke to an officer, whose name he does not remember.

''The officer asked whether I was legal,'' Mr. Escobar said. ''Where I lived.
Where I lived before. And how long I had lived at my present address.''

After he had waited at the police station for two hours, Mr. Escobar said, the
officer told him that Mr. Salazar, who had given false identification, would
have to stay at the station. (He said he later charged nearly $11,000 on a
credit card to bail Mr. Salazar out of jail.) Chief Mangano said his officers
had probably asked for identification to make sure Mr. Escobar was who he said
he was.

An episode this month reveals another growing complaint among immigrants: that
the police start fishing for documents during routine traffic stops.

Manuel Guzman, an organizer with the Farmworkers' Support Committee, said that
he was pulled over for ignoring a stop sign in South Harrison, a burg of 2,400
in South Jersey.  The officer checked Mr. Guzman's license, which is normal
procedure, but then went a step further, asking his passenger for
identification. The passenger, a member of the farm workers' group who insisted
that he be identified only by his first name, Aurelio, handed the officer a
Mexican consular identification and was arrested.

Mr. Guzman was never given a ticket, and Aurelio was not referred to the federal
authorities and was released. Mr. Guzman said he thought he was pulled over
because he had Pennsylvania license plates; many illegal immigrants in New
Jersey register their cars in Pennsylvania, advocates and law enforcement
officials say, because  the identification requirements are less stringent.

The South Harrison police chief, Warren Mabey, said the officer thought Aurelio
was another man with the same name who had several outstanding warrants. The
chief said the arrest had nothing to do with racial profiling: On the same day,
the same officer pulled over 10 other drivers, including seven white men, a
white woman, and two other men, one Hispanic and one black. ''If our intent was
to pull over every Hispanic with a Pennsylvania license plate,'' Chief Mabey
said, ''we'd do it all day.''

When officers do pull over drivers in New Jersey, they now have broader powers
to find out who is in the car. A New Jersey Supreme Court decision in February
held that the police can run the names of passengers in cars they stop through a
national criminal database.

That may be what happened to a 22-year-old illegal immigrant from Guatemala who
was deported in February. Tatiana Durbak, a lawyer who spoke with the deported
man's father, said the young man was a passenger in a car that was pulled over.
When he gave the officer a Guatemalan identity card, he was arrested and
referred to immigration authorities, according to the father, who asked that his
son's name not be published.

That type of enforcement, immigrant advocates say, contributes to rising
anxiety. But law enforcement officials say those stops are useful: According to
a spokesman for the federal agency, a 22-year-old with the same name as the one
described by Ms. Durbak had been ordered deported in 2004, and was wanted on a
fugitive warrant.

Several  police officials said they had rolled out the directive with little
instruction and in many cases officers were asked to simply initial a book that
said they had read it.

The Newark Police Department is one of only a few in the state that is providing
a comprehensive training program. It came after a Newark police official
violated the directive in September by questioning a photographer from the
Brazilian Voice, a local newspaper,  about his immigration status after the
photographer and his editor informed the police that they had found a woman's
body on a trash-strewn side street.

Ms. Milgram acknowledged that better training was needed, and said that she
would issue new instructions requiring it. ''I'm far from saying the directive
is perfect,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francisco Escobar said that when he went to a police station to
pick up a relative, he was asked whether his status was legal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) CHART: POLICE REPORT MORE
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: Local law enforcement agencies in New Jersey are referring
an increasing number of illegal immigrants to federal authorities. (Source:
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
 U.S. Census)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Crash Near Border Kills 3

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 125 words


A pickup truck crammed with suspected illegal immigrants collided with an sport
utility vehicle near the Mexican border, killing three people and injuring 14.
The police said there were at least 20 people in the truck when it crashed
before dawn on U.S.  83, the main east-west artery along the border in the Rio
Grande Valley. A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Nina
Pruneda, said three illegal immigrants were in custody. Ms. Pruneda said 14
others were being treated for a variety of head and back injuries in five
hospitals; one was believed to be paralyzed. Most of those found are believed to
be Mexican nationals. Ms. Pruneda said all were men except for one woman and a
15-year-old boy, who had extensive internal injuries.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michael Chertoff's Insult

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 359 words


To the long list of things the Bush administration is willing to trash in its
rush to appease immigration hard-liners, you can now add dozens of important
environmental laws and hundreds of thousands of acres of fragile habitat on the
southern border.

On Tuesday, Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, waived the
Endangered Species Act, the Clean Water Act and other environmental protections
to allow the government to finish building 700 or so miles of border fence by
year's end without undertaking legally mandated reviews of the consequences for
threatened wildlife and their habitats.

Will this stop or slow illegal immigration? No. Long experience has shown that
billions of barricade-building dollars will simply shift some of the flow to
more remote parts of the 2,000-mile southern border. And no amount of border
fence will keep out the 40 percent of illegal immigrants who enter legally then
stay too long.

It will be a disaster on the ground. One example of what's at risk is the Lower
Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge. It runs in checkerboard fashion
along the 200 miles of the Rio Grande before it empties into the Gulf of Mexico.
When the fence is finished, most of the refuge's 95,000 acres -- and the
ocelots, jaguarundis and other rare species that live there -- would wind up on
the side of the fence closest to Mexico, virtually impossible to monitor and
protect. Other sensitive areas in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas
would also be affected.

Though environmental groups are planning to go to court to stop the Chertoff
plan, a surer remedy lies on Capitol Hill. Congress created this mess by giving
the secretary waiver authority in 2005. Then, in December, it gave itself an
out, requiring that before the Department of Homeland Security receives any
funds, the secretary must  show that he has properly consulted with local
officials and landowners. He must also provide a detailed justification for each
separate segment of the fence.

To prevent an environmental disaster, Congress should use that oversight power
to block the project, then move rapidly to rewrite a fundamentally bad law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Sweep Ends In 280 Arrests at 5 Plants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 450 words


More than 280 workers accused of being illegal immigrants were arrested
Wednesday by federal agents  in coordinated operations at five plants belonging
to Pilgrim's Pride, a major chicken-processing company, in the largest
immigration roundup at a workplace this year.

Justice Department officials said they would bring criminal identity theft
charges against many of those arrested.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents entered the plants after workers
arrived for the morning shift, surprising the employees but not company
managers, Pilgrim's Pride executives said.

''It wasn't a raid, in the sense that we were working with the government to
help them apprehend the people,'' said Ray Atkinson, a spokesman for Pilgrim's
Pride, which is based in Pittsburg, Tex. He said no charges had been brought
against the company or its managers for hiring illegal immigrants. Justice
officials said the company cooperated fully with the arrests.

Immigration officials said that more than 100 workers were arrested at each of
two plants in Chattanooga, Tenn., and Moorefield, W.Va. Arrests were also made
at plants in Mount Pleasant, Tex.; Live Oak, Fla.; and Batesville, Ark. The
workers arrested were about 3 percent of the 9,400 employees at the five
Pilgrim's Pride plants, Mr. Atkinson said.

The United States attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, John L. Ratcliffe,
said some arrests were based on indictments returned April 1 by a grand jury in
Tyler, Tex. They accuse immigrants of presenting real Social Security numbers
belonging to other people when they were hired at the chicken plants.

The arrests are part of a strategy by immigration officials to bring tough
federal charges against unauthorized immigrant workers caught in the common
practice of buying or borrowing Social Security numbers to obtain work. The
identity theft charges carry a maximum penalty of five years in prison upon
conviction. Labor Department officials also worked on the investigation.

Five of 24 immigrants arrested in a Dec. 11 raid at the Mount Pleasant plant
have pleaded guilty to identity theft, officials said. They said they had
located several people whose identities had been used, including at least one
person who had been arrested for a crime that was committed by an immigrant
using that person's identification.

Separately on Wednesday, agents arrested 20 people suspected of being illegal
immigrants at the Shipley Donut Flour and Supply Company in Houston. In Buffalo,
immigration officials said they arrested the owner, 10 managers and 45 workers
at seven Mexican restaurants in four states. The managers were accused of
importing illegal immigrants to work at the restaurants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Steps Set for Kin Of 9/11 Victims To Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 730 words


Federal officials on Thursday opened a path to temporary legal status for
illegal immigrants whose spouses or parents died on 9/11,  a step the families'
supporters called a breakthrough in the effort to allow them to remain
permanently in the United States.

Lawyers for the immigrants said a concession by Homeland Security officials
would help to bring the family members out of the shadows. They also said the
measure should help clear a political logjam that has stalled bills in Congress
that would grant the immigrants permanent legal status.

''For the first time there is a program for these widows and widowers and
orphans to change from being undocumented to having a legal presence in the
United States,'' said Debra Brown Steinberg,  a lawyer representing several of
the illegal immigrants. ''It will allow them to take their place with the other
9/11 families, by showing that they have faces and names.''

The measure, which was prompted by a request by Ms. Steinberg for help from
immigration officials in resolving the legislative impasse, affects no more than
two dozen immediate family members of 9/11 victims who have lived in limbo since
the attacks. Their spouses, including those who were themselves illegal
immigrants, were listed by name as heroes on memorial rosters of the victims.
The families received payments from the Victim Compensation Fund, ranging from
$875,000 to $4.1 million.

Yet they have lived in uncertainty and fear of deportation, their lawyers said,
and could not easily invest the compensation payments because they lacked Social
Security numbers and other identity documents. Some of the illegal immigrants
held back from telling neighbors and friends that they had lost loved ones in
the attacks, worried that they would be vulnerable to robbery or extortion.

Stewart A. Baker, an assistant secretary in the Department of Homeland Security,
said in a letter to Ms. Steinberg that under the new procedure the illegal
immigrants could provide biographical information and immigration history to the
authorities without revealing their names, with the assurance that the
information would not be used to deport them.

Homeland Security officials will use the information to decide whether to give
the immigrants a temporary humanitarian parole to allow them to live and work
legally in the United States, Mr. Baker wrote. The parole would not be granted
to immigrants with criminal records, ties to terrorism or formal orders of
deportation, he said.

Ms. Steinberg said she was confident that most, if not all, of the
illegal-immigrant relatives would be eligible for the parole. She said that she
and other lawyers for the immigrants had been reluctant until now to provide
information about their clients to Congress or immigration authorities for fear
that the information would be used to track them down.

Last year, two members of Congress from New York, Peter T. King,  a Republican,
and Carolyn Maloney, a Democrat, offered a bill to grant permanent resident
visas to the illegal immigrants. The measure was  opposed by several Republicans
in the House, including Dan Lungren of California and Steve King of Iowa, who
said they lacked information about the immigrants and did not want to give legal
status to terrorists or criminals.

In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Baker said the new procedure would allow the
immigrants to tell their stories and be considered by immigration authorities
without risking deportation.

''These families share an experience with the American people that is among the
most significant in American history,'' Mr. Baker said. ''We felt they deserved
an opportunity to make their case in the most effective way.''

Mr. King, of New York, called the offer ''a very significant breakthrough.''
While he is opposed to giving legal status to illegal immigrants in general, he
said, ''this is such a unique situation, I believe we have to go forward.''

According to compensation fund reports, 11 illegal immigrants were killed in the
9/11 attacks. Of those, 8 had spouses and children who were also illegal
immigrants. A few illegal immigrants are relatives of immigrants who were in the
country legally at the time of their deaths.

The families remain anonymous, but Ms. Steinberg said she spoke to them on
Thursday. ''To hear the joy and relief in their voices, it was a glorious day,''
she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on April 25 about new federal measures that offer a path
to legal status for illegal immigrants whose close relatives died in the Sept.
11 attacks misstated the position of a Republican congressman, Dan Lungren of
California, on a proposed House bill that would grant the immigrants permanent
resident visas. He supported it when it went before the House Judiciary
Committee but said he wanted to know how many immigrants would be affected
before supporting it in a final vote on the floor. He did not oppose the bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Sheriff Sued Over Possible Profiling

BYLINE: By AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 139 words


A Mexican citizen legally in the United States has sued the Maricopa County
Sheriff's Office, claiming its aggressive immigration enforcement has led to
ethnic profiling. The lawsuit, filed Wednesday in federal court, outlines
several instances where Sheriff Joe Arpaio and his deputies are accused of
overstepping their authority. Sheriff Arpaio called the suit frivolous and said
it was an effort to intimidate him before his office begins enforcing a new law
on Jan. 1 that threatens employers with penalties if they hire illegal workers.
The suit seeks a judgment that Sheriff Arpaio's actions are unconstitutional and
the disbanding of the Illegal Immigration Interdiction unit. The suit is based
on the claims of Manuel de Jesus Ortega Melendres, a retired teacher, who was
stopped by deputies on Sept. 26 in suburban Cave Creek.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michigan: Licenses For Some Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 104 words


Legal immigrants temporarily living in Michigan will be able to resume getting
driver's licenses under terms of a bill passed by the Legislature. The bill
would allow temporary American residents, including students and businesspeople,
to get licenses. They lost that privilege last month when a new state policy
went into effect. Michigan's attorney general had determined that state law
prevents illegal immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses. But the opinion
affected all immigrants who are not permanent residents, whether they are in the
country legally or not. Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm is expected to sign the bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Votes to Stop Spitzer Plan to Give Illegal Immigrants Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 22


Spurred by overwhelming public opposition to Gov. Eliot Spitzer's decision to
allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, the State Senate yesterday
passed legislation that would overturn the policy.

The 39-19 vote, which passed with the support of all the Republican senators
present as well as several key Democrats, capped a debate laden with accusations
of racism and demagoguery and warnings about terrorism and voter fraud. The vote
also followed a raucous protest outside the Capitol, during which some opponents
of the plan called for the governor to be recalled or impeached.

The clashes over the driver's license policy overshadowed nearly all other
business on Monday, and further dimmed the prospect for passage of major
legislation that the governor and the Legislature have been negotiating for
months, such as campaign finance reform and a property tax rebate for elderly
homeowners.

The Senate bill is among a range of legislative and legal maneuvers Republicans
are mustering to overturn Mr. Spitzer's plan, which was issued by the State
Department of Motor Vehicles in September. Assembly Republicans said they would
try to attach a similar measure to unrelated legislation likely to reach the
floor of their chamber during Tuesday's Assembly session.

Their chances of ultimately prevailing on the measure may be slight, given that
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, supports Mr. Spitzer's policy and
has nearly untrammeled control over the flow of legislation in his chamber.

But Republicans are eager for even a procedural vote to put Democrats on the
record on the issue. Some Democrats have expressed uneasiness with the
governor's plan and what they view as his failure to sell it to the public.

But when Mr. Spitzer emerged from a closed-door meeting with Senate Democrats on
Monday afternoon, he showed little appearance of reconsidering his decision. He
continued to argue that the new policy would improve public safety by shrinking
the ranks of uninsured drivers and that his opponents had refused to face up to
the practical realities of illegal immigration.

''It's always good to have the conversation about why I believe what we've done
is correct and appropriate and important,'' Mr. Spitzer said, adding that he
thought ''some of the rhetoric that has been imposed and brought into this issue
has been not only overheated but I would say counterproductive.''

Mr. Spitzer added another high-profile supporter for his efforts on Monday,
announcing that William J. Bratton, the former New York City police commissioner
and current Los Angeles police commissioner, backed the new licensing policy.

The licensing clash did not prevent all legislative business from getting done.
The Senate approved nearly two dozen of Mr. Spitzer's remaining nominees to
state jobs by 8:30 p.m., and a Senate spokesman said the chamber expected to
approve the dozens of other outstanding nominations by night's end,  removing
one major conflict  between the governor and Senate Republicans.

Mr. Spitzer and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, have not spoken
personally in months. Relations between the two are evidently so soured that at
a news conference on Monday, Mr. Bruno sharply criticized Mr. Silver, his
Assembly counterpart, for telling reporters last week that he had tried to
engage in some shuttle diplomacy between the governor and the senator.

''Silver has not been a go-between,'' Mr. Bruno said when asked about Mr.
Silver's comments. ''If he has, he's a dismal failure. All he is doing is
feathering his own nest, making excuses for his own inactivity.''

Not surprisingly, both the governor and Senate Republicans blamed each other for
the lack of progress on other issues, including legislation that had been agreed
upon near the end of the regular session in June.

Mr. Bruno said, ''I've been around this business 31 years. I am puzzled by the
way the people handle themselves -- this executive and all the people around
themselves.'' He added that the administration had reneged on an early deal to
provide property tax rebates to the elderly.

But Mr. Spitzer denied that the furor over his license policy had stalled the
rest of his agenda.

''Just the opposite -- we are moving,'' the governor said, adding later that
''things are moving ahead in a spectacular manner. We couldn't be happier.''

Mr. Spitzer pointed to trips he had made to Buffalo, Rochester, and other
upstate cities in recent weeks to announce major economic development deals,
which he called ''the most important piece of my agenda over the last nine
months, which is upstate economic revitalization.''

About 100 opponents of Mr. Spitzer's policy met in a rally on the Capitol steps
at noon, where tempers ran high. James N. Tedisco, the Assembly's minority
leader, and others spoke, and protesters waved signs with slogans like
''Ill-egal is a sickness'' and ''No licenses for illegals;'' some shouted for
Mr. Spitzer to be recalled or impeached.

Frank J. Merola, the Rensselaer County clerk and one of the most vocal local
officials to oppose Mr. Spitzer's policy, appeared at the rally and later filed
a lawsuit in State Supreme Court challenging the administration. Under state
law, several dozen other county clerks act as agents of the D.M.V. and must
process driver's licenses on behalf of the state.

Mr. Merola and a number of other clerks, most of them, like Mr. Merola,
Republicans, have said they will not obey the new policy, though state rules do
not give them any discretion on the matter. Mr. Merola said that he had not
consulted the county counsel about his plans to ignore the new licensing
regulations.

''I don't want him to tell me that I shouldn't be doing it, because I'm the one
who's going to be in that office and I'm not going to do it,'' Mr. Merola said.
''It's easier if I don't ask.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James N. Tedisco, the Assembly's minority leader, with folded
arms, with lawmakers opposed to the governor's licensing plan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexicans Miss Money From Workers Up North

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

DATELINE: EL RODEO, Mexico


For years, millions of Mexican migrants working in the United States have sent
money back home to villages like this one, money that allows families to pay
medical bills and school fees, build houses and buy clothes or, if they save
enough, maybe start a tiny business.

But after years of strong increases, the amount of migrant money flowing to
Mexico has stagnated. From 2000 to 2006,  remittances grew to nearly $24 billion
a year from $6.6 billion, rising more than 20 percent some years. In 2007, the
increase so far has been less than 2 percent.

Migrants and migration experts say a flagging American economy and an
enforcement campaign against  illegal workers in the United States have
persuaded some migrants not to try to cross the border illegally to look for
work. Others have decided to return to Mexico. And many of those who are staying
in the United States are sending less money home.

In the rest of the world, remittances are rising, up as much as 10 percent a
year, according to Donald F. Terry of the Inter-American Development Bank. Last
year, migrant workers worldwide sent more than $300 billion to developing
countries -- almost twice the amount of foreign direct investment.

But in  Mexico, families are feeling squeezed.

Estrella Rivera, a slight 27-year-old in this stone-paved village in Guanajuato
state in central Mexico, was hoping to use the money her husband, Alonso, sent
back from working illegally in Texas to build a small clothing shop at the edge
of her garden.

But a month ago, Mr. Rivera returned home. His hours at a Dallas window-screen
factory were cut  and rumors spread that he would inevitably have to produce a
valid Social Security number. Now, he works odd jobs or tends  cornfields. Mrs.
Rivera's shop is indefinitely delayed, a pile of bricks stacked on the grass.

Like Mr. Rivera, some of the men who went to work in the United States illegally
have returned discouraged. And less work means less money to send home  --
particularly from the southern United States and other areas where Mexican
migrants are a more recent presence.

''One out of three people in these new states who was sending a year ago is not
sending it home today,'' Mr. Terry of the Inter-American Development Bank said.
''There are some 500,000 families who aren't receiving  this year.''

Until last year, the American housing trades absorbed hundreds of thousands of
migrants, and the hardships of the trip north seemed to pale beside the near
certainty of finding work.

Now, the construction slump --  along with a year-old crackdown on illegal
immigration at the border and in the workplace, and mounting anti-immigrant
sentiment in places --  has made it even harder for  Mexican migrants to reach
the United States and land well-paying jobs.

Many experts say it is too early to know if the negligible increase in
remittances will continue. Some argue it was to be expected: much of the initial
spike in money transfers had resulted from better accounting. In addition,
earlier waves of migrants are returning  to the houses they built, or they have
managed to legalize their status in the United States and bring their families,
sending less money back.

But the events of the last year in the United States, political and economic,
have also clouded the prospects of many illegal Mexican workers. New walls, new
guards and new equipment at the border have dissuaded many from trying to cross
and raised the cost for those who try to as much as $2,800. Workplace raids and
stories of summary deportations stoke fears among Mexicans on both sides of the
border.

Referring to tougher measures in the United States, Primitivo Rodriguez, a
Mexican immigration expert, said: ''Psychologically, they lead you to save money
in case of an emergency. You send less, you save more.''

The shakier economy in many states means that migrants have moved from
well-paying steady jobs to work as day laborers.

''In our interviews with families, they say that migrants are now working two or
three days when before they worked four or five days,'' said David Skerritt, a
historian at Veracruzana University.

Rodolfo Garcia Zamora , an immigration expert at the University of Zacatecas,
said money transfers to  Zacatecas state fell by about 25 percent this year.

Here in  Guanajuato state, remittances have created a peculiar economy in
villages tucked among rolling corn and sorghum fields. There are few jobs, yet
many houses have stereo systems, washing machines and three-piece living room
sets.

Things are changing, though. Some of the men are back and need cash for seeds
and fertilizer to plow long-neglected fields. At the microcredit association
operated by a local nonprofit group, the Bajio Women's Network, loans for
agriculture, which barely existed last year, now account for 11 percent of all
borrowing.

Women are finding it harder to save, said Evelyne Sinquin, the network
coordinator. ''The people who have come back can't work, and the people in the
United States are working fewer hours.''

Other than agriculture, the jobs here are in construction, building houses of
absentee owners  houses along the cobbled streets. Some are modest with a few
brick rooms; others are ornate tributes to their absentee owners' success:
gold-painted balconies, the Virgin of Guadalupe etched in a window, Greek
columns. Los Emigrantes carpentry shop in nearby  La Cuevita sits on a traffic
circle adorned with a monument showing several figures, one of them a migrant
waving a fistful of dollars.

Not much else flourishes. Three months ago, Monica Nunez closed her tortilla
shop in the village of San Lucas. ''Most people went to the United States and
sales went down,'' she said.

Her husband has been home from Houston for a year, but she has seven brothers
and a sister in the United States who still send money. She is  planning a new
business, perhaps an Internet cafe so people can connect with relatives in the
United States.

Less than an hour's drive away, the city of Queretaro is prospering, turning out
home appliances for the world market. But for most people in the villages,
education ended after elementary school. An unskilled factory or construction
job pays little more than $50 or $60 a week.

With those prospects, the next generation  --  some of them as young as 15  --
seemed to have few doubts about heading to the United States.

Estrella Rivera's brother Francisco left for the first time when he was 16. Now
21, he recently came home after  a year and a half in Orlando, Fla., working in
construction. He earned enough to add a floor to his parents' house, but then he
struggled.

''Either there was no work or they did not want to hire somebody without
papers,'' he said, perched on an old Ford pickup truck with Michigan tags beside
his family's sheep and cow pens.

But he expects to go back again. ''To tell the truth, it really is worth the
trouble,'' he said, recounting a terrifying crossing  getting lost in the
Arizona desert.

Mrs. Rivera's husband is not so sure. ''It's really tough to go back,'' he said.
''Now they lock you up. Before, they grabbed you and sent you back. The laws
were never this tough.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 2007



CORRECTION: Picture captions on Friday with a front-page article about the
stagnating flow of money to Mexicans from relatives working north of the border
gave an incorrect spelling in some editions for the surname of the photographer.
The front-page photograph and both pictures with the continuation of the article
were by Adriana Zehbrauskas, not Zehbraukas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With American jobs cut back, Estrella Rivera, left, has
deferred her dream of a clothing shop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Estrella Rivera's brother Francisco, back from construction work in Orlando,
Fla., expects to return despite the risks.
In the small places of Guanajuato state, like El Salto, almost every family gets
help from a member working in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA
ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Remittances pay school fees and build houses in El
Rodeo.
 Sending Money Home (pg.A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Effort to Block Migrant Law Seems to Falter in Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The legal effort to block what is widely considered the nation's toughest law
against employers who hire illegal immigrants may be headed for a setback in
Arizona after a federal judge said Tuesday that he was not inclined to stop the
law from going into effect Jan. 1.

Judge Neil V. Wake of the Federal District Court in Phoenix said he would issue
a ruling by the end of the week. But he said that the business and civil rights
groups that had challenged Arizona's law had erred by not initially suing the
county attorneys who will enforce the law, which he suggested protects the
rights of law-abiding workers.

The hearing was part of a feverish legal effort to block the law, which
penalizes employers who knowingly hire illegal workers by suspending their
business license on a first offense and revoking it for a second.

There are two lawsuits pending in federal court to block the law. Last week,
Judge Wake dismissed one lawsuit against Arizona's governor and attorney general
essentially on the procedural ground that the business and civil rights groups
were suing the wrong people.

In response, the groups appealed that decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals and, in an effort to address the judge's complaint, filed a second
lawsuit naming the state's 15 county attorneys, who would directly enforce the
law.

The groups challenging the law, at a hearing Tuesday before Judge Wake, sought a
temporary restraining order to halt enactment of the law until he can more fully
rule on the merits of the suit.

Farrell Quinlan, a spokesman for the groups, said the legal efforts would
continue.

Opponents say the law is already having an effect, with hundreds of people
leaving the state or dismissed from jobs by employers checking federally
required documents proving work eligibility. The law's supporters believe it
will help close the door to the flow of migrants that has made Arizona one of
the states with the highest and fastest-growing illegal immigrant population.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michigan: Ruling On Licenses For Immigrants

BYLINE: By AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 88 words


Illegal immigrants are ineligible for driver's licenses, Michigan's attorney
general said in an opinion that affects one of the few states that have been
granting licenses to such immigrants. The opinion by the attorney general, Mike
Cox, is binding on state agencies and officers unless reversed by the courts.
Michigan law prohibits the secretary of state from issuing a driver's license to
a nonresident. Mr. Cox, a Republican, said it would be inconsistent with federal
law to regard an illegal immigrant as a permanent resident.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remarks on Pakistan Are Tailing Huckabee

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 377 words


In discussing the volatile situation in Pakistan, Mike Huckabee has made several
erroneous or misleading statements at a time when he has been under increasing
scrutiny from fellow presidential candidates for a lack of fluency in foreign
policy issues.

Explaining statements he made suggesting that the instability in Pakistan should
remind Americans to tighten security on the southern border of the United
States, Mr. Huckabee said Friday that ''we have more Pakistani illegals coming
across our border than all other nationalities, except those immediately south
of the border.''

Asked to justify the statement, he later cited a March 2006 article in The
Denver Post reporting that from 2002 to 2005, Pakistanis were the most numerous
non-Latin Americans caught entering the United States illegally. According to
The Post, 660 Pakistanis were detained in that period.

A recent report from the Department of Homeland Security, however, concluded
that, over all, illegal immigrants from the Philippines, India, Korea, China and
Vietnam were all far more numerous than those from Pakistan.

In a separate interview on Friday on MSNBC, Mr. Huckabee, a Republican, said
that the Pakistani government ''does not have enough control of those eastern
borders near Afghanistan to be able go after the terrorists.''  Those borders
are on the western side of Pakistan, not the eastern side.

Further, he offered an Orlando crowd his ''apologies for what has happened in
Pakistan.'' His aides said later that he meant to say ''sympathies.''

He also said he was worried about martial law ''continuing'' in Pakistan,
although Mr. Musharraf lifted the state of emergency on Dec. 15. Mr. Huckabee
later said that he was referring to a renewal of full martial law and said that
some elements, including restrictions on judges and the news media, had
continued.

Mr. Huckabee's comments on the situation in Pakistan were not the first time he
has been caught unprepared on foreign policy matters. Early this month, after
the release of a National Intelligence Estimate concluding that Iran had stopped
its nuclear weapons program in 2003, Mr. Huckabee said that he was not familiar
with the report, even though it had been widely reported in the news for more
than 30 hours.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Huckabee, in Iowa on Friday, spent time explaining earlier
comments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Study of Immigrants and Crime

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 129 words


Immigrants in the state, about 35 percent of adults, are far less likely than
native-born Americans to commit crimes, according to a study by the Public
Policy Institute of California, a nonpartisan research group. Among men ages 18
to 40, the group most likely to commit crimes, native-born Americans were 10
times more likely than immigrants to be incarcerated for crimes in California
prisons and jails. The study included both legal and illegal immigrants, without
focusing separately on illegal immigrants. But it found that native-born
American men ages 18 to 40 were at least eight times more likely to be
imprisoned for crimes than Mexican immigrants in that age range who were not
naturalized citizens -- a group likely to have a high percentage of illegal
immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Disorder On The Border

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN.

Timothy Egan, a contributing columnist for The Times, writes Outposts, a column
at nytimes.com. He is filling in for Bob Herbert, who is off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


For now, the demagogues have left the stage. Talk radio has moved on -- from
fear of Mexicans at Home Depot to fear of a black preacher in a pulpit.
Congressman Tom Tancredo is an asterisk again, satisfied that fellow Republicans
are trying to out-Tancredo him.

We are left with the 12 million illegal immigrants --  hanging Sheetrock,
setting sod and cleaning hospital bedpans  --  as before, in the shadows. But in
the two months since immigration briefly dominated the 2008 campaign, much has
happened, much of it here.

Arizona may produce the next president, in John McCain, or the next vice
president, in Janet Napolitano, the Democratic governor. Both of them are shaped
by the pragmatic realities of the browning of the West -- and lessons in how
simplistic slogans rarely work as policy.

Begin with the rallying cry of those on the hard-hearted side of this issue:
Build the wall. Deport them all. No amnesty.

The wall has hit a wall. You remember the wall, er, fence: nearly 700 miles of
obstruction along the border, promised by year's end. Nightly, someone with a
microphone or a seat in Congress has wondered why we can't just slap together
the mighty divide, lickety-split.

''Show me a 50-foot wall,'' says Napolitano, who prosecuted hundreds of illegals
before she moved to the Statehouse, and ''and I'll show you a 51-foot ladder.''
It's not just the pull of the world's largest economy.

The wall has run into a foundation of the modern Republican Party and a bedrock
American principle at that: property rights. A federal judge Andrew Hanen of
South Texas, an appointee of George W. Bush and a man with solid Texas values,
as W. likes to say, has put a big roadblock before the fence-builders. He ruled
that the government must adequately compensate property owners before running
over their land in the rush to build the wall.

Bad enough, the wall is a curtain to the natural world, to water and
sixth-generation family farms that don't conform to a straight line on a map.
But the Bush administration has been suing property owners by the dozens, trying
to force them to let the feds divide their land. Now that the bully tactics have
backfired, the border will most likely not be fenced by year's end, if ever. Oh,
well.

As for mass deportation, Arizona has proved to be a precursor of how poorly that
would work. A strict new law, which Napolitano signed with some regret, would
force any business that knowingly hired an undocumented worker to lose its
license after two offenses.

Thus far, there have been thousands of tips about people who look like illegal
workers, prompting police to chase innumerable bogus complaints. But so far, not
a single reported citation. Not even from Phoenix, home of Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, the self-proclaimed toughest lawmen in the West, part of the
Lou Dobbs Gasbag Hall of Fame.

Of course, the law has been on the books for only three months. But if they
can't find a single lawbreaker in a state with an estimated 500,000 illegal
immigrants --  a state that is the nation's busiest gateway for illegal
crossings --  imagine how hard it would be to round up a population the size of
New York City and Los Angeles combined -- breaking up families and ruining
businesses.

And don't forget: since 1986, it's been against federal law for companies to
hire illegals. That'll show 'em: after 22 years, the total number of
prosecutions could fill the breakfast nook at Leisure World.

Which brings us to amnesty. McCain, as co-sponsor of the failed federal
compromise to offer a path to citizenship, took his hits from the Republican
base for his stand. Now, he's the standard-bearer, and is well liked by Latinos.
He won't be whining about Mitt Romney's ''sanctuary mansion,'' and will run away
from harsh proposals being ginned by election-minded Republicans in Congress.

The Democrats may find their vice presidential candidate here with Napolitano --
a former federal prosecutor with a portfolio of common-sense ideas on how to fix
the border. In the 2006 governor's race, her opponent in this Republican-leaning
state called her soft on immigration. She won every county. Napolitano is a
strong supporter of Barack Obama.

In the fall, four states in the American Southwest (Arizona, Colorado, Nevada
and New Mexico) will be a treasure trove of electoral votes -- worth far more
than Ohio, and as much in play as that big swing state. Fantasy liberal talk
about porous borders being part of our diversity will not play. Nor will
pandering to xenophobes.

But after November, someone from this state is likely to be brokering a deal to
at last tackle the immigration problem, which means that sloganeering will
remain on bumper stickers, where it belongs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visa Application Period Opens for Highly Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 844 words


The annual sweepstakes for visas for highly skilled temporary foreign workers
begins on Tuesday, the opening day for applications to the vastly oversubscribed
immigration program that is the center of a growing controversy in Congress.

The federal authorities will accept petitions from employers for 65,000
temporary work visas, known as H-1Bs, that are available for the year that
starts Oct. 1. Last year, the agency received enough petitions to cover the
annual quota on the first day applications were accepted. About half of the
total petitions filed were rejected because the supply of visas had run out.

Technology companies have urged Congress to raise the annual limit, saying they
face damaging shortages of the computer engineers and software technicians that
these visas attract.

But a number of lawmakers, led by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of
Illinois, and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, say  foreign
companies have used the program to import workers who compete against Americans
and lower wage rates. The senators oppose increasing the number of H-1B visas
without closing loopholes in the program.

Citizenship and Immigration Services has said that it will accept H-1B visa
petitions over five business days, ending April 7. Last year the agency closed
the application period after one day because the quota had already been
surpassed. In mid-April, the agency will run a computerized lottery to choose
about 65,000 petitions.

''We want to make sure everyone has the opportunity to get their petition in to
make the process as fair as possible,'' said Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman
for the immigration agency.

For the first time, the agency this year has explicitly prohibited companies
from filing more than one petition for the same worker.

Technology companies have become increasingly frustrated and vocal about the
H-1B visa limits and the lottery selection method. In March, Bill Gates of
Microsoft told the House Committee on Science and Technology that the current
system ''makes attracting and retaining high-skilled immigrants exceptionally
challenging for U.S. firms.''

Mr. Gates said Microsoft and other American companies had been forced to export
jobs that could have been done in the United States to countries more welcoming
to skilled foreign workers.

A study in March by the National Foundation for American Policy, an immigration
research group in Washington, concluded that H-1B workers helped United States
technology companies generate jobs for American workers. The companies increased
their employment by five workers for every H-1B visa they sought, the study
found.

The H-1B visas bring foreign workers, preferably with master's degrees or
doctorates, for an initial period of three years, renewable for another three
years. The visas are intended to help American companies fill shortages of
employees with sophisticated skills.

But official figures released by Mr. Grassley show that the three biggest users
of the H-1B program in 2007 were three companies based in India that perform
computer and software contract work here using foreign workers, mainly Indian.

The three companies -- Infosys Technologies and Wipro Limited of Bangalore, and
Satyam Computer Services of Hyderabad -- accounted for more than 8,500 of the
H-1B visas that received preliminary approval in 2007, figures show.

Mr. Durbin, the Senate's second-ranking Democrat, said in an interview on Monday
that these companies had distorted the program's purpose.

''They are H-1B brokers,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''For a fee, they are moving these
engineers to the United States for three or six years, training them and then
moving them back to India to work for companies that compete with America.''

Ron Hira, a professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology,
said that gaps in the rules had allowed technology companies, including American
ones, to misuse the program.

''Basically, H-1B has been thoroughly corrupted,'' Mr. Hira said. ''Under H-1B
you could be forced to train your own replacement,'' he said, speaking of
American workers.

Mr. Hira pointed out that current rules do not require employers to prove a
labor shortage by advertising jobs or recruiting in the United States. He said
wages established for H-1B technology workers were below market levels in this
country, allowing companies that use the visas to gain a competitive advantage
and lowering wages over all.

Mr. Durbin and Mr. Grassley have proposed requiring companies to advertise jobs
with the Labor Department before applying for visas, and giving the department
new monitoring authority.

Infosys, in a statement, said that about 30 percent of its work for American
employers was performed ''at the client's location'' in this country. It said it
used H-1B visas to bring in ''our trained resources'' for several years or less.

Wipro said that 20 percent of its workers in the United States were ''local
employees.'' It said it used H-1B visas to bring in workers ''for a short
duration.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Importing the Work Force: Among the top 10 companies that filed
petitions last year for H-1B visas for high-skilled temporary workers, six were
technology firms based in India. All India-based companies are highlighted
below.(Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services) Chart details various
statistics for petitions approved and headquarters.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Many Visas Are Sought For Skilled

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 548 words


Federal immigration authorities received about 163,000 petitions for temporary
work visas for highly skilled immigrants for the year starting Oct. 1, officials
said Thursday, nearly twice as many as the number of visas available.

The government each year offers 65,000 visas, known as H-1Bs, for highly
educated foreign workers, and 20,000 visas for immigrants with a master's degree
or doctorate from an American college or university. Citizenship and Immigration
Services closed the application period  Tuesday after it had been open for the
five-day minimum.

Although petitions for the 2009 fiscal year increased by about 23 percent over
2008, immigration officials said they had expected an even higher number. A new
rule penalizing employers who presented more than one petition for the same
worker  helped keep down the numbers, said Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for the
immigration agency.

Sometime next week, the agency will conduct an electronic lottery to select
85,000 immigrants to receive the H-1B visas, which are valid for three years and
can be renewed for another three.

The visa announcement brought renewed calls from  American technology companies
to raise the annual limits. On Thursday,  senators led by John Cornyn,
Republican of Texas,  introduced a bill that would raise the H-1B cap to 145,000
visas each year through 2011. It would also allow businesses to use, over a
three-year period, some 150,000 visas that were available in past years but were
never issued.

The bill also includes measures to address the rapidly expanding use of H-1B
visas by major Indian companies to bring workers  for short-term jobs as part of
technology outsourcing contracts. It would seek to bar this practice by
requiring companies to employ H-1B workers only at their own offices in the
United States.

Labor organizations say that H-1B immigrants have depressed wages  for American
technology workers. Some  employers have protested  that they were crowded out
of the  visa pool by the Indian outsourcing companies.

A Web site  was started in January by American technology workers who said they
had been driven from jobs by H-1B immigrants. About 150 members have posted
their stories on the site, hireamericansfirst.org.

''It's not that you can't find Americans,'' a 55-year-old American technology
worker in Florida, who was contacted through the Web site, said in an interview
Thursday. ''It's that you can't find Americans at the price you can get away
with paying an H-1B worker.''

A computer systems administrator with 25 years of experience, he said he did not
want to have his name published for fear of jeopardizing a job he recently found
after a four-year search.

Technology employers said they used the visas to hire foreigners with
exceptional skills. Elizabeth Charnock, chief executive of Cataphora, a
six-year-old company in California, said she requested an H-1B visa for a
mathematician from Togo who has two master's degrees and specializes in the
Internet searches her company offers.

Ms. Charnock said it was hard for her company to compete for workers with
Silicon Valley giants like Google.

''We don't go out looking for foreign workers,'' she said. ''We go out looking
for the best talent you can find, and that comes from all over.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                              March 3, 2008 Monday

Crossing Borders, Crossing Time

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and ANDREA BROTHMAN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 4044 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students create an exhibit that explores the
connections between immigration and politics from 1850 to the present.



Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students create an exhibit that
explores the connections between immigration and politics from 1850 to the
present.

Author(s):

Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network

Andrea Brothman, Bank Street College of Education in New York

Suggested Time Allowance: One hour

Objectives:
Students will:
1. Read quotations from presidential candidates regarding immigration and decide
which ones they agree with the most to begin considering contemporary
immigration issues in politics.
2. Examine how immigration has affected political movements throughout history
by reading and discussing the article "The Border and the Ballot Box."
3. Work in groups to research one of the last three waves of American
immigration using online resources.
4. Create a portion of a "History of Immigration and Politics" exhibit examining
one aspect of immigration history and write a letter to the presidential
candidate of their choice offering insight and advice.

Resources and Materials:
- pens/pencils.
- paper.
- student journals.
- classroom board.
- copies of the article "The Border and the Ballot Box," found at
www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080303monday.html (one per
student).
- computers with Internet access (or handouts of print copies of Web sites).

Activities and Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: At the start of class, provide students with a handout with
the following quotes with the names of the speakers left off, as well as the
following prompt:
- Order these quotations from one to nine, one being the one you agree with the
most and nine being the one you agree with the least. All of these quotes come
from a different presidential candidate, some who are still running today and
some who have dropped out. Guess which candidate said each quote and his or her
political party. (The teacher may wish to provide a name bank for this
question.)
- "I take issue with your description of people being illegal immigrants. There
aren't any illegal human beings. They are undocumented." (Dennis Kucinich)

- "We should end illegal immigration at the border, because it can't be really
dealt with internally. We should do it by having a fence, a technological fence,
as well as a physical fence. It should be used to alert the Border Patrol of the
people coming to the border, and we should stop people from coming in." (Rudolph
Guiliani)

- "A nation that cannot and will not defend its own borders will not forever
remain a sovereign nation." (Fred Thompson)

- "We need to sit down as Americans and recognize these are God's children as
well. And they need some protection under the law; they need some of our love
and compassion. I want to assure you that I'll enforce the borders first. We'll
solve this immigration problem." (John McCain)

- "I said no to driver's licenses for illegals. I said ... we're going to make
sure that those that come here don't get a tuition break in our schools, which I
disagree with other folks on that one." (Mitt Romney)

- "What I supported, and I still do, was the idea that you don't punish a child
for the crime of a parent. ... I don't believe that this country has reduced
itself to the point that when a parent commits a crime and breaks the law, that
you grind your heel in the face of 6-year-old. ... We don't punish the children
of those who break the law." (Mike Huckabee)

- "I see the immigration problem as a consequence of our welfare state. We
encourage people not to work here, but the welfare we offer the people who come
-- they get free medical care. They get free education. They bankrupt our
hospitals. Our hospitals are closing. And it shouldn't be rewarded. That means
you don't give them citizenship." (Ron Paul)

- "There are many in the political and the broadcast world today who take a
particular aim at our Latino population. And I think it's very destructive. It
undermines our unity as a country. There was a particularly egregious example of
that in the House-passed bill last year. The House bill tried to criminalize
anyone who helped an illegal immigrant, anyone who gave them medical care, any
church that opened up to give them food at a dinner or breakfast. And I said
that it would have criminalized the Good Samaritan. It would have criminalized
Jesus Christ. We have to say no, we are a nation of immigrants, and we will
respect and treat one another with dignity." (Hillary Clinton)

- "Keep in mind that my father came to this country from a small village in
Africa because he was looking for opportunity. And so when I see people who are
coming across these borders, whether legally or illegally, I know that the
motivation is trying to create a better life for their children and their
grandchildren." (Barack Obama)

After a few minutes, have students share with the class which quotations they
agreed with the most and the least. Is the class mostly in agreement, or are
there some differences of opinion? What might account for these differences of
opinion? Once students have had enough time to share their thoughts, let them
know which candidate said each quote. Are they surprised by any of the
identifications? If so, why? If not, why not?

2. As a class, read and discuss the article "The Border and the Ballot Box"
(www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080303monday.html),
focusing on the following questions:
a. What does the failure of the 2007 immigration bill say about the role of
immigration in national politics?
b. According to the article, why does the backlash against immigration have a
"familiar feel to it"?
c. What role has immigration played in national elections throughout history?
Why do you think this might be the case?
d. How did anti-immigration movements of the past change the country?
e. In what ways is today's immigration wave different from immigration waves of
the past?
f. What was one reason for the first immigration wave in 1850?
g. What political party was created as a reaction to the first great immigration
wave?
h. What distracted voters from immigration in the 1850s?
i. What fears about immigration did Americans have after World War I?
j. How did "anti-immigration sentiment" affect the 1928 presidential election?
k. What does polling data show about how Americans' attitudes are changing in
relation to immigration today?
l. What do social scientists say about how much Latino immigrants have
contributed to the United States?
m. What does the Columbia University historian Mae Ngai mean when she says that
illegal immigration "seems to undermine something fundamental to the very
existence of a nation"? Do you agree? Why or why not?
n. Why might it be harder for illegal immigrants to achieve in America than it
is for legal immigrants?
o. What negative effects does illegal immigration have on the American economy?
p. Some experts believe that an "honest immigration policy" should start with
"the government ending its wink-and-nod attitude toward employers who hire
illegal immigrants." What does this mean, and do you agree that this is an
important step in controlling illegal immigration? Why or why not?
q. Why will the United States "need an influx of new arrivals in the coming
decades"? How do you think this might affect people's positions on immigration?
r. How does the contrast of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and the erection
of the Statue of Liberty in 1886 speak to America's struggle with immigration?
s. Are you surprised by any of the information presented in the graph? Why or
why not?

3. Inform your students that they will be creating a "History of Immigration and
Politics" exhibit that illustrates how trends in immigration have affected
American politics throughout history. Split the class into six groups as
outlined below. Each group should answer the questions pertaining to its topic
using the online resources provided. Depending on your classroom Internet
access, you can either print out these resources before class, or have students
visit these sites.

Group 1: Trends in Immigration From 1820 to 1870
QUESTIONS:
- Using the census data from your time period, figure out which continent most
American immigrants were arriving from.
- What reasons did Irish immigrants have for coming to the United States during
this period?
- What reasons did German immigrants have for coming to the United States during
this period?
- Where did many of the immigrants during this period settle?
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
- pbskids.org/bigapplehistory/immigration/topic1.html
-www.pbs.org/fmc/timeline/eimmigration.htm
-www.americanparknetwork.com/parkinfo/content.asp?catid=85&contenttypeid=34#1489

-www.ellisisland.org/immexp/wseix_5_2.asp?
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-memory.loc.gov/learn/features/immig/irish2.html
- www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_2.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab01.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab02.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab04.html

Group 2: Trends in American Politics From 1820 to 1870
QUESTIONS:
- What was the primary platform of the Know Nothing Party, also known as the
American Party?
- What laws restricting immigration were passed during this time period?
- How were immigrants treated differently under the law depending on their
nation of origin? Give examples.
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
-dig.lib.niu.edu/message/ps-nativism.html
- ap.grolier.com/article?assetid=0161940-0&templatename=
- ap.grolier.com/article?assetid=0233110-00&templatename=/art
-www.ohiohistorycentral.org/entry.php?rec=911
-www.ohiohistorycentral.org/entry.php?rec=838
-ehistory.osu.edu/osu/mmh/clash/Imm_KKK/KKK%20pages/KKK-page2.htm
-www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1627019,00.html?promoid=AOL

Group 3: Trends in Immigration From 1880 to 1920
QUESTIONS:
- Using the census data from your time period, figure out which continent most
American immigrants were arriving from.
- What reasons did Italian immigrants have for coming the United States during
this time period?
- What reasons did Russian and Austro-Hungarian immigrants have for coming to
the United States during this time period?
- Where did the majority of immigrants settle during this time period?
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-www.ellisisland.org/immexp/wseix_5_3.asp?
- www.pbs.org/fmc/timeline/eimmigration.htm
- www.understandingrace.org/history/gov/eastern_southern_immigration.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_4.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_5.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_6.html
-memory.loc.gov/ammem/ndlpedu/features/immig/italian3.html
-www.eyewitnesstohistory.com/snpim.htm
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab01.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab02.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab04.html

Group 4: Trends in American Politics From 1880 to 1920
QUESTIONS:
- What effect did the Ku Klux Klan have on how immigration was handled in the
political sphere during this time period?
- What laws restricting immigration were passed during this time period?
- How were immigrants treated differently under the law depending on their
nation of origin? Give examples.
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
-memory.loc.gov/ammem/award99/cubhtml/theme9.html
-memory.loc.gov/ammem/ndlpedu/features/immig/chinese6.html
-ehistory.osu.edu/osu/mmh/clash/Imm_KKK/anti-immigrationKKK-page1.htm
-www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1627019,00.html?promoid=AOL

Group 5: Trends in Immigration From 1965 to Today
QUESTIONS:
- Using the census data from your time period, figure out which continent most
American immigrants were arriving from.
- Find out the top three countries of origin for immigrants in this time period.
(Tip: Use Ellis Island's "Peopling of America" Web site.)
- What are some reasons that Mexican immigrants had for coming to the United
States?
- What are some reasons that Indian immigrants had for coming to the United
States?
SOURCES:
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/immigration_and_refugee
s/index.html
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/illegal_immigrants/inde
x.html
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
-
www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.phphttp://www.
pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-www.ellisisland.org/immexp/wseix_5_5.asp?
-www.pbs.org/itvs/beyondtheborder/immigration.html
-www.pbs.org/independentlens/newamericans/newamericans.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab01.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab02.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab03.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab04.html

Group 6: Trends in American Politics From 1965 to Today
QUESTIONS:
- Using the "On the Issues" Web site, find at least one quote from each of the
front-runners for president in 2008 about immigration or immigration policy.
- What laws restricting immigration were passed during this time period?
- How were immigrants treated differently under the law depending on their
nation of origin? Give examples.
SOURCES:
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/immigration_and_refugee
s/index.html
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/illegal_immigrants/inde
x.html
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1627019,00.html?promoid=AOL
-www.ontheissues.org/Immigration.htm
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/timeline/23.html
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/timeline/24.html

After each group has had a chance to answer the assigned questions, announce
that each student in the group must choose one question that the group just
answered. All questions must be chosen by at least one student, some questions
may have pairs working on them, but no question should have more than two
students assigned to it.
Once students have chosen a question, remind students that they will be creating
a "History of Immigration and Politics" exhibit. Let them know that their job is
now to create the portion of the exhibit that answers their assigned question.
Each portion of the exhibit must contain these three elements:
- informative text.
- a primary textual document.
- a primary photographic or artistic document (this could be a political
cartoon).
Students should feel free to also include:
- audio.
- video.
- objects.
- maps.
- interactive features.

Have students create their assigned portion of the "History of Immigration and
Politics" exhibit. In a later class, once all portions are complete, you may put
up the exhibit either in your classroom or in a public place in the school. Make
sure that students have time to experience the complete exhibit and talk, as a
class, about the issues that it brings up.

To wrap up, have students discuss their findings with the rest of the class.
Were they surprised by anything they learned?

4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students write a letter to the front-running
presidential candidate of their choice, offering advice about how he or she can
learn from immigration history since 1850 and use this knowledge for rhetorical
and policy decisions. If desired, have students actually send their letters to
their chosen candidates.

Further Questions for Discussion:
- If you could talk to the presidential candidates about what they could learn
from immigration history, what would you tell them?
- Why do you think immigration has always stirred such passion in Americans?
- Has learning about immigration history influenced your thoughts about
contemporary immigration issues? If so how? If not, why not?

Evaluation and Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on their initial journal entries, participation
in class and small group discussion, their thorough responses to their assigned
questions, their creative completion of their portion of the immigration
exhibit, and a thoughtfully written letter.

Vocabulary:
overhaul, potency, backlash, roiled, electorate, obligatory, dynamic,
aggravated, retrospect, caucus, rhetoric, resurgence, implemented, platform,
emigration, staunchly, aftermath, latter, surge, competence, bulk, glitches,
influx, prone, statute

Extension Activities:
1. Create a poster comparing the front-runner presidential candidates' positions
on immigration.
2. Write a historically and culturally accurate diary entry from the perspective
of an immigrant to the United States. What fears might this immigrant have had?
What resources would have been available to him or her? What were his or her
reasons for leaving home? Is he or she documented or undocumented?
3. Analyze primary photographic documents of immigration and immigrants from the
turn of the century. Jacob Riis' photography can be found online at
xroads.virginia.edu/~ma01/davis/photography/images/riisphotos/slideshow1.html.
You may also wish to complete the photo analysis activities found at
www.edc.org/CCT/PMA/image_detective/main/index.html?immigration. What can we
learn from photographic evidence? What cannot be learned from photographic
evidence?

Interdisciplinary Connections:
Global History - Choose another country and analyze its contemporary immigration
policies. How are the immigration problems this country faces different from
those in the United States? How are they similar? What could the United States
learn from the results in this country?
Math - Using census data, create a series of charts and graphs illustrating
historical trends in American immigration.
Health - Create a poster that illustrates the medical examination process at
Ellis Island. What diseases were these examinations looking for? Why were
immigrants screened for these diseases? What symptoms did they exhibit?
Media Studies - Screen one of the following documentaries and discuss the
immigration issues that arise: "Sentenced Home"
(www.pbs.org/independentlens/sentencedhome/film.html), "Lost Boys of Sudan"
(http://www.pbs.org/pov/pov2004/lostboysofsudan/index.html), "The Sixth Section"
(www.pbs.org/pov/pov2003/thesixthsection/index.html), or the PBS series "The
Border" (www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/).
Teaching with The Times - Read The New York Times for the next month looking for
articles relating to immigration. Clip these articles and add them to your
in-class exhibit and discuss how contemporary immigration issues have been
influenced by historical immigration issues. To order The New York Times for
your classroom, click here.

Academic Content Standards:
Grades six to eight:
United States History Standard 17 - Understands immense immigration after 1870
and how new social patterns, conflicts and ideas of national unity developed
amid growing cultural diversity. Benchmark: Understands the background and
experiences of immigrants of the late 19th century.

United States History Standard 31 - Understands economic, social and cultural
developments in the contemporary United States. Benchmarks: Understands changes
in the workplace and the economy in contemporary America; understands
demographic shifts and the influences on recent immigration patterns.

Civics Standard 24 - Understands the meaning of citizenship in the United
States, and knows the requirements for citizenship and naturalization.
Benchmarks: Understands that American citizenship is legally recognized full
membership in a self-governing community that confers equal rights under the
law, is not dependent on inherited, involuntary groupings like race, gender or
ethnicity, and confers certain rights and privileges; understands what
constitutes citizenship by birth in the United States; knows the criteria
established by law that are used for admission to citizenship in the United
States.

Geography Standard 9 - Understands the nature, distribution and migration of
human populations on Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands demographic
concepts and how they are used to describe population characteristics of a
country or region; knows the ways in which human movement and migration
influence the character of a place.

Geography Standard 13 - Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that
shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands factors that
contribute to cooperation (e.g., similarities in religion, language, political
beliefs) or conflict (e.g., economic competition for scarce resources, boundary
disputes, cultural differences, control of strategic locations) within and
between regions and countries.

Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and
strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure
appropriate for specific audiences; writes narrative accounts.

Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for
research topics; determines the appropriateness of an information source for a
research topic; organizes information and ideas from multiple sources in
systematic ways.

Grades nine through 12:
United States History Standard 17 - Understands immense immigration after 1870
and how new social patterns, conflicts and ideas of national unity developed
amid growing cultural diversity. Benchmarks: Understands challenges immigrants
faced in society in the late 19th century; understands the challenges diverse
people encountered in late 19th century American society.

United States History Standard 31 - Understands economic, social and cultural
developments in the contemporary United States. Benchmark: Understands how
recent immigration and migration patterns affected social and political issues.

Civics Standard 24 - Understands the meaning of citizenship in the United
States, and knows the requirements for citizenship and naturalization.
Benchmark: Understands the distinction between citizens and noncitizens (aliens)
and the process by which aliens may become citizens.

Geography Standard 9 - Understands the nature, distribution and migration of
human populations on Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands population issues;
knows how international migrations are shaped by push and pull factors;
understands the impact of human migration on physical and human systems.

Geography Standard 13 - Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that
shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands how cooperation
or conflict can lead to the allocation of control of Earth's surface; knows the
causes of boundary conflicts and internal disputes between culture groups;
understands the changes that occur in the extent and organization of social,
political and economic entities on Earth's surface; understands why some
countries are land-locked; understands how external forces can conflict
economically and politically with internal interests in a region.

Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and
strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are
focused for different audiences; writes compositions that fulfill different
purposes; Writes fictional, biographical, autobiographical and observational
narrative compositions.

Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
Benchmarks: Uses a variety of news sources to gather information for research
topics; synthesizes a variety of types of visual information, including pictures
and symbols, for research topics; synthesizes information from multiple research
studies to draw conclusions that go beyond those found in any of the individual
studies; identifies and defends research questions and topics that may be
important in the future.


     ·    The Border and the Ballot Box


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday

Life in the Time of Cholera

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ and JAVAID KHAN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2976 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students learn about the way the 1832 cholera
epidemic in New York affected urban life and reflected issues like immigration
and social class in the growing city. They then take part in a collaborative
writing exercise in which they have a "conversation on paper" about various
documents related to urban life during the Industrial Revolution.



Overview of Lesson Plan:
In this lesson, students learn about how the 1832 cholera epidemic in New York
affected urban life and reflected issues like immigration and social class in
city. They then take part in a collaborative writing exercise in which they have
a "conversation on paper" about documents related to urban life during the
Industrial Revolution.

Author(s):
Annissa Hambouz, The New York Times Learning Network
Javaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City

Suggested Time Allowance:
One hour

Objectives:
Students will:
  1. Respond to the language and messages warning New Yorkers of cholera in the
1830s.
  2. Learn about the role of the 1832 cholera outbreak during New York's period
of industrialization by reading and discussing the article, "How Epidemics
Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis."
  3. Take part in a collaborative writing exercise using a variety of documents
related to urban life during the Industrial Revolution.
  4. Write a letter, diary entry or dialogue from the point of view of someone
living in a community affected by cholera during the 19th century.

Resources/Materials:
-student journals
  -pens/pencils
  -paper
  -classroom board
  -copies of "How Epidemics Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis," found online at
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080416wednesday.htm
l (one per student)
  -classroom computer with Internet access and projector
  -7-10 pieces of large poster board
  -7-10 sources on urban life during the Industrial Revolution (see lesson plan
for further explanation)

Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do Now: Before class, either print out or project a health notice on
cholera prevention from 1830s New York, found online at The New York Times at
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/15/science/15chol.html?_r=1&oref=slogin (image in
the left sidebar), or at the New York Historical Society "Plague in Gotham!
Cholera in Nineteenth-Century New York" exhibit page
(http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/15/science/15chol.html?_r=1&oref=slogin)
  At the beginning of the period, have students examine this document and
respond to the following questions (written on the board prior to class):
  -What is the main message of this poster?
  -Where do you think it might have been used, and at what time? Why?
  -What words or phrases stand out to you, either as unfamiliar or as outdated?

Allow students several minutes to look at the poster and write their responses.
Then call on several students to share what they have written. Responses will
vary depending on your curriculum. If necessary, explain that this was a
"broadside," or a large printed announcement similar to the public service
announcement posters we use today. It was printed during New York City's cholera
outbreak in 1832, when there was increasing immigration and rapid
industrialization. If students are familiar with some of the effects the
Industrial Revolution had on 19th century society, have them briefly discuss
some of the other challenges people faced during this time of rampant
urbanization. You may wish to review topics like tenement housing, sanitation
and sewage issues, the "miasmatic theory" of disease, emerging social classes,
urban planning and migration from rural countryside to urban centers.

Conclude this discussion by explaining that students will be learning more about
the ways cholera affected New York City in the 1800s by reading today's article
from The New York Times.

2. As a class, read and discuss the article "How Epidemics Helped Shape the
Modern Metropolis"
(http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080416wednesday.ht
ml) focusing on the following questions:
  a. Why did New York's wealthier residents escape the city in 1832?
  b. What is cholera?
  c. How did people in the 1830s believe the disease was transmitted? How was it
actually spread?
  d. What toll did the 1832 cholera outbreak take on New York?
  e. Which communities did it affect the most, and why?
  f. To which other historical events (both ancient and modern) does the article
compare the cholera outbreak?
  g. How did the city eventually manage to control the spread of cholera?
  h. What clues does the article offer about immigrant life during the 1800s?
  i. How did the disease affect the way New York City developed in the 1800s?
  j. What information presented in the article reflects the division among
social classes during the 1800s?
  k. How, if at all, has this article affected your understanding of urban life
during the 1800s?
  l. What voices do you think are missing from the reporting of this article?

3. Before class, you will need to prepare between seven and 10 "stations" around
the classroom. (The number of stations will depend on the density of the
documents you choose as well as the ability of your students to read and respond
to them independently.) Each station should feature a large piece of poster
board on which you have pasted a document or excerpt from a document related to
the topic: urban life during 19th century industrialization. These documents
should include a mix of different kinds of sources like news articles,
photographs, infographics, maps, interviews, letters, political cartoons,
editorials and excerpts from other documents. You may wish to consider some of
the following online resources:

On Disease:
  -The New York Times Multimedia Photographic Slideshow on the cholera outbreak
of 1832
(http://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2008/04/15/science/20080415_CHOLERA_SLIDESHOW_
index.html) provides illustrations, a map of the city at the time, and drawings
of cholera victims.
-An 1849 letter from Memphis describing cholera outbreak in the South can be
found online at USGenNet (http://www.tngenweb.org/tnletters/shel.htm).
 -Images and cartoons on 19th century urban housing and health, compiled by St.
Andrew's University can be found online at
http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/~city19c/viccity/houshealth.html.
-The BBC's "London's 'Great Stink' and Victorian Urban Planning," by Professor
Martin Daunton, offers photographs and documents related to life in 19th century
London, and can be found online at
http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/trail/victorian_britain/social_conditions/victorian
_urban_planning_01.shtml.

On Immigration:
  -The Ithaca City School District Library hosts "Effects and Consequences of
the Industrial Revolution," which tells the story of labor, immigration, and
industrialization using images from the 19th century
(http://www.icsd.k12.ny.us/acs/library/ushistory/laborwebquest/index.html).
-The Lower East Side Tenement Museum Index
(http://www.tenement.org/Encyclopedia/toc.htm) includes information on all of
New York's immigrant populations in the 19th century as well as other
information related to urban life at this time.
-Victoriana's "Stereotyping of the Irish Immigrant in 19th Century Periodicals,"
by Christine Haug, contains a number of cartoons related to this topic
(http://www.victoriana.com/Irish/IrishPoliticalCartoons.htm).
On Industry and Social Class:
  -Primary documents on industry and workers in "Rise of Industrial America:
1876-1900," can be found online at the Library of Congress at
http://memory.loc.gov/learn/features/timeline/riseind/work/work.html.
-An excerpt from Andrew Canegie's "The Gospel of Wealth" (1889), from the Modern
History Sourcebook, can be found online at
http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/mod/1889carnegie.html.

After reading today's article, have students rotate through every station with
pens or markers in hand. At each station, ask students to read and respond to
the featured text by writing a short comment or question on the blank poster
board space surrounding it. As students circulate in small groups around the
various stations and add more to their understanding of the topic, encourage
them to have a "conversation on paper," in which they may write responses to
previous comments and questions. When students eventually return to their
original stations, they should spend several minutes reading the comments
written by others who responded after them.

At the end of the period, students reconvene as a class to discuss their
impressions of the documents they reviewed and what information helped add to
their understanding of urban life during the 19th century, and specifically on
public health. Were they surprised by any of the documents? How did the emerging
social classes (middle and working classes) differ at this time of change? What
role do students think immigration may have played in New York City's urban
expansion that made it different from other industrial centers like London or
Manchester? How were people discriminated against both for socioeconomic status
and their ethnicity or nationality? Which populations seemed to bear the most
discrimination for these reasons? Why? What parallels might they draw between
New York during the Industrial Revolution and cities in developing countries
today? Why?

4. Wrap-Up/Homework: To wrap up this lesson, have students revisit the article
at the end of class. Now that they have read excerpts from John Pintard's
letters offering the distant and disdainful perspective of the upper class
during the cholera outbreak, their task will be to communicate the perspective
of those who lived in communities devastated by the disease. For homework, have
students write a letter, diary entry, or dialogue from the point of view of
someone suffering from the disease or from one of the "heroes in the ordeal"
mentioned in today's article, like the nuns and priests who remained in New York
to aid the sick and dying.

Further Questions for Discussion:
-What do you think about the comparison the article raises between cholera in
the 1830s and AIDS in the 1980s? Why?
  -In what other situations have you witnessed someone "blame the victim"?
  -If you could travel back in time to the 19th century, which parts of the
world or historic events would you like to see? Why?

Evaluation/Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the initial exercise,
thoughtful participation in the in-class collaborative writing exercise, and
completion of creative writing response for homework.

Vocabulary:
Somber, cholera, prognosis, dire, livery coaches, vulnerabilities, broadside,
squalor, stench, dissolute, habitations, malady, epidemiology, fouled, miasmas,
noxious, hypothesis, metastasized, loathsome, sinkhole, poultices, idyllic,
epidemic, chastened

Extension Activities:
1. Compare the living conditions in 19th century American or European urban
centers to industrializing nations around the world today. Make a chart of
similarities and differences, based on what you know about history. You may wish
to start your research with The Economist article, "A Flourishing Slum"
(Debember 17, 2007), found online at
http://www.economist.com/world/asia/displaystory.cfm?story_id=10311293.

2. Revisit the cholera broadside you examined at the start of class. Think of a
current disease and create a public service announcement that offers people
advice on treatment and contagion.

3. Choose two common ailments, like headaches or sore throats, and write a short
report comparing remedies from one hundred years ago with the treatments of
today.

4. The article mentions Dr. John Snow. Research and write a biography about a
doctor or scientist who has made a significant impact on our understanding of
viruses.

Interdisciplinary Connections:
Fine Arts -- Create a slideshow of Realist and Impressionist Art depicting urban
life in the 19th century.

Global History -- Choose one of the ancient historical references from the
article (Pompeii, Rome, or Sumerian civilization), to investigate and create a
visual presentation for your class.

Language Arts -- Read a novel by a 19th century author, like Charles Dickens or
Emile Zola, which describes the gritty details of urban life during
industrialization. Write a review of the novel focusing on social class and
living conditions.

Media Studies -- Using this article as inspiration, write an episode for a
modern television drama in which an unexpected and mysterious outbreak of a
disease impacts life in a city today.

Teaching with The Times -- Most of us take clean, drinkable water for granted.
Search The New York Times for articles related to water, from sanitation and
clean water sources to irrigation and agriculture. Over the course of a month,
"tell the story" of this precious natural resource by summarizing the articles
you have read.  (To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.

Other Information on the Web:
Further information on The New York Historical Society's "Plague in Gotham!"
exhibit can be found online at https://www.nyhistory.org/cholera/.

The Department of Epidemiology at the University of California, Los Angeles has
a site devoted to John Snow, the doctor who identified the connection between
contaminated water and cholera and established the foundations for scientific
epidemiology (http://www.ph.ucla.edu/epi/snow.html).

For more information about cholera around the world today, visit the World
Health Organization (http://www.who.int/topics/cholera/en/).

Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
  Historical Understanding Standard 2 -- Understands the historical perspective.
Benchmarks: Analyzes the influence specific ideas and beliefs had on a period of
history; knows different types of primary and secondary sources and the motives,
interests and bias expressed in them.
  United States History Standard 16 -- Understands how the rise of corporations,
heavy industry, and mechanized farming transformed American society. Benchmarks:
Understands influences on business and industry in the 19th century; understands
responses to the challenges of rapid urbanization in the late 19th century;
understands differences in commercial farming in various regions of the United
States; understands various influences on the scenic and urban environment.
  Geography Standard 6 -- Understands that culture and experience influence
people's perceptions of places and regions. Benchmark: Knows the ways in which
culture influences the perception of places and regions.
  Geography Standard 12 -- Understands the patterns of human settlement and
their causes. Benchmarks: Knows the causes and consequences of urbanization;
knows the similarities and differences in various settlement patterns of the
world; knows ways in which both the landscape and society change as a
consequence of shifting from a dispersed to a concentrated settlement form.
  Health Standard 8 -- Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control
of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how lifestyle, pathogens, family history and
other risk factors are related to the cause or prevention of disease and other
health problems; knows communicable, chronic, and degenerative disease processes
and the differences between them.
  Language Arts Standard 1-- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and
strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure
appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes expository compositions.

  Language Arts Standard 8 -- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening
as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group
discussions; asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas;
listens in order to understand a speaker's topic, purpose and perspective;
conveys a clear main point when speaking to others and stays on the topic being
discussed.

Grades 9-12
  Historical Understanding Standard 2 -- Understands the historical perspective.
Benchmarks: Analyzes the influences specific ideas and beliefs had on a period
of history and specifies how events might have been different in the absence of
those ideas and beliefs; understands that change and continuity are equally
probable and natural; knows how to evaluate the credibility and authenticity of
historical sources.
  United States History Standard 16 -- Understands how the rise of corporations,
heavy industry, and mechanized farming transformed American society. Benchmarks:
Understands the development of business in the late 19th century; understands
issues associated with urban growth in the late 19th century; understands
influences on economic conditions in various regions of the country; understands
the factors leading to the conservation movement of the late 19th century;
understands how rapid increase in population and industrial growth in urban
areas influenced the environment.
  Geography Standard 6 -- Understands that culture and experience influence
people's perceptions of places and regions. Benchmark: Knows ways in which
people's changing views of places and regions reflect cultural change.
  Geography Standard 12 -- Understands the patterns of human settlement and
their causes. Benchmarks: Understands how the functions of cities today differ
from those of towns and villages and cities in earlier times; knows the shape of
cities in the United States and factors that influence urban morphology.
  Health Standard 8 -- Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control
of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how the immune system functions to prevent
or combat disease; understands the social, economic, and political effects of
disease on individuals, families, and communities.
  Language Arts Standard 1 -- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and
strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are
focused for different audiences; writes compositions that fulfill different
purposes; writes expository compositions; writes reflective compositions
 Language Arts Standard 8 -- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening
as tools for learning. Benchmark: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich
classroom discussions.


     ·    How Epidemics Helped Shape the Modern Metropolis


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Debates Persist Over Subsidies for Immigrant College Students

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1165 words


Go to college, we urge our children. College is the new high school, and without
an undergraduate degree, they will be doomed to low-earning, second-rate lives.

Yet we send the opposite message to thousands of young people because they have
been brought into this country illegally by their parents, sometimes when they
were toddlers, or remained beyond their visa deadlines. About 65,000 persevere
well enough every year to graduate from high school, according to the
Washington-based Urban Institute, but once they do, we make going to college
hard if not impossible.

Ysaira Paulino was a slim, dark-haired 13-year-old in 1998, when her mother put
her and a younger sister aboard a plane leaving the Dominican Republic. It was
her mother's frank hope that her daughters could blossom in America's public
schools. As a frightened newcomer speaking little English and living sometimes
with an aunt and sometimes with a grandmother, Ysaira weathered eighth grade.

Then, at Lehman High School in the Bronx, she earned a 94 average, making it
into the Arista honor society. Even though she had overstayed her visa, she was
fortunate that she lived in one of 10 states that make illegal immigrants
eligible for the less expensive public college tuition that all state residents
pay. She now has a work permit, and has a petition pending to become a permanent
resident.

But City College of New York's annual tuition and fees of more than $4,000 were
still beyond reach, and as an illegal immigrant, she could not qualify for
federal or state aid or get work-study jobs. Those require Social Security
cards. She had to work off the books as a tutor or translator. Her college debt
proved too much, and midway into her junior year she gave up school to work, a
leave she hopes will end next semester. She eventually wants to apply to law
school.

''I didn't ask to come here, I was brought here,'' said Ms. Paulino, who is now
22. ''With kids like me, you're truncating their future. The jobs you can get
with a high school diploma are at McDonald's.''

The issue of whether illegal immigrants should receive government subsidies has
been debated vigorously by the Republican presidential candidates. On Nov. 28,
Mike Huckabee and Mitt Romney had a sharp exchange over whether illegal
immigrants should pay the same tuition and be eligible for the same
taxpayer-financed scholarships as other state residents.

When Mr. Huckabee explained why he favored such benefits when he was governor of
Arkansas, Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, pounced. ''Mike,
that's not your money, that's the taxpayers' money,'' Mr. Romney said, adding,
''Illegals are not going to get taxpayer-funded breaks that are better than our
own citizens.''

Mr. Huckabee responded, ''In all due respect, we're a better country than to
punish children for what their parents did.''

This verbal scuffle echoed a long-running policy debate. In 1982, the United
States Supreme Court ruled that children brought here by illegal immigrants must
be educated at public expense, saying, ''These children can neither affect their
parents' conduct nor their own undocumented status.'' But the decision stopped
at high school, and in 1996 Congress banned states from offering in-state
college tuition to residents who were illegal immigrants.

Still, 30 state legislatures debated the issue, and 10 found loopholes in the
law, basing a right to in-state tuition on graduation from a state school, not
on residency. Since 2001, California, Texas, Illinois, New York, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, Utah, Washington, Kansas and Nebraska have charged illegal immigrants
the same in-state tuition as other residents so long as they have graduated from
state schools. But three states -- Colorado, Georgia and Arizona -- have
explicitly outlawed such benefits.

In-state tuition is a godsend, because the out-of-state price can be four times
as much, said Carlos Valverde, senior policy specialist for the National
Conference of State Legislatures.

NEVERTHELESS, many students experience the difficulties that Ms. Paulino did
because, except in Texas and New Mexico, it is virtually impossible to receive
state grants without meeting federal eligibility. And for the poorest, paying
in-state tuition may still be unaffordable.

Edmond Coku, who emigrated from Albania as a political refugee in 1994, was the
valedictorian of his high school in Yonkers in 1998, but he despaired that he
could afford college.

Then fortune struck twice.

Richard Berman, president of Manhattanville College, a private campus in
Purchase, N.Y., offered him a full scholarship, and by the time he enrolled he
was granted asylum, which qualified him for government aid. He graduated in
2002, and works as an associate investment banker at Lehman Brothers, but he
remembers his limbo as unsettling. ''There were a lot of things I could have
contributed to this country,'' he said, ''but at the end of the day I wasn't a
legal resident.''

Not far from Manhattanville is Westchester Community College. The landscape
around the school may evoke John Cheever, martini-after-the-train-ride country,
but like the rest of the nation Westchester County has been transformed by
immigration. Of the 12,086 credit-seeking students at the college, 2,300 were
born abroad and, if continuing education students are added, 4,000 students
receive English instruction. Its president, Dr. Joseph N. Hankin, observed that
it is important to help immigrants afford college because they will be needed to
replace retiring baby boomers, and ''you need to make sure they're part of an
educated work force.''

Ramona Hernandez, director of the Dominican Studies Institute at the City
University, said federal law prevented her from hiring undocumented students to
help them pay their tuition.

''I have two Dominicans who have had to drop out,'' she said. ''Their parents
didn't make enough money to pay CUNY tuition.''

A cynic might tell them to find jobs off campus, but as Dr. Hernandez said:
''Who is going to employ an undocumented student? Even the supermarket won't
hire you.''

When illegal immigrants do graduate from college, they still cannot find skilled
jobs except underground. For the undocumented, a Social Security card would
trump a diploma. That's why champions of legalization for the undocumented are
staking their hopes on the stalled federal Dream Act. The bill, an acronym for
Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors, would explicitly grant
illegal immigrants enrolling in college six years of conditional residency that
would enable them to work, drive and possibly be eligible in more states for
in-state tuition. What's better, it would enable a student who completes two
years of college to apply for a permanent resident's green card.

Given how hard two years of college can be, that bill could hardly be considered
an amnesty, particularly since the students were not to blame for their illegal
entry in the first place.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ysaira Paulino, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic,
dropped out of CUNY because of debt, but hopes to return next semester. Edmond
Coku, from Albania, got government aid and is a Manhattanville College graduate.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pseudoscientific Bigotry in France

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 328 words


Immigration issues bring out the worst instincts in politicians who should know
better. Congress showed that earlier this year. Now it is the turn of France's
Parliament. It is moving toward final approval of an ugly new law that would
introduce DNA testing as a potential basis for excluding prospective immigrants
hoping to reunify with family members already living in France.

DNA testing can be a useful tool in establishing criminal guilt or innocence.
But it has no rightful place in immigration law. Modern French families, like
modern American families, are constituted on many bases besides bloodlines and
genetics. This is something most French politicians and voters should be aware
of.

They should also be aware of the cautionary lessons of modern French history.
Under the Nazi occupiers and their Vichy collaborators, pseudoscientific notions
of pure descent were introduced into French law with tragic consequences.

The DNA provision, proposed by a member of Parliament close to President Nicolas
Sarkozy, has been angrily denounced by the center-left opposition, principled
members of the center-right majority and a member of Mr. Sarkozy's cabinet. As a
result, the legislation has been hedged with some cautionary language, but not
enough. Meanwhile, Mr. Sarkozy, who could have intervened to stop this bill at
any point, and still can, has not, and is not very likely to.

Though himself the son of a Hungarian immigrant, Mr. Sarkozy has made his
political name with harsh criticism of more recent immigrants, especially North
African Arabs. His pandering on this issue helped win him votes that used to go
to far-right extremists like the perennial presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le
Pen.

Immigrant bashing is an effective vote-getter. Unfortunately, it leads to bad
laws, bad policies and needless human suffering for the individuals and families
it targets and exploits. Mr. Sarkozy wants to be seen as a statesman. He should
act like one.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York's Fight Over Driver's Licenses

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 389 words


In an effort to make New York's highways safer, Gov. Eliot Spitzer has stepped
in the middle of a bitter national argument about immigration. Opposition to the
governor's plan to issue driver's licenses to illegal immigrants -- from New
York legislators, presidential candidates and even some in the news media -- has
ranged from skeptical warnings to something close to demagoguery. What is
getting lost in all the fury is that Mr. Spitzer's plan is actually a practical
step to make the state and the streets safer.

The nation is badly in need of immigration reform, but that reform must come
from Washington. What governors can do in the meantime is to make the best of a
badly flawed system. In this case, Mr. Spitzer is trying to make certain there
is a safe driver behind the wheel of every car. That is no small matter. More
than 40,000 people die in car crashes in the United States every year, more than
3,000 of them in New York State.

To help lower that toll, Mr. Spitzer recently announced that New York would join
eight other states that do not require licensed drivers to prove that they are
in the country legally. Instead, prospective drivers will need to prove exactly
who they are, that they can drive safely, that they have car insurance, and that
they live in New York State.

Critics of Mr. Spitzer's plan are trying to paint it as a threat to national
security. But as the governor outlined in a speech on Friday, there are
important ways in which the opposite is true. His plan would give faces and
addresses to many of the one million people who are not here legally, who live
in the shadows. It would also make it vastly more difficult for someone to get
more than one license. Richard Clarke, an adviser under the last four
presidents, mostly on national security issues, has said that making driver's
licenses available to immigrants regardless of their legal status would promote
security because ''it is far preferable for the state to know who is living in
it and driving on its roads.''

The frustrations of the plan's critics are understandable, but their quarrel is
with Washington, which continues to avoid addressing the immigration problem
head-on. Mr. Spitzer's proposal for making driver's licenses more broadly
available is a calm injection of reason into a subject that has seen too little
of it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ain't That America

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 626 words


Think of America's greatest historical shames. Most have involved the singling
out of groups of people for abuse. Name a distinguishing feature -- skin color,
religion, nationality, language -- and it's likely that people here have
suffered unjustly for it, either through the freelance hatred of citizens or as
a matter of official government policy.

We are heading down this road again. The country needs to have a working
immigration policy, one that corresponds to economic realities and is based on
good sense and fairness. But it doesn't. It has federal inertia and a rising
immigrant tide, and a national mood of frustration and anxiety that is slipping,
as it has so many times before, into hatred and fear. Hostility for illegal
immigrants falls disproportionately on an entire population of people,
documented or not, who speak Spanish and are working-class or poor. By blinding
the country to solutions, it has harmed us all.

The evidence can be seen in any state or town that has passed constitutionally
dubious laws to deny undocumented immigrants the basics of living, like housing
or the right to gather or to seek work. It's in hot lines for citizens to turn
in neighbors. It's on talk radio and blogs. It's on the campaign trail, where
candidates are pressed to disown moderate positions. And it can be heard nearly
every night on CNN, in the nativist drumming of Lou Dobbs, for whom immigration
is an obsessive cause.

In New York, Gov. Eliot Spitzer has proposed allowing illegal immigrants to earn
driver's licenses. It is a good, practical idea, designed to replace anonymous
drivers with registered competent ones. In show after show, Mr. Dobbs has
trained his biggest guns on Mr. Spitzer, branding him with puerile epithets like
''spoiled, rich-kid brat'' and depicting his policy as some sort of sanctuary
program for the 9/11 hijackers. Someday there may be a calm debate, in Albany
and nationally, about immigrant drivers. But with Mr. Dobbs at the megaphone,
for now there is only histrionics and outrage.

Let's concede an indisputable point: people should not be in the country
illegally. But forget about the border for a moment  --  let's talk about the 12
million who are already here. What should be done about them?

A. Deport them all.

B. Find out who they are. Distinguish between criminals and people who just want
to work. Get them on the books. Make them pay what they owe  -- not just the
income, Social Security, sales and property taxes they already pay, but all
their taxes, and a fine. Get a smooth legal flow of immigrants going, and then
concentrate on catching and deporting bad people.

C. Catch the few you can, and harass and frighten the rest. Treat the entire
group as a de facto class of criminals, and disrupt or shout down anyone or any
plan seen as abetting their evildoing.

Forget A. Congress tried a version of B, but it was flattened by outrage.

And so here we are at C. It's a policy that can't work; it's too small-bore, too
petty, too narrow. And all the while it's not working, it can only lead to the
festering of hate. Americans are a practical and generous people, with a
tolerant streak a mile wide. But there is a combustible strain of nativism in
this country, and it takes only a handful of match tossers to ignite it.

The new demagogues are united in their zeal to uproot the illegal population.
They do not discriminate between criminals and the much larger group of
ambitious strivers. They champion misguided policies, like a mythically airtight
border fence and a reckless campaign of home invasions. And they summon the
worst of America's past by treating a hidden group of vulnerable people as an
enemy to be hated and vanquished, not as part of a problem to be managed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Living Beneath the Surface, Undocumented and Unsure

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words


At last, Moira had a home of her own, her first. She began to set up utility
accounts. The phone company wanted a Social Security number and bank
information. Moira has neither. Like a million or so others in New York, she is
an immigrant without papers. In the map of their world, the routine functions
and ordinary places of everyday life are invisible: A.T.M.'s, credit cards,
automobile insurance.

So they improvise, as Moira did.

She turned to a girlfriend who is a United States citizen, and began with Con
Edison service. ''I had to get this friend to sign up -- her husband is the name
on their account, so she could do it,'' Moira said. ''If for any reason I didn't
pay the bill, it would be on her credit rating.''

Last month, Gov. Eliot Spitzer said he would permit people who could meet
rigorous standards of proof for their identity -- and who could pass a driving
test -- to get licenses to drive, regardless of their immigration status. The
benefits, the governor has argued, would be fewer people on the road without
licenses and insurance, reducing hit-and-run accidents and other burdens imposed
by uninsured drivers. Until 2004, the state routinely gave licenses to people
who did not have legal immigration status.

Mr. Spitzer has met ferocious opposition from people who say this policy will
give dangerous individuals a chance to burrow into society, and broadly rewards
people who have broken immigration laws.

Beyond any doubt, the streets and roads of New York already include many
unlicensed and uninsured drivers. Dave, 28, an electrician living in the Bronx,
has been in the United States for six years, overstaying his visa. He finds
himself behind the wheel of a van at work. ''I don't drive all the time, but
sometimes I have to,'' he said. ''I avoid it if I can, but I can't always. I'm
very afraid that if I got pulled over it would mean a lot of problems.''

The Spitzer administration estimates that expanding the number of licensed
drivers will save $120 million a year in premiums that now cover the costs of
those who are uninsured.

The driver's license fight, though, is about much more than insurance rates or
hit-and-run accidents. It is a proxy for how society deals with undocumented
immigrants. Under the current system, they simply drop beneath the surface of
ordinary life. They do not go away. Both Moira and Dave, whose interviews were
arranged by the Emerald Isle Immigration Center spoke on the condition that
their identities not be disclosed.

''My phone is a pay-as-you-go, buy the minutes ahead of time,'' Dave said. ''I'm
my own A.T.M., -- whatever money I need, I carry with me. I got a computer last
year, nearly $2,000. I went to Best Buy on 86th Street with the cash in my
pocket.''

He has a share in a home with others who are in the country legally, and they
set up the household utilities. ''If I want to move, there's problems about
getting a lease in my name,'' he said.

Moira, 27, who works in a bar in downtown Manhattan, said that when she went
hunting for a place to live, she would leave immediately if she spotted an
application form that included a background and security check.

''I'd say, 'I'm not interested,' '' she said. ''It was very embarrassing. I
don't have a credit record, I don't have credit cards.''

In 1984 and 1985, Nicholas DiMarzio, now the Roman Catholic bishop of Brooklyn,
studied immigrants in the metropolitan area for his doctoral dissertation. This
month, he wrote that the Spitzer proposal -- and its fierce debate -- has a
wider context. There is a demand for the labor provided by immigrants, but no
coherent system for recognizing their presence in society, he said.

''The driver's license is only a symptom of a greater problem of not recognizing
the social calamity we have in our midst,'' Bishop DiMarzio wrote in the
Brooklyn Diocese's newspaper, The Tablet. ''We have allowed persons to enter and
have integrated them into the labor market, but now through sporadic enforcement
of immigration laws we hope that they will leave and no others will come.''

Dave said a chance to have a driver's license would not only end the nervous
minutes at the wheel of his boss's van. It would also, he said, permit him to
function as an adult. ''You're back to being a child because you're relying on
people for different things that you could take care of yourself,'' he said.
''Even general shopping -- you turn a couple of hours into a day.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Chance to Dream

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 370 words


The Senate has a chance today to pluck a small gem from the ashes of the
immigration debate. A critical procedural vote is scheduled on the Dream Act, a
bill to open opportunities for college and military service to the children of
undocumented immigrants.

Roughly 65,000 children graduate each year from high school into a constrained
future because they cannot work legally or qualify for most college aid. These
are the overlooked bystanders to the ferocious bickering over immigration. They
did not ask to be brought here, have worked hard in school and could, given the
chance, hone their talents and become members of the homegrown, high-skilled
American work force.

The bill is one of the least controversial immigration proposals that have been
offered in the last five years. But that doesn't mean much. Like everything else
not directly involving border barricades and punishment, it has been branded as
''amnesty,'' and has languished.

But this bill is different, starting with its broad, bipartisan support, from
its original sponsor, the Utah Republican Orrin Hatch, to its current champion,
Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. Repeated defeats have forced Mr. Durbin to
pare away at the bill's ambitions. It focuses now on a narrow sliver of a worthy
group: children who entered the country before age 16, lived here continuously
for at least five years and can show good moral character and a high school
diploma. They would receive conditional legal status for six years, during which
they could work, go to college and serve in the military. If they completed at
least two years of college or military service, they would be eligible for
legalization.

These young people -- their numbers are estimated at anywhere from a million to
fewer than 100,000 -- are in many ways fully American, but their immigration
status puts a lock on their potential right after high school. They face the
prospect of living in the shadows as their parents do, fearing deportation to
countries they do not know, yearning to educate themselves in a country that
ignores their aspirations.

The Dream Act rejects that unacceptable waste of young talent. The opportunity
is there, provided the votes are there in the Senate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

QUOTATION OF THE DAY

BYLINE: ENRIQUE MORONES,

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


There were Mercedes and Jaguars pulling out, people evacuating, and the migrants
were still working.

ENRIQUE MORONES, who helps immigrants in Southern California, discussing illegal
immigrants left to fend for themselves in the wildfires. [A11]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visa Data to Be Included On Driver's Licenses Again

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 638 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 30


The state will revive the practice of putting visa expiration dates on foreign
visitors' driver's licenses as part of a deal between the Spitzer administration
and the Department of Homeland Security, an official said on Tuesday.

The official, David J. Swarts, the commissioner of the Department of Motor
Vehicles, discussed the change when he was asked about licenses for immigrants
after a demonstration of new facial-recognition and document-scanning technology
that his agency will adopt in the coming months to root out fraud in and
duplication of driver's licenses.

The change follows Gov. Eliot Spitzer's announcement last weekend that he was
revising his much-criticized plan that would have allowed illegal immigrants to
obtain the same licenses as citizens. The state will now move to a new
three-tier driver's license system that complies with forthcoming federal
security rules.

Immigrants' supporters and some lawmakers were already critical of Mr. Spitzer's
deal with federal officials, saying that New York should offer only one kind of
license to all residents, legal or not. Though the reinstatement of the
temporary-visitor stamp will only last through the end of next year, Mr.
Spitzer's latest decision drew further anger.

''This is like giving away the store,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director
of the New York Immigration Coalition.

The expiration dates were originally noted on drivers' licenses under a policy
instituted under former governor George E. Pataki in 2004, when the Department
of Motor Vehicles began putting ''temporary visitor'' marks on licenses issued
to individuals with temporary visas, along with the date that those visas
expired. Immigrants' advocates criticized the policy, saying that it encouraged
discrimination even against legal immigrants and led to confusion about whether
the licenses themselves were valid.

Mr. Spitzer ended the Pataki-era practice after his initial announcement on
Sept. 21  that illegal immigrants would be allowed to obtain licenses beginning
as early as December. At the time, the administration seemed to agree with the
advocates, saying that the marking was pejorative and, in any case, would become
superfluous when the new licensing policy went into effect later this year.

But under the deal struck last week with federal officials, New York will offer
three  types of licenses, including one that will meet new federal security
standards,  available only to citizens and legal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants will be able to get a different license, which would not be
valid for air travel or for entering federal buildings. But such licenses will
not be issued until the broader licensing plan goes into effect at the end of
2008. A third type of license will be available to only United States citizens
who are New York State residents, which will be valid for crossing the Canadian
border.

Because the whole program had been delayed, said Jennifer Givner, a spokeswoman
for the governor, the administration had decided to delay the cancellation of
the ''temporary visitor'' stamps.

''Given the announcement this weekend, and the idea to move toward three types
of licenses, and delaying the implementation for one year, it's in the best
interest of safety to maintain the label,'' she said.

Ms. Hong said the change would seriously inconvenience immigrants. She also said
the stamps wrongly linked driving privileges with immigration status, something
that Mr. Spitzer has rejected.

The stamps will not appear on standard licenses issued after 2008. Instead,
those licenses, which will be available to citizens and illegal immigrants,
will be marked ''not valid for federal purposes.''

The temporary visitor stamp will still be used on licenses good for federal
identification purposes that are issued to legal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David J. Swarts, left, the commissioner of motor vehicles,
discussed the state's plan to resume putting visa-expiration information on
driver's licenses. With him yesterday was Michael A. L. Balboni, the governor's
deputy secretary for public safety.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Help Wanted

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 462 words


Congress has finally pried open America's door to Iraqis and Afghans who have
served this country at great risk. Congress needs to go a lot further, adding
more visa slots and approving resettlement benefits that would allow these
people to grab the lifeline the United States has been far too slow to offer.

Translators, interpreters and thousands of others have aided American troops and
diplomats -- and have become targets for militants. Under current American law,
500 Iraqis and Afghans per year who have worked for the United States armed
forces for a year, may obtain special immigrant visas.

Those numbers are shamefully low. And even those who do get visas often don't
have the many thousands of dollars they need to make the move. Immigrants who
arrive as refugees are eligible for travel loans and resettlement and housing
assistance. The Iraqis and Afghans arriving under these special visas are not.
The costs -- including special passport and visa fees, living expenses in Jordan
while security interviews are conducted, airfare and three months of living
expenses here -- are a staggering $18,000 to $20,000 for a family of four.

Jason Faler, an Army captain from Oregon, is trying to make up for the American
government's neglect. Mr. Faler's Iraqi interpreter decided to flee the country
after his house was burned to the ground and one of his colleagues was kidnapped
and murdered. The killers took the dead man's cellphone and called Mr. Faler's
interpreter, telling him: ''You're next.''

The interpreter, his wife and three children managed to make it to the United
States, but it took much of their money. They have been living in the finished
basement of Mr. Faler's parents' house for a month, and Mr. Faler has
established a foundation (www.cponefoundation.org) to help defray the costs and
help others escape. So far, he's raised less than $5,000.

Private efforts are immensely laudable, but this is a government responsibility.
Some lawmakers seem to be waking up to that. The Senate last week approved an
amendment to the labor, health and human services appropriations bill that would
grant Iraqi and Afghan interpreters and translators the same relocation benefits
as refugees for six months. Conferees are negotiating a final bill this week,
and it would be a travesty if they dropped this aid.

Congress should also pass a bill sponsored by Republican Gordon Smith and
Democrat Edward Kennedy that would raise the number of special immigrant visas
available for Iraqis and Afghans who have worked for the United States from 500
to 5,000 a year for the next five years. The bill would also streamline what is
now a tortuous process. This country owes this and more to the men and women who
have risked their lives to help Americans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Streets Aren't Paved With Gold, but There's Plenty Below

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 604 words


''I came to New York because I heard the streets were paved with gold,'' the
19th-century immigrant lament began. ''When I got here, I learned three things:
The streets are not paved with gold. They are not paved at all. I am expected to
pave them.''

Today, New York's streets are more or less paved. They serve not only as heavily
traversed thoroughfares for vehicles and pedestrians but also as canopies over
chasmic trenches and tunnels gouged for subways, sewers and utility conduits.
But what most New Yorkers don't know is that while the streets are paved mostly
with asphalt, there may be more gold beneath them than any place else on earth.

People typically associate mountains of gold with Fort Knox, in Kentucky. But
the government's reserves there are chump change compared with the gold bars
stored at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in Lower Manhattan; that
fortresslike castle calls itself the world's largest public or private bullion
warehouse and serves as the guardian for the gold of foreign countries, central
banks and international organizations. (It's the hoard that Bruce Willis wages a
bloody battle over with Jeremy Irons in the film ''Die Hard With a Vengeance.'')

As of last week, the Fed's deep basement vaults held about 550,000 400-ounce
gold bars. With the price of gold verging toward $800 an ounce, they are worth
about $170 billion.

But for all its fame, the Federal Reserve is not the only such depository in New
York. There are several other warehouses, smaller and more anonymous. The next
biggest after the one beneath the Federal Reserve is in the subbasement of a
nondescript office building across 40th Street from the New York Public Library
on Fifth Avenue.

There is no name, just the address, on the entrance to the part of building
holding the gold, which is on West 39th Street.  It adjoins a tightly shuttered
truck bay. Five security cameras peer down on passers-by.

''Just offices,'' a guard in the tiny lobby replied, when asked what was inside.

The owner of the depository, HSBC, politely declined any comment on what was
behind the door on 39th Street. But the Comex, the New York Mercantile Exchange
subsidiary that trades gold and silver, describes the site as its biggest of
several gold depositories in New York. Futures contracts for precious metals are
bought and sold all the time, although most of the 35-ounce and 100-ounce bars
stay put at the depository. The gold and silver belong to people or firms
trading futures contracts on the exchange.

At the current record-setting prices, the Comex's 5.2-million-ounce inventory in
the Midtown vault is worth about $4 billion. The vault also holds nearly $1
billion in silver.

''Everything we have is in New York City,'' said William C. Purpura, senior vice
president of the Comex.

Why keep precious metal in the middle of Manhattan?

Mr. Purpura said the exchange requires that depositories have sufficient
financial resources and adequate security and insurance, and that they be within
150 miles of Manhattan. And while storing the trove under a mountain in Montana
might sound safer, he observed that after 9/11, all of the $110 million worth of
gold bullion that was buried in the collapse of 4 World Trade Center in 2001 was
recovered.

So anybody hoping to discover a New York City street paved with gold will have
to settle for zinc and copper.

Common Cents, a nonprofit group that gives grants to neighborhood organizations,
just started its 17th annual penny harvest in New York City schools. It is
planning to cover one block of Rockefeller Plaza in December with 100 million
pennies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illinois: Immigrants Arrested at O'hare

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 98 words


Nearly two dozen illegal immigrants were arrested, accused of using fake
security badges to work in critical areas of O'Hare International Airport in
Chicago, the authorities said. The 23 workers were employed by Ideal Staffing
Solutions Inc., whose corporate secretary and office manager were also arrested
after an eight-month investigation that involved federal, state and Chicago
authorities. The company contracted work for carriers including United Airlines,
KLM and Qantas, said Elissa A. Brown, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agent. The workers are from Mexico and Guatemala.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Denmark's Unabashed Lightning Rod on Immigration

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1258 words

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN


KAREN JESPERSEN is so new to her job as Denmark's minister of social affairs
that she felt compelled to apologize to a visitor that she could not identify
the painter of the canvases hanging in her offices, because she still has her
predecessor's furnishings. It was a rare admission, for Ms. Jespersen does not
often apologize.

Since her appointment to the post in September, she has emerged as a stalwart
defender of a country's right to require immigrants to accept its basic values
and, inevitably, a lightning rod in Europe's continuing debate over immigration.
And for a onetime student leftist, prominent journalist and former official with
the Social Democratic Party, her new role in the conservative  government of
Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen represents the latest step in a remarkable
personal odyssey.

Ms. Jespersen's defenders say that, sooner than most here, she had read
Scandinavia's discomfort with immigration laws that overburdened schools and
social programs, and even threatened law and order. But her opponents cast her
as an opportunist.

''I think that Karen Jespersen chose to leave the Social Democrats when she eyed
a chance to gain influence and become a minister in the right-wing government by
speaking against the party and the government she was part of,'' said Henrik Dam
Kristensen, a spokesman for the Social Democrats.

Ms. Jespersen disagrees, of course, arguing that her migration from left to
right grew primarily out of her concern about the impact of immigration on
Denmark. ''I think immigration is a benefit for society,'' she said. ''But you
have to be very cautious in dealing with it, to keep your basic values.''

Most Danes favor immigration, she said, but refuse to surrender the achievements
of their society. ''We will keep the equality of men and women and freedom of
speech.'' Like most of northern Europe, Denmark has been in a quandary over
immigration, notably from Muslim countries. In 2004, the Dutch film director
Theo van Gogh, who made a short film critical of the treatment of Muslim women,
was shot and knifed to death on an Amsterdam street. A year later, the Danish
daily newspaper Jyllands-Posten published cartoons that depicted the Prophet
Muhammad in an unflattering light,  setting off violent protests throughout the
Muslim world.

In September, several Danish cities offered asylum to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a former
member of the Dutch Parliament and collaborator of Mr. van Gogh. She had fled to
the United States after receiving death threats from Muslim groups but returned
to Europe recently, after the Dutch government refused to pay for her protection
in the United States. She declined the Danish offers and said she intended to go
back to Washington.

MS. JESPERSEN is hard to label. At 60, she is a veteran of 1960s counterculture
struggles, a women's rights advocate, a skilled politician who has sat in
Denmark's Parliament and has been a minister in Social Democratic governments.

The conservatives, who are expected to retain power in parliamentary elections
on Nov. 13, regard her as someone who lends validity to their restrictive
immigration laws. The Social Democrats, while denouncing her, realize that her
Saul-to-Paul shift reflects in some way the state of the Danish soul, torn
between traditional values of tolerance and fear that unrestrained immigration
will somehow tear apart the national fabric.

Unlike many in the party she represents, Ms. Jespersen did not come from
privilege. Her parents divorced early, and she was raised by her mother, who ran
a food store. Ms. Jespersen says she was deeply influenced by her mother, who
she said had ''little education, but was a hard worker, and for her, justice was
a strong word.''

''I had a strong connection to the values I received from her: equality,
responsibility.''

After studying history and archaeology at Copenhagen University, she followed
her passion for social justice into politics, writing for a leftist political
journal that set her on a path to a career in journalism, first for an academic
journal and later for Danish television, where in the 1980s she earned a
reputation as an astute interviewer.

Danish newspapers, admiring her aggressiveness, called her ''the smiling
killer.''

She met the man she would marry, Ralf Pittelkow, when they were both leftist
students in the early 1970s. Before that, Ms. Jespersen had lived as a squatter
with other feminist students. She moved into a commune with Mr. Pittelkow, who
would later alternate between academia -- teaching literature -- and politics,
where he became an adviser in the 1990s to the Social Democratic prime minister,
Poul Nyrup Rasmussen.

Ms. Jespersen also rose through the ranks of the Social Democrats, winning a
seat in Parliament in 1990 and serving as interior minister and social affairs
minister later in the decade. By 2001, she was out of government, and by 2004,
at the Social Democrats' annual conference, she broke with the party over
immigration.

''I gave a speech about Turkey,'' she said. ''I was against Turkey becoming a
full member of the European Union. I don't think we can cope with it. It's a
very large country, with very different values. I said we should at least have a
referendum, that there would be a great migration.''

Her role in immigration issues grew, even after the collapse in 2001 of the
leftist government and its replacement by the current government. In October
2004 a lecturer at Copenhagen University was beaten by a gang of Muslims who
accused him of having read parts of the Koran to non-Muslim students.

In 2005, Jyllands-Posten, which by then had hired Mr. Pittelkow as a columnist,
published the Muhammad cartoons. In response to the reaction in the Islamic
world, Mr. Pittelkow and Ms. Jespersen published a book, titled ''Islamists and
the Naive,'' in which they went so far as to assert that some qualities of Islam
could also be found in Nazism and Communism. It became a best seller.

THE book did not equate the movements, she said, ''but they had in common that
one truth was in the world, and that one truth goes deeply into your private
life.'' She added, ''Not all Muslims are reading the Koran in that sense, but
those who interpret it this way are growing fast, in organizations like Hamas
and Hezbollah, though I am convinced we can isolate them.''

She said, ''I think we are letting down freedom-loving Muslims if we are not
fighting the radical Islamists.''

In addition to sharply limiting immigration, the current government has enacted
laws to prevent honor killings, which still occur in Muslim families. If a
teenager is ordered to perform such a killing to avenge the honor of a female
relative, she said,  parents and even uncles and aunts are held liable.

Ms. Jespersen denies that her transformation represents a betrayal of principle.
''My core values are the same,'' she said. ''I thought there was room for my
core values in Social Democracy, but I find there is more room among the
conservatives.''

Fully half of the students of immigrant background in Denmark leave school
without a diploma, she said. ''I was called a right-winger, but I said we are
letting children down who have a weak background.''

''I see a bounce back to my youth,'' she went on. ''People say, 'What a long
journey you've made.' And I say, 'I don't look at it in that way.'''

Her husband, Mr. Pittelkow, agrees. ''Her mother had a big influence on her,''
he said. ''And her mother had a saying, 'Behave yourself, but don't put up with
anything.'''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKOB DALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Resource for the 'Other Westchester'

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI.

E-mail: westweek@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: Valhalla


IN most ways, it was a typical groundbreaking ceremony, with local dignitaries
in hard hats posing with shiny new shovels. The speeches, the posing for
pictures,  were all de rigueur.

But while they were there to hail  the beginning of construction of Westchester
Community College's Gateway Center, designed primarily to serve the county's
immigrant population,  the ceremony  symbolized more than a new building. It
also reflects the county's rapidly changing face.

There's no shortage of debate about immigration today, but you can't argue with
the demographic facts. Hispanics make up  15.6 percent of Westchester's
population.  In Port Chester and Sleepy Hollow, almost half the residents are
Hispanic, while in Mount Kisco and Elmsford, a quarter are.  Immigrants
represent one fifth or more of the residents in the cities of Yonkers, White
Plains, Peekskill and New Rochelle.

These numbers are based on the 2000 census; they will surely rise in 2010, in
the next census. They also reflect only Hispanic residents living here; people
from countries outside Latin America flock to Westchester, too. Twenty-two of
every 100  Westchester residents  were born in another country.

How many are documented, and how many are not? The federal, state and county
governments cannot give you an accurate answer; neither can I.  One thing
certain is that while immigration law is federal policy, there isn't an aspect
of life in this county that remains unaffected by it, including schools,
hospitals, shelters and law enforcement.

Immigration affects  the community college as much as any other local
institution, if not more. The college teaches more than 4,000 students English
as a second language; classrooms are overflowing, and parking lots are jammed on
weekends. The college also offers English classes at many of its extension
centers, including in Ossining, Port Chester, New Rochelle and Yonkers.

The college has long had a policy of ''don't ask, don't tell'' when it comes to
undocumented immigrants, said Joseph N. Hankin,  president of the college. He
believes the new center, which is meant to provide immigrants with a
comprehensive opportunity to learn about America's language, history, economy
and social make-up, is in keeping with the school's mission.

''There are two Westchesters,'' he said. ''There is the one homogeneously
affluent stereotype, and the other is that there is a large group of individuals
who are not being educated. We serve and intend to serve the other Westchester,
the one where students wouldn't go on to college if it weren't for us.''

The center's Language Institute will offer academic content, so  anyone studying
English can at the same time learn computer language. All the college's academic
business programs will be housed at Gateway, as well as a professional
development center that will serve businesses and students.

There will be space for volunteers to help immigrants practice language skills.
Services will be offered for  students interested in becoming citizens or
permanent residents. The center also hopes to become a clearinghouse for the
many local organizations now working with immigrants.

Isabel Villar, executive director of El Centro Hispano in White Plains, which
helps immigrant families, looks forward to working with the center. ''I arrived
here without any knowledge of English,'' said Ms. Villar, a native of Cuba.
''I'm grateful the college has the vision to fight for the most crucial gift
anyone can give: an education.''

Demographic trends made the project a natural, Dr. Hankin said. Not only is
there a swell of immigration, but  as baby boomers retire, the  need for a
trained workforce will expand. ''Wayne Gretzky said, 'You don't skate to where
the puck is; you skate to where it's going to be,''' Dr. Hankin said.

New York State has committed $17 million for the building, the county has
pledged $14 million, and $9 million has been raised from private sources. The
county executive, Andrew J. Spano, was one of the shovel-wielding dignitaries.
His administration, of course, deals with the fallout from federal immigration
law at nearly every level.

''We've got 750 people on probation who are illegal immigrants; 235 are
felons,'' Mr. Spano said. ''I can't get rid of them. So what am I going to do
with someone who wants to work? We're going to help. A sick kid who comes into a
clinic? We're going to help. Someone who wants an education? We're going to help
them. We can't solve the immigration problem, so I've chosen to help manage
it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY POLSHEK PARTNERSHIP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Driving School Students Wait Out the Governor

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN and ELIAS E. LOPEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1144 words


The M-Punctual driving school, a gray-carpeted shoe box of an office on a side
street in Kensington, Brooklyn, has been a bit livelier in recent weeks. More
immigrants with questionable documents, or no documents, every one of them a
potential customer, have been inquiring about the governor's driver's license
proposal.

''For us, it is a great thing,'' said Faina Aynbinder, who manages the office
and also sells car insurance.

Her paean to the forces of opportunity and open markets was cut off by her
colleague, Yefim Shpatserman.

''Wait a minute,'' Mr. Shpatserman said. ''I explain. It's different. Now they
propose separate license for illegal immigrants.''

A lively debate in Russian followed, by the end of which nothing seemed to have
been settled.

''I tell you,'' said Mr. Shpatserman, a Ukrainian immigrant who runs a
truck-driving school out of the office, ''in my view, it's not good. If you have
this license, the police pull you over, immediately they check you.''

And so it goes, back and forth, all around the city. If the governor's shifting
plan to let illegal immigrants get driver's licenses has sown chaos and
controversy among politicians and advocates on all sides of the immigration
debate, things are just as uncertain among those who would be most directly
affected: immigrants looking for a chance to drive, and the small driving
schools that depend on their business.

The schools are fixtures in many immigrant neighborhoods, often doing a side
business in tax preparation, translation or other services for those seeking to
make their way as Americans. Since Gov. Eliot Spitzer offered, then scaled back,
his proposal, the driving schools have dealt with a steady stream of calls
asking for hopeful news. (On Friday, the governor indicated that he had not
ruled out disposing of the plan altogether.) The answer to most of the
questions, so far, is ''We don't know.''

''I tell them, there's been no newsletter, no communication, they just have to
wait,'' said Mohammad Iqbal, the owner of Al Noor Auto Driving School, a few
blocks from the M-Punctual school.

Mr. Iqbal, whose sign on Foster Avenue advertises incorporation forms, notary
services and typing as well as the standard packages of behind-the-wheel lessons
and instruction for the written test, said he was not even sure if an
easier-to-get license was a good idea.

''Of course it'll be good from a business point of view,'' said Mr. Iqbal, whose
customers are from Pakistan, India and Eastern Europe, among other places. ''And
I understand the advantages: Now we can identify a person -- if someone is
living here with no ID, then we know who he is. But we have to make sure these
IDs would not be abused. If they're lenient about issuing them, one person can
have multiple licenses.''

Mr. Iqbal said that before 9/11, customers who failed the driving test would
sometimes return a few weeks later using a different identity. That does not
happen anymore, he said. Mr. Iqbal, like the other driving school operators,
said he accepted people for lessons only if their papers looked legitimate.

Henry Chavez, a legal immigrant from Mexico and a student at Julian's Auto
Driving School in Corona, Queens, said that some of his relatives who were in
New York illegally were divided on the latest version of the governor's plan.
That plan would create a license valid only for driving, not for identification
at places like airports, that would be available to all New Yorkers, including
those without immigration papers.

Mr. Chavez said his cousin Pablo would rather not risk the scrutiny that holding
Mr. Spitzer's limited license might expose him to. ''He'd rather stay as he is
now,'' said Mr. Chavez, 21. ''He doesn't want to be in a government database.''

Mr. Chavez said his cousin Araceli, on the other hand, might be willing to get
the new license.

''She wants to drive,'' he said. ''Her dream is to take a road trip across the
50 states.''

Much of the confusion around Mr. Spitzer's plan is understandable. Even if it
survives the national political firestorm it has created, it would not take
effect until the end of next year at the earliest, and its details might change.
As they stand now, they are fairly complicated.

Mr. Spitzer's initial plan, announced in September, was to reverse a 2004 state
policy requiring driver's license applicants to show proof of legal immigration
status. That plan was withdrawn under pressure from the federal government and
critics. The new plan, unveiled late last month, would create three classes of
licenses.

The two highest levels would require proof of citizenship or legal immigration
status and would be valid forms of federal identification, meaning they could be
used to board domestic flights or to enter federal buildings. The third,
''basic'' level would be valid for driving but stamped ''Not for United States
Government Purposes.''

Officials in the Spitzer administration say that plenty of legal residents and
citizens might choose the basic license because it might be somewhat cheaper and
easier to obtain. A driver who already has a passport to board a plane would not
need the federally valid license, the administration officials say.

At the M-Punctual school, Mr. Shpatserman said he doubted anyone who could
qualify for a higher-level license would intentionally choose a lower one that
could draw scrutiny.

''If you're a regular person,'' he said, ''you're not going to want to obtain a
cheap license if it can cause you problems in the future.''

But Ms. Aynbinder said that a license with drawbacks was better than having no
chance of getting a license at all.

''I have a lot of people, Mexican people, Ukraine people, who would want to get
a license to work,'' she said. If the limited license were offered, she added,
''it's their business to do it or not to do it. It's up to them if they want to
take it.''

On Roosevelt Avenue in Queens, several school operators said they would like to
see a workable plan, even if they disagreed on what the end product should be.
At Julian's Auto Driving School, under the tracks of the No. 7 train between a
record store and a shuttered Mexican restaurant, the owner said he was already
shopping for more double-pedal training cars.

A few blocks away at the Pozo-Cohen insurance agency, Helen Jenny Pozo said that
even a limited license would mean fewer untrained drivers taking to New York
City's challenging streets. ''I think you need a big red stamp,'' she said.
''Not valid ID, for driving purposes only. That would be fine.''

Outside her office, a black Honda with a green ''student driver'' sign pulled
over. The student, Luis Suarez, a legal immigrant from Lima, Peru, hopped out
one side. His instructor, Jorge W. Villarruel, hopped out the other.

''He's getting there,'' Mr. Villarruel said. ''He needs more practice.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mohammad Iqbal, the owner, and Sameena Kausan helping a
customer at Al Noor Auto. At the M-Punctual driving school in Kensington,
Brooklyn, right, managers say they have seen more would-be customers with
questionable documents, or none at all.
 Driving schools like Al Noor Auto, on Foster Avenue in Brooklyn, have become
fixtures in immigrant neighborhoods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not From Here: An Opera for Houston's Immigrants

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 11


With brickbats flying over border issues, the Houston Grand Opera put
immigration center stage this weekend in a dramatic outreach to the more than 1
million foreign-born residents here in the nation's fourth largest city.

The musical and civic event was ''The Refuge,'' the company's 36th world
premiere and a commission celebrating not only the 20th anniversary of its
Wortham Theater Center  but also Houston, where more than one out of five people
''are not from here,'' in a signature phrase of the new work.

In an elegiac finale, the singers, including five young Congolese brothers new
to the opera stage, proclaim: ''We are you. Our stories are your stories.''

Dramatic oratorio, musical drama, opera verite or some new synthesis, performed
against a stark backdrop of shifting photo portraits, the collaboration by the
award-winning composer Christopher Theofanidis and the librettist Leah Lax,  a
Houston writer, drew standing ovations and bravos at its two performances on
Saturday. (It is scheduled for two more performances in May at the Miller
Outdoor Theater here. )

The 90-minute work proceeds without intermission through seven tableaus in which
the company's regular soloists, choristers and orchestra, joined by non-Western
musicians and some of the immigrants themselves, recount the ordeals that
brought people here from Africa, Vietnam, Mexico, Pakistan, India, the former
Soviet Union and Central America. They are heard speaking their own words as
tape-recorded by Ms. Lax in hundreds of interviews.

Some clearly came illegally, but the work is apolitical, said Ms. Lax, 51.
''There's no judgments,'' she said, ''just real people telling their story.''

Mr. Theofanidis, 39, agreed. ''My main goal is to delight, connect with the
humanistic impulse,'' he said.

As the debut production of Song of Houston, a broad effort to bind the
innovative 52-year-old Houston Grand Opera to the community through a series of
cultural events, Saturday's performances, including a free matinee, attracted
many first-time operagoers,  some in native dress.

One was Marie Ndoole Mukule, who fled Congo and now works for a dental
instruments company in Houston. She had five sons singing in ''The Refuge,'' and
a sixth, Ezechiel, 7, was eager to follow suit. ''I want to be a singer,'' he
said.

Anthony Freud, the opera company's general director and a former director of the
Welsh National Opera, welcomed immigrants from the stage. ''You are a true
inspiration to us all,'' said Mr. Freud, who commissioned the work shortly after
joining the company  last year, replacing David Gockley, its director for 25
years.

Mayor Bill White, who was just re-elected to a third and final two-year-term and
had helped the opera company connect with immigrant groups, hailed the effort
''for putting the mirror of art to this great community.''

Houston is one of the nation's most diverse cities, behind only Miami, Los
Angeles and New York in foreign-born population, with nearly 22 percent. It also
became a major resettlement center after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005,
receiving an influx of a quarter-million uprooted people, although their stories
are not part of the production.

''The Refuge'' grew out of a 2006 dinner Mr. Freud had with an opera patron who
recounted the grim tale of a Salvadoran refugee she knew. Mr. Freud said it
opened his eyes to a way of engaging a potential audience to whom, he said,
''opera has been completely irrelevant  --  until now.''

Mr. Theofanidis, the composer of widely performed orchestral works including
''Rainbow Body'' and winner of the Rome Prize, a Guggenheim Fellowship and other
awards, had an emotional tie to the project: His father, also a musician, came
from Greece.

Ms. Lax, whose grandparents emigrated from Eastern Europe, was known for her
collaboration with the photographer Janice Rubin on ''The Mikvah Project,'' a
book and traveling exhibition exploring the intimate world of the Jewish ritual
bath for women. Ms. Rubin contributed the photo portraits for ''The Refuge.''

At first Ms. Lax had trouble getting immigrants to put aside their suspicions
and speak freely. But she was able to assemble a 150-page manuscript filled with
what she called ''zingers,''  as when one of the Mukule boys declared: ''No, we
don't miss Africa! Just all the time we want to sing our songs!''

The Salvadoran woman, Eva, whose tale inspired Mr. Freud to commission ''The
Refuge,'' flees home after a gang murders her mother and one of the robbers
rapes her. She is smuggled into the United States and sends for her young son,
who is transported to the border hanging onto the undercarriage of an
18-wheeler. But the smugglers betray the child to the Border Patrol, and Eva is
lured out of hiding to claim him.

Rebekah Camm, a company soprano, sings Eva's response. She may be deported, but
she will return. ''I can do this,'' she vows, ''because I know how.''

''The Refuge'' ends with the chorus singing, ''Walking, walking, day and
night,'' and concludes with a cry of triumph: ''We are here now too.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher Theofanidis, composer of ''The Refuge''
Julie Trinh Dang with a 16-string Vietnamese dan tranh. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL
STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E8)
 A group of Congolese immigrant singers rehearsing ''The Refuge,'' at Houston
Grand Opera. The work recounts the immigrants' stories in their own words.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Governor in His Labyrinth

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 597 words


When Gov. Eliot Spitzer dropped his proposal to make driver's licenses available
to undocumented immigrants yesterday, he sowed disappointment and anger among
many of his supporters -- who felt, rightly, that they had been left holding the
bag. His original plan to make highways safer and the state more secure was the
right idea. But New York's embattled governor did not handle it properly, first
waffling on his principles under pressure from the Bush administration, and then
slowly recognizing that he was endangering the rest of his agenda by knocking
over the hornet's nest that is the nation's immigration debate.

If this debacle looks like a national smackdown for this governor, it is.
However, it could also provide a very hard lesson for a very high-octane
politician. Mr. Spitzer can either figure out how to operate the governor's
office more skillfully for the next three years, or he can fail in his vital
mission to reform and restart New York State.

The governor, whose poll numbers have gone from atmospheric to dismal, stands in
a long line of politicians whose first terms often made them look like losers.
Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who this year was touted as presidential material, did
so poorly in the polls early on that many people figured wrongly that even a
billionaire couldn't buy a second term. After the mayor raised property taxes
and whined about going to funerals after the 9/11 attacks, his polls dropped
even lower than Mr. Spitzer's are now.

President Clinton was barely inaugurated the first time around when commentators
listed him as a political goner. Whatever he proposed in those early months, the
news was about his suggestions for keeping gays in the military, and later his
idea of an energy tax, which he advanced and then withdrew much the way Mr.
Spitzer has done on driver's licenses. Democrats who supported Mr. Clinton -- at
considerable political risk -- were furious and slow to give him back their
trust.

So, if history offers any lessons, it is that the test of this still-green
governor is not how deep a hole he has dug for himself in his first year in
office. It is whether he can figure out how to climb out of it.

Mr. Spitzer was elected by a sizable margin because New Yorkers wanted change in
Albany. He came into office wielding that margin like an ax, moving ahead on
education funding, health care and economic reform. Now, with little of that
support remaining, he will need to move more pragmatically and diplomatically.

Part of the challenge is style, clearly. As one Spitzer supporter put it
recently, it probably doesn't help the governor to assume battle-readiness every
time an outsider walks into his office. Albany is full of politicians who would
do anything to stop reform and to denigrate reformers like the governor, but
there are plenty of politicians and regular people who simply disagree and want
to be heard.

Going forward, the governor needs to find wise voices and listen carefully to
their counsel. They should not change his mission, of course, but refine his
methods. And they should offer counterarguments, not help for his debating
skills, which are already formidable. The idea would be to help Mr. Spitzer
figure out in advance whether his instincts or timing are off. The governor
deserves a brain trust in the manner of one of his predecessors, Franklin Delano
Roosevelt.

Finally, Governor Spitzer needs to return to ground, to reconnect with the
people who elected him. A speaking tour reminding people why they wanted him
there might help. A listening tour could be even better.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

After a Death, Use of Taser In Canada Is Debated

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 15


A video recording showing an emotionally wrought immigrant dying after being hit
with a police Taser at an airport last month has touched off a fierce debate in
Canada on police actions in the case and the rules governing use of the weapon.

The 10-minute recording, which was widely broadcast Wednesday night, was made
last month by another passenger and initially seized by the police. It shows a
Polish immigrant, Robert Dziekanski, being hit just 46 seconds after four
members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police arrived to subdue him at the
airport in Vancouver, British Columbia. The recording also supports accounts
from witnesses who said the police officers did not appear to be in danger when
the weapon was fired at least twice.

Mr. Dziekanski was the 18th person to die since July 2003 after being hit by a
Taser in Canada, a country where the weapons may be owned only by police forces.
Amnesty International estimates that in the United States, a country with
roughly nine times the population of Canada, 280 people have died after being
struck by police Tasers since 2001. Tasers can also be used by civilians in many
states.

Alex Neve, the secretary general of Amnesty International in Canada, which has
called for a suspension of Taser use, said, ''There is a very good likelihood
that the Taser was used well before the situation called for it.''

The federal minister for public safety, Stockwell Day, said in Parliament on
Wednesday that he had ordered a review of the police use of Tasers in Canada
shortly after Mr. Dziekanski's death.

Mr. Dziekanski, a 40-year-old construction worker, arrived in Vancouver on Oct.
14 to begin a new life with his mother. After a 10-hour delay caused by
immigration processing, Mr. Dziekanski became upset when he could not find his
mother, Zofia Cisowski, who waited several hours before returning to her home in
Kamloops, British Columbia, under the mistaken impression that her son had not
arrived in Canada.

Unable to speak English, Mr. Dziekanski became distressed and began shouting in
Polish, moving furniture around, shoving a computer off a desk in an arrival
area and, at one point, throwing a chair. His actions soon attracted the
attention of other passengers and security officials.

The recording shows that when airport security officials first appeared,
passengers could be heard shouting to them that Mr. Dziekanski did not
understand English.

Moments later, four members of the Mounties arrive in the waiting area wearing
bulletproof vests. Mr. Dziekanski repeatedly shouted either the Polish word for
''help'' or ''police,'' which sound similar, before walking away with his arms
raised in the air. There was a brief conversation followed by a loud sound,
apparently a Taser shot, and Mr. Dziekanski fell to the ground screaming in
pain.

The recording captured what appeared to be a second Taser shot as three officers
piled onto Mr. Dziekanski to subdue him. One minute and eight seconds after the
police arrived, Mr. Dziekanski appeared to have stopped moving, and the
recording ended shortly afterward.

An autopsy showed no evidence of alcohol or drugs in his system, but was unable
to determine a cause of death.

The Polish government has sent two lawyers to Vancouver to investigate the death
and raised the issue with Canadian officials and diplomats. After watching the
recording, Piotr Ogrodzinski, the Polish ambassador to Canada, said he found the
use of a Taser on Mr. Dziekanski to be excessive.

''He was desperately in search of assistance or help,'' Mr. Ogrodzinski said.
''He did break a computer and throw a stool, but there was no gesture suggesting
that he intended to fight anybody. Here was a very helpless person, a
disoriented person.''

When the police seized the recording at the airport from Paul Pritchard, who was
returning home to Victoria, British Columbia, they characterized it as an
important piece of evidence. Mr. Pritchard recovered the recording after
threatening legal action and it was released it to the news media late
Wednesday.

A spokesman for the Mounties, Cpl. Dale Carr, said, ''It's just one piece of
evidence, one person's view.''

A coroner's inquest, which will not determine legal fault, has been ordered for
the case. Some critics of the police are calling for criminal charges against
the police officers.

The case is being reviewed by an independent commission that investigates
complaints about the Mounties.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Dziekanski lying on the floor in this image from a video
taken at the airport in Vancouver, British Columbia, on Oct. 14. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PAUL PRITCHARD VIA REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canada Rebuffs 2 U.S. Deserters

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 157 words


OTTAWA, Nov. 15 -- Two United States Army deserters now face being ejected from
Canada after the Supreme Court of Canada said Thursday that it would not hear an
appeal of their unsuccessful claims for refugee status.

The two men, Jeremy Hinzman and Brandon Hughey, came to Canada and applied for
refugee status in 2004 after learning that they would be deployed to Iraq.

At an immigration hearing in 2005, Mr. Hinzman, a paratrooper in the Army from
Rapid City, S.D., said he opposed the war on moral grounds and contended that
the United States' military actions in Iraq violated international  laws. Mr.
Hughey, from San Angelo, Tex., also had a hearing in 2005.

Both men face court-martial hearings and possible imprisonment if they are
returned to the United States.

The court's decision means that they will be able to stay in Canada only if they
can obtain a special permit from Canada's immigration minister, a remote
prospect.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 543 words


INTERNATIONAL3-20

Worry Over Pakistani Arms

The United States has spent almost $100 million in an effort to beef up
Pakistan's nuclear security, officials say. But there is growing concern that
Pakistan's reluctance to reveal details about its arsenal has undercut the
effort. 1

The unlikely partnership between President Bush and Gen. Pervez Musharraf has
been shaken by the general's recent seizing of emergency powers. 20

General Musharraf refused to tell an American envoy when he would lift a
two-week-old state of emergency, Pakistani and Western officials said.  14

Iraq Credits Iran on Security

The Iraqi government praised Iran for helping to halt Shiite attacks and
contributing to the improved security situation in Iraq, according to the
government's spokesman.  20

Stark Report on Climate

Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, left, describing climate change as ''the defining
challenge of our age,'' released the final report of a United Nations panel and
called on the United States and China to play ''a more constructive role.''  3

Japan's Immigration Rules

Japan is set to impose strict new immigration controls and a system for
monitoring foreign visitors modeled on an American program. Many fear it could
deter investors and tourists.  4

Cyclone Toll Exceeds 1,700

The death toll from a cyclone that devastated southwest Bangladesh has exceeded
1,700. Military helicopters and ships joined rescue and relief operations and
aid workers on the ground struggled to reach victims. 13

NATIONAL23-36

Death Penalty Questions

The question of whether the death penalty deters murders has captured the
attention of scholars in law and economics, setting off an intense new debate
about one of the central justifications for capital punishment. According to
roughly a dozen recent studies, executions save lives. For each inmate put to
death, the studies say, 3 to 18 murders are prevented. Critics disagree. 1

Foreclosures and Renters

In the foreclosure crisis of 2007, thousands of American families are losing
their homes without ever missing a payment. They are renters in houses whose
owners default on their mortgages -- a large but unnoticed class of casualties.
Many renters are blindsided by the news and say they never even knew their
buildings were heading for foreclosure.  1

Rights for Human Eggs

A proposed amendment to the Colorado Constitution that would give legal rights
to fertilized human eggs may be headed for the ballot next year, raising the
prospect of a heated local debate over abortion at the same time that Democrats
will be gathering in Denver for their national convention.  23

Michigan Immigration Bills

Democratic Michigan lawmakers unveiled a package of bills intended to crack down
on employers, making it a felony to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant.
Violation could mean fines of up to $250,000 and as much as five years in
prison.  32

NEW YORK/REGION39-45

Soldier Haunted by War

Sgt. Brad Gaskins, a former quarterback at Orange High School in New Jersey,
went AWOL from the Army for 14 months and sought help after a second tour of
combat in Iraq left him plagued by memories of death and destruction. Though
hospitalized for his psychiatric problems, he could be court-martialed.39

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Wilderness

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1007 words


The nation certainly sounds as if it's in an angry place on immigration.

A major Senate reform bill collapsed in rancor in June, and every effort to
revive innocuous bits of it, like a bill to legalize exemplary high school
graduates, has been crushed. Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York hatched a plan to
let illegal immigrants earn driver's licenses -- and steamrollered into the
Valley of Death. Asked if she supported Mr. Spitzer, Senator Hillary Clinton
tied herself in knots looking for the safest answer.

The Republican presidential candidates, meanwhile, are doggedly out-toughing one
another -- even Rudolph Giuliani, who once defended but now disowns the
immigrants who pulled his hard-up city out of a ditch. A freshman Democratic
representative, Heath Shuler of North Carolina, has submitted an enforcement
bill bristling with border fencing and punishments. Representative Tom Tancredo,
Republican  of Colorado, for whom restricting immigration is the first, last and
only issue, says he will not run again when his term expires next year. I have
done all I can, he says, like some weary gunslinger covered in blood and dust.

The natural allies of immigrants have been cowed into mumbling or silent
avoidance. The Democrats' chief strategist, Representative Rahm Emanuel of
Illinois, went so far as to declare immigration the latest ''third rail of
American politics.'' This profile in squeamishness was on full display at the
Democratic presidential debate last week in Las Vegas, when Wolf Blitzer pressed
the candidates for yes-or-no answers on driver's licenses and Mrs. Clinton, to
her great discredit, said no.

This year's federal failure will not be undone until 2009 at the earliest, while
states and local governments will continue doing their own thing, creating a
mishmash of immigration policies, most of them harsh and shortsighted. But the
wilderness of anger into which Mr. Tancredo helped lead America is not where the
country has to be on this vitally important issue, nor where it truly is.

Mrs. Clinton was closer to being right the first time, when she haltingly
defended Mr. Spitzer's reasoning. Fixing immigration is not a yes-or-no
question. It's yes and no. Or if you prefer, no and yes -- no to more illegal
immigration, to uncontrolled borders and to a flourishing underground economy
where employer greed feeds off worker desperation. Yes to extending the blanket
of law over the anonymous, undocumented population -- through fines and other
penalties for breaking the nation's laws and an orderly path to legal status and
citizenship to those who qualify.

These are the ingredients of a realistic approach to a complicated problem. It's
called comprehensive reform, and it rests on the idea that having an
undocumented underclass does the country more harm than good. This is not
''open-borders amnesty,'' a false label stuck on by those who want enforcement
and nothing else. It's tough on the border and on those who sneaked across it.
It's tough but fair to employers who need immigrant workers. It recognizes that
American citizens should not have to compete for jobs with a desperate
population frightened into accepting rock-bottom wages and working conditions.
It makes a serious effort to fix legal immigration by creating an orderly future
flow of legal workers.

Americans accept this approach. The National Immigration Forum has compiled
nearly two dozen polls from 2007 alone that show Americans consistently favoring
a combination of tough enforcement and earned legalization over just
enforcement. Elections confirm this. Straight-talking moderates like Gov. Janet
Napolitano of Arizona and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico thrive in the
immigration crucible along the southern border. Those who obsess about
immigration as single-issue hard-liners, like the Arizonans J. D. Hayworth and
Randy Graf, have disappeared, booted by voters. Voters in Virginia this month
rejected similar candidates and handed control of the State Senate to Democrats.

It may not be ''amnesty'' that gets Americans worked up as much as inaction.
They seem to sense the weakness and futility in the enforcement-only strategy,
the idea of tightening the screws on an informal apartheid system until it is so
frightening and hopeless that millions of poor people pack up and leave.

That is the attrition argument, the only answer the anti-amnesty crowd has to
comprehensive reform. It is, of course, a passive amnesty that rewards only the
most furtive and wily illegal immigrants and the bottom-feeding employers who
hire them. It will drive some people out of the country, but will push millions
of others -- families with members of mixed immigration status, lots of citizen
children and practically a nation's worth of decent, hard workers -- further
into hiding.

We are already seeing what a full-bore enforcement-only strategy will bring.
Bias crimes against Hispanic people are up, hate groups are on the march. Legal
immigration remains a mess. Applications for citizenship are up, and the federal
citizenship agency, which steeply raised its fees to increase efficiency, is
drowning in paperwork and delays. American citizens are being caught up in
house-to-house raids by immigration agents.

America is waiting for a leader to risk saying that the best answer is not the
simplest one. As John Edwards said at the last debate, ''When is our party going
to show a little backbone and strength and courage and speak up for those people
who have been left behind?''

He was talking about the poor and people without health insurance, but he could
-- and should -- have included a host of others: Business owners who want to
hire legal workers. Americans who don't want their opportunities undermined by
the off-the-books economy. Children whose dreams of education and advancement
are thwarted by their parents' hopeless immigration status. And the immigrants,
here and abroad, who want to find their place in a society that once welcomed
their honest labor, but can't find a way to do it anymore.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Real Rudy

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 817 words


Rudy Giuliani can play a little rough at times, but there are some moments when
an inner light turns on and he turns downright idealistic. One of those moments
came on Oct. 10, 1996, as he stepped on the podium at the Kennedy School of
Government to deliver a speech on immigration.

''I'm pleased to be with you this evening to talk about the anti-immigrant
movement in America,'' he said, ''and why I believe this movement endangers the
single most important reason for American greatness, namely, the renewal,
reformation and reawakening that's provided by the continuous flow of
immigrants.''

Giuliani continued: ''I believe the anti-immigrant movement in America is one of
our most serious public problems.'' It can ''be seen in legislation passed by
Congress and the president.'' (Republicans had just passed a welfare reform law
that restricted benefits to legal immigrants.) ''It can be seen in the negative
attitudes being expressed by many of the politicians.''

Giuliani said, somewhat unfairly, that the anti-immigrant movement at that time
continued the fear-mongering and discrimination of the nativist movements of the
1920s and the Know-Nothing movement of the 19th century. He celebrated Abraham
Lincoln for having the courage to take on the anti-immigrant forces. He detailed
the many ways immigration benefits the nation.

Then he turned to the subject of illegal immigration: ''The United States has to
do a lot better job of patrolling our borders.'' But, he continued, ''The
reality is, people will always get in.''

''In New York City,'' he said, ''we recognize this reality. New York City's
policy toward undocumented immigrants is called 'Executive Order 124.' '' This
order protected undocumented immigrants from being reported when they used city
services. Giuliani was then fighting the federal government, which wanted to
reverse it.

''There are times,'' he declared, ''when undocumented aliens must have a
substantial degree of protection.'' They must feel safe sending their children
to school. They should feel safe reporting crime to the police. ''Similarly,
illegal and undocumented immigrants should be able to seek medical help without
the threat of being reported. When these people are sick, they are just as sick
and just as contagious as citizens.''

This was a fervent speech. And it's one of many such speeches Giuliani has made
over the years. On Sept. 19, 1995, he delivered an immigration speech at the
United Nations in which he noted, ''Sometimes leadership means taking unpopular
positions, rejecting harmful political fads.''

Just last year, I saw him passionately deliver remarks at the Manhattan
Institute Hamilton Award Dinner in which he condemned the ''punitive approach''
to immigration, ''which is reflected in the House legislation that was passed,
which is to make it a crime to be an illegal or undocumented immigrant.''

To ''deal with it in a punitive way,'' he said then, ''is actually going to make
us considerably less secure than we already are.'' The better approach, he
continued, is to embrace the Senate's comprehensive reform and to separate the
criminal illegals from the hard-working ones.

These speeches are the real Rudy. These speeches represent the Rudy who once
went overboard and declared, ''If you come here and you work hard and you happen
to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this
city.''

This is why Fred Siegel, a Giuliani biographer, accurately called him an
''immoderate centrist.'' This is why Giuliani won 43 percent of the Hispanic
vote in the mayoral race of 1997. This is why his candidacy once had the
potential to renovate the G.O.P.

Of course it hasn't turned out that way. At the moment, Giuliani and fellow
moderate Mitt Romney are attacking each other for being insufficiently
Tancredo-esque. They are not renouncing the policies they championed as city and
state officials, but the emphasis as they run for federal office is all in the
other direction. In effect, they are competing to drive away Hispanic votes and
make the party unelectable in New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, Florida and
the nation at large.

In this way, they are participating in the greatest blown opportunity in recent
political history. At its current nadir, the G.O.P. had been blessed with five
heterodox presidential candidates who had the potential to modernize the party
on a variety of fronts. They could be competing to do that, but instead they are
competing to appeal to the narrowest slice of the old guard and flatter the most
rigid orthodoxies of the Beltway interest groups. Giuliani could have opened the
party to the armies of dynamism -- the sort of hard-working strivers who live in
Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx; instead he has shelved one of his core
convictions.

Someday Rudy Giuliani will look back on this moment and wonder why he didn't run
as himself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parents, Children and Immigration Nightmares

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 364 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Breast-Feeding Mother, and Family, Deported'' (National Briefing, Nov. 22)
and ''Case of Mother Torn From Baby Reflects Immigration Quandary'' (front page,
Nov. 17):

Who are these heartless people who rip nursing babies and young children from
the arms of their mothers? The practice of separating children from their
parents shows how debased the immigration debate has become in this country.

Our immigration officials -- not to mention foes of immigrants -- have
completely lost sight of the fact that they are dealing with human beings. In
the process, they have dehumanized themselves and shamed our nation.

Amanda Levinson

Menlo Park, Calif., Nov. 22, 2007

To the Editor:

While it's heartbreaking when immigrant families are torn apart, there is a
solution. It won't be popular, but it could help stem the tide of people who
come here illegally.

We should change the law so that children born of illegal immigrants are not
automatically United States citizens. Let them retain their illegal status. That
way they all can be sent home together.

I'd be willing to bet that fewer people would risk their lives to come here
illegally if they knew that their children would not become citizens just by
dint of being born here.

Melanie Coronetz

New York, Nov. 18, 2007

To the Editor:

As a mother, psychologist and American citizen, I am stunned by your article. It
is deplorable that a nursing infant would be removed from her mother's care
because the mother is an illegal immigrant.

What this draconian application of immigration law accomplishes is lost on me.
We all know that laws are bent every day, but less so or not at all for those
with little money, status or power. That an infant would stop eating for three
days should be understood as a deafening scream. How else would a baby
communicate that his entire safe, secure world has collapsed?

The immigration officials interviewed emphasize that an American-born child
should not be used as a human shield for his illegal parents, but why is it
acceptable to inflict severe psychological trauma with perhaps lifelong
consequences on the child?

Eileen Donohue

New York, Nov. 17, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections: For the Record

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words


An article last Saturday about an illegal immigrant mother who was separated
from her baby, an American citizen, after a search by immigration agents in Ohio
misstated the minimum age when American citizens can petition for their parents
to immigrate legally to this country. It is 21, not 18.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Pull Weight In Economy, Study Finds

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words


Immigrants contribute nearly one-fourth of the economic output of New York
State, and outside of New York City, they are overrepresented in some of the
most critical occupations, including higher education and health care, according
to a study to be released today.

In the suburbs north and east of the city, about 4 of every 10 doctors and more
than one-fourth of college professors were foreign-born, the study by the
private Fiscal Policy Institute found. In upstate New York, where just 5 percent
of residents are foreign-born, immigrants accounted for about one-fifth of the
professors and more than one-third of the doctors, according to the study.

The study, conducted over the past year, concluded that the contributions of
people born outside the country have spread far beyond the low-wage, low-skill
work often associated with immigrants. Most immigrants meld into New York
communities, learn to speak English and buy homes, it found. The institute is an
independent research organization that focuses on public policy in New York
State.

''We just felt like there was such a deep misunderstanding about who immigrants
were that the political discourse often got far afield from any factual basis of
what's really going on here,'' said David D. Kallick, a senior fellow at the
institute and the principal author of the study, ''Working for a Better Life.''

The study included foreign-born New York residents who have lived in the country
for decades, as well as new arrivals, and included legal and illegal immigrants
to capture the full immigrant experience, Mr. Kallick said.

According to the study, there were 4.1 million immigrants in New York State,
three million of whom lived in New York City. It estimated that about one of
every six immigrants in the state -- about 16 percent -- were here illegally.
About 535,000 of those lived in the city, the study found.

Advocates of stricter immigration policies have argued that illegal immigrants
are a drain on the United States economy because they receive more in health
care, education and other social services than they contribute to the economy. A
recent report from the Federation for American Immigration Reform cited studies
that estimated the cost of immigration -- legal and illegal -- at $15 billion to
$20 billion a year and the benefit at no more than $10 billion a year.

Mr. Kallick said that Texas and other states had disputed the federation's
reports and determined that immigration had a positive economic effect.

Statewide, immigrants made up 21 percent of all residents and contributed 22.4
percent of the gross domestic product of the state, or a total economic output
of $229 billion, in 2005, the study said. They also were overrepresented in the
work force, accounting for 26 percent of the state's residents who were working
or looking for work, the study found.  In New York City, the contribution of
immigrants was even greater, according to the study. Immigrants, who make up 37
percent of the city's population, earned 37 percent of all wages and salaries in
the city, the study found. Although immigrants form a large majority of the
city's taxi drivers, housekeepers and home-health aides, the study found that
they also made up one-fourth of the city's chief executives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Citizenship Surge

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 590 words


About the only point of agreement on immigration in this country is that
newcomers who play by the rules -- fill out their forms, pay their fees and wait
their turn -- are welcome. But that great American dogma is being sorely tested
by the inability of the federal government's feeble citizenship agency to deal
with a flood of applications that arose this summer.

The agency, Citizenship and Immigration Services, is telling legal immigrants
that applications for citizenship and for residence visas filed after June 1
will take about 16 to 18 months to process. The agency was utterly unprepared
for the surge, and so tens of thousands of Americans-in-waiting will have to
keep on waiting. Many, gallingly, may have to sit out next November's election,
even though that civic act was what prompted many of them to apply in the first
place.

This was not supposed to happen. The director of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, Emilio Gonzalez, promised this summer that the era of bad, slow
service was over. He said a whopping increase in fees that took effect July 30
-- an average of about 66 percent across the board, with naturalization now
costing $675 per person, up from $400 -- was about to make his agency fit for
the 21st century. Speaking to newly naturalized immigrants, Mr. Gonzalez
promised immediate results.

One immediate result was entirely predictable: people rushed to get their
paperwork in. The agency received nearly 2.5 million naturalization petitions
and visa applications in July and August, more than double from those months
last year. But Mr. Gonzalez's spokesman, Bill Wright, told Julia Preston in
Friday's  Times: ''We certainly were surprised by such an immediate increase.''
Surprised and swamped. The agency's processing center in Vermont is only now
acknowledging naturalization petitions that came in by July 30.

It's telling that we need to explain that this backlog is distinct from the
other backlogs that plague the citizenship agency. This is not the visa overload
that causes people in some countries, like the Philippines and Mexico, to wait
decades to enter legally. Those backlogs are caused by visa quotas that no one
has seen fit to adjust. Nor are they the chronic delays in conducting criminal
background checks that have kept thousands of immigrants in limbo for months,
even years.

Many of those immigrants have given up on the agency and sought redress in the
courts. There has been a spate of decisions by judges who found that delays by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation are unreasonable -- three years is too long
to wait to have the government decide if you are a criminal -- and have ordered
the bureaucracy to do its job. Judge Nathaniel Gorton of the Federal District
Court in Boston became so fed up last month with a delayed background check that
he simply gave a plaintiff, Ahmed Dayisty, the oath of citizenship.

It should never have come to that. The country should summon the will, the
resources and the basic administrative competence to carry out one of its most
vital functions, the making of new citizens. Mr. Gonzalez's agency says that the
new revenue will allow it to eventually add 1,500 employees to its work force,
an increase of about 10 percent, and that staff members have volunteered to work
overtime to handle the latest backlog.

The agency has made such vows before, and the volunteerism doesn't cut it. This
is not a benefit car wash or a canned-food drive. Turning immigrants into
citizens demands better than platitudes and broken promises.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Closer Look at the 'Sanctuary City' Argument

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Kitty Bennett and David D. Kirkpatrick contributed
reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 571 words


So was New York a ''sanctuary city'' for illegal immigrants when Rudolph W.
Giuliani was mayor?

The issue is, what exactly constitutes a ''sanctuary city''? The term has been
wielded by the Republican presidential candidates as a billy club against one
another over the past few months and a vigorous back-and-forth over the contours
of the phrase consumed the opening moments of last night's Republican debate.

The phrase has come to be used by immigration hard-liners to describe cities
that turn a blind eye to federal immigration laws. So Mr. Giuliani's rivals,
particularly Mitt Romney and Fred D. Thompson, have tried to use it to paint Mr.
Giuliani as liberal on the issue and out of step with the Republican base,
something he emphatically denied again last night.

''The reality is that New York City was not a sanctuary city,'' Mr. Giuliani
said.

In truth, there is no universally accepted definition of the term. It originated
in the 1980s when churches  gave shelter to thousands of refugees fleeing
political violence in places like Central America and Haiti, and various local
governments adopted ordinances that welcomed them, some more concrete than
others.

The Congressional Research Service, a nonpartisan agency that provides support
to members of Congress, issued a report in 2005 that described localities with
sanctuary policies as those that have adopted ''don't ask, don't tell'' policies
in which city employees, including the police, are not required to report
illegal immigrants to the federal authorities.

It listed 32 cities or counties with sanctuary policies, including New York.

Mr. Giuliani had inherited an executive order from previous mayoral
administrations that protected illegal immigrants from being reported to federal
immigration authorities when using city services. During the presidential
campaign, he has repeatedly insisted that the policy was necessary for public
health and safety.

''If we didn't allow illegals to report crimes,'' Mr. Giuliani said yesterday,
''a lot of criminals would have gone free because they're the ones who had the
information.''

Beyond the specifics of city policy, Mr. Giuliani was a vocal champion of
immigrants and warned about fear-mongering. ''I believe the anti-immigration
movement in America is one of our most serious public problems,'' he said in
1996 in a speech at the Kennedy School of Government.

Also in 1996, Mr. Giuliani sued the federal government over a  new law that said
no state or city could prohibit its employees from voluntarily turning over
information about illegal immigrants to the federal government, a fact that Mr.
Thompson, a former senator from Tennessee, alluded to last night. Mr. Giuliani
lost that court case.

Mr. Giuliani struck back last night at Mr. Romney, a former governor of
Massachusetts, saying there were a half-dozen such ''sanctuary cities'' in his
state that he had not taken action against, a fact that Mr. Romney's campaign
has not disputed.

Mr. Romney said last night that he opposed driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants and in-state college tuition for them.

Mr. Giuliani ridiculed Mr. Romney as maintaining a ''sanctuary mansion.''

He was referring to the report  by The Boston Globe last year in the waning days
of Mr. Romney's administration that he had for 10 years used a landscaping
company for yard work at his home that relied heavily on illegal Guatemalan
immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rudolph W. Giuliani, right, accused Mitt Romney of running a
''sanctuary mansion'' by hiring illegal workers at his house. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paging the Lesser of 8 Evils

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 826 words


Debate time! Once again last night, Republican candidates came together to taunt
the viewing public with the reminder that one of them is going to have to be
nominated for president.

Smackdown! Prompted by a YouTube question from Ernie of Dyker Heights, the
evening instantly took up the immigration issue, allowing the front-runners to
demonstrate their ability to pander in such an irritating way that even the
panderees would have to be turned off. Mitt Romney accused Rudy Giuliani of
running a ''sanctuary city'' while Rudy accused Mitt of running a ''sanctuary
mansion,'' thanks to the illegal immigrants who were grooming his lawn.

''This whole debate saddens me a little bit,'' said John McCain, the only person
on the stage who ever made any effort or risked any political capital trying to
seriously resolve the issue. Meanwhile Representative Tom Tancredo, who has a
campaign ad showing an immigrant in a hoodie sneaking across the border and
blowing up a mall, was in ecstasy over the rancor. (''It is great! I am so happy
to hear it!'')

There was Mike Huckabee, the new rising star, whose latest TV ad reminds us he
is a CHRISTIAN LEADER. Huckabee's most famous supporter, Chuck Norris, was
sitting right there in the second row, a show of support we have yet to see from
Oprah or Barbra Streisand. There was no sign, however, of the former governor's
other star supporter, Ric (The Nature Boy) Flair, who I'm sure you all remember
from his exciting triumph over Ricky (The Dragon) Steamboat in the 1989 National
Wrestling Alliance heavyweight title match.

Huckabee is threatening Mitt Romney in Iowa, home of many evangelical voters, at
least a few of whom are expressing concern that if a Mormon president prayed for
guidance in a crisis, God might not hear him.

Romney, however, is not going to let you feel sorry about this, gentle reader.
Every time you feel the least twinge of sympathy for him, he's going to start
screeching about immigrants again. ''That's not your money. That's the
taxpayers' money!'' he cried when Huckabee explained why he did not want to
exclude the children of illegal immigrants in a state scholarship program for
top Arkansas high school graduates. ''Illegals are not going to get
taxpayer-funded breaks.''

''In all due respect, we are a better country than to punish children for what
their parents did,'' Huckabee retorted, winning the moral high ground just
before he raced off to denounce the progressive income tax.

Taxing people based on their ability to pay got a brief, sensible defense from
McCain, just before he denounced Ron Paul's opposition to the invasion of Iraq.
(''We allowed Hitler to come to power with that kind of attitude of isolationism
and appeasement.'')

It's no wonder the Republican voters are veering back and forth, rejecting one
candidate after another. Fred Thompson, who was supposed to be likable once upon
a time, has gotten so desperate that he submitted a four-minute candidate
profile that was composed almost entirely of attacks on Romney and Huckabee.
Lately, Thompson has also been busying himself attacking the Fox network for
bias against his alleged campaign.

McCain and Huckabee, the candidates who seemed to speak from the heart did best,
even though their hearts occasionally seemed to be completely nutty. McCain
absolutely dismembered Romney on the question of torture. (Mitt refused to
denounce waterboarding because he said he didn't want the terrorists to know
what we were up to.) ''It's in violation of the Geneva Convention ... how in the
world anybody could think that that kind of thing could be inflicted by
Americans on people who are held in our custody is absolutely beyond me,'' he
said. Having whipped his opponent good, McCain then turned right around and
started refighting Vietnam. (''We never lost a battle ... '')

It was suspenseful, waiting for the next shoe to drop, for the next candidate to
go whacky. Rounding out the field was Representative Duncan Hunter, who has --
well, he has a grandson who says cute things to his teacher. Hunter appears to
have done his hardest campaigning in Florida, which means he has made
approximately as many stops over the last six months as a low-energy tourist on
a single weekend.

Every sign points to the party nominees being chosen by the first week in
February. (If given the choice, would you prefer to see your Christmas stocking
filled with a lump of coal or 10 months of Clinton vs. Romney?) But on the
Republican side, it's not hard to imagine the poor voters veering from one to
the other. (Him? -- Oh, god no. How about -- him! No, wait, what were we
thinking? )

Maybe they'll vacillate until the bitter end, leaving it all up to the final
primary in South Dakota in June. And that would be great. Finally, instead of
allowing a few thousand corn farmers to decide the fate of the nation, we could
place the power where it rightfully belongs, with a few thousand wheat farmers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Rivals Exchange Jabs In Testy Debate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words


The Republican presidential candidates engaged in a slashing debate last night
over immigration and other issues, confronting one another in testy exchanges
that reflected the wide-open nature of the race in the final sprint toward the
Iowa caucuses.

The debate showcased some of the fierce battles that have raged recently between
Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mitt Romney, as Mr. Romney accused Mr. Giuliani of
making New York a ''sanctuary city'' for illegal immigrants when he was mayor
and Mr. Giuliani turned the tables on him, noting that Mr. Romney had employed
illegal immigrants at his home, adding, ''I would say he had sanctuary mansion,
not just sanctuary city.''

The debate also reflected a new reality in the Republican race: Mike Huckabee,
the former Arkansas governor, played a central role, demonstrating how he had
come from behind to show strength in several recent polls of Iowa caucusgoers.

The debate, held in St. Petersburg, Fla., and sponsored by CNN and YouTube,
provided some odd juxtapositions as eight dark-suited male candidates addressed
video questions submitted by a more youthful, diverse group of videographers
that included a guitar strummer, Uncle Sam, a corn-on-the-cob-eating questioner
in a T-shirt, a young man asking the candidates what they thought of his
Confederate flag and a retired brigadier general who said he was gay and asked
about gay men and lesbians in the military.

Though the candidates spent much of their previous debates criticizing a
Democrat, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, she was barely mentioned
last night, although at one point Mr. Huckabee said that maybe ''Hillary could
be on the first rocket to Mars.''

Mr. Giuliani, who has led in national polls, found himself and his record in New
York -- including his past support for gun control -- under scrutiny.

And many candidates had high points: Mr. Giuliani with his line about Mr.
Romney's mansion; Fred D. Thompson, the former senator from Tennessee, giving a
spirited defense of gun control; Mr. Huckabee, when asked how Jesus would feel
about the death penalty, responded, ''Jesus was too smart to ever run for public
office''; and Senator John McCain of Arizona, in highly emotional terms,
condemned torture.

The candidates focused heavily on red-meat Republican issues like abortion, guns
and taxes, but there was no discussion of health care proposals. And for the
first half-hour, they clashed fiercely on a single issue, immigration, which has
aroused strong passions for months on the campaign trail. The subject drew
passionate responses from the candidates on the debate stage, as they not only
scored political points off one another, but managed to illuminate some of their
differences on related subjects like education, health care and public safety.

After Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, and Mr. Giuliani argued
over immigration, Mr. Romney turned on Mr. Huckabee for a proposal he made as
governor of Arkansas to give breaks in college tuition to the children of
illegal immigrants.

''Mike, that's not your money,'' he said. ''That's the taxpayers' money. And the
right thing here is to say to people that are here legally as citizens or legal
aliens, we're going to help you. But if you're here illegally, you ought to be
able to return home or get in line with everybody else, but illegals are not
going to get taxpayer-funded breaks that are better than our own citizens.''

Mr. Huckabee responded: ''In all due respect, we're a better country than to
punish children for what their parents did. We're a better country than that.''

''I worked my way through college,'' Mr. Huckabee added. ''I started work when I
was 14, and I had to pay my own way through, and I know how hard it was to get
that degree. I'm standing here tonight on this stage because I got an education.
If I hadn't had the education, I wouldn't be standing on this stage. I might be
picking lettuce. I might be a person who needed government support rather than
who was giving so much money in taxes I want to get rid of the tax code that
we've got and make it really different.''

The questions elicited differences among the candidates on a variety of issues.
Mr. Romney tangled with Mr. McCain over whether waterboarding should be defined
as torture. Mr. Romney said that if the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade and
Congress passed legislation outlawing all abortions, he would sign it; Mr.
Giuliani said he would not, saying abortion should be up to each state.

Tom Tancredo, the congressman from Colorado, Mr. Huckabee, Mr. Romney and Mr.
Giuliani said they all supported or had signed a pledge put forward by an
anti-tax group, Americans for Tax Reform, never to raise taxes; Mr. McCain and
Mr. Thompson said they would make pledges only to the American people;
Representative Duncan Hunter of California said that raising taxes could be
necessary in a national emergency; and Mr.  Huckabee called for getting rid of
the Internal Revenue Service.

The candidates themselves submitted videos, with Mr. Thompson's being perhaps
the most barbed: it showed a video of Mr. Romney when he supported abortion
rights, and Mr. Huckabee on raising taxes. Mr. Giuliani's video playfully told
of how he had tackled the perils of New York City, taking on King Kong and even
reducing snowfall.

And Representative Ron Paul of Texas, whose libertarian, anti-war candidacy has
made him a surprise fund-raising sensation on the Internet, allowed that he was
''struggling to figure out how to spend the money.''

Mr. Thompson used the immigration issue to score against both Mr. Romney and Mr.
Giuliani. He noted that Mr. Romney had once supported an immigration bill
similar to the one he opposed as a presidential candidate. ''Now he's taken
another position, surprisingly,'' he said, dryly alluding to some of the other
positions on which Mr. Romney has changed, such as his switch from supporting
abortion rights to opposing them.

And he questioned the wisdom of Mr. Giuliani's attack on the illegal immigrants
whom Mr. Romney had hired. ''As far as Mayor Giuliani is concerned, I am a
little surprised the mayor says, you know, everybody's responsible for everybody
that they hire,'' he said, an allusion to the recent indictment of Bernard B.
Kerik, whom Mr. Giuliani hired as police commissioner and later in his private
business. ''I think we've all had people, probably, that we have hired that in
retrospect probably it was a bad decision.''

Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney got into a heated dispute on the subject of torture,
with Mr. McCain saying Mr. Romney's failure to condemn waterboarding reflected a
fundamental misunderstanding of American principles.

''How in the world anybody could think that that kind of thing could be
inflicted by Americans on people who are held in our custody is absolutely
beyond me,'' Mr. McCain said.

Mr. Romney did not back down, however, and said he was glad the military
detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, was still open. ''I want to make
sure these people are kept at Guantanamo,'' he said, and ''not be given legal
representation in this country.''

Mr. Romney said he opposed torture but would not detail the interrogation
techniques he found acceptable.

Mr. McCain, growing obviously emotional, said, ''Then you would have to advocate
that we withdraw from the Geneva Conventions.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, a front-page article in some editions
yesterday about the Republican presidential debate misstated the response of
former Senator Fred D. Thompson in a passage about high points for many
candidates. During the debate, he offered a spirited defense of gun rights, not
gun control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Republican presidential candidates exchanged sharp words
last night on immigration and other issues in a debate in St. Petersburg, Fla.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

7-Year Immigration Rate Is Highest in U.S. History

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1003 words


Immigration over the past seven years was the highest for any seven-year period
in American history, bringing 10.3 million new immigrants, more than half of
them without legal status, according to an analysis of census data released
today by the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington.

One in eight people living in the United States is an immigrant, the survey
found, for a total of 37.9 million people -- the highest level since the 1920s.

The survey was conducted by Steven A. Camarota, director of research at the
center, which advocates reduced immigration.

Mr. Camarota has been active in the national immigration debate. Independent
demographers disputed some of the survey's conclusions, but not Mr. Camarota's
methods of data analysis.

A large proportion of recent immigrants, both legal and illegal, are low-skilled
workers and about one-third of those have not completed high school, giving them
significantly less education than Americans born in the United States, according
to the study, which is based on census data as recent as March of this year.

The survey focuses on public costs associated with the new generation of
immigrant workers. It does not, however, analyze contributions they make by
paying taxes and taking undesirable, low-income jobs -- an omission criticized
by some immigration scholars.

Still, the survey provides a panorama of the effects of immigration since 2000.

About 30 percent of all immigrants and their children lack health insurance, Mr.
Camarota reports, compared with 13 percent of native-born Americans. One of
every three uninsured people in the country is an immigrant or a young
American-born child with at least one immigrant parent, he found. Immigrant
families account for almost three-quarters of the increase in the uninsured in
the past 15 years, he concludes.

Immigrants are employed at higher rates than Americans, according to the survey.
But because of their low educational levels, many work in low-paying,
entry-level jobs that do not provide health insurance or other benefits.

''Immigrants have had an enormous impact on the lack of health insurance,'' Mr.
Camarota said. ''If we are going to have a debate about health insurance, we
should recognize that most of the growth in the uninsured comes from recently
arrived immigrants and their American-born kids.''

Mr. Camarota was criticized by some immigration scholars for failing to examine
the progress immigrant families make the longer they remain and work in the
United States.

''This is a one-eyed portrait,'' said Dowell Myers, a demographer at the
University of Southern California who has studied immigrants' use of public
services. ''It is a profile of immigrants' dependency without any profile of
their contributions.''

Mr. Myers said his research shows that within a decade, new immigrants in
California moved up quickly to steadier jobs with more benefits, and the rates
of uninsured immigrants dropped sharply.

Mr. Camarota's analysis suggests why illegal immigration has become the source
of contention in many states. The majority of immigrants arriving in recent
years are from Mexico and Central America, and more than half of them are
illegal.

The states that have received the largest numbers of the new immigrants are also
states where immigration has been hotly debated. After five states that have
been high on the immigration list for decades -- California, Florida, Illinois,
New Jersey and Texas -- those receiving the most new immigrants included
Arizona, Georgia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia.

The analysis confirms earlier estimates of about 11.3 million illegal immigrants
in this country.

About 31 percent of immigrants over 25 years old, both legal and illegal, have
not completed high school, according to Mr. Camarota, compared with 8.4 percent
of American citizens. Among adult Hispanic immigrants, nearly 51 percent do not
have high school diplomas, he reported.

Mr. Camarota found that about one-third of immigrant families receive some kind
of public assistance. The services were mainly food stamps and Medicaid
associated with care for their American children, he found. The majority of
children in immigrant families, whether the parents are legal or illegal, were
born in the United States and so are American citizens.

''The welfare system is designed to help low-income workers with children,'' Mr.
Camarota said. ''The study shows that it is very difficult not to have these
public costs if you have low-skilled immigrants in large numbers.''

Mr. Camarota did not present evidence of large scale use of public benefits by
illegal immigrants themselves.

Wayne Cornelius, a political science professor at the University of California,
San Diego, who has studied Mexican immigration for decades, called Mr.
Camarota's conclusions about immigrants' use of public services ''misleading.''

The census data, Mr. Cornelius said, does not allow concise estimates of use of
public services by illegal immigrants.

Mr. Cornelius said his field research in San Diego County had shown that illegal
immigrants under-used the health care system, given their health needs.

''They are less likely to have health insurance, but they are also less likely
to seek medical attention,'' Mr. Cornelius said.

He added that research in California has shown that illegal immigrants from
Latin America are far less likely than American Hispanics to use emergency room
services or seek public primary care.

Mr. Cornelius also faulted Mr. Camarota for focusing only on first-generation
immigrants. The study ''obscures the very significant progress that immigrants'
children and their grandchildren typically make,'' Mr. Cornelius argued.

Mr. Camarota reported that both legal and illegal immigration have continued to
grow. A study in 2005 by another demographer, Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew
Hispanic Center in Washington, found that the rate of growth of immigration
peaked in 2000 and declined somewhat in the next five years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: CHANGING DEMOGRAPHICS OF IMMIGRANTS: As the immigrant population
has increased, its ethnic makeup has also shifted. Here are the percentages of
immigrants from around the world. (Source: Center for Immigration Studies)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latino Immigrants' Children Found Grasping English

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 545 words


Most children of Hispanic immigrants in the United States learn to speak English
well by the time they are adults, even though three-quarters of their parents
speak mainly Spanish and do not have a command of English, according to a report
released yesterday by the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington.

Only 23 percent of first-generation immigrants from Spanish-speaking countries
said they spoke English very well, the report found. But 88 percent of the
members of the second generation in Latino immigrant families described
themselves as strong English speakers, a figure that increased to 94 percent for
the grandchildren's generation.

''The ability to speak English and the likelihood of using it in everyday life
rise sharply from Hispanic immigrants to their U.S.-born adult children,'' the
survey reported.

The Pew Hispanic Center is a nonpartisan research organization that does not
take a position in the contentious immigration debate. The new report is based
on an analysis of six surveys the center conducted from April 2002 to October
2006, covering more than 14,000 Latino adults over 18 years old.

The findings address rising worries among some voters that immigrants arriving
from Latin America in the last two decades have resisted learning English and
are failing to assimilate into American society. Advocates of tighter borders
and reduced immigration have said that Spanish may be competing for dominance
with English in states like Texas and California with large Latino populations.

At least one state, Kansas, adopted a law this year declaring English its
official language and eliminating requirements that official documents be
produced in Spanish as well as English, according to the National Conference of
State Legislatures. Measures favoring English have also proliferated in counties
and towns.

The Pew report found that Hispanics are generally eager to master English,
believing it is ''necessary for success in the United States.''

Many Hispanics believe they will face discrimination if they speak Spanish and
lack strong English skills, according to the report. In the analysis, 46 percent
of Latinos cited poor English skills as the leading cause of discrimination
against them, a far more significant cause than race or immigration status. In a
survey this year, 54 percent of Latinos said they saw discrimination as a major
obstacle to their progress.

The report sought to measure English skills as ''a marker of attachment'' to
American society, said D'Vera Cohn, a Pew center researcher who wrote the report
with Shirin Hakimzadeh, another Pew researcher.

The English skills of recently arrived immigrants varied widely depending on the
countries they came from. Among Mexicans, who are by far the largest national
group among recent immigrants, 71 percent said they spoke little or no English.
Of Hispanics born outside the 50 states, Puerto Ricans were the most likely to
speak English well.

Even as many Latinos learn English, they continue to retain and use Spanish.
According to the report, 44 percent of Latino adults, whether born abroad or in
the United States, said they were bilingual, while 41 percent said they spoke
mainly Spanish. Only 15 percent of Latino adults said they were ''largely
English speakers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rambo And The G.O.P.

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 793 words


I don't know if children should be allowed to watch the Republican presidential
debates.

There's so much talk of violence and mayhem as the solution to our ills. The
candidates seem so eager to flex their muscles and engage the nation in
conflict: Let's continue the war in Iraq. Let's show them what we're made of in
Iran. Let's round up those immigrants and ship 'em back where they came from.

It's like watching adolescent boys playing the ultimate video game, with no
regard for the consequences. Rudy, the crime-fighter and terror maven, says he's
tougher than Mitt, who actually had illegals working on his property. Mitt begs
to differ and says he'd like to double the size of the Guantanamo prison.

Are we electing a president or a sheriff?

Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado wants to stop  all  immigration, legal
and illegal. Too much immigration brings problems, he said. Among other things,
''it makes it difficult for us to assimilate.''

(The bludgeoning of logic is yet another form of violence coming out of the
debates.)

We've got the thunderclouds of a recession heading our way. We're in the midst
of a housing foreclosure crisis that is tragic in its dimensions. We've got
forty-some-million people without health coverage. And the city of New Orleans
is still on its knees.

So you tune in to the G.O.P. debate on CNN to see what's what, and they're
talking about  --  guns.

Former Mayor Giuliani, once a gun-control champion, has swallowed the party's
Kool-Aid straight from the packet, not even bothering to mix it with water.
''People will be allowed to have guns,'' he said. ''I'm not going to interfere
with that.''

It can be scary for small children to watch the former mayor of New York morph
into Wayne LaPierre on national TV.

I'll concede that it's difficult to have a thoughtful exploration of complex
issues in a format that allows a candidate just 90 seconds to answer. But the
Republicans, far more than the Democrats, go out of their way to present
themselves as 21st-century Rambos  --  a childish, cartoonish posture that
solves nothing and can easily lead to tragedy in a world that is in fact quite
dangerous.

You'd think that a presidential campaign would be the perfect venue for a
serious discussion about Iraq, the greatest foreign policy debacle in the
republic's history. But even John McCain, who frequently seems as if he is the
class of this G.O.P. field, followed up his comment about appeasement allowing
Hitler to flourish with the following simplistic reference to Iraq:

''I just finished having Thanksgiving dinner with the troops, and their message
to you is, the message of these brave men and women who are serving there is:
'Let us win.' ''

How is that helpful or enlightening? What does he mean by ''win?'' And win at
what additional cost to human life and other resources?

The Republicans running for president are embarrassed to mention George W. Bush.
But with few exceptions  --  Mr. McCain's principled position on torture is one
--  they want to continue Mr. Bush's failed, often belligerent and sometimes
sadistic policies. (On immigration, an issue ripe for demagoguery, most of the
howling G.O.P. pack has sprinted away from Mr. Bush, preferring a more macho,
politically exploitive approach. Mr. McCain is again an exception.)

The incessant drumbeat of brute force as the favored solution to difficult
problems serves to normalize state violence to the point where we hardly notice
it. Before his widely reported crack about Jesus being too smart to run for
office, former Gov. Mike Huckabee talked proudly about the tough challenge he
faced in ''carrying out'' the death penalty in Arkansas.

''I did it more than any other governor ever had to do it in my state,'' he
said.

The Republican Party has won a lot of elections in recent years. So maybe this
crop of candidates knows something about American voters that many us would
rather not acknowledge, that too many of them are small-minded, fearful, bigoted
and too shallow to recognize policies that are against their own  --  and their
country's  --  best interests.

Or maybe that's not the case at all. Maybe this lot of Republican presidential
candidates is misreading the public, and placing its bet on the wrong side of
history.

I hope it's the latter. Maybe voters in the early primaries will deliver the
message that a more thoughtful, insightful, inclusive and constructive style of
campaigning is desired.

Maybe then we can finally get issues like torture off the table (Mr. McCain and
Mr. Romney had a testy exchange over waterboarding the other night) and squarely
address the concerns so many voters have about the deteriorating economic
climate here at home and America's diminished standing abroad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Contractor Trims Wages

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 722 words


Workers who help process millions of visa and citizenship applications for a
federal immigration agency are getting pay reductions just as the agency is
facing an enormous surge in those applications.

The workers whose wage rate will be cut are contract employees in document
processing centers in St. Albans, Vt., and Laguna Niguel, Calif., that are part
of Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency responsible for deciding
visa applications and citizenship petitions. Some 280 of approximately 1,000
contract workers in the two centers will receive lower wages after a new
contractor, Stanley Inc. of Arlington, Va., takes over tomorrow.

Immigration officials said the agency granted a contract to Stanley, after
competitive bidding last year, to manage mailroom and data entry work at the two
centers, in an effort to speed handling of the vast paperwork of the
applications.

''The goal is to try to get this work done as efficiently as possible,'' said
Shawn Saucier, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services. He said the
wage dispute was between the contractor and the employees and did not involve
the agency.

Dozens of workers have protested the pay cuts to Vermont and California
lawmakers. During the past two weeks workers picketed in front of the federal
office building in Laguna Niguel.

''If you're trying to get people motivated to deal with a huge backlog, the last
thing you would do is slash pay,'' said Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of
Vermont, who received many calls. ''It just creates more turnover, more
discontent and more demoralization.''

Officials at the immigration agency said last week that they received 2.5
million applications for visas and for naturalization in July and August, more
than double the applications in the same period last year. Many immigrants
rushed to file applications before large fee increases took effect July 30,
officials said.

Stanley announced Sept. 24 that it had won a $225 million, three-year contract
for clerical work at the two immigration centers. A previous contract, held by a
consortium of companies that did not include Stanley, expired.

The new contract is based on performance and does not specify how many workers
Stanley should hire. But Stanley is required to pay according to federal
regulations that classify jobs and set their hourly wages.

Eric Wolking, senior vice president at Stanley, said that none of the competing
companies received information during the bidding about wage levels of the
current employees. Stanley only became aware of the mismatch between its
proposal and current wages when managers began interviewing the workers, he
said.

''When we submitted our bid, we did not know what they know about the wage
scale,'' said Mr. Wolking, referring to Citizenship and Immigration Services.
''As we have been meeting with employees and we realized the scope of this
problem, we have been making adjustments.''

Mr. Wolking said the company would offer bonuses of up to $400 monthly to half
of the workers whose wages will decrease, based on their job productivity.

The plan brought little comfort to employees whose weekly income will drop
tomorrow by 12 to 20 percent.

''Everybody will be fighting over the ability for half of us to make our rent
checks,'' said Jeremy Murray, one of those employees, in a telephone interview.
He said he had worked at the Vermont center for more than six years sorting
incoming applications, making $14.54 an hour. Starting Monday, he said, he will
make $12.84 an hour and will no longer be able to work overtime. He will lose as
much as $400 a month.

Mr. Murray said he was considering cashing out his savings plan early to avoid
missing payments on his truck.

While contract employees at the centers must be American citizens and  pass
security clearances, they do not handle work that involves legally binding
decisions on immigration applications. That work is done by federal employees,
who were not affected by the wage changes. The Vermont center employs 590
federal employees and 400 contract workers.  There are 570 federal employees and
620 contract workers in Laguna Niguel.

Mr. Murray said some of the guidelines for procedures he performed were 40 pages
long. If applications are misfiled, he said, errors can take months or longer to
fix.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Benefits of Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 142 words


To the Editor:

Re ''7-Year Immigration Rate Is Highest in U.S. History; Study Focuses on Public
Costs of the Influx'' (news article, Nov. 29):

My grandparents were unskilled immigrants in the 1920s, when the percentage of
the foreign-born population in the United States was higher than it is now. They
never spoke proper English. They worked on menial jobs. They went on welfare
during the Depression.

My grandparents arrived as aliens, but they had a pathway to citizenship. Their
grandchildren and great-grandchildren today are doctors, lawyers, professors,
nurses, accountants, engineers, counselors, corporate executives, artists,
musicians, writers and students at top colleges and universities.

There may be some initial ''costs'' of immigration, but the benefits are
immeasurably positive over time.

Lance Compa Ithaca, N.Y., Nov. 29, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants In New York Better Off, Study Finds

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 655 words


Foreign-born New Yorkers are better educated, more likely to have health
insurance and less likely to have entered the country illegally compared with
immigrants in the rest of the country,  according to a new analysis.

The narrower socioeconomic gaps between immigrants and native-born Americans in
New York may be one reason that the state has generally been more receptive to
foreigners.

''That may help many immigrants integrate and affect the politics as well,''
said Steven A. Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington, which favors reducing the influx from abroad.

The biggest income disparities between native and foreign-born residents were
found in Arizona, Colorado, Texas and California, where immigration has
generated more controversy.

In New York and New Jersey, the income differential between native and
foreign-born residents was smaller than the national average.

The gaps between native and foreign-born residents of New York and New Jersey in
education, poverty and health insurance coverage were also generally narrower
than in other states.

Mr. Camarota, who prepared the analysis for the center, based mostly on census
results, concluded that more than 10 million immigrants had entered the country
since the beginning of the decade, more than half of them illegally. About one
in eight residents of the United States is an immigrant, the highest proportion
since the 1920s, when stricter limits were imposed.

New York State accounts for more than 1 in 10 immigrants in the country, second
only to California. New Jersey is home to 1 in 20 of the nation's immigrants.

New Jersey ranked third, after California and Texas, in the growth in immigrants
since 2000. They now account for nearly 22 percent of the state's population,
the same proportion as in New York.

New York remains a magnet for immigrants, who arrive in fairly constant numbers.
But the number who remain seems to be declining.  The state's total foreign-born
population increased by 585,000 from 1995 to 2000, but by 262,000 since 2000. In
New Jersey, the number of immigrants grew by 152,000 from 1995 to 2000 and by
588,000 since 2000.

While many politicians in New York and elsewhere were briefly incensed over Gov.
Eliot Spitzer's proposal to grant driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, New
York has been regarded as more generous in providing various benefits,
regardless of whether immigrants are here legally. New York City has encouraged
illegal immigrants to avail themselves of city public safety, health and other
services by saying they would not be reported to immigration authorities.

In contrast to many other places, New York's immigrant population is also more
diverse.

The census does not ask immigrants whether they are here legally or not, but Mr.
Camarota estimated the number of illegal immigrants by subtracting those who, by
country or origin, military  status and other variables, were likely to have
arrived legally.

By those indicators, illegal immigrants represent 65 percent of the foreign-born
population in Arizona, 50 percent in Texas, 39 percent in Colorado on the high
end, ranging to 23 percent in New Jersey and 13 percent in New York.

One reason for the relatively low proportion in New York, he said, is that the
state is farther from the Mexican border. Also, social networks in New York draw
many more legal immigrants. And, he said, other studies have found that among
the foreign-born people who are in New York illegally, more are likely to have
overstayed their visas than to have entered the country illegally.

In New York City, 57 percent of children under 5 had foreign-born fathers, even
more than in Los Angeles County. In New York State, according to the analysis,
49 percent of households headed by an illegal immigrant are enrolled in one
welfare program or another, typically food assistance and Medicaid for their
children.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Brazilians, Now It's Home That's a Land Of Plenty

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN and ELIZABETH DWOSKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words


Like hundreds of thousands of middle-class Brazilians who moved to the United
States over the last two decades, Jose Osvandir Borges and his wife, Elisabeth,
came on tourist visas and stayed as illegal immigrants, putting down roots in
ways they never expected.

After packing up their plasma-screen TV, scholastic trophies and other fruits of
12 prosperous years in  the Ironbound in Newark, the couple and their
American-born daughter, Marianna, 10, were scheduled to fly back to Brazil for
good this morning. They expect their son, Thiago, 21, to follow in a year or
two, despite his reluctance to leave the only land that feels like home.

''You can't spend your entire life waiting to be legal,'' said Mr. Borges, 42,
reflecting on a hard decision born of lost hopes, new fears and changing
economies in both countries since he arrived in 1996. By law, the couple faces a
10-year bar on re-entering the United States, even as visitors.

That decision -- to give up on life in the United States -- is being made by
more and more Brazilians across the country, according to consular officials,
travel agencies swamped by one-way ticket bookings, and community leaders in the
neighborhoods that Brazilian immigrants have transformed, from Boston to Pompano
Beach, Fla.

No one can say how many are leaving. But in the last half year, the reverse
migration has become unmistakable among Brazilians in the United States, a
population estimated at 1.1 million by Brazil's government -- four to five times
the official census figures.

To explain an often wrenching decision to pull up stakes, homeward-bound
Brazilians point to a rising fear of deportation and a slumping American
economy. Many cite the expiration of driver's licenses that can no longer be
renewed under tougher rules, coupled with the steep drop in the value of the
dollar against the currency of Brazil, where the economy has improved.

''You put it all together, and why should you stay in an environment like that
if you have a place like Brazil, where there's hope, a light at the end of the
tunnel and it's not a train to run you over?'' said Pedro Coelho, a businessman
in Mount Vernon, N.Y., who is known as the mayor of Brazilians in Westchester
County. ''Are they leaving? Yes, by the hundreds.''

In Massachusetts, says Fausto da Rocha, the founder of the Boston-area Brazilian
Immigrant Center, his compatriots -- many here illegally -- are leaving by the
thousands, some after losing homes in the subprime mortgage crisis. In New York
and New Jersey, travel agents and others who sell airline seats say that one-way
bookings to Brazil have more than doubled since last year, to about 150 daily
from Kennedy International Airport, and that flights are sold out through
February.

And at Brazil's consulate in Miami, which serves Brazilians in five Southeastern
states, officials said a recent survey of moving companies and travel agencies
confirmed what they had already surmised from their foot traffic: More
Brazilians are leaving the region than arriving -- the reversal of an upward
curve that seemed unstoppable as recently as 2005, when Brazilians unable to
meet tightened visa requirements were sneaking across the United States-Mexico
border in record numbers.

It is too soon to say whether the reverse migration of Brazilians puts them in
the vanguard of a larger trend among immigrants, or underscores their
distinctiveness. Like Mr. Borges, who said he was poorly paid as a university
teacher of religious studies in his native city of Curitiba, they generally come
from more urban and educated classes than other major groups of illegal
immigrants from Latin America, studies show. Many returning now have been
investing their American earnings in Brazilian property.

But their own explanation for the surge back to Brazil contradicts conventional
wisdom on both sides of the immigration debate.

For years, advocates of giving people like the Borgeses a chance to earn legal
status have argued that illegal immigrants will only be driven further
underground by enforcement measures like raids or denying them driver's
licenses. Advocates of harsher restrictions and penalties have argued that
illegal immigration is now growing independently of the ebb and flow of the
American economy. Returning Brazilians defy both contentions.

Faced with diminishing rewards and rising expenses in the United States, long
separated from aging relatives in Brazil, ''people say, 'Is this worth it, being
illegal, being scared?''' said Maxine L. Margolis, a professor of anthropology
at the University of Florida in Gainesville who has written extensively on
Brazilians in the United States.

There are regional variations, but the pattern is consistent. In South Florida,
the expiration of a driver's license is often a turning point for families
already caught short by the slump in housing construction, said Sister Judi
Clemens, a pastoral assistant with Our Lady Aparecida Mission, which serves five
different Brazilian communities in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Miami. She
noted that until seven years ago, Brazilians with tourist visas could get
Florida licenses valid for eight years, but they are all expiring now and cannot
be renewed.

''There's no public transportation here in Florida, so people drive to work in
fear and trembling,'' worried that a traffic stop could mean months in
immigration detention, she said. ''A lot of people have just simply said, 'I've
had enough.'''

In Massachusetts, where there is more public transportation, a spate of
high-profile immigration raids, coupled with home foreclosures, have played a
key role in the exodus, said community leaders like Mr. da Rocha, a legal
resident who came in 1989. ''I believe we lost 5,000 Brazilians only this
year,'' he said. ''The landlords are going to face a crisis soon.''

While Brazil does not yet offer the job opportunities of Ireland, which has
drawn back emigrants in droves, neither is it an economically bleak or war-torn
country. And like Italian immigrants early in the 20th century, who typically
planned to return to Italy -- half of them eventually doing so -- many
Brazilians arrived with the intention of going back as soon as they met their
financial goals.

But like the Borges family, they soon changed their timetable.

''We came here to save enough money to buy a house'' in Brazil, Mr. Borges said,
recalling the early weeks when the family slept in a friend's basement and he
worked in construction for the first time. They expected to return to Brazil
after two years.

Instead, he found his inner entrepreneur. He started a plumbing and construction
business that soon employed upward of seven compatriots, paid taxes and helped
build name-brand hotels in three states.

But in 2005, as the construction boom began to go bust, larger companies,
prompted by labor unions, started to demand working papers, he said. And when
his crew could not produce them, they were let go.

As the housing market faltered, weekly earnings in his business shrank from a
high of $6,000 to barely $2,000, he said. Expenses like gas and rent rose,
making it harder for him and Ms. Borges, who cleaned houses in New York, to pay
off loans for the farm they were buying in Brazil.

The dollar, which once bought four Brazilian reals, dropped to a historic low of
1.7 reals in May. Then in June came their personal tipping point: the collapse
of the bipartisan bill in Congress that would have offered them, and millions of
other illegal residents, a path to legal status.

''After the law didn't pass, it was like all the hope went away at once,'' said
Mr. Borges, who had traveled, with other members of St. James Catholic Church in
Newark, to rallies supporting the bill in Trenton and Washington.

In past years, he allowed, he spent $26,000 on dubious and doomed efforts to
secure a green card. Now, he hopes to make a living by processing sugar cane for
ethanol on his Brazilian farm. ''If we had papers, we'd stay forever,'' said Ms.
Borges, 41, who has been active in their children's public schools. ''We love
this community.''

Proudly, they showed off the trophy that Marianna won in third grade in an
anti-littering poster contest, for a design that is now featured in shop windows
throughout the Ironbound.

It is in such neighborhoods, where Brazilians brought fresh bustle to faded
storefronts or abandoned factories, that the departures are being felt most
keenly.

''I'm scared,'' said Francine Melo, the owner of the travel agency in Newark
where Mr. Borges bought three one-way tickets for $1,708. ''I make my living
through these people.''

Another of her last-time customers, Norma dos Santos, a former house cleaner,
said she felt she had no choice. Seven years after overstaying her visa, she
said, she does not drive to work or pick up her children at school for fear that
a traffic stop could put her in immigration detention.

''It's just getting harder and harder to stay here without documents,'' she
said.

Still, she is uncertain that she is doing right by her American-born children, a
newborn and a 2-year old boy.

''I'm worried they'll grow up and ask me, 'How could you have left America?'''
she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elisabeth Borges, left, her daughter, Marianna, husband, Jose
Osvandir Borges, seated, and son, Thiago, right, with Jose Silva, a family
friend, yesterday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SYLWIA KAPUSCINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.
B1)
 Fausto da Rocha, founder of the Brazilian Immigrant Center, near Boston,
estimated that 5,000 Brazilians left Massachusetts for Brazil this
year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, a Relentless Issue, Confronts Democrats in an Iowa Debate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Dec. 4


If there is one issue that has challenged presidential candidates of both
parties in Iowa this year, it is immigration, and the Democratic contenders were
confronted with it again Tuesday, in a provocative way. Should American
citizens, they were asked, turn in someone they know to be an illegal immigrant?

In the end, the answer from most of the candidates was no. But the question,
posed in various forms during a two-hour debate over National Public Radio, had
the candidates struggling anew with a topic looming large both in the Iowa
caucuses next month and in the general election.

Tracking down illegal immigrants, the candidates said, is the job of the
government, not civilians. But the moderators pressed the issue, pointing to
what they suggested were inconsistencies.

After Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said she did not think that civilians
should be ''enforcing the broken laws of our federal immigration system,'' Steve
Inskeep of NPR asked her, ''If a citizen witnessed some other kind of crime,
wouldn't you want them to report it?''

''It's a very clever question, Steve,'' Mrs. Clinton replied, ''but I think it
really begs the question. What we're looking at here is 12 to 14 million people
-- they live in our neighborhoods, they take care of our elderly, they probably
made the beds in the hotels that some of us stayed in last night. They are
embedded in our society. If we want to listen to the demagogues and the calls
for us to begin to try to round up people and turn every American into a
suspicious vigilante, I think we will do graver harm to the fabric of our nation
than any kind of person-by-person reporting of someone who might be here
illegally.''

Senator Barack Obama responded to the question by saying that ''we are not going
to deputize a whole bunch of American citizens to start grabbing people or
turning them in.''

Representative Dennis J. Kucinich said, ''We don't encourage vigilantism in this
country.''

Mr. Inskeep repeatedly asked former Senator John Edwards whether workers in the
country illegally were driving down wages.

''Well,'' Mr. Edwards said, ''I think what the studies show is there are a lot
of things driving down wages in the United States of America.''

Mr. Obama answered more directly. ''I believe that there are circumstances
where, in fact, illegal immigrants are driving down wages,'' he said, but added:
''The question is, How do we fix it? Because oftentimes, when it's posed that
way, then the thinking is that somehow we have to pit low-wage American workers
versus low-wage immigrant workers.''

Senator Christopher J. Dodd responded to another question by suggesting that
Americans be penalized for knowingly hiring nannies or other domestic workers
here illegally.

''People who knowingly hire undocumented workers I think need to be held
accountable to a far higher degree of penalties -- civil and possibly
criminal,'' Mr. Dodd said.

The debate, the first this year in which the candidates did not address
television cameras, featured not only questions from the moderators but also
taped queries from listeners, and among the other topics was Iran.

The Democratic candidates all assailed President Bush for saying he still
considered Iran a threat despite a new National Intelligence Estimate concluding
that the Iranians halted their pursuit of nuclear weapons in 2003. But Mrs.
Clinton also came under attack, for having voted in favor of a Senate resolution
that declared the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization.

Mrs. Clinton stood by the vote, arguing that the resolution had bolstered a
tough diplomatic approach that had already led to changes in Iran's behavior.
''None of us is advocating a rush to war,'' she said, adding that ''our goals
are the same: diplomatic engagement with Iran.''

Her opponents said the vote had emboldened Mr. Bush to take the country to war
against Tehran, and expressed incredulity at her position.

''Declaring a military group sponsored by the state of Iran a terrorist
organization, that's supposed to be diplomacy?'' Mr. Edwards said. ''This has to
be considered in the context that Senator Clinton has said she agrees with
George Bush terminology that we're in a global war on terror.''

To that, Mrs. Clinton replied, ''I understand politics, and I understand making
outlandish political charges, but this really goes way too far.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Democratic contenders, meeting in a radio debate, were asked
yesterday whether citizens should turn in someone they know to be an illegal
immigrant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY  JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Manhattan: Unit Created To Help Immigrants

BYLINE: By AP

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METRO BRIEFING NEW YORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 88 words


Illegal immigrants who live in Manhattan and have been victims of  violence,
fraud or other crimes, or who are aware of illegal activity, can now report the
episodes without fearing arrest and deportation. The Manhattan district
attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, announced yesterday that he had created a unit
to address issues that confront immigrants, whether they are legal residents or
not, and to prosecute people who prey on them. ''Everyone who comes here is
entitled to the full protection of the law,'' Mr. Morgenthau said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 10, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Showdown in Arizona, Where Mariachis and Minutemen Collide

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Want to see America unraveling? Come here, to Thomas Road and 35th Street, to M.
D. Pruitt's furniture store. Come on Saturday morning and stand near the eight
delivery trucks barricading the parking lot, like the wall of an urban Alamo.

For the last seven weeks, a sidewalk protest here by Latino immigrants has
blossomed into a feverish reality show, attracting Minutemen, mariachis,
children dancing in Mexican folk costumes, white racists, United Nations
observers, Phoenix police officers and Maricopa County sheriff's deputies.

The weekly confrontation -- strident and stalemated -- perfectly mimics the
national debate. But it's a sideshow to something even uglier: what happens when
immigration's complexities are handed to local law enforcers sympathetic to the
fury of one side.

Thomas Road has lots of Latino day laborers, or jornaleros, who hustle for work
near Home Depot. A few months ago, the Phoenix police shooed them away. They
dispersed to streets nearby, angering local businesses. One of the biggest,
Pruitt's, hired off-duty city police officers to keep jornaleros at bay. The
city put a stop to that, so Pruitt's turned to the county sheriff, Joe Arpaio.

Sheriff Joe, as he is known, needed no prodding: hunting undocumented immigrants
is his specialty. He has arrested hundreds under a state antismuggling law (for
smuggling themselves) and has had 160 officers deputized as federal immigration
agents. They have made more than 50 arrests near Pruitt's since the protests
began.

They'll pull a car over for a traffic infraction, then check everyone's papers.
They say they act on reasonable suspicion only -- if they see a shirt or shoes
like those worn south of the border or hear Spanish. They say it isn't
profiling.

There is no doubt whose side Sheriff Joe is on. He has officers on Pruitt's
payroll, guarding the lot on protest days. Last week, he issued a news release
demanding that the demonstrators stop hurting Pruitt's and vowing to crank up
the pressure until they went away. It was a naked attempt to stifle dissent and
help a business ally.

People here are used to that from Sheriff Joe. He describes himself as
''America's meanest sheriff'' and has recently been basking in the love of
nativists like the Minuteman Chris Simcox and radio host Terry Anderson, who
gushed over him at a roast in Sun City West this month.

If Arizona begins punishing companies that hire illegal workers under a state
law that takes effect Jan. 1 -- a lawsuit to block it was thrown out Friday --
it will fall to counties to do the purge. In Maricopa, that means Sheriff Joe.

The protests at Pruitt's are the only real opposition he has faced. Their leader
is Salvador Reza, a stocky American of Mexican and Apache ancestry, an Air Force
veteran who has spent years organizing jornaleros and small-business owners
here.

Mr. Reza says he can't understand why America accepts global flows of companies,
money and jobs but not workers. Why faith in market forces seems to have been
eclipsed by fear of immigrants. Or why the country cannot set up legal channels
to let jornaleros come and go and not be hassled. ''They actually are people
with a work ethic that would make the Puritans proud,'' he said.

Pruitt's owner, Roger Sensing, says he needs armed officers to protect customers
from jornaleros. Mr. Reza calls that ridiculous, and one informed noncombatant,
the Rev. Craig Geiger, pastor of a Lutheran church across the street, agrees. He
told me he had never seen a laborer enter Pruitt's lot. He also said his Latino
congregation did not drive to church anymore. Documented or not, they fear
Sheriff Joe. They walk.

Pastor Geiger leaves the neighborhood on Saturdays, because it gets deafening.
When I was there, a trio singing Mexican ballads strolled through the crush. A
Minuteman with a bullhorn followed them. ''Monkeys coming through!'' he shouted.
His side rushed up to drown the music out: ''Born in the U.S.A.! Born in the
U.S.A.! K.K.K.! Viva la Migra! January First!''

The restrictionists see Jan. 1 as the dawn of a new era, when the Mexicans
disappear and everything gets pure and legal again. It is uncertain whether
Arizona's economy will survive the exodus. ''Unfortunately, they'll probably
wake up when they bankrupt the state,'' Mr. Reza told me.

For a slide show and further commentary on what's happening in Phoenix, go to
nytimes.com/opinion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

An Effort for Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 175 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Citizenship Surge'' (editorial, Nov. 27):

As an American by choice and director of the 15,000 hard-working government and
contract employees of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, I
understand that immigration is a life-changing business.

After a rigorous analysis to determine the cost of serving our applicants and
modernizing our agency, we increased fees this summer to offer the best possible
service to new immigrants. These fees allow us to update our information systems
and add 1,500 employees.

As with any large organization, change of this magnitude takes time, but we are
on track to carry out these improvements.

However, on the eve of starting our new fees, we were flooded with 2.5 million
applications, double the normal volume. We are working hard to address the
delays. Though we are doing this quickly, we refuse to take shortcuts on
security or compromise the integrity of the adjudications process. Our nation
deserves nothing less.

Emilio T. Gonzalez Washington, Dec. 4, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, and Its Politics, Shake Rural Iowa

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Amanda Cox contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

DATELINE: STORM LAKE, Iowa


Along the main thoroughfare of this small meatpacking town, the transformation
of a single shop, once known as the Ken-A-Bob restaurant, tells the story of the
town itself.

The Ken-A-Bob, an old-fashioned buffet with American classics of fried chicken
and roast beef, went out of business and reopened as Sichanh market, catering to
a wave of immigrants from Laos. Now the shelves are also packed with Mexican
spices, tostadas, chicharrones, the walls covered in signs in Spanish for Mary
Kay cosmetics, baby sitters and Senator Barack Obama.

The nation's struggle over immigration may seem distant in states like Iowa,
hundreds of miles from any border, but the debate is part of daily life here,
more than ever now as residents prepare to pick a president. Nearly all of more
than two dozen people interviewed here last week said they considered
immigration policy at or near the top of their lists of concerns as they look to
the presidential caucuses next month.

And yet, nearly everyone interviewed said that none of the political candidates
had arrived at a position on immigration that fully satisfied them. In real
life, they said, the issues surrounding immigration, both legal and illegal,
were far more complicated than bumper sticker slogans or jabs on a debate stage
or even the carefully picked language of campaign policy papers.

The subject went largely unaddressed in Wednesday's Republican debate in Des
Moines after the moderator discouraged discussion of immigration, suggesting
that Iowans already were familiar with the candidates' positions.

Those who said they favored granting a path to citizenship for the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants already in this country were leaning mainly toward
Democratic presidential candidates, but most said they wished their candidate
could better explain how to carry out such a path practically and fairly.

And those who said they favored tough and immediate penalties for illegal
immigrants said they mostly favored Republicans (though not Senator John McCain,
who seemed to draw special ire here for what people called his disappointingly
lax position), but said they had doubts that so many people could really be
found or punished.

''I care about the illegal immigration issue a lot,'' said David F. Friedrich, a
farmer who said he was a supporter of President Bush and had yet to decide who
he would support. ''But when you start looking for solutions, I just don't know.
I think it's too far gone.''

Like a handful of communities in Iowa -- places named Denison, Ottumwa,
Postville and Marshalltown -- Storm Lake, a city of about 10,000, offers a
glimpse at how new immigration has transformed the nation's rural middle and
with it, the political landscape.

Two decades ago, less than 1 percent of the people in Buena Vista County, where
Storm Lake is the county seat, were Hispanic. By last year, the county had the
highest percentage of Hispanic people of any county in Iowa, with 19.2, compared
with less than 4 percent statewide. Buena Vista County also ranks highest in
Iowa in percentages of those learning English in school, of recent international
immigrants and of residents born in other countries.

In the interviews here, peoples' focus on immigration held regardless of what
perspective they brought to the debate, whether they were Democrats or
Republicans, Hispanic or not, recent arrivals or lifelong Iowans.

Some, like Bob DeMey, said they were troubled by all the change in Storm Lake,
which was once almost exclusively white but which, Mr. DeMey said, has come to
be known among his friends as Little Mexico. So much immigration -- mainly
illegal immigration, he says -- has taken meatpacking jobs away from the locals,
left the schools jammed, and driven up crime.

''They ought to be all shipped back to where they came from,'' said Mr. DeMey,
who is retired.

Others, like Cindy Molgaard, said they worried that raids on illegal immigrants
would drive away a group that kept Storm Lake thriving and growing and selling
goods even as other Midwestern towns shriveled and eventually disappeared.

''As a country, we have saved so many human beings, so why wouldn't we save the
people who are already right here with us, part of us?'' Ms. Molgaard, who
favors Mr. Obama, said of creating a path to grant citizenship for those who are
already here. ''I used to swear there was not a bigot anywhere in Storm Lake,
but as soon as minorities started moving in, they came out of the woodwork.''

Steve Salts, who sells cars, said he considered himself a ''damn good Democrat''
and was leaning toward Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, but was upset by notions
the Democrats had offered in support of an immigration package, which failed
this year in Washington and would have given some illegal immigrants a chance,
ultimately, to stay.

''What's right is right, and I just don't like the illegal alien part of it with
the Democrats,'' said Mr. Salts, who added that he had been impressed by
elements of what Fred D. Thompson, a Republican and former Tennessee senator,
had suggested, including tough border enforcement and making English the
official language.

''Then again, maybe we can't remove all these people,'' Mr. Salts said. ''Maybe
we've got to just live with it. I mean, look around.''

With processing plants for hogs and for turkeys, Storm Lake sits in Iowa's
northwestern region, an agricultural area with strong Republican leanings and
one some say feels more than geographically remote from Des Moines, the state's
urban center.

In 1970, people of mostly German and Scandinavian ancestry dominated this town.
Soon, refugees from Southeast Asia began arriving, many working in meatpacking.
Then, in the 1990s, a wave of Latinos appeared, said Sara Huddleston, a native
of Mexico first elected to the Storm Lake City Council more than four years ago.

Today, minority residents make up more than 40 percent of the population, law
enforcement officials here say; the numbers in the local schools, the
authorities there say, are even higher -- 49 percent Hispanic, 10 percent Asian,
4 percent African-American.

What no one knows is how many of the immigrants are illegal. At Tyson Fresh
Meats, which now owns the plant that was first built in 1953 and employs 1,800
people (about half of them Hispanic), officials said they had ''zero tolerance''
for employing people who were not authorized to work in the United States.

Residents here seem sympathetic to the companies; people who want to cheat will
find a way to do it, they said. Most scoffed at the recent complaints against
Mitt Romney, a Republican candidate, for employing a landscaping company that
included illegal workers.

''It's easy to say you're against illegal immigration but how do you know who is
who?'' said Mike Rust, the owner of Rust's Western Shed, which sells uniforms
and work boots to Tyson employees.

Russell Eddie, a local Republican Party leader, said he thought illegal
immigration would play a significant role in the presidential election. And
Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who has taken an extremely firm
line against illegal immigration and has won three terms, said he heard from
concerned constituents about it constantly.

But some Latinos here said the issue would backfire for the Republicans.

Raids in other meatpacking towns have left some people here fearful, said
Roberto Gonzalez, who was working behind the counter of a Mexican restaurant.
Some will not even venture outside now, Mr. Gonzalez said. But those who can
vote, he said, will oppose the Republicans.

''Tome, they look like they're just about discrimination against Hispanics,''
Mr. Gonzalez said, adding that he favored Mrs. Clinton. ''She is for the
Hispanics,'' he said.

Inside the old Ken-A-Bob, now the Sichanh market, where the sign boasts
''Mexican food'' out front, Siamphay Khamphavong says she has yet to pick a
candidate. Ms. Khamphavong, 21, who came to the United States from Laos at age 3
and whose relatives worked at the meatpacking plant before they bought this
market, said she believed that immigration had brought a positive change to
Storm Lake, that people mostly got along, that everyone could surely co-exist.

Still, she said, whoever becomes president must secure the border and stop
illegal immigration right away. ''If you don't get the right papers, you need to
go back,'' she said. ''You can't just run in and not follow the rules.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON TO THE CAUCUSES: Republican presidential candidates,
including Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, had a last
debate before the Iowa caucuses. Page A34. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: SHIFTING POWERS IN IOWA: New immigration has changed the
landscape of several communities in Iowa, especially ones like Storm Lake in
Buena Vista County. But while many pockets of Iowa have experienced growth in
immigration, the state as a whole remains less diverse than the nation.
(Sources: Iowa State Data Center
U.S. Census Bureau
 HAEYOUN PARK AND AMANDA COX/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A34)  Chart showing how
the powers are shifting in Iowa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Warehouse Workers Quit In Immigration Inquiry

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words


Fresh Direct, the online grocery delivery operation that caters to affluent and
overworked New Yorkers, lost dozens of employees this week after federal
immigration officials notified the company that its employee records were under
investigation.

The company sent its workers a memo on Sunday and Monday saying that Immigration
and Customs Enforcement planned to inspect the records of every employee and
asked them to update their information and provide documents, like Social
Security cards, to prove employment eligibility. At least 40 warehouse workers
who could not produce proof that they were authorized to work in the United
States quit or were suspended.

At the company's warehouse in Long Island City, Queens, the work force, largely
immigrants, reacted with panic and distress as news of the inquiry spread.

''Some people just walked out the door,'' said Sandy Pope, president of a
Teamsters local that is one of two unions competing to organize the  workers.
''They were sobbing, with garbage bags full of their clothes from their lockers.
They didn't feel they had any chance of fixing their paperwork, so they just
left.''

Fresh Direct officials said in a statement that they were trying to comply with
the government's request and keep their employees informed about the
investigation. But they would not discuss any suspensions or resignations.

The federal investigation, part of a national campaign aimed at employers who
hire illegal immigrants, comes in the midst the company's busiest season and in
the middle of a conflict over efforts to unionize some 900 Fresh Direct
warehouse workers. The workers are scheduled to vote on Dec. 22 and 23 on
whether to affiliate with either Local 805 of the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters or Local 348 of the United Food and Commercial Workers union, which
recently organized Fresh Direct drivers.

Ms. Pope, the Teamsters' president, said on Wednesday that the suspensions
seemed to be an effort to thwart the union and that the company's lawyers might
have invited Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials to scrutinize workers
to weaken the union drive.

Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for the federal agency, said, ''I would
categorically deny that that's the case.''

Jim Moore, the company's senior vice president for business affairs, called the
claim outrageous.

''At this point, Fresh Direct is intent on two things,'' he said in a written
statement. ''Complying with the requirements of federal law with respect to the
I.C.E. audit and ensuring that its employees know the facts and are given the
opportunity to participate'' in the union vote. He said the company had asked
immigration officials to delay their audit until after the holidays, but they
refused.

Without confirming or denying the investigation, Ms. Nantel said such audits
were part of the agency's stepped-up  enforcement.

With new financing, she said, the agency recently hired 41 ''forensic auditors''
to scrutinize employment eligibility verification forms, known as I-9's, that
companies are required to keep on file for every employee they hire.

''Certainly an I-9 audit is one investigatory tool that we use,'' Ms. Nantel
said. ''Depending on the results of the audit, we'll follow that investigation
to whatever next step is appropriate.''

Companies that knowingly hire illegal immigrants can face fines or criminal
charges, but until recently, prosecutions were extremely rare. In some
workplaces elsewhere in the country, workers without proper documents were
summoned to the main office without warning, and  taken away in handcuffs.

Union officials said that many Fresh Direct employees, who earn between $7.50
and $9.75 an hour, were so frightened of being detained and separated from their
children that they stayed home on Wednesday. Others said they were told not to
come back.

Ms. Pope said that some employees were warned by company officials not to show
up for their paychecks. She said the union was scrambling to find clergy members
or other volunteers to collect paychecks for workers who feared going back to
the warehouse.

One 41-year-old woman from Ecuador, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for
fear of deportation, said she was let go with an expression of regret when she
told human resources workers at the company that the Social Security number she
had been using for nearly four years was false.

''I'm really desperate now because I have no money to send to my kids,'' she
said, referring to four children in Ecuador. ''I don't know what I'm going to do
with my life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fresh Direct warehouse in Queens. The company is the target
of an audit of employees' status by immigration officials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Child Left Behind? Say It in Spanish

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1971 words


AS school enrollment for Hispanic children declines in New York City and in
other urban areas around the metropolitan region, school districts in dozens of
outlying suburbs are adding seats and  bilingual programs to address a sharp
increase in the number of Hispanic students whose parents are immigrants.

Four out of five school districts in the region have gained Hispanic students
since 2000, according to enrollment figures compiled by the states. By last
year, 478 of New Jersey's 595 districts had bilingual programs, up 5 percent
from the previous year.

''Immigrants are skipping over the urban experience, and that's something that's
quite new,'' said Nicholas V. Montalto, chairman of the board of directors of
the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network, a group that works on behalf of
immigrants. ''Immigrant integration now is happening in the suburbs.''

On the front lines of that integration are suburban schools. Census data from
2006  show that the Hispanic population under 15 has grown by 17 percent in the
19 suburban counties closest to New York City, while the white population in
that age group has fallen 10 percent.

''The suburban baby boom now is Hispanic,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer
at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''At one time you had whites moving
to Levittown, and now we've got Hispanic suburbanites helping to populate the
schools and starting the family networks that had been missing for a while as
the whites aged.

''Why is this occurring?'' Mr. Frey said. ''Some of it is parents looking for
better schools, just like in past immigrant waves. But what really drives it is
where the jobs are and where cheap housing is.''

An analysis of census data shows a steady growth in the number of Hispanic
residents with  school-age children in towns and suburbs, like the Town of Dover
in Morris County,  N.J.,  and the hamlets of Brentwood and Copiague  on Long
Island, and in hundreds of small municipalities in Westchester and New Jersey.

At the same time,  enrollment of Hispanic students was on the decline in places
like Jersey City and Camden, Bridgeport in Connecticut and Hempstead on Long
Island,  from 2000  to  2005, the census data shows.

Several predominantly white communities, like Mount Pleasant in Westchester,
Plainedge  on Long Island and Bethel in Connecticut, have seen school enrollment
of Hispanic students whose parents are immigrants double in the last five years.

''It's a population increase that we did not expect, and it just grows and
grows,'' said Alfred Lodovico, the superintendent in the Mount Pleasant Central
School District, where the number of Hispanic students increased to 109 in 2005,
from 52 in 2000.

The changing demographics is raising questions in some school districts about
how to best meet the needs of  young Hispanic children,  in the classroom, and
within the school community.

''These students have a different preparation and different cultural
background,'' said Miriam M. E. Garcia, the executive director of Adelante of
Suffolk County, a social services agency that provides services to Hispanic
residents in Suffolk. ''The districts don't know what to do with them.''

In Randolph, a township  of almost  25,000  in the hills of Morris County in New
Jersey,  school officials and residents  expect their public schools to score
well in statewide rankings and for students to perform well on standardized
tests. About five years ago,  there was concern that one of the school's four
elementary schools, Fernbrook, was lagging far behind in the standings. ''Our
district is high performing,'' said Christine Carey,  president of the Randolph
school board.  ''Out of the four elementary schools, Fernbrook was noticeably
lower.''

The school, which has prekindergarten through fifth-grade classes, wasn't doing
so well on state tests, with passing rates in the 60s and 70s instead of the
90-plus numbers posted by the district's other schools. Fernbrook seemed to be
struggling to reach many new children of immigrants, especially Hispanics.

While the other three schools had seen little or no change in their mostly white
enrollments, the number of Hispanic students at Fernbrook had doubled in five
years, and there was concern that lower achievement had become chronic.

''The community was getting frustrated, and the idea taking root was that
Randolph is great, but then you have Fernbrook,'' said the principal, Deborah
Grefe.

Two years ago, the district hired a  superintendent, Max  R. Riley, partly on
the strength of his record improving the performance of minority students. Mr.
Riley, who had previously led the school district in Lawrence, N.J., in Mercer
County, where there is a significant Hispanic population,  told the board it had
to invest  in Fernbrook to help get the results that school officials were
seeking.

Last year, even though the district  faced a $3 million budget shortfall, the
board hired more teachers at  Fernbrook,  including one  who spoke Spanish.
While jobs were cut in the administrative office, Mrs. Grefe hired a literacy
coach for teachers to show them some new strategies to help  students who were
behind in reading. Mrs. Grefe initiated evening programs in Spanish and urged
parents to attend.

''What the school board has to buy is it costs more to educate some kids, and
it's going to cost more to educate immigrants,''  Mr. Riley said. ''Once you
accept that, everything falls into place.''

With homeowners complaining about already high property taxes and many school
districts struggling to close budget gaps, not all  school districts are capable
of providing the resources that Randolph concluded were necessary to help raise
performance in those classrooms with children in need of extra services.

''There will be more resources that will be required for these students, and the
fact is, in New Jersey especially, the community pays the lion's share of the
costs,'' said Frank Belluscio, director of communications for the New Jersey
School Boards Association. ''This is going to strain the entire system, and
there will have to be some hard choices.''

He said he hoped that state aid formulas, which the governor has proposed
rewriting, would help funnel more money to districts facing increasing numbers
of children of immigrants.

In some towns, the challenges that go along with the increase in enrollment may
test the suburban education paradigm of small districts and high taxes.

''It will challenge people's fundamental values about what they're willing to
invest in the school system,'' said Chung-Hwa Hong, the executive director of
the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella organization of
immigrant-advocacy groups. ''It's one thing if it's your kid, but if it's not
your kid,  or kids that look like you,  people don't want to pay for it.''

LIKE many suburbs, Randolph's identity is  tied to the high performance of its
schools. ''If you ask anyone why they moved to Randolph, they would say because
the education is very good and the athletic program is very good,'' said Alfredo
Z. Matos, 49, a school board member.

The perception of quality is closely associated with scores on tests mandated by
the federal No Child Left Behind law. That law has also forced schools to make
sure that subgroups,  like  Hispanic students, do well. If not, the schools are
publicly branded as failures.

And, as in most middle-class suburban communities, property values are closely
tied to the  perceptions and performance of the towns' public schools.  ''There
is a lot of talk about property values,''  Ms. Careysaid. ''Some people think
that's where your property value is, in the quality of the schools.''

Carmen Perez-Hogan, a consultant and former  coordinator  of the office of
bilingual education in the New York State Department of Education, said the
nexus of scores and property values can make immigration a flash point.

''If the district starts to feel that their scores are being affected, or the
quality of the school is being affected, then residents worry whether the value
of their property is being affected, and that plays a great role in whether
there is a reaction to immigration,'' she said.

When Mr. Riley arrived in Randolph two years ago and was asked to improve
Fernbrook, he asked the school board president to give Fernbrook's principal the
support and freedom, in addition to more resources, to  help raise scores.
Besides the literacy coach and more outreach, class size in kindergarten and
first and second grades was reduced and set at 15, while it was 22 at the other
three elementary schools. Computer laboratories were cut at the other schools,
but retained at Fernbrook.  A full-time social worker was added, and the
school's reading specialist was made a full-time position; the other schools
continued with part-timers.

''These kids come in with half the vocabulary of middle-class kids,'' said Mrs.
Grefe, the principal. ''We have six different categories of kids in terms of
vocabulary, and they each get different instruction.''  The group with the
lowest skills gets  a half-hour every day with the reading specialist.

Mrs. Grefe speaks Spanish. That has helped with another problem that Mr. Riley,
and other superintendents around the region, say they must solve: getting
hard-working, culturally and linguistically isolated parents involved.  Mrs.
Grefe organized events and programs for parents at the school, including an
evening called Noche Latina, and called every Spanish-speaking parent to attend.

''In Colombia, the school is supposed to teach you, and the parents don't get
involved,'' said Gustavo Roman, 44, a maintenance supervisor for a Parsippany
chemical company whose children attend the Randolph schools. ''American people
take it a little different. Here, the school is supposed to teach you, but the
parents are supposed to help.''

Mr. Roman got a high school education in South America, but he works  three
jobs, 12 hours a day, six days a week. He bought a house in Randolph  10 years
ago so his son could attend the schools. His daughter is in second grade, and
his wife works only part time so she can be involved with the children's
schoolwork, he said.

Marisol Giraldo, a Colombian immigrant, moved to Randolph from Dover after a
divorce five years ago, when her son was entering kindergarten. ''They have many
programs at the school to help you to be a good parent,''  Ms. Giraldo said. She
rents a $900 apartment near Fernbrook, and works as a human resources assistant
in Parsippany. ''It's very hard because you have to work and at the same time be
a parent, but they provide programs at Fernbrook for parents that work all
day.''

Everyone involved said they believed Mrs. Grefe's strategies  were working. Test
scores in third grade have increased steadily since 2004, and are now in the
90s. Fourth-grade tests are up in 2007, but they have been up and down since
2003. And the effects of reducing class sizes won't be seen until the younger
students take the third-grade tests starting this year.

''We have a way to go,'' said Mr. Matos, who is serving his first term on the
school board. Mr. Matos, an executive with an international company, is Puerto
Rican, and lives in the Fernbrook area. ''We have brought the grades up, but we
have to continue to work. I just don't want to lose our good reputation. It's
hard to go up, it's easy to go down.''

For Mrs. Carey, the school board president,  the victory so far is that there
had not yet been political repercussions.

''We thought we'd hear questions like, 'Why is Fernbrook getting lower class
sizes and we're losing our computer labs?''' she said. ''We waited to hear the
complaints, but there was no backlash.

''I think as long as the scores stay high, we won't have any problems.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MEETING THEIR NEEDS: Above, Deborah Grefe, principal of
Fernbrook Elementary School, who speaks Spanish, hired a literacy coach to help
teachers with strategies. Top right, Gustavo Roman, a Colombian immigrant,
standing, with his daughter, Alejandra, wife, Blanca, and son, Gustavo Jr.
Bottom right, Marisol Giraldo, another Colombian immigrant, with her son,
Steven, and daughter, Alejandra. (pg. 10)
       INVESTING: Noreen Drucker teaches a class of English as a Second Language
for fifth graders at Fernbrook School in Randolph, N.J. Below, the
superintendent, Max R. Riley, says that he tells school board officials  ''it
costs more to educate some kids, and it's going to cost more to educate
immigrants.'' (pg. 1)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DITH PRAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPH: ''A
Hispanic Baby Boom in the Suburbs'' The number of Hispanic school-age children
in New York City has declined since 2000. But in the suburbs, enrollment of
Hispanic children continues to climb, and most school districts, large and
small, have felt the impact. (Source: State education departments)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia: Immigration Investigator Convicted

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 107 words


A top investigator in the internal affairs office of the Citizenship and
Immigration Services has been convicted of harboring an illegal immigrant who
was  his girlfriend. The investigator, Lloyd W. Miner, 49, of Centreville, was
convicted by a jury at the federal courthouse in Alexandria. He faces a maximum
sentence of 10 years in prison. His girlfriend, originally from Mongolia, was
also convicted of conspiracy to commit identification fraud. At the time of his
arrest  this year, Mr. Miner was the assistant chief of internal affairs
investigations for Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of the Department
of Homeland Security.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Groceries on the Computer, and Immigrants in the Cold

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1522 words


For  New Yorkers who  crave onion-rosemary marmalade with their  crostini,
loathe the narrow aisles of the nearest supermarket or simply have no time to
shop, Fresh Direct has been like a high-tech fantasy come true. With the touch
of a computer mouse, it conjures up fresh, sophisticated groceries at the
customer's doorstep.

The company has grown in five years from a dot-com dream to a $200 million
business, and its Web site features ''celebrity shopping lists'' from
quintessentially New York figures like Spike Lee, Edward I. Koch and Cynthia
Nixon, a star of ''Sex and the City.''

But now an eruption of low-tech troubles is drawing a spotlight to what lies
behind the computer screen. Last week, the company abruptly lost more than 100
of the roughly 900 employees at its huge plant in Long Island City, Queens,
including many of its most experienced workers, when they learned that federal
officials planned to check their immigration status.

It is battling not one, but two unions that want to represent the workers, with
the election to be held this weekend. City labor leaders and several elected
officials rallied at City Hall on Friday to accuse the company and immigration
authorities of trying to block the union drive.

And when Fresh Direct held a job fair this week, though hundreds of applicants
lined up in the cold, many lost interest as soon as they learned about the low
starting pay and low-temperature workplace: $7.85 an hour to pick and pack
groceries at night, in 38-degree chill, often for more than eight hours at a
stretch. ''They said, 'Dress as warm as you can,''' reported one disenchanted
applicant, Joy Brewster, 22, as she emerged from a group job interview with a
toss of her head. ''I don't think so. I'd be stiff as a board.''

Another applicant, Eibar Amaya, 47, an immigrant from Colombia who is now a
United States citizen, gave his verdict in succinct, if imperfect English: ''Pay
too little, no good.''

He now makes $12 an hour cleaning office bathrooms at night, he added in
Spanish, and considering his legal status and valid driver's license, he
expected something better.

Such comments underscore what may not be evident to the online shopper: that
Fresh Direct's great successes -- Internet efficiency, competitive prices, an
array of locally grown produce and a loyal, well-heeled customer base -- were
built on a low-wage, transient work force that was anchored by illegal
immigrants. And for all that, by its own account, the privately held company has
yet to turn a profit for its investors.

''It's definitely a very competitive business,'' said Michael Garry, technology
and logistics editor for Supermarket News, which covers the industry. ''They're
just one of many employers that are taking advantage of these people. But that
certainly is going to clash with their P.R. image.''

Jim Moore, the company's senior vice president for business affairs, defended
its record as an employer as well as its financial health. Fresh Direct has
participated in a government Social Security verification system since 2004, he
said, and had no idea that some employees' documents were false.

Those who have left for fear of deportation now number about 100, he maintained,
not 300, as organizers with Local 348S of the United Food and Commercial Workers
insist.

He estimated the plant's normal turnover at 45 to 50 percent each year, which he
called ''not particularly high.'' And he said the job fair had produced more
applicants than the company could possibly hire.

But among two dozen applicants who spoke with a reporter, only those with very
limited options seemed undaunted by the job description -- plying frigid miles
of conveyor belts carrying tubs of products from far-flung departments to a
central packing area.

One applicant hoping to be called back was Abdul Hakim, 33, who said he recently
served four years in prison. Another, Nathaniel Griffins, 60, said he was living
in a nearby veterans' shelter and spent his mornings handing out free newspapers
for $8.50 an hour. Like many other American-born and legal residents applying
for work, they expressed sympathy  for the illegal immigrants.

''Legal or not,'' Mr. Griffins said, ''people got to find a way to feed their
families.''

Mr. Moore, the company vice president, acknowledged that many of the immigrant
employees who fled, including butchers, kitchen workers and packers, had been
with the company for three or four years and were among its most longstanding
employees. Some had opposed unionization.

''They are very loyal folks who have been instrumental in helping us build the
company,'' he said. ''It's been incredibly hard for them and very, very sad for
us.''

To union organizers, however, his expression of regret rang false.

Both the food workers' local and Teamsters Local 805, the unions vying to
represent plant workers, called the timing of the immigration audit highly
suspect, and contended that under the immigration agency's own guidelines, it
should have been delayed until after the vote on a union.

Both accused the company of using the audit as its latest tactic in an
aggressive campaign against the union drive, suggesting that management had
called in the immigration authorities, in an effort to intimidate or drive away
union supporters.

Mr. Moore denied that accusation, and turned it around by saying that some
unions unable to win over workers had been known to try to improve their odds by
summoning immigration officials.

But there was no lack of other theories for why Fresh Direct might have appeared
on the radar of immigration officials: a call by a disgruntled native-born
employee; retaliation by an angry competitor; or Fresh Direct's high profile in
the nation's media capital, which might make it an appetizing target for the
Bush administration, intent on publicizing more aggressive enforcement of
immigration laws.

The accusations and confusion partly reflect the relative rarity of immigration
enforcement in New York's food industry.

Illegal immigrant employees abound in New York City's 11,662 registered food
stores -- not to mention on the farms increasingly tapped as local suppliers of
the tenderest arugula and tangiest goat cheese.

''On any given day, if immigration chose to, they could sweep into stores in any
one of these five boroughs and literally take thousands and thousands of workers
out,'' said Pat Purcell, the director of special projects for the Local 1500 of
the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which has 23,000 members in the
New York area, including the employees at Fairway markets, which emphasize
freshness and selection to please the most finicky shoppers.

Full-time employees at Fairway, a family-run company with a long union history,
earn at least  $14.75 an hour, with generous benefits and time-and-a-half for
overtime, Mr. Purcell said.

But in contrast, dozens of upscale or specialty food stores are more obvious
offenders than Fresh Direct, he added, because they pay their lowest-rung
employees, often Mexicans, in cash, below minimum wage, without asking for any
documents.

Older supermarkets in the city, too, have had their share of scandals. Several
years ago, Gristedes and Food Emporium agreed to $3 million settlements after
the state attorney general accused them and their delivery companies of paying
some deliverymen, many of them Africans, just over a dollar an hour.

As for Fresh Direct's future, forecasts are contradictory. Nationally, only 1
percent of groceries are bought online, and such transactions are expected to
nearly double by 2011, to $10.5 billion. But Fresh Direct keeps losing money,
said Lawrence Sarf, the president of F & D Reports, a retail consulting company
in Great Neck, N.Y.

''It has beautiful products, state-of-the-art equipment, and the best executives
to raise money,'' Mr. Sarf said. ''But it doesn't work.''

In its campaign against the Teamsters this summer, the company stated in a
flier, ''We have yet to have a profitable year.''

Mr. Moore now puts it differently. ''We've taken the profits,'' he said, ''and
we've plowed them into growing the company. Our investors are very bullish on
what we're doing.''

Most customers seem bullish, too, despite expressions of remorse about the fate
of illegal immigrant employees.

''We're all so liberal, but we're really taking advantage of all these people,''
said Betsy Jacobs, who described herself as a busy mother in her 40s who depends
on Fresh Direct. ''As a New Yorker, I really want to be helping these people,
not hurting them.''

Former Mayor Edward I. Koch, the company's first commercial spokesman, took a
tougher tone. ''The law should be enforced,'' he said. ''If there are no jobs,
the illegal aliens will go home.''

''I am not for keeping prices down by underpaying the people who do the work,''
he added. ''Unions should be the norm.''

Actually, Mr. Koch confessed, he shops at Fairway and Citarella for his everyday
needs, and uses Fresh Direct for large holiday orders. ''Their produce is
superb,'' he said. ''But I think they have to pay going rates for labor.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Union officials and community leaders attended a rally on
Thursday across the street from the Fresh Direct plant in Queens. Two unions are
vying to represent workers there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 People lined up on Tuesday to apply for jobs  at the Fresh Direct plant in Long
Island City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quebec's Panel on Immigrant Relations Adds to Din of Discord

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


Viewed separately, the incidents seemed relatively insignificant. Members of a
Hasidic synagogue here wanted a neighboring Y.M.C.A. to block or tint the
windows of an exercise room used by women. A Muslim girl was barred from playing
soccer for wearing a hijab on the field. And, in Quebec, some Muslims and
Orthodox Jews refused to deal with police officers and physicians of the
opposite sex.

Then came the decision in late January by Herouxville, Quebec -- a town of
French-speaking Catholics  -- to create a code of conduct for immigrants that
prohibited, among other things, the covering of women's faces except for on
Halloween and the use of public stoning as a form of punishment. This despite
the fact that there are no Muslims in the town and no modern history of
stonings.

The move offended many Muslims in Quebec and prompted  a wide, and not always
temperate, debate among the French-speaking majority about the role of
immigrants in the province. After a political opponent took up the
anti-immigrant backlash as his cause,  Premier Jean Charest of Quebec responded
by creating a commission to discuss immigration concerns. But rather than quell
the debate, it may have made matters worse.

At a series of public, televised meetings that began in August and ended this
month, the Quebec Commission on Accommodation Practices Related to Cultural
Differences heard several  reasoned suggestions for improving relations.

Still, its sessions proved irresistible for the xenophobic. Their frustrations
and fears, particularly about the province's Muslim and Jewish populations,
sometimes turned the commission's meetings into a bigots' roadshow,  say
minority leaders.

''People are now more divided than they were a year ago, that is without
question'' Sameer Zuberi, the human rights coordinator of the Canadian Council
on American-Islamic Relations. ''Over one year, people's opinions have formed,
and it's really going to take a while for that to melt away.''

Even backers of the panel acknowledge that the process has a downside.

No evidence exists that intolerance is more  common in Quebec than elsewhere in
Canada. It is true that Quebec is not a favorite destination for immigrants. The
desire of many Quebecers to preserve the province as a French-language island in
North America's ocean of English speakers has long influenced the region's
relations with immigrants, whose children must attend French school. Statistics
Canada, a federal agency, estimates that 11.5 percent of Quebecers are
foreign-born. While that is a record high for the province, just over 28 percent
of residents of neighboring Ontario were foreign born.

To lead the commission, Mr. Charest appointed two prominent scholars: Gerard
Bouchard, a historian and sociologist who has written extensively on Quebec's
culture, and Charles Taylor, a professor emeritus at McGill University here.

''We have to come up with solutions by the end of March,'' Professor Taylor said
at the final hearing. ''It's causing us a fair amount of anxiety.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Is Defying Easy Answers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 429 words


New immigration and the political reaction against it are nearly as old as the
United States itself. Yet the immigration surge of the last decade has awakened
tensions of unexpected intensity that have pervaded the presidential campaigns
of both parties and stirred voter anger across the country.

In 1960, census figures show, the largest national group of immigrants was the
Italians, accounting for 13 percent of the foreign-born. Today, Mexicans account
for one-third of all immigrants. Spanish-speakers make up nearly half of the
37.5 million foreign-born people in the country. Young Latino immigrants have
brought Spanish to states that had had little exposure to it, like Iowa and
North Carolina.

In addition, never before have illegal immigrants settled here in such numbers
-- an estimated 12 million. Almost 70 percent of those immigrants are
Spanish-speaking, coming from Mexico and Central America, according to the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group.

Coinciding with the mood of apprehension following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, the new immigration has provoked more than the traditional suspicion
that foreigners are taking jobs from American workers. For many voters in the
primary races, immigration has become an urgent national security concern and a
challenge to the American identity.

The new immigration also sharpened the rift between the federal government and
the states. Across party lines, frustrated voters accuse the Bush administration
of failing to secure the southern border against intruders, of being lax on
employers hiring illegal immigrants and of preaching assimilation without
providing resources  for local schools where Spanish-speaking students are
enrolled.

President Bush's failed effort to push an immigration package through Congress
foreshadowed the divisions  on the campaign trail. Republicans are split about
how to proceed, and Democrats are treading carefully, fearful on the one hand of
alienating voters in places like Iowa who are fed up with illegal immigration
but concerned on the other about missing what they see as an opportunity to win
the allegiance of the fast-growing Hispanic population.

The next president will still face the tricky task of negotiating not just the
politics of the issue, but also some concrete realities. While border fences and
immigration raids have discouraged some illegal immigrants from coming and
encouraged some who are here to go home, millions of illegal workers have had
families here and put down roots, and are not going to disappear.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unwilling New Frontier for Migrants: 3 Greek Isles

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: SAMOS, Greece


Six men and a woman crouch in the dark against the wall of the coast guard
headquarters. An officer wearing camouflage fatigues barks: ''Name? Papa? Age?''

With a show of fingers they indicate their years: from 20 to 27.

''Country?'' He shouts louder when they do not understand. He speaks in English,
a language in which they may have a few words in common. Five say they are from
Afghanistan, two say they are Palestinians. Then he lines them up and marches
them along the waterfront.

Scenes like this play out nightly on Samos, one of three Greek islands so close
to Turkey that no international waters lie between them. Migrants from Iraq,
Afghanistan, Somalia, Libya, Lebanon, Eritrea, the Palestinian territories and
Iran land on these islands, strung out along a new fault line for immigration
into the European Union.

Smugglers monitor the coast guards of Greece and Turkey and, immigration lawyers
and migrants say, charge $870 for a place on an inflatable dinghy in which the
migrants row the short but treacherous distance into the European Union.

At better-known targets for migrants trying to pierce the borders of the
European Union -- Lampedusa, off Italy; and the Canary Islands -- refugees try
to land after traveling hundreds of miles in flimsy boats. Here, their peril and
fate are compressed into less than a mile of sea. It would be a manageable swim,
but for the dangerous strait.

The total of arrivals on this island chain more than doubled in 2007, putting a
strain on the islands. By the end of November, 10,961 migrants had landed on
Samos, Lesbos and Chios, islands in the northern Aegean Sea, compared with 4,024
for all of 2006, said Vassilios Gatsas, the chief of police for the three
islands. By contrast, clandestine arrivals in Lampedusa and the Canaries have
declined.

With geography putting Greece on the defensive against this flow, it has reacted
forcefully. For many who land here, the door is  slamming firmly shut.

They are arrested and put in detention for three months. Most are then ordered
to leave the country within 30 days. Many of those who elude the authorities and
try to arrange to be smuggled farther into Europe are caught and sent back to
Greece.

''Greece was not ready to accept such vast numbers of immigrants,'' Mr. Gatsas
said.

''From an immigrant-exporting country, we have become importers in a very short
period of time,'' he said, referring to the post-1945 exodus of Greeks to
Australia, Canada, the United States and other destinations.

Most Greeks, with a history of hardship and emigration, are still broadly
sympathetic to the migrants. But the Interior Ministry has to deal with policy
and policing problems, and international criticism is mounting.

In April, Greece lost a case brought by the European Commission at the European
Court of Justice, which criticized Greece for not providing adequate access to
asylum. Under European Union rules, the first country an immigrant reaches is
supposed to deal with asylum requests. Other European countries contend that
Greece's failure to address the issue adequately merely shifts the problem to
them.

Mr. Gatsas said that among migrants who headed for his islands last year, 24
died in the crossing. Their bodies were washed up on the beaches of Samos or
dragged up in fishing nets, he said.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees counted 100 dead or missing
off Samos, Lesbos and Chios last year.

An asylum seeker in his 50s, who said he had made the crossing to Samos ''in
record time of 40 minutes'' in the summer, and who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to protect his family in Iran, said he had followed the advice of his
Turkish smuggler and cut up his inflatable dinghy when he landed. ''If the
police catch you and see no boat, they say, 'Come with me,''' he said, lessening
the chances of quick deportation.

The wave of  illegal arrivals in 2007 has put enormous strain on this island of
35,000 better known as a tourist resort and the birthplace of the  mathematician
Pythagoras.

On Dec. 1, Samos opened a $3.6 million detention center. It replaced a
dilapidated former tobacco factory that Giorgos Tsarbopoulos, Athens director
for the United Nations refugee agency, said  housed migrants in conditions that
''offend human dignity.''

Mr. Gatsas said that the three islands, with a police force of 500, would  get
300 more officers this year. ''Until now, we tried to deal with the problem with
the staff we have,'' he said.

While Greece is investing in security, only one lawyer is available to help
refugees here with legal aid and asylum requests. That lawyer, Dimitrios Vouros,
said late last year that only 7 of the 4,469 migrants passing through  detention
had asked for asylum. That was the same number of requests as in 2006, when the
number of arrivals was one-third the size.

While United Nations leaflets that explain asylum procedures are available in
many languages, Mr. Vouros said, some migrants believe they stand a better
chance if they wait to apply in Athens. Ireni Tremouli, the detention center's
social worker, said many did not understand the gravity of their situation,
focusing only on being released. Other migrants apparently feel they will get a
more sympathetic hearing if they can move from Greece into another European
country to apply for asylum. Officials on the island say they feel both burdened
and insufficiently supported by their neighbors in guarding Europe's eastern
border.

Mr. Gatsas, the police chief; Stellos Partsafas, the coast guard chief; and
Emmanuel Karlas, the prefect of Samos and its most senior political official,
all criticized Turkey for not halting the flow of people, and faulted the
European Union for a lack of help. ''Turkey does not control its border,'' Mr.
Karlas said. ''The E.U. must speak to Turkey to control the flow of
immigrants.''

Despite the burdens, many islanders show good will to those washing up on their
shores.

''In a way it's the history of Samos,'' Mr. Vouros said. ''During World War II,
for three to four years under the German Army, hundreds, if not thousands, of
Greek people every night took small boats and went to Turkey, like these people,
and from Turkey they went to Egypt. These people are like us. Our grandfathers
had the same story.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A $3.6 million detention center in Samos, Greece, for migrants
arrested there and in Lesbos and Chios opened on Dec. 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLINE
BROTHERS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) MAP: Samos has attracted migrants
to European Union nations.  Map of Samos in Greece.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 4, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Power of Immigration to Divide

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 926 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration and the Candidates'' (editorial, Dec. 30):

You imply that liberal Democrats are in agreement that the 12 million immigrants
in the United States illegally should be welcomed into legal status because they
are here and it is unrealistic to do otherwise.

This is one liberal who believes that amnesty (or whatever euphemism you
prefer), in addition to fostering a diminution of respect for the law, will
serve as a signal to millions of others that if they can get here, they are home
free.

Even the most generous of societies has to recognize the limits of its
resources. With the world's population rising fast, we cannot address the
unchecked growth of underdeveloped areas by admitting everybody to this country.

Any policy that signals a pseudo-open border will intensify the many resource
problems we are already bumping up against. The Census Bureau predicts that if
our immigration policy is not changed, our population will exceed 400 million by
2050.

The answer is not a fence across the South; as you say, 40 percent of illegal
immigrants enter legally and overstay their visas. But amnesty is not the answer
either.  Carl Mezoff

Stamford, Conn., Dec. 30, 2007

To the Editor:

None of our presidential candidates or Congressional politicians seem to be
aware of the law of averages. If we had a secure border, combined with a
temporary moratorium on legal immigration, we could bring our average total
immigration levels back to historical norms.

A moratorium for 10 years, or perhaps 15, would cancel out the illegal
immigration of recent years. This would also allow us to concentrate on a humane
policy of assimilation for the millions of illegal immigrants who are here as a
result of our government's failure to keep them out.

The moratorium approach is simple. Perhaps our politicians should just do
something simple for a change.

Ron Sheppe

Rochester, N.H., Dec. 30, 2007

To the Editor:

Your editorial calls Senator John McCain the ''single voice of reason in the
Republican camp'' on immigration. Yet he was an original sponsor of the
immigration bill requiring that immigrants ''earn'' citizenship.

I bristle at the thought. Most of the presumably illegal immigrants I have
observed in Texas have already earned their right to be American citizens.

Many have taken jobs that can only be classified as heavy and dangerous labor --
stone work, ditch digging and other backbreaking work. Some have taken jobs that
no one else wanted, like cleaning toilets or restaurant kitchens. Others have
stepped in to help Americans clean their homes and raise their children.

All this has been accomplished at substandard wages, too often not remotely
enough to live on. By being willing to work hard for very little money, haven't
our illegal immigrants already ''earned'' their citizenship?

Claude M. Gruener

Austin, Tex., Dec. 30, 2007

To the Editor:

Your editorial supports ''assimilation'' of illegal immigrants, rather than
''expulsion.'' If only the rest of us could ignore the law and receive your
backing.

As with the free trade issue, do you suggest we just ignore the immigration
problem and forge ahead on faith alone? This has been symptomatic of our country
for decades: influential and powerful business leaders and political leaders
ignore the effects of their policies on the middle class.

It is not right for an immigrant to break the law to gain advantage over those
who apply legally or for an employer to do so in pursuit of a business
advantage. If chief executives went to jail, think how fast the immigration
crisis would end. Harold Tuchel

Waterloo, Iowa, Dec. 30, 2007

To the Editor:

The focus on economics and jobs to the exclusion of all else in the current
debate about immigration is most unfortunate.

It is demeaning to all of us. The contributions of our immigrant ancestors (or
selves) and their descendants are not solely or even primarily economic. Music,
science, art, law, religion, writing, education, medicine, aviation, the
exploration of space, communications, and so many other fields of learning and
achievement -- do these count for nothing?

Remember, almost all of us are immigrants or the descendants of immigrants. What
gives us the right to seal our borders and turn away the poor and the oppressed?
What right do we have to remain on this land and cover it with our shopping
malls and housing developments?

The only hope of redemption we have is to admit that our own ancestors acted out
of desperation, just as today's immigrants do, and to welcome those who come
seeking a better life.

Paul T. Shoemaker

Bronxville, N.Y., Dec. 30, 2007

To the Editor:

In the third paragraph of your editorial, you pose the question ''What should be
the role of immigrant labor in our economy?'' Near the end you say, ''The issue
has left the country divided, fretful and ambivalent, and voters are yearning
for honesty and thoughtfulness.'' Well said.

What we sorely need is a dialogue on the law -- a discussion The New York Times
should spearhead. But this is the topic you skirt. What is the law? To whom does
it apply? When should it be enforced and for whom? If enough people break a law,
is it no longer enforceable? What is the value of law?

These are questions law-abiding taxpayers ask themselves. At the risk of
oversimplifying, what laws can I break, and will you write an opinion piece
defending my right to do so? The vacuum will be filled when these questions are
answered.  Ann Marie Ottaviano

Huntington, N.Y., Jan. 1, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2008 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Agency Acts To Cut Delay In Gaining Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 471 words


Federal officials said Friday that they had agreed on an emergency plan to hire
back about 700 retired government employees in an effort to pare an immense
backlog in applications for citizenship by legal immigrants.

Under the plan, first proposed by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New
York, retired workers could return to the federal Citizenship and Immigration
Services agency without sacrificing any part of their pensions. The agency will
be authorized to hire former employees who have long since passed training
programs and could be on the job quickly to help handle the more than one
million citizenship applications filed in the first 10 months of last year, Mr.
Schumer said.

The required waiver was approved in a letter on Thursday to immigration
officials from Linda M. Springer, the director of the Office of Personnel
Management.

The rehiring program is one step to help the immigration agency overcome an
embarrassing backlog. Legal immigrants, saying they were spurred by a fee
increase that took effect July 30 and by worries raised in the fierce political
debate over immigration, applied in huge numbers last summer to become citizens.
They were aided by a nationwide drive led by Hispanic groups and Univision, the
Spanish-language television network.

According to its Web site, the immigration agency is projecting that it could
take up to 18 months to process citizenship applications received after June 1.
Hispanic groups have protested that hundreds of thousands of applicants would be
unable to vote in the presidential election.

''It's a problem of their own making,'' William Ramos, director of the
Washington office of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials Educational Fund, said of the agency. ''We kept telling them, there is
going to be a surge.''

In recent days, the immigration agency confirmed that it received 1,026,951
citizenship applications from  last January to October, nearly double the number
in that period in 2006.

The agency also received a deluge of other immigration petitions.

Hispanic groups have demanded that the agency complete by July 4 the
naturalizations of all immigrants who applied in the 2007 fiscal year, which
ended Sept. 30, Mr. Ramos said.

Normally, when retired federal employers return to work, their salaries are
reduced by the amount of their pension payments. Under the new waiver, retired
workers who return to the immigration agency will receive full salary as well as
their regular pension payments.

Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
the agency was also reorganizing its work force and imposing mandatory overtime
on current workers.

The immigration agency plans to hire at least 1,500 new regular employees by the
end of this year,  Mr. Bentley said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a plan by the federal Citizenship and
Immigration Services agency to hire retired employees to help clear a backlog of
naturalization applications inaccurately described another measure the agency is
taking to handle the applications. It is asking current employees to work
voluntary overtime; it is not imposing mandatory overtime.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alongside the History of the Nation, the Story of Jewish Immigrants

BYLINE: By JON HURDLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; RELIGION JOURNAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 890 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


Alongside some of the most historic landmarks in the United States, a building
is rising that will tell the story of the national immigration experience
through the life of the Jewish people.

The new National Museum of American Jewish History, scheduled to open on July 4,
2010, is an effort to add to the historical narrative traced by the cultural
icons of  Independence Mall: Independence Hall, where the Declaration of
Independence was signed; the Liberty Bell, which was rung on July 8, 1776, to
summon the people of Philadelphia for the reading of the Declaration; and nearby
, the National Constitution Center, housing a permanent exhibition on the
Constitution.

The $170 million building under construction will trace the lives of American
Jews since their first arrival in New Amsterdam from Brazil in 1654, focusing on
how they influenced, and were influenced by, their new home.

The goal, said the museum's executive director, Gwen Goodman, is to distill the
experience of all ethnic groups making a new life in America by tracing the
history of Jews in this country.

''Our museum tells the story of what happens when an ethnic minority arrives in
America, and how they can feel welcome,'' Ms. Goodman said. ''This is a museum
about the meaning of America itself, seen through the eyes of one community.''

The new museum has been welcomed by the National Park Service, which manages
Independence Hall and the Liberty Bell, as an important addition to the area.

''They made it clear that they didn't want to make this just about American
Jewish history but about the whole American experience,'' said Darla Sidles,
acting superintendent of Independence National Historical Park.

Rabbi Craig Axler, of Congregation Beth Or in the Philadelphia suburb of Maple
Glen, said the Jewish immigrant experience should not be seen as a proxy for the
whole immigrant community because it differed in some respects from that of
other  groups.

But Rabbi Axler  said the new museum would highlight issues of assimilation and
identity that Jews shared with other groups. ''The Jewish story has something to
give to others,'' he  said. ''There are parallels.''

The new building, designed by James S. Polshek, will replace an existing museum
a few blocks away that has been open since 1976 but is too small to meet the
institution's goals.

The  museum's design celebrates freedom but also warns of its fragility, Mr.
Polshek said. Its most prominent feature will be a five-story translucent
facade.

''This amount of glass implies that one should not take for granted the freedoms
supplied by a democracy,'' Mr. Polshek said.

Inside, visitors to the three main exhibition floors will have views over
Independence Mall. ''They will never be able to forget that they are in the
birthplace of this country,'' Mr. Polshek said.

At the top of the facade, a replica of a flame will represent both the torch of
the Statue of Liberty and the eternal flame that traditionally burns in a
synagogue.

The five-story museum will have 25,000 square feet of gallery space for the
permanent exhibition,  about 10 times that of the current museum. Major donors
include Sidney Kimmel, the movie producer and founder of the Jones Apparel
Group; Ed Snider, owner of the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team; and the Dell
Foundation. By the end of 2007, $107 million had been raised.

The museum will draw on a collection of some 24,000 objects like silver, books,
drawings, prints and photographs from colonial times to the present.

''It's not a museum that just glorifies what the Jews did,'' Ms. Goodman said.
''It's about what America did for the Jews and what Jews did for America.''

For example, the exhibition will examine assimilation, a result of the freedom
experienced by the Jews in America.

''Freedom is very good for Jews,'' Ms. Goodman said, ''but not necessarily for
Judaism.''

She said she hoped the museum would become a magnet for Jews who have
assimilated and have no affiliation with a synagogue, as well as for those who
lead an active religious life. ''We hope they can all come here and feel
comfortable,'' she said.

Josh Perelman, the museum's historian, said the new exhibitions would examine
how contemporary Jewish issues like intermarriage have affected the Jewish
experience in America.

''There were a lot of Jews in the colonies, but sometimes there were not enough
young people to find your mate here,'' Mr. Perelman said.

To tell its stories, the  museum will rely less on documents, and more on video
and audio to tell first-person narratives, he said.

The display will include pieces from a major collection by Peter H. Schweitzer,
a New York City rabbi who has donated some 10,000 objects used in everyday
Jewish life from the late-19th to mid-20th centuries. They include cake toppers
for bar mitzvahs, music collections related to the Jewish entertainers of the
Catskills region of New York and even seltzer bottles, which Mr. Perelman said
were a part of the Jewish immigrant experience.

Asked why the new museum was not in New York, with its rich Jewish tradition, or
Washington, with its many national institutions, Ms. Goodman said the story of
the American immigrant experience should be told in the country's birthplace.

''This is where it should be because this is where it all began,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Yiddish typewriter, new to a Jewish museum's collection.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Queens, Riders Cope With Disruptions to the 'Immigrant Express'

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Angelica Medaglia contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 780 words


The No. 7 train is to Roosevelt Avenue in Queens what the A train is to Harlem:
the rhythm of the place. On Saturday, the beat was off as thousands of subway
riders in some of the most diverse neighborhoods in the city endured life on
Roosevelt Avenue, at least temporarily, without the train that some call the
''Immigrant Express.''

Service on the No. 7 train was suspended from 12:01 a.m. on Saturday to 5 a.m.
on Monday for 10 stops through western Queens, the first of five weekend
shutdowns that transit officials said were necessary to modernize the signal
system and reconfigure track switches. The service suspension stretched from the
Flushing-Main Street station to the Woodside-61st Street station.

As riders sprinted to catch shuttle buses and transit workers stood beneath the
elevated tracks directing and calming the masses, the scene seemed a lesson in
international and interpersonal relations. People communicated through gestures,
incomplete English and brochures in English, Spanish, Chinese and Korean.
Outside a station in Jackson Heights, an African-American transit worker guided
Spanish-speaking men onto a shuttle bus ''para Main Street'' as she stood across
the street from a Chinese/halal buffet restaurant, and her Hispanic colleague,
Victor Lopez, assisted a Korean woman.

''You do your best,'' said Mr. Lopez, 49, a transit worker who speaks English,
Spanish and a little German but no Korean.

Last year, a section of the No. 7 line between Manhattan and Queens was shut
down for several weekends for upgrades, and headaches ensued. Thousands of
riders were delayed and given confusing directions to shuttle buses. Transit
officials vowed to make improvements, and on Saturday, the service changes on
the No. 7 train, which has about 400,000 weekday riders, appeared to run more
smoothly.

About 300 free shuttle buses, some making local stops and others express trips,
carried riders along the route. Transit workers wearing bright orange-and-yellow
vests directed people to the buses and answered questions. The shuttle bus stops
were hard to miss; some were marked with yellow posters and yellow sandwich
boards, and at others, transit personnel were shouting into bullhorns. One
transit worker, after being approached by a woman who was uncertain where to go,
escorted her onto a waiting shuttle bus.

''We expected to get killed, but we're doing pretty good,'' said a
transportation manager outside the Woodside-61st Street station who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the news media.
''So far, so good.''

Still, many riders said they had no clue that service was going to be suspended,
though transit officials say they did spread the word. Riders' moods ranged from
nonchalant to inconvenienced to mildly frustrated. Riders seemed to take full
advantage of the free shuttle buses and the large numbers of transit workers to
get answers. In addition to using the buses, riders were able to transfer to
Long Island Rail Road trains at two stops along the route.

At 11:45 a.m. on Saturday, a trip from Main Street to the 74th Street-Broadway
stop on a shuttle bus took about 30 minutes. The bus trips seemed to take longer
than the train rides.

One rider, Chang Chi Lin, 28, a Manhattan programmer who had to transfer to a
Long Island Rail Road train to visit friends in Flushing, said he had learned
not to rely on the No. 7 train. ''The 7 train always has a lot of problems,'' he
said.

Leonardo Viveros, 25, a construction courier, grew frustrated aboard the shuttle
bus that was inching its way along Roosevelt Avenue. He was late for work in
Long Island City. Mr. Viveros said he had no idea the No. 7 train was not
running. ''No one gave me any brochure,'' he said.

Some travelers  simply shrugged off the disruption. ''What are you going to
do?'' said Ellen Dorsey of Long Island City as she boarded a shuttle bus.

Along parts of Roosevelt Avenue, empty trains still clattered overhead to
reverse direction after emptying out at 61st Street, and the street was still
thick with people. But it wasn't the same.

Mike Tayeh, the owner of Halmart, a discount store directly outside a shuttle
bus stop on Roosevelt Avenue near 63rd Street, said he was frustrated that most
people were in a rush to catch shuttle buses and had no time to shop. ''I didn't
do half what I usually do on a Saturday morning,'' he said.

New York City Transit, the arm of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority that
operates the subways, has said the work on the line is part of a $76 million
project. Besides the weekend suspensions, there will be no express service on
the No. 7 train on weekdays until Feb. 29.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Passengers from the No. 7 trains waited for shuttle buses
Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 639 words


INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Bush Urges Anti-Iran Unity

As Tehran Cedes to Queries

President Bush urged wary Persian Gulf allies to rally against Iran ''before it
is too late,'' even as the International Atomic Energy Agency announced that the
country had agreed to answer outstanding questions about its nuclear programs.
A10

African Migrants Follow Fish

International trawlers and local boats have so thoroughly scoured northwest
Africa's ocean floor that major fish populations are collapsing, which has
crippled coastal economies and added to the surge of illegal migrants who try to
reach Europe.  A1

Immigrant Crime in Germany

A brutal war of words has broken out in Germany over violence committed by
youths with immigrant backgrounds.  A3

A Blow for Taiwan's Leader

The victory for the opposition Kuomintang in Taiwan's parliamentary elections
could sharply reduce the political influence of President Chen Shui-bian.  A8

Here Comes the ... Bill

Extravagant Afghan weddings, which were banned by the Taliban, are now bigger
than ever -- a mixed blessing in Afghanistan, one of the poorest countries in
the world.  A1

Deathtrap for 6 U.S. Soldiers

Six American soldiers and their Iraqi interpreter were killed in a house that
had been rigged to explode.  A6

NATIONALA12-22

Poll Finds One Race

Is Volatile, Other Stable

In the wake of the early contests in Iowa and New Hampshire, a New York
Times/CBS News poll finds major shifts in the Republican presidential contest
and more subtle changes on the Democratic side, with voters concerned about new
issues.  A1

Race and Gender on the Trail

Race and gender have reached the forefront of the Democratic presidential
contest, putting Senator Barack Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in a
social and political debate that transcends their candidacies.  A1

Mail-In Voters in California

In California, election officials estimate that more than half of voters may
vote early by mail, which has forced campaigns to adjust their strategies.  A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Pain Drug Offers Hope

A drug called Lyrica has been approved to treat fibromyalgia, a chronic pain
condition. But some doctors say that the disorder does not exist and that Lyrica
and other drugs will be taken by millions of people who do not actually need
them.  A1

Scientists Create Rat Heart

Medicine's dream of growing new human organs to repair damaged ones received a
boost when researchers reported success in creating a beating rat heart in a
laboratory.  A12

NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6

Attack Evokes Memories Of City's Rough Past

A melee on a Harlem street -- in which a subway motorman who says he was
attacked by a group of muggers pulled a knife of his own, killing someone -- is
prompting people across the city to go through the mental what-ifs that were an
everyday burden in the bad old days of street crime: run, hand over the money or
fight back?B1

New Parents' Retreats

The Mommy Nest is one of many inns, hotels and day spas around the New Jersey
area that cater to a handful of brand-new parents who may spend $500 a night
getting adjusted to breast-feeding, sleep deprivation and other joys of
parenthood. B1

BUSINESS DAYC1-10

New Rivalry for Apple

At the Super Bowl next month, the music industry will be switching teams, from
Apple to Amazon.com. The change is an indication of the continuing tension
between the music industry and Apple. C1

Business DigestC2

OBITUARIES22-23

Johnny Podres

A celebrated figure in the Brooklyn Dodgers who made history in October 1955 by
pitching them to their only World Series championship, he was 75.A22

EDITORIALA24-25

Editorials: The candidates discover the economy; H.I.V. rises among young gay
men; the pork king keeps his crown; Eduardo Porter on the gadget graveyard.

Columns: William Kristol and Paul Krugman.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Hails City's Immigrants and Innovation

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Al Baker contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, looking at once to close a multibillion-dollar
deficit and burnish his national profile as an innovator, unveiled a mix of
tough education and anticrime measures while embracing the virtues of
immigration on Thursday at his annual State of the City address.

At the heart of his speech, Mr. Bloomberg warned of the coming pain of spending
cuts in response to lost revenues from Wall Street and a slowing real estate
market. But he argued that the hurt would have been far worse if not for his
careful management of the budget in recent years, and said he did not yet plan
to raise taxes.

In the 48-minute address, Mr. Bloomberg vowed to end social promotion for eighth
graders, as he already has for third, fifth and seventh graders. He called for
collecting DNA from anyone arrested for a crime. And the mayor, a billionaire
who paid for his own campaigns, promised to step up the fight against political
patronage.

The presentation, complete with lively performances by public school students
and the mayor holding up a baby, was as political as it was practical, with Mr.
Bloomberg working to keep the notion alive that he could become a third-party
presidential candidate unencumbered by partisan allegiances and sniping. He was
particularly explicit on immigration, an emotional  issue in both the Democratic
and Republican campaigns.

''Take a look behind me,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, referring to the collection of
largely immigrant families he had invited to sit onstage. ''This is what makes
America great,'' he added, holding his arms aloft, his voice rising. ''This is
New York City. This is freedom. This is compassion and democracy and
opportunity.''

Indeed, Mr. Bloomberg practically began his address by jabbing a sly elbow
toward some of the presidential candidates, criticizing those who had suddenly
''embraced xenophobia.''

''Keeping New York City and America at the front of the pack begins with an
openness to new energy, meaning immigration, and new ideas, meaning
innovation,'' he said. ''That's how I built my business, and that's the approach
we've brought to a city government that was insular and provincial, and married
to the conventional.''

Again and again Mr. Bloomberg returned to the theme of rejecting received wisdom
and changing the way government works, nowhere more clearly than in the public
school system, whose improvement he has made a major part of his legacy. But in
extending the end of social promotion to the eighth grade, Mr. Bloomberg seemed
to tacitly acknowledge that despite his having toughened the promotion policies
in earlier grades, too many students were still entering high school unprepared
to succeed.

To help struggling students who are preparing for the working world, Mr.
Bloomberg said he would overhaul vocational education in the high schools and
community colleges, beginning in September 2009. Toward that end, he announced
the creation of a task force to be led by former Mayor David N. Dinkins and Sy
Sternberg, chairman and chief executive of the New York Life Insurance Company,
and to include Merryl H. Tisch, a philanthropist and member of the State Board
of Regents.

''Traditionally, such career and technical education has been seen as an
educational dead end,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''We're going to change that.
College isn't for everyone, but education is.''

Despite looming economic trouble, Mr. Bloomberg offered several political
crowd-pleasers, like continuing a $400 property tax rebate and allowing online
access to the 311 system, results from quality-of-life inspections, and other
service data like fire response times and noise complaints.

But at least one proposal, to collect DNA samples from anyone arrested for a
crime in the city, could be less easy to sell,  especially to state legislators,
who took seven years to approve a similar provision for people who had been
convicted of felonies and some misdemeanors.

Federal law enforcement agencies and a few states already have similar
provisions, which supporters say help identify repeat criminals and exonerate
the innocent but have drawn opposition among privacy and prisoners' advocates.

Peter J. Neufeld, the co-founder and co-director of the Innocence Project, a
nonprofit organization that uses DNA evidence to exonerate the wrongfully
convicted, criticized the proposal, saying the mayor was ''shooting from the
hip.''

''The mayor's goal is laudable, but he is completely wrong about how to protect
the innocent,'' said Mr. Neufeld, adding that blacks and Hispanics were
disproportionately arrested by the police. ''The best ways to protect the
innocent do not involve collecting DNA from arrestees, who are presumed innocent
and many of whom will have their charges dismissed. The best way to protect the
innocent is to change the way the N.Y.P.D. conducts identifications and fails to
record interrogations.''

Under the mayor's proposal, which would require state approval, if the DNA
profiles of those arrested were not linked to other crimes and they were not
convicted, their genetic records would be erased.

Mr. Bloomberg also announced a less contentious DNA proposal: a ''six-figure
prize'' for inventing a device that would allow the Police Department to more
quickly and thoroughly analyze DNA at the scene of a crime. The prize, to be
paid out of private donations, is ''just one more way we are trying to bring
private-sector innovation into the public sector,'' he said.

Throughout the address, the penultimate of his tenure, Mr. Bloomberg sought to
show how he was paying off the promise of a chief executive as mayor, outlining
the data-driven, efficiency-minded, anti-politics-as-usual approach he asserts
he is bringing to government.

He said he would convene a charter revision commission to take a comprehensive
look at the structure and operation of city agencies in order to eliminate
redundancies and antiquated regulations while finding savings.

And he returned to a pet theme of getting the politics out of politics, pledging
to work with Citizens Union, a good-government group, to lobby for nonpartisan
hiring at the Board of Elections. In New York, election law requires that the
members of each state and local board must be divided equally between the two
major parties, according to the Citizens Union. As a result, Mr. Bloomberg said,
party bosses call the shots.

Saying that 2008 is the 130th anniversary of the death of Boss Tweed, he added,
''Let's also make it the year we finally put to rest his style of politics.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in Queens before his State of the
City address, which outlined education and anticrime plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Argument, 12 Million Holes

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 952 words


The big fat immigration bill that died last year in Congress was, for all its
flaws, an anchor that kept debate tethered firmly to reality. Like it or not, it
contained specific remedies for the border and the workplace. It had a plan for
clearing backlogs in legal immigration and managing its future flow. Perhaps
most critical, it dealt with the 12 million illegal immigrants already here,
through a tough path to earned citizenship.

Unmoored from a comprehensive federal bill, the debate was pushed into the
states and is now floating in the La-La Land of the presidential campaign. The
Republicans have been battling over the sincerity of their sound bites and
trying to make their fixation on one dimension of the problem -- tough border
and workplace enforcement -- sound like the solution.

But it isn't, of course, because it ignores the fundamental question of what to
do about the undocumented 12 million. A locked-down border won't affect them.
There is no way to round them up and move them out all at once. Not even the
most eagerly anti-immigration candidate would dare talk about detention camps.
Amnesty is a Republican curse word. So what's the plan?

This is the cavernous hole in anti-immigration policy that its proponents want
to cover with chain link and razor wire. It's where swaggering Republicans get
vague and mushy. The emptiness of their position was acutely exposed in the Jan.
5 debate, when Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts,  ripped into
Senator John McCain of Arizona for sponsoring an ''amnesty'' bill that did not
call for the mass expulsion of 12 million people.

MR. McCAIN: There is no special right associated with my plan. I said they
should not be in any way rewarded for illegal behavior.

MR. ROMNEY: Are they sent home?

MR. McCAIN: They have to get in line --

MR. ROMNEY: Are they sent home?

MR. McCAIN: -- behind everybody else.

MR. ROMNEY: Are they sent home?

MR. McCAIN: Some of them are, some of them are not, depending on their
situation.

You'd think that Mr. Romney wanted all illegal immigrants to be sent home. But
minutes later, he told the moderator, Charles Gibson of ABC News, something
completely different.

MR. GIBSON: Is it practical to take 12 million people and send them out of the
country?

MR. ROMNEY: Is it practical? The answer is no. The answer is no.

Mr. Romney (who in the distant past -- 2005 -- called the McCain bill
''reasonable'') stumbled further on a talk show, ''This Week with George
Stephanopoulos,'' the next day. He struggled over whether the McCain bill could
even be called ''amnesty,'' since it fined illegal immigrants $5,000.

MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So you do believe his plan is amnesty then?

MR. ROMNEY: Not under a legal definition but under the normal, colloquial
definition, yes.

Under the normal, colloquial definition, Mr. Romney is talking through his hat.
But he isn't alone. Except for Mr. McCain, the Republican candidates have
skirted the issue or, worse, embraced the restrictionist approach known as
''attrition.'' That amounts to relentlessly tightening the screws in workplaces
and homes until illegal immigrants magically, voluntarily disappear.

Making it work would require far more government intrusion into daily lives,
with exponential increases in workplace raids and deportations. It would mean
constant ID checks for everyone -- citizens, too -- with immigration police at
the federal, state and local levels. It would mean enlisting bureaucrats and
snoops to keep an eye on landlords, renters, laborers, loiterers and everyone
who uses government services or gets sick.

Worst of all, it's weak on law and order. It is a free pass to the violent
criminals we urgently need to hunt down and deport. Attrition means waiting
until we stumble across bad people hiding in the vast illegal immigrant
haystack. Comprehensive reform, by bringing the undocumented out of the shadows,
shrinks the haystack.

Fred Thompson has been perhaps the most vocal defender of attrition. But on
Wednesday, the newly restrictionist Mike Huckabee one-upped him by signing the
''No Amnesty'' pledge of the nativist group NumbersUSA, formally committing to
the principle that all 12 million illegal immigrants must be expelled.
Americans, naturally, have no earthly idea how he would accomplish that.

Even if you accept the Republicans' view of immigration policy as warfare
against illegal immigrants, their tactics are the rejects of history, starting
with that Vietnam-evoking ''attrition.'' The border wall is right from Monsieur
Maginot's playbook -- fortifying just one of two international borders even
though at least 40 percent of illegal immigrants arrive perfectly legally and
then overstay their visas.

The attrition fantasy is now, by default, the national immigration strategy. The
government is essentially committed to expelling all illegal immigrants, not
assimilating them. Instead of bringing its power to bear, Washington has gladly
handed the task to a motley collection of state and local governments, each
enforcing its own rules, often at cross purposes.

Now, attrition is threatening to become a bipartisan disaster. The SAVE Act, an
enforcement-only bill, was introduced last year by a Democrat, Representative
Heath Shuler of North Carolina, and the notoriously restrictionist Republicans
Brian Bilbray and Tom Tancredo. It is gaining sponsors.

The Republican stance on immigration leaves an opening that opponents could
drive a truck through. The Democratic candidates have the better position but
approach the subject with eggshell timidity. They should stand up for a real
debate, and a better country, by forcefully challenging the Republicans on this
issue.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Missouri: Group Membership Prompts a Resignation

BYLINE: By AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 131 words


A member of the Kansas City Parks Board resigned after her membership in an
anti-illegal-immigration group led two organizations, the National Council of La
Raza and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, to hold their annual
conventions elsewhere. The board appointee, Frances Semler, 74, a member of the
Minuteman Civil Defense Corps,  said she resigned because her involvement with
the group had become too contentious and because she did not feel that Mayor
Mark Funkhouser supported her. Ms. Semler defended her involvement with the
group, which advocates vigilante patrolling of the Mexican border and reports
illegal immigrants. ''I'm a decent, nice person that happens to belong to the
Minutemen and thinks our borders should be protected and our laws upheld,'' she
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vietnam Agrees to the Return Of Deportees From the U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 399 words


American immigration authorities reached an agreement on Tuesday with Vietnam
that clears the way for Vietnamese immigrants under deportation orders to be
sent back to their country.

Under a memorandum of understanding signed in Hanoi, Vietnam agreed to accept
the return of those Vietnamese immigrants ordered deported by the United States,
many of whom are convicted criminals, said Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a federal agency. Until now, Vietnam had
generally refused to issue travel documents for the deportees.

The agreement immediately affects about 1,500 Vietnamese immigrants  who came to
the United States after diplomatic relations with Vietnam were restored on July
12, 1995, Ms. Nantel said. The head of the agency, Julie L. Myers, was in Hanoi
on Tuesday to sign the memorandum, which takes effect in 60 days and will last
for five years.

''This agreement allows us to carry out a judge's order to remove individuals
from our country in a safe and humane manner,'' Ms. Myers said.

The agreement culminated 10 years of negotiations between the two countries, Ms.
Nantel said. In all, about 8,000 Vietnamese immigrants in the United States are
in deportation proceedings or have received final orders to be deported, Ms.
Nantel said. Of those, she said, about 7,000 have criminal convictions,
including some 4,500 Vietnamese convicted of aggravated felonies.

Only about 200 Vietnamese immigrants slated for deportation are in the custody
of immigration authorities, Ms. Nantel said. Because of a Supreme Court ruling
in 2001, the authorities have released immigrants under deportation orders after
six months in detention if their countries would not accept them.

United States officials agreed to pay for the deportations of Vietnamese,
officials said, and to provide 15 days' notice to the Vietnamese government
before carrying out a deportation.

Doua Thor, executive director of the Southeast Asia Resource Action Center, an
advocacy group in Washington, called the pact ''alarming news.'' She said many
Vietnamese immigrants facing deportation had hoped to resolve their legal cases
and to be able to stay in the United States.

About one million people born in Vietnam are the fifth-largest national
immigrant group in the United States, according to 2007 census figures. About 69
percent of them are naturalized citizens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Processing of Iraqi Refugees Remains Slow, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Last year the Bush administration vowed to find a way to accelerate the
processing of immigrant visas and the granting of refugee status so that Iraqis
who worked for the American Embassy in Baghdad could immigrate to the United
States. But a State Department update on the issue on Monday showed that a gap
remains between words and action.

State Department officials said that in the past four months, only about 1,400
Iraqis -- compared with the 7,000 that administration officials promised last
year would be resettled in the United States by the end of 2007 -- have been
given visas to enter the United States since the speedup effort began.

State Department officials described a complicated and cumbersome ''refugee
resettlement'' system, complete with color-coded graphs and charts, that
included fingerprinting, job checks, name checks and interviews -- all adding up
to a system that, critics say, has worked more to keep people out than to let
them in.

''Resources are finite and at this point, we're robbing Peter to pay Paul,''
said James Foley, senior coordinator for the department's Iraqi Refugee Issues
office.

He said that the department wanted to admit 12,000 refugees this fiscal year,
but acknowledged that it was already four months into that term with only 1,400
refugees approved. Only a small number had been approved in 2007 before the
accelerated effort began.

Mr. Foley pledged, as others have before him, that the process would quicken and
said that he expected ''much higher numbers in the next few months.''

Many local residents hired by the embassy in Baghdad run the risk of being the
targets of attacks by militias because of their association with the American
government. State Department officials said they have been working with Congress
and the Department of Homeland Security to speed the issuance of immigrant visas
and the granting of refugee status to the embassy's Iraqi employees.

But the pace remains slow: only 375 Iraqis were resettled last month. In a
statement, Refugees International, an advocacy group, expressed disappointment
at what it called ''the U.S. administration's continual failure to meet its
resettlement targets.''

''It's hard to imagine a stable Iraq when millions of Iraqis are languishing in
neighboring countries,'' said Kristele Younes, an official of the group. ''A
year ago, the United States made a pledge to address the Iraqi refugee crisis
and we have failed to keep that promise.''

Within the State Department, some officials, speaking on the condition of
anonymity because they are not authorized to discuss the subject publicly, say
that the system is simply not set up to expedite immigration requests.

The bottlenecks facing Iraqis who seek to enter the United States are a subset
of a larger problem facing refugees from Iraq. While a large number of Iraqis
have returned to the country in recent months as the security situation has
improved, the United Nations estimated late last year that some two million
Iraqis had fled to Syria, Jordan and other neighbors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 6, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecticut City Plans to Team Its Police With Federal Immigration Agents

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn.


When baseball season begins, Mayor Mark D. Boughton will probably throw out the
first pitch again for this city's Dominican baseball team. On Sundays, he
sometimes can be found on the sidelines at the soccer games organized by many of
the ethnic communities here. And he makes it a point to be at the annual Hajj
festival held by the sizable Muslim population.

But on Wednesday night, Mr. Boughton, who governs a city of nearly 80,000
residents -- 90,000 when illegal immigrants are included -- and the Common
Council are expected to approve a plan that would require the local police to
work with the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency in rounding up
workers who are in the country illegally.

''The intention is to target criminal aliens,'' the mayor said in an interview.
''It's not going to be the horrible thing the opponents think it's going to be.
On the other side, it's not the sweeps and roundups the far right want it to
be.''

During Mr. Boughton's six years in office, the city has tried to shut down the
backyard volleyball games that have became a popular, and sometimes raucous,
pastime among the Ecuadorean community. Last year, the Council passed an
ordinance requiring a parade permit for gatherings of more than 25 people, a
measure that was intended to stop the celebrations that have bubbled up on Main
Street when Brazil's team was in the World Cup soccer tournament.

And in September 2006, undercover police officers assisted federal agents in
picking up 11 immigrants in a city park, telling them that they were being taken
to a job site. Instead, the workers were arrested and turned over for
deportation.

Now comes what is viewed as the most aggressive move yet: a proposal to have
Danbury police officers work with federal agents in enforcing the nation's
immigration policies.

While Mayor Boughton said the proposal was brought to him by other Council
members, he -- like the police chief and the city attorney -- has been a vocal
supporter of the collaboration with federal agents.

Such arrangements have not always worked out well. Last fall in Greenport, on
Long Island, a cooperative effort between federal agents and the local police so
enraged Nassau County officials that they threatened to stop working with
immigration agents. In a search for gang members, armed squads burst into homes
at night, terrorizing families and arresting anyone who lacked identity papers,
even if the agents had raided the wrong house.

Danbury is a study in contrasts, which are perhaps most apparent on two streets
named for the hills they climb. On Deer Hill Road, expansive homes line both
sides of the street where factory owners once lived when this town was known as
the ''Hatting Capital of the World.'' (Danbury turned out five million hats
annually at the turn of the 20th century.)

Not far away is Town Hill Avenue, where two-family houses have been converted
into four- and five-family residences, evidenced by the multiple satellite
dishes that line the rooftops. In 2005, a neighborhood inspection team was
formed, in part to ferret out illegal attic and basement apartments that often
house dozens of illegal immigrants and are rife with fire code violations. One
row of houses is known as ''the barracks.''

Below the hills sits a compact city with its Main Street, now mostly home to
Brazilian restaurants, ethnic hair salons and Western Union outlets; the growing
campus of Western Connecticut State University; a regional airport; one of the
country's busiest shopping malls; and the corporate headquarters of Ethan Allen
furniture and Praxair, a manufacturer of industrial gases.

Despite protests from a vocal minority who say that deputizing local officers
will lead to racial profiling and the erosion of community trust, the Common
Council voted, 19 to 2, in favor of the immigration crackdown in a preliminary
decision last month.

''Every single person in Danbury is either an immigrant or the descendant of an
immigrant, and yet there is a lot of vitriol against immigration,'' said
Councilman Paul Rotello, who voted against the proposal. ''For all Danbury's
cosmopolitan airs, it really is a working-class place, and nothing is more
threatening to the working class than immigration.''

From the city ordinances aimed at immigrant communities to his frequent
appearances on the Lou Dobbs and Joe Scarborough television programs, Mr.
Boughton has gained a reputation as an official willing to take on the thorny
issue of immigration.

Yet the mayor said he did not set out to make it the central theme of his
administration. ''It's not my cause,'' Mr. Boughton said. ''It's not something I
woke up to and said, 'Let's take on illegal immigration.' ''

Al Robinson, whose blog, HatCityBlog.com, is largely devoted to the mayor's
activities, says Mr. Boughton underwent a transformation in 2005 after being
criticized by many residents here for proposing a day labor center to stop
workers from gathering in Kennedy Park.

''He just didn't know the level of anti-immigration feeling in the area,'' Mr.
Robinson said. ''It almost seemed like overnight he switched his whole policy
from someone interested in helping immigrants to someone who just wanted to
enforce immigration law.''

Mayor Boughton said the crackdown is supported by what he calls ''the middle
60-70 percent'' of the city's residents. And last year, he received 65 percent
of the vote for mayor, giving him a fourth two-year term. He is the city's
longest-serving Republican mayor.

''There's no question that illegal immigration has a profound impact on the
entire community,'' Mr. Boughton said. ''The expenses, health care, the schools,
social service programs, and that's a direct reflection on the federal
government's failure to get the job done.''

If that is the case, Danbury has its work cut out. According to the Census
Bureau's 2006 population estimates, Danbury has a greater proportion of
foreign-born residents than any other city in Connecticut, 34 percent of the
population, up from 27 percent in 2000. Statewide, 12.9 percent of the
population was born outside the United States.

Mayor Boughton, 43, takes pride in the city, where he can trace his ancestry
back 300 years. The men in his family, of English and French Huguenot descent,
were carpenters for generations, until his father, Donald, broke the mold and
entered politics, serving one term as mayor in the 1970s.

Mark Boughton taught social studies at Danbury High School for 14 years before
following his father into politics and winning election to the Connecticut
General Assembly, where he served in the House from 1999 to 2001.

As mayor, Mr. Boughton attends three or four social events on most Saturday
nights.

The mayor denies claims that his stance against illegal immigration is an
attempt to position him for higher office. Still, he said, ''if an opportunity
arises, obviously I'll look at it.''

''I have ambitions,'' he said. ''I wouldn't want somebody in my position not to
have ambitions. But right now, my No. 1 priority is the city, to leave the city
better off than what I inherited.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Mark Boughton once supported a day labor center, but has
become an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER
CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Danbury Council Vote on Policing Immigrant Community Draws Thousands to Protest

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn.


On Wednesday night, Jose Contreras gazed toward City Hall here, his face
wrinkled with pain as he wondered aloud about what the future might hold for his
restaurant -- not to mention for his neighbors. Thousands of them were standing
nearby in the crisp darkness, waving signs, whistling and chanting in Spanish
and English at a volume that could be heard blocks away.

At the time, the Common Council of this city was moving through its agenda en
route to voting on a contentious plan for its police force to partner with
federal officials to enforce immigration laws, an arrangement many in the large
immigrant community fear could have a devastating effect. Officials were
expecting so many residents to turn out for the vote that they set up a
simulcast at a local school.

Despite the night's raucous protest and solemn predictions by many that the
partnership would drive people away from this diverse city, the Common Council
approved the plan, 19 to 2.

''Most of these people are going to leave,'' said Mr. Contreras, 39, who added
that he immigrated here illegally two decades ago from El Salvador but now is a
legal resident. ''Danbury is going to be lonely.''

Opponents of the plan said it would inspire racial profiling and damage the
trust between the large immigrant community here and the authorities. At least
10,000 illegal immigrants -- in addition to the 80,000 legal residents -- are
estimated to reside in Danbury, which has a greater proportion of foreign-born
residents than any other community in the state, according to United States
census estimates.

City officials, including Mayor Mark D. Boughton, who has supported the plan,
have promised that the partnership with the federal Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency would help police better pursue major investigations related
to immigration, including document forgery and drug smuggling.

Council members emphasized that the arrangement would not give the police carte
blanche power to root out and round up illegal immigrants.

''There aren't going to be sweeps,'' Councilman Benjamin Chianese vowed.
Instead, he said, ''there is going to be mutual trust in this community.''

But among the protesters on Wednesday, some doubted the true motives of the
plan. They pointed to a September 2006 sting in which undercover police officers
approached 11 illegal immigrants in a city park and offered them jobs; when the
workers followed, they were arrested.

''We shouldn't be giving the police more power,'' said Vincent Yettito, 52, who
brought his entire family to the demonstration, where the crowd chanted
''U.S.A.'' and ''We are not criminals!'' throughout the evening.

Ted Duarte, 37, a union carpenter who works in Danbury and traveled here from
his home in Wallingford to support fellow union members, motioned to the
chanting. ''This says it all,'' Mr. Duarte said. ''For a city council that
supposed to represent the city of Danbury, they should take a look out here --
this is Danbury.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Leader to Visit U.S., Outside the Beltway

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1096 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Felipe Calderon of Mexico will tour the United States next week, but
he will avoid the White House, Capitol Hill and the presidential candidates,
sticking instead to meetings with Mexican immigrants in major cities like New
York as well as with a few local officials.

That the president will have more meetings with his own countrymen than with
officials in Washington reflects two political truths. First, Mexican migrants
in the United States have become an extension of Mexico's own politics, and
ignored only at great peril. Second, American officials have little use for
meetings with President Calderon during an election year in which the subject of
immigration has ignited strong emotions on the campaign trail.

Mr. Calderon has already drawn fire from some quarters here for doing too little
to stand up for Mexican immigrants in the United States while Washington has
cracked down on illegal immigration. Some Mexican immigrant leaders in the
United States complained that he was ignoring their troubles after he canceled a
trip in September.

In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Calderon said he found the recent immigrant
bashing in American society deeply troubling. The message he said he hoped to
convey to Mexicans  in the United States is that their government has not
abandoned them and will help protect their civil rights, even if they broke the
law by  crossing the border.

''The fundamental message is that we are with them, that the Mexican government
is paying attention to Mexicans here in Mexico and in whatever other part of the
world, and we are ready to help them with their problems,'' he said.

Mr. Calderon's first year in office has been turbulent. He started his six-year
term with questions about whether he would be able to govern effectively,
because his leftist rival never conceded defeat in a hotly contested election in
2006 and pledged to block his initiatives at every turn.

But since then, the Mexican president has cemented his hold on power, divided
the main opposition party and taken up a full-scale offensive against drug
cartels. Sending federal troops and agents to restore order in cities once
controlled by drug traffickers has garnered him support both at home and in
Washington, although it has also unleashed a wave of violence.

A shrewd political deal-maker, Mr. Calderon has also managed to persuade the
fractious legislature here to reform the tax system, overhaul the electoral laws
and fix an enormous public pension fund. Even his critics acknowledge that he
has proved a strong and able leader.

Yet some immigrant leaders in the United States have complained that Mr.
Calderon failed to yell foul loudly enough about the treatment that Mexican
workers receive north of the border these days. Tougher immigration policies in
the United States have meant mass firings and deportations of  illegal migrants,
often separating families. His tour, of New York, Boston, Chicago, Sacramento
and Los Angeles, is largely to answer those complaints, aides and political
analysts said.

At a time when many leftist leaders in Latin America are forging closer ties
with China and Europe, Mr. Calderon, a conservative with a penchant for natty
suits and rimless spectacles, is a rarity these days, a committed United States
ally.

He insists the future prosperity of Latin America depends on the free flow of
commerce and labor between the United States and countries to the south.

His government reached a joint security agreement with the Bush administration
last year, leading to an unprecedented level of cooperation among law
enforcement agencies. He has also resisted calls from unions and peasant groups
to reopen parts of the 1994 free trade agreement with Washington and Ottawa.

In the interview, Mr. Calderon argued that the only way the Americas could
remain competitive in a world where China and Europe were emerging as major
powers once again is to integrate the economies in the Western Hemisphere. He
warned that the United States  was losing influence.

''What is clear to me is that in Latin America, and in the world, for some
reason the United States has been losing friends, and it seems to me it should
do everything possible to reach out to the few friends it has left.''

Yet for all his efforts to strengthen relations with the United States, those
ties have clearly been strained. Adding to tensions have been America's efforts
to build a 700-mile wall along the border and recent incidents in which tear gas
and gunshots were fired at Mexicans crossing clandestinely, he said.

At the same time, he said, the heated anti-immigrant rhetoric of conservative
talk show hosts and some politicians has created a hostile environment for the
millions of Mexicans in the United States, legally and illegally.

''I'm very worried because this has generated an atmosphere full of prejudice,
an anti-immigrant atmosphere with certain themes that are also anti-Mexican,
that benefits no one,'' he said. ''It seems to me the worst thing the two
countries could do is make our people think our enemy is our neighbor.''

He  said he hoped the next American president and members of Congress would have
''a wider, more positive, more rational vision of the immigration issue'' than
current officeholders. He said ''the harassment that is being carried out
against Mexicans'' in America amounted to a violation of human rights.

''I don't dispute the right of every country to have its own law and apply its
own law,'' he said. ''What I affirm is that the human rights of a person are
valid, independent of their immigration status.''

Some political analysts and advocates for immigrants worry that Mr. Calderon may
step on a political land mine on his trip. The three leading candidates for
president -- Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, Barack Obama, Democrat
of Illinois, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York -- favor some form
of a comprehensive bill to give illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

But if the Mexican president speaks out too forcefully against security measures
on the border or tougher immigration policies, he could force the presidential
candidates, who must cater to diverse and passionate views on immigration, to
respond in a way that might hurt their campaigns.

Mr. Calderon acknowledged the risks. He pointedly declined to talk about the
presidential candidates. ''If one keeps looking for the politically opportune
moment to visit the United States, this could take three or four years more,''
he said. ''The truth is I have to go.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Felipe Calderon in Mexico City on Thursday before a
trip next week to the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Return Trip on the Shamrock Express

BYLINE: By JAMES ANGELOS

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; WOODLAWN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 407 words


IN the north Bronx neighborhood of Woodlawn, where it seems every storefront is
adorned with a shamrock, there has been talk lately that the Irish may be coming
back.

In recent years, many Irish immigrants returned to Ireland, drawn by a rapid
economic expansion there that began during the 1990s and provided additional
work opportunities. Stricter immigration laws in the United States after 9/11
helped drive away many of the undocumented.

But some signs suggest that the trend may be reversing.

''There's been a renewed interest in people coming back,'' said Siobhan Dennehy,
executive director of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center of New York, whose
offices are in Woodlawn and in Woodside, Queens, another Irish stronghold.

In the past two months, she has noticed more new immigrants coming in to inquire
about apartments and job opportunities, she said. Many of the recent arrivals
had lived in New York but returned to Ireland within the past few years, with
the intention of remaining. As the Irish economy slowed recently, however, and
with the cost of living there high, they are returning.

Danny Moloney, the owner of Liffey Van Lines, a mover, has also seen changes.
This month, his company is serving six families who are moving to the New York
area from Ireland. Six months ago, Mr. Moloney said, he knew of no one making
the move.

Although a recent article on the subject in The Irish Voice has been the talk of
Woodlawn, not everyone is convinced that the numbers are rising.

''I haven't seen this new wave everyone's been talking about,'' a waitress at
Eileen's Country Kitchen, a busy restaurant on McLean Avenue, just beyond the
city line, said in a brogue as she poured coffee for a customer one recent
Monday afternoon. ''If there had been new faces in town, I would have seen
them.''

But across the street at the Butcher's Fancy, at least one new face was in
evidence, that of Ryan McDade, a 21-year-old with blue eyes and an easy smile,
who was standing behind the counter in a white butcher's coat, cleaning a deli
slicer. With the rare benefit of a green card, he arrived from Northern Ireland
in September. There, he had been a welder, working mostly on fences and gates,
but a slowdown in building caused work to dry up.

''There was nothing for me there,'' Mr. McDade said. As to the future of Irish
immigration to New York? ''They'll be coming back,'' he said, ''because there is
no work left in Ireland.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''They'll be coming back,'' predicts  Ryan McDade, right, an
immigrant who works at the Butcher's Fancy, near Woodlawn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN
ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rules Eased To Expedite Green Card Applications

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 635 words


Searching for ways to reduce a huge backlog of visa applications, immigration
authorities have eased requirements for background checks by the F.B.I. of
immigrants seeking to become permanent United States residents, federal
officials said Monday.

If an immigrant's application for a residence visa has been  in the system for
more than six months and the only missing piece is a name check  by the F.B.I.,
immigration officers will now be allowed to approve the application, according
to a memorandum posted Monday on the Web site of the federal Citizenship and
Immigration Services agency.

The memorandum states that ''in the unlikely event'' that the F.B.I. name check
turns up negative information about an immigrant after a residence visa has been
granted, the authorities can cancel the visa and begin deportation proceedings.

The document was written by Michael Aytes, the agency's associate director for
domestic operations.

Under the new policy, which was first reported by the McClatchy news service,
immigrants applying for the permanent visas, which are known as green cards,
will still be required to complete two other security checks: an F.B.I. criminal
fingerprint check and a search in a federal criminal and anti-terrorist database
known as Interagency Border Inspection Services.

The F.B.I. will eventually complete name checks for all green card applicants,
officials said. Immigrants seeking to become citizens will still have to wait
until the name check is completed.

''Only after we received assurances that this would not compromise national
security or the integrity of the immigration system did we go forward,'' said
Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services.
''This will allow us to give benefits to people who deserve them in a much
quicker time frame.''

The policy is intended to speed processing for tens of thousands of immigrants
with no criminal records who are living in the United States and have been
waiting for years for green cards because their names turned up matches in the
F.B.I's records. Often an immigrant's name hits a match, immigration lawyers
said, because the F.B.I. files include a vast range of names, including those of
people mentioned in criminal investigations, even if they had no role in a
crime. F.B.I. agents must investigate each name match by manual searches of
voluminous records.

The previous policy ''was just stalling adjustment of status for hundreds of
thousands of people who posed no security threat, without any demonstrable
improvement to our national security,'' said Bo Cooper, an immigration lawyer
who was formerly general counsel for the immigration service.

Currently the agency processes about 1.5 million applications requiring name
checks each year, Mr. Bentley said, and 99 percent are cleared by the F.B.I. in
less than six months. But about 140,000 applications have been hung up in the
system for more than six months because of the name checks, he said, including
applications both for green cards and citizenship.

Some critics said the agency would be cutting security corners and bending
federal law.

''They are knowingly granting a benefit to a person who may be a national
security threat or a serious criminal,'' said Rosemary Jenks, director of
government relations for NumbersUSA, an organization that favors reduced
immigration.

''These are people who are asking permission to stay in this country
permanently,'' Mrs. Jenks said, ''and we have a right to make sure we know who
they are. If it takes a few extra months, so be it.''

But Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California and chairwoman of the
House immigration subcommittee, said the number of immigrants who had ever been
rejected solely as a result of an F.B.I. name check was ''microscopic.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Foresees the Fall of an Immigration Record That Has Lasted a Century

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 570 words


If present trends continue, within two decades the nation's foreign-born
population will surpass the historic 19th-century peak of nearly 15 percent of
all residents, according to projections released Monday.

Further, because a vast wave of baby boomers will be swelling the ranks of the
elderly, the so-called dependency ratio -- the number of people below 18 and
above 64 compared with the number of those in the prime working years --will
rise to 72 per 100 by 2050 from about 59 per 100 in 2005, according to the
projections, by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center. The ratio will be even
higher if immigration subsides, the report found.

What such an outcome could portend, other analysts have said, is a nation riven
politically between older, whiter, voting retirees who are increasingly
supported by a younger, darker, working population that, as immigrants, may be
disproportionately ineligible to vote.

''A higher number of elderly or children relative to the number of workers
translates into higher costs per worker to pay for all government programs,
including those targeted at the young and old such as schools and Social
Security,'' said the new analysis, based on fertility and death rates and
immigration trends.

The center projects that the foreign-born share of the work force will increase
to 23 percent by 2050 from 15 percent in 2005; the Hispanic share will more than
double, to 31 percent.

Sometime from 2020 to 2025, the center estimates, the foreign-born will account
for 15 percent of the nation's people. Immigrants were about 12 percent of the
population in 2005, an estimated 14.7 percent in 1910 and just under 15 percent
in the late 19th century.

The analysis, by Jeffrey S. Passel and D'Vera Cohn, projects that 19 percent of
Americans will be foreign-born in 2050 (about the same share as in Australia and
Canada today); that the share of Hispanic residents will have more than doubled,
to 29 percent from 14 percent in 2005; and that the share of Asian-Americans
will have almost doubled, to 9 percent from 5 percent.

Immigration, the study says, will account for 82 percent of the increase in the
nation's population, which will be an estimated 438 million in 2050. That 82
percent translates into 117 million people: 67 million new immigrants and 50
million of their children and grandchildren.

But because births to Hispanic and Asian immigrants will play a growing role in
population increase, a smaller share of both groups will be foreign-born in 2050
than today, the analysis found. The native-born Hispanic population, already
about 60 percent of all Hispanic residents, will rise to 67 percent by 2050.

The report projects a higher rate of immigration than do a number of federal
agencies but concludes, as they do, that the share of black residents will be
about the same as now in 2050, roughly 13 percent, and that the proportion of
non-Hispanic whites will shrink below half, to 47 percent.

The authors did not delineate the impact of illegal immigrants, who now make up
about 30 percent of the foreign-born. Nor did they try to quantify possible
changes in immigration policies or how people will identify themselves
ethnically and racially in coming decades.

They cautioned that their projections were subject to unforeseen events, but
wrote that they ''offer a starting point for understanding and analyzing the
parameters of future demographic change.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: A CHANGING FACE: Soon after 2020, the foreign-born population in
the U.S. is expected to reach 15 percent, surpassing the peak created by the
immigration wave a century ago. (Source: Pew Research Center)  Graph showing
immigration reaching 15 percent by 2020.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Program To Verify Worker Status Is Growing

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The number of businesses taking part in a voluntary program that allows them to
verify electronically their newly hired employees' legal authorization to work
in the United States is soaring, the federal government said Tuesday.

About 52,000 employers are now using a Web-based system, known as E-Verify,
compared with 14,265 a year ago. The system has been growing in the past year by
1,000 employers a week, said the United States Citizenship and Immigrations
Services, which runs the program with the Social Security Administration.

Although the tally is a small fraction of the 5.7 million employers nationwide,
program officials said it proved the system was catching on.

''This program is proving to be a key component in promoting the integrity of
the employment verification process of our workforce,'' Emilio Gonzalez, the
director of citizenship and immigration services, said in a statement.

The system, which is free, verifies documentation like Social Security cards and
immigration papers that people need to work in the United States.

About a third of the employers, 18,000, are in Arizona, where a new state law
requires businesses to use the program to verify the right to work for new
employees.

Business and immigrant rights groups in Arizona have sued to block the law,
saying in part that E-Verify prompts employers to dismiss workers who may be
authorized to work but do not have their paperwork in order. A federal judge
upheld the law, but the groups have appealed.

In a separate case, a federal judge in December issued a stay in a lawsuit filed
by the federal government against Illinois, which had passed a law prohibiting
employers from using the system over questions about its accuracy.

About 93 percent of the employees checked in the program receive authorization
in a manner of seconds.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 16, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Phoenix Police to Check Arrestees' Immigrant Status

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


The police in this city at the center of the immigration debate will soon ask
all people arrested whether they are in the United States legally and will in
certain cases report the information to the federal authorities, Mayor Phil
Gordon announced on Friday.

People stopped for civil traffic violations like speeding will not be
questioned, nor will crime victims or witnesses.

All those arrested on criminal charges like drunken driving and murder will be
asked by officers whether they are in the United States legally.

The police may decide to recommend checking by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The change includes having the police notify the immigration agency about people
who are detained but not arrested who officers have ''reasonable basis'' to
believe are illegal immigrants.

A conservative legal group said the policy did not go far enough.

Civil rights advocates suggested that people who appeared to be Latino or spoke
with accents would be more likely to be checked than others.

Hispanics make up 34 percent of Phoenix, the nation's fifth-largest city, with
1.5 million residents.

At a news conference on Friday, Mr. Gordon and the four lawyers on a commission
that recommended the changes tried to emphasize that the program would be
closely monitored. Police officers, they said, would not become immigration
agents and would not stop people at random and ask their legal status.

''We are doing what every city in this country should be doing but doesn't,''
Mr. Gordon said.

He added that the policy drew ''a bright line between what should and should not
be the role of the Phoenix Police Department.''

The program departs from a policy that is more than 10 years old that bars
officers from asking people about their legal status in most cases. It also sets
Phoenix apart from most other big cities with large immigrant populations,
including New York and Los Angeles. The police in those cities generally avoid
such questions over fears that they would lead to racial profiling and
discourage immigrants from cooperating with the police.

Mr. Gordon had faced criticism that the current policy was in effect helping
make Phoenix a sanctuary for illegal immigrants. The city is 200 miles from
Mexico and is the largest in a state with the heaviest influx of illegal
immigrants.

An illegal immigrant killed a police officer last fall, and the police union and
others stepped calls to change the policy. Judicial Watch, a
conservative-leaning legal group in Washington, began preparing a suit and
looked into a  recall of Mr. Gordon.

Police Chief Jack F. Harris, who has been outspoken in warning of the dangers of
major police involvement in immigration enforcement, said he endorsed the
policy, would write regulations for it and put it into place within three
months.

Christopher J. Farrell, director of investigations with Judicial Watch, called
the change a ''public relations feel-good piece'' that ''split the baby.'' The
main problem, Mr. Farrell said, is that it continues to restrict officers from
contacting the immigration agency, which Judicial Watch believes violates
federal law.

Antonio D. Bustamante, a member of Los Abogados, a Hispanic legal group in
Phoenix, said the policy changed ''only because of xenophobia'' and people ''who
hate the undocumented without understanding the huge contribution they make to
the city and the economy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Phil Gordon of Phoenix, who changed city policy to ask all
arrested people their status.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broken Borders and Dover Sole: My Lunch With Lou Dobbs

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 820 words


So I was having lunch at the Four Seasons with Lou Dobbs the other day, locked
in disagreement over who cared more about working people, him or me.

Him: CNN host, biggest and loudest gun in the battle for tougher immigration
policies, leader of a nightly crusade to expose the misdeeds of those he views
as elitist fools and scoundrels.

Me: editorial writer whose views on immigration qualify, to Mr. Dobbs and many
others on his side of the debate, as elitist, foolish and scoundrelly.

Meeting at the Four Seasons was his idea, to continue a long, civil and
inconclusive phone conversation about immigration. I got there early and waited
at Mr. Dobbs's banquette. I looked around the hushed room, full of dark suits
and a wintry glow. Mr. Dobbs appeared and settled in, his drink, cranberry juice
and seltzer, materializing at his right elbow.

In the spirit of the occasion, I ordered strictly within our borders: lobster
bisque, filet of bison and New York tap water. He had the Dover sole.

Among people whose immigration views I admire, Mr. Dobbs has a reputation as a
hopeless blowhard. I did not dwell on that at lunch. I was his guest, and I had
seen what happens if you try to skewer him with insult or accusation. Mr. Dobbs
is unencumbered by self-doubt. The granite fortress of his certitude is smooth
and featureless, and whatever boulders you hurl at it will end up on your head.
Besides, I was looking for something better than an argument. I wanted to
convert him.

An honest person must concede a lot when arguing immigration with Mr. Dobbs:
Yes, the borders and ports are insecure, and poor countries like Mexico have
done too little to solve their economic and migration problems. Yes, illegal
immigration hurts some Americans, globalization causes many global problems and
big corporations love to stick it to the little guy.

My point to Mr. Dobbs was that the little-little guy -- the ''illegal alien''
crossing our ''broken borders'' -- was the wrong target. His overriding emphasis
on solving globalization's many ills by urgently sealing the borders strikes me
as populism gone astray.

First, it's ineffective, because the country will never be ziplocked as tightly
as he wants it to be. The price of trying is too high, and it ignores the
millions who enter the country legally but overstay. Most shamefully, it does
nothing to resolve the fates of the 12 million undocumented already here.

Second, the obsession with enforcement dovetails with the agendas of some nasty
people: the nativists for whom immigration is a simple case of brown and white,
of preserving ''American'' culture by keeping Latinos out.

Third, it does too little to attack the evil corporate elites that are Mr.
Dobbs's sworn enemy. What makes illegal immigrants so delectable to big, bad
business is their illegality -- their willingness to work cheap and under the
table. So why not legalize and tax them? Assimilate the good guys, as this
country has always done, and save law enforcement for the bad ones.

The idea is to confront abusive corporate power with worker power. If day
laborers end up in our suburbs, where the money and jobs are, then give them
safe places to gather and help them work together to keep from driving wages and
working conditions down. If companies take advantage of workers, empower the
workers to fight back: as union members, legal residents, citizens.

But that's ''amnesty,'' a Dobbsian expletive. It's the opposite of the
crackdowns endorsed by him and the hard-liners he praises, like the Minutemen.

Mr. Dobbs listened graciously and budged not. He said he respected immigrants,
even illegal ones, who he felt had gotten an unfair shake from their
governments. He reminded me of his fondness for Cesar Chavez.

Then he repeated his immigration credo. It went like this: the 1986 immigration
law was an amnesty promoted by corporate interests waging war on the middle
class. Thus the 2006 and 2007 reforms were also amnesty, pushed by the same
self-serving plutocrats. So nothing they want is worth doing -- at least not
until the border is sealed.

That could be a long time. While we wait, I am going to keep trying to convince
Mr. Dobbs that a comprehensive solution -- enforcement plus assimilation -- is
the best expression of the populism he espouses.

Mr. Dobbs admits that mass deportation would never work, although if you press
him on what to do about the 12 million, he has no answer. He wants to hold that
question ''in abeyance'' until the border is sealed. I find that oddly passive
for someone so convinced of the dangers from the aliens in our midst.

I told him that, and he smiled. The lunch was over. I didn't wrestle over the
check because there was no check, just a goodbye from the staff. I got my coat
and walked with Mr. Dobbs to his car. We shook hands and I thanked him for the
discussion. He made me promise to continue it. I assured him I would.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After the War, a New Battle to Become Citizens

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1676 words


Despite a 2002 promise from President Bush to put citizenship applications for
immigrant members of the military on a fast track, some are finding themselves
waiting months, or even years, because of bureaucratic backlogs. One, Sgt.
Kendell K. Frederick of the Army, who had tried  three times to file for
citizenship,  was killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq as he returned from
submitting fingerprints for his  application.

About 7,200 service members or people who have been recently discharged have
citizenship applications pending, but neither the Department of Defense nor
Citizenship and Immigration Services keeps track of how long they have been
waiting. Immigration lawyers and politicians say they have received a
significant number of complaints about delays because of  background checks,
misplaced paperwork, confusion about  deployments and other problems.

''I've pretty much given up on finding out where my paperwork is, what's gone
wrong, what happened to it,'' said Abdool Habibullah, 27, a Guyanese immigrant
who first applied for citizenship in 2005 upon returning from a tour in Iraq and
was honorably discharged from the Marines as a sergeant. ''If what I've done for
this country isn't enough for me to be a citizen, then I don't know what is.''

The long waits are part of a broader problem plaguing the immigration service,
which was flooded with 2.5 million applications for citizenship and visas last
summer -- twice as many as the previous year -- in the face of 66 percent fee
increases that took effect July 30. Officials have estimated that it will take
an average of 18 months to process citizenship applications from legal
immigrants through 2010, up from seven months last year.

But service members and veterans are supposed to go to the head of the line.
After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, President Bush signed an executive order
allowing noncitizens on active duty to file for citizenship right away, instead
of having to first complete three years in the military. The federal government
has since taken several steps to speed up the process, including training
military officers to help service members fill out forms, assigning special
teams to handle the paperwork, and allowing citizenship tests, interviews and
ceremonies to take place overseas.

At the same time, post-9/11 security measures, including tougher guidelines for
background checks that are part of the naturalization process, have slowed
things down.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which checks the names of citizenship
applicants against those in its more than 86 million investigative files, has
been overwhelmed, handling an average of 90,000 name-check requests a week. In
the fiscal year that ended in September, the F.B.I. was asked to check 4.1
million names, at least half of them for citizenship and green card applicants,
a spokesman said.

''Most soldiers clear the checks within 30 to 60 days, or 60 to 90 days,'' said
Leslie B. Lord, the Army's liaison to Citizenship and Immigration Services, the
federal agency that processes citizenship applications. ''But even the soldier
with the cleanest of records, if he has a name that's very similar to one that's
in the F.B.I. bad-boy and bad-girl list, things get delayed.''

Such explanations are why Mr. Habibullah has decided that once he does become a
citizen -- if he ever becomes a citizen -- he will change his name.

''I figured that's part of the reason things got delayed,'' he said. ''You know,
that I have a Muslim name.''

Thousands of Muslim civilians have also found themselves waiting months or years
for background checks, and have filed a class-action lawsuit in federal court in
Denver. But advocates for the immigrant service members said that those with
pending applications are from a variety of backgrounds and that they do not
suspect a pattern of discrimination against Muslims.

Some 31,200 members of the military were sworn in as citizens between October
2002 and December 2007, according to the immigration service, but a spokeswoman,
Chris Rhatigan, said she could not determine how long it took for them to be
naturalized since the agency does not maintain a database tracking military
cases.

Over all, 312,000 citizenship or green card applications are pending name
checks, including 140,000 that have been waiting more than six months,
immigration officials said. This month,  immigration authorities eased
background-check requirements for green cards, saying that if applicants had
been waiting more than six months, they could be approved without an F.B.I.
check, and approvals could be revoked later ''in the unlikely event'' that
troubling information was found.

After hearing complaints from at least half a dozen service members over the
past three months, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York has drafted a bill to
create a special clearinghouse to ensure that applications from active and
returning members of the military are processed quickly and smoothly. A
spokesman said several other lawmakers reported hearing many similar stories.

''These are men and women who are risking their lives for us,'' Mr. Schumer said
in a telephone interview. ''They've met all the requirements for citizenship,
they have certainly proved their commitment to our country, and yet they could
lose their lives while waiting for a bureaucratic snafu to untangle.''

In interviews, immigration lawyers and military officials said that in general,
the naturalization process takes service members between six months and a year,
which is about half the current average wait for civilians. But some cases drag
on much longer because of background-check delays or because applications are
misplaced, or notices are mailed to stateside addresses after an applicant has
been deployed, causing appointments to be missed.

''You try to resolve these things amicably, reaching out to the military,
reaching out to immigration officials, but you hit roadblock after roadblock,''
said David E. Piver, a Pennsylvania lawyer who filed at least six petitions in
federal court over the past five years on behalf of service members experiencing
longer than usual delays on their citizenship applications.

''It's usually not any substantive issue that's causing those delays,'' he said.
''What it boils down to are bureaucratic snafus.''

Feyad Mohammed, an immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago who lives with his parents
in Richmond Hill, Queens, was naturalized last month -- four years after he
filed the first of four citizenship applications, and six months after his
honorable discharge from the Army as a sergeant.

Mr. Mohammed first applied in 2004, after he returned from the first of his two
tours in Iraq. But the application seemed to have been lost; when he checked
after a few months, he said, no one at the immigration service could tell him
where it was or even if it had been received. He filed again in 2005, but missed
his interview several months later; it had been scheduled in Iraq, during his
second combat tour, but he was home on leave on the appointed day.

After he was discharged in July 2007, Mr. Mohammed filed another application.
The paperwork was returned because he had not included a check covering the
processing fee, he said, ignoring a Bush administration initiative that exempts
combat veterans  from application fees for up to a year after discharge. It was
then that Mr. Mohammed reached out to Senator Schumer's office, which helped him
file a fourth, and final, time.

When he was sworn in Jan. 25 at the federal courthouse in Downtown Brooklyn, Mr.
Mohammed said, he felt ''relieved.''

''I was a citizen,'' he said. ''I could finally move on with my life.''

But Sergeant Frederick, a 21-year-old immigrant from Trinidad, would  be awarded
citizenship only posthumously, on the day of his burial. He is one of more than
90 immigrant service members to be naturalized after losing their lives in Iraq
or Afghanistan.

Sergeant Frederick's mother, Michelle Murphy, said that he had filed his
citizenship application a year before he was deployed to Iraq in 2005, but that
his application was sent back to her Maryland home three times -- once because
of incomplete biographical information, again because he had left a box
unchecked, and once more because he had not paid the fee.

Finally, Ms. Murphy said, Sergeant Frederick received a letter saying that the
fingerprints he had included with his application could not be read and that he
needed to submit new ones. She contacted immigration officials, who arranged for
him to submit a new set of fingerprints on Oct. 19, 2005, near his base in
Tikrit. On the way back from the appointment, his convoy hit a roadside bomb.

''If somebody is fighting for a country, if he's deployed, if he's in the middle
of a war, it shouldn't be that hard for them to become a citizen,'' Ms. Murphy,
42, said in a telephone interview.

After his death, the immigration service began accepting enlistment fingerprints
with service members' citizenship applications, provided applicants authorized
the military to share their files with immigration officials. A bill to make
such sharing automatic has been passed by the House and is pending a final
Senate vote.

In the meantime, Mr. Habibullah is working as an aircraft hydraulics mechanic in
Connecticut, though he hopes to get a better-paying job in the federal
government once he is naturalized. In October, Mr. Habibullah's father and
grandmother became citizens in separate ceremonies, though they applied fully
two years after he did.

Mr. Habibullah has passed the citizenship test and been interviewed, and he said
he does not know what to do to move his application through the backlog faster.

''Every time I ask about it, I get the same answer: it's pending the background
check,'' Mr. Habibullah said as he looked over his military medals, which are
displayed on a wall in the Mount Vernon, N.Y., apartment he shares with his wife
and 1-month-old son. ''I'm at the point right now that I've almost given up on
it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Murphy, whose son Sgt. Kendell K. Frederick was killed
in Iraq before his citizenship application was approved.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Feyad Mohammed, at his home in Queens, top, and on duty in Iraq, where he was in
the Army. Mr. Mohammed was naturalized four years after submitting his first
application.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Abdool Habibullah, an ex-marine, is waiting to hear about his application. ''If
what I've done for this country isn't enough for me to be a citizen, then I
don't know what is,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES,
RIGHT)(pg. A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Ice Agent Kills Himself After Standoff

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 83 words


An Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent killed himself in Grand Prairie
after an armed standoff with an officer and three colleagues, the police said.
The police discovered a suitcase full of pornography, a flag bearing a swastika
hung in a closet and more than a half dozen weapons after finding the agent,
Mark Juvette, dead. Mr. Juvette, 40, was an agent with ICE's Dallas Office of
Detention and Removal, which transports detainees, manages them while in custody
and deports illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Insecurity

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 728 words


From San Diego on the Pacific to Brownsville on the Rio Grande, a steel curtain
is descending across the continent. Behind it lies a nation so confused and
conflicted by its immigration problems that it has decided to wall itself off
and wait for things to fix themselves. This country once was a confident global
magnet for an invigorating flow of immigrant workers and citizens-to-be. Now it
is just hunkering.

The evidence of this neurosis is visible at the border with Mexico, where the
Department of Homeland Security has been rushing to reinforce an ineffective
system of fencing and sensors, trucks and boots on the ground. The mission,
imposed upon it by Congress after a wearying stalemate on immigration reform, is
a mandate to do the impossible, at record speed and at record expense.

This commitment to enforcement alone, without fixing legal immigration, was
always Plan B. Even President Bush, the master of the botched federal
initiative, predicted it would fail. He is looking unusually prescient.

In Arizona, a 28-mile pilot project to build a ''virtual fence'' of sensors and
cameras has fallen short of expectations. The problem, according to the
Government Accountability Office, was too much haste and too little consultation
with the Border Patrol. The main contractor, Boeing, rushed into the project
with the wrong software. Its cameras couldn't focus on targets, and systems were
confounded by innocuous things like rain. The Bush administration has confused
things further by saying the system is working as planned -- but won't be
expanded.

That is not necessarily good news along remote border areas in Arizona, New
Mexico and Texas, where there is a lot of desert and mountains and where the
alternative -- pouring billions into building a real fence -- is viewed as
simply insane. No amount of fencing would seriously deter illegal crossers,
border-town officials insist, and the effort actually makes things worse: You
have to build roads to build the fence, and the new roads connect with old ones
and vastly increase their usefulness to smugglers in cars and trucks. Mayor Ray
Borane of Douglas, Ariz., said that people on the Mexican side have cut through
his section of the fence with torches, welding on doors with their own locks,
going in and out at will. ''They cut holes in the thing like you wouldn't
believe,'' he said.

In Texas, the fence is a dotted line, blocking some places but not others. It
cuts through the University of Texas at Brownsville and blocks the migration of
wildlife by bifurcating valuable nature preserves in which the country has
already made a heavy investment. At the same time, it seems at pains not to
disrupt things that really matter, like golf, stopping short of the River Bend
country club and a luxury gated community owned by Ray L. Hunt, a Dallas oil
billionaire.

Let's agree that any country needs to control its borders and ports, and that
this one has done too little on that front. But that worthy goal founders when
the overall strategy boils down to simplistic components -- bits of fencing and
technological cure-alls -- rather than a comprehensive solution that also
attacks the reasons people cross illegally. Despite what critics of ''amnesty''
say, immigration reform has never been a choice between legalization and
enforcement, because legalization is enforcement. Only by bringing people onto
the books and being realistic about the supply of visas, letting people in
through ports of entry, instead of chasing them across the desert, will the
country restore sanity and order to this broken system.

The view from Mayor Borane's part of the world, shared by dozens of border
mayors and sheriffs and governors like Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Bill
Richardson of New Mexico, is that nothing short of a phalanx of federal agents
standing shoulder-to-shoulder for 2,000 miles would shut the border the way the
hard-liners on talk radio want it shut. The sensible solution is to bring the
visa supply in line with reality, let workers and family members through more
easily and give the Border Patrol the resources -- virtual and otherwise -- to
catch drug smugglers and other bad people.

As for the fence, we like Mayor Borane's suggestion to let it stand as a
monument to the government's chronic inability -- so far -- to do anything smart
about illegal immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Benefits of the Andean Trade Preferences

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 195 words


To the Editor:

In ''Game of Chicken in the Andes'' (editorial, March 2), you correctly point
out the important role that the Andean trade preferences have played in fighting
the illegal drug trade in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia.

What should also be mentioned is the role that these preferences play in curbing
illegal immigration to the United States.

I recently led a Congressional delegation to Ecuador and Bolivia to see the
impact of these trade preferences in the economically and politically fragile
Andean region.

In Ecuador, we visited with producers of flowers, broccoli, coffee and cacao.
Without the Andean trade preferences, workers in these sectors would undoubtedly
lose their jobs. While some would turn to the illegal drug trade, thousands of
others would most certainly try to illegally immigrate to the United States.

Those who worry about illegal immigration should embrace the Andean trade
preferences, which help keep the citizens of the Andean region in sustainable
jobs in their home countries.

Eliot L. Engel  Washington, March 3, 2008

The writer is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western
Hemisphere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 8, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Agent's Murder Trial Ends as Jury Is Deadlocked

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and JONATHON SHACAT; Randal C. Archibold reported
from Los Angeles, and Jonathon Shacat from Tucson.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


The case of a Border Patrol agent who faced charges of second-degree murder and
other crimes in the shooting death of a Mexican immigrant last year resulted in
a mistrial on Friday when a jury could not reach a verdict.

The case, a rare prosecution of a Border Patrol agent on murder charges, played
out in rising tension on the Mexican border and was closely followed by human
rights groups, the Mexican government and Border Patrol supporters.

They differed over whether the case  was an example of an overly aggressive
agency that abuses immigrants or an overzealous prosecution indifferent to the
increasing violence and threats that agents encounter in their work.

The mistrial illustrates the difficulty prosecutors have in trying to hold
Border Patrol agents criminally accountable for on-duty actions. The only other
agent tried on murder charges in recent decades was acquitted in 1994, also in
Arizona.

Ed Rheinheimer, the district attorney in Cochise County, who brought the case,
said the agent, Nicholas W. Corbett, would be retried. Mr. Rheinheimer said he
would proceed despite criticism from constituents, some of them members of
civilian border watch groups hostile to illegal immigrants.

Judge David C. Bury of Federal District Court in Tucson, who presided over the
case after it was moved to federal court, set April 22 for the retrial. Jurors
and Agent Corbett left the courthouse without speaking to reporters. Prosecutors
and Agent Corbett's lawyer said they were disappointed  and promised to press
on.

A spokesman for the Border Patrol said it would not comment while the case was
pending.

Agent Corbett, 40, who is on administrative duty, was charged in the death of
Francisco Javier Dominguez Rivera, 22, who prosecutors said was shot on Jan. 12,
2007, in the desert just north of the border as he and three relatives
surrendered to Agent Corbett.

Agent Corbett was also charged with manslaughter and negligent homicide in what
the state called an unprovoked, reckless act worsened by his lying to
supervisors about the case.

Agent Corbett testified that he shot Mr. Dominguez because he had picked up a
stone and was poised to ''crush my skull'' with it. The defense attacked the
investigation as shoddy and said Mr. Dominguez's relatives gave an account of
the shooting influenced by Mexican consular officials eager to make an example
of Agent Corbett.

A fuzzy videotape of the shooting from a Border Patrol camera on an observation
tower was played for the jury and used by both sides.

Mr. Dominguez and his relatives were on the way to Stamford, Conn., where he
hoped to find employment for them at a factory where he worked.

After crossing the border, the group was detected by the Border Patrol and split
up, with Mr. Dominguez and three others  --  two of his brothers and the
girlfriend of a brother  --  heading back for Mexico.

They were about 100 yards from the border  when Agent. Corbett intercepted them.

The Border Action Network, a human rights group here, said it was ''saddened and
disgusted'' by the outcome of the trial.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newer Immigrants Taking Over Diners

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: FAIRVIEW


THE suburban diner business -- once as dependably Greek as feta or moussaka --
is increasingly making room for immigrants from other countries, even other
continents.

Six months ago, David Kim, a  58-year-old immigrant from Seoul, South Korea,
took over the Park View Diner in this blue-collar town on a ridge overlooking
the Hudson River. He bought it from a Greek immigrant who  owned it for 25
years.

Across the river, Gulam Rabbani Khan, a 48-year-old Bangladeshi immigrant, is in
his eighth year as owner of the Broadway Diner, in  Yonkers near the Bronx
border. He bought it in 2000 from  a Greek immigrant who  owned it for 22 years.

Both  places  have classic touches of American diner architecture: enlarged
railroad-car shapes, stainless steel streamlining, and counters with a noirish
atmosphere suggesting that Mickey Spillane could walk in at any moment with a
gat packed at his side and order a cup of java. But they are owned by men from
countries halfway across the world.

At the Park View, Mr. Kim has kept the short-order cooks and the encyclopedic
menu and has tried  -- through his accented English and the panache of touches
like an occasional sky-blue corduroy jacket   -- to play the genial host. So
far, he said, the business seems to be making money, though about half as much
as he said the previous owner had promised.

''Food is my life,'' Mr. Kim  said. ''When I see customers enjoy my food I feel
good, and they come back and there's better communication.''

His route into the diner business did not follow the classical Greek path, but
there are parallels. With his wife and two small boys, he came to California 24
years ago, at a time when South Korea's economy was depressed, and worked as a
porter. After moving to New York he sold cars and saved up enough to lease a
small deli in Newark. For nine years, it was a moneymaker, but he wanted a
restaurant whose land he could buy so he might establish some equity. His dream
is to one day own a bigger, more profitable diner, one that will allow him to
take more time off.

''Since I was coming to America, I'm always working, working,'' he said. ''I
never relax in my place. If I have a bigger business, I can relax myself.''

Mr. Khan, a Bangladeshi immigrant  who sometimes  favors the kind of striped
dark jackets and bright shirts and ties reminiscent of those that the Damon
Runyon characters wore in ''Guys and Dolls,'' said that not only could he whip
up the same Western omelets as his Greek predecessors but he could also
reproduce the same sense of bonhomie with his customers.

''I schmooze,'' he insisted. ''I know them by their first name. I ask about
their families and we talk about current events, the elections. You have to
enjoy what you do; I enjoy the restaurant business.''

Mr. Khan, who graduated from a Bangladesh college  as an accounting major, came
to New York in 1981 and opened a sidewalk fruit stand. Within a year he was
operating 10 of them, he said. He left that  business to work as an assistant
manager at the former Beanstalk restaurant in Rockefeller Center, learning about
purchasing foods and getting to meet celebrities like Howard Stern and Don Imus.
He also graduated from the Culinary Institute of America. He bought his first
restaurant in Merrick, on Long Island,   and, with a partner, later bought
diners at Kennedy  Airport and in the Baychester area of the Bronx. He sold both
of those to buy the Broadway.

He has updated the menus and upgraded the food, he said, but he has kept some of
the multilingual staff, including a Greek chef who has worked in the diner for
25 years. His businesses have done so well that he can afford a summer house in
the Catskills for hunting and fly-fishing.

''No matter who  you are, you can succeed as long as you give good service and
cleanliness and quality is No. 1,'' he said.

Like many hard-working immigrants, he follows his children's progress in school
closely. Tanzir, 17, wants to be a doctor. Imran, 16, wants to be an engineer.
His two daughters, Yeasmin, 13, and Sofia, 8, want to be teachers. None wants to
own a diner. In other words, his family's story seems destined to follow the
Greek odyssey toward and then away from diners.

''I may have to sell it,'' he said.

Mr. Kim has the good fortune to have relatives willing to work in the business.
His wife, Jinsoon, is the cashier, and his son Andrew, now 30, manages the diner
at night and may one day succeed his father.

Customers at the two diners do not seem overly concerned that their favorite
lunch spots are no longer owned by Greeks. Robert Jacobs, 61, of Edgewater, a
semi-retired sweater manufacturer, was snuggled in a booth in the Park View,
reading and eating as he sometimes does in the afternoon.

''Nothing changed except the paperwork,'' he said. ''If they keep the service
and keep the good food, what's the difference if it's owned by Greeks or
Koreans?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE JOB: David Kim, above, owner of the Park View Diner,
right, in Fairview, N.J., says, ''Food is my life.'' A South Korea immigrant who
previously owned a deli, Mr. Kim bought the diner last year from its longtime
proprietor, a Greek immigrant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE M. GUTIERREZ FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg. LI8)
 PART OF A TREND: Gulam Rabbani Khan, right, a Bangladeshi immigrant, owns the
Broadway Diner, far right, in Yonkers. He bought the business eight years ago
from a Greek immigrant who owned it for 22 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE M.
GUTIERREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. LI8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citizenship, Thwarted

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 551 words


The director of the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services agency, Emilio
Gonzalez, is stepping down next month, leaving behind a gummed-up bureaucracy
and perhaps a million empty promises. That's about how many people are stuck
waiting to have their citizenship petitions approved by the agency, which was
swamped last summer by a flood of applications that it failed to predict or
prepare for.

The disaster erupted when the agency jacked up the price of its services by an
average of 66 percent, a nasty bite for the immigrant families whose fees
provide nearly all the money that keeps the rickety system going. Mr. Gonzalez
justified the increases by promising that they would lead to better service and
shorter waits.

The agency expected that the new fees would spur only a negligible increase in
citizenship applications. But applications spiked 350 percent last June and July
over the same period in 2006. More than three million applications of all types
flooded in last summer. The five-month wait for citizenship that Mr. Gonzalez
promised is now 14 months to 16 months. Many immigrants who had dearly hoped to
vote in 2008 will have to sit the election out.

Those who know the citizenship system say it's dumbfounding that Mr. Gonzalez
did not foresee the surge, not only because the fees went way up, but also
because 2008 is a presidential election year -- always a time when would-be
citizens hurry to get their papers in.

The agency has laid some of the blame on the F.B.I., which has still not run
thousands of applicants through a redundant background check. But that backlog
is only a fraction of the problem. The rest is ''frontlog'' -- a mountain of
paperwork with nobody to process it.

Maybe it's a stretch to call this intentional disenfranchisement after hundreds
of thousands of Latinos demonstrated in the spring of 2006, chanting: ''Today we
march. Tomorrow we vote.'' Still, the absence of so many would-be Latino voters
could benefit the Republicans, who have worked so hard to stoke a rancid
anti-immigrant mood in this country.

The processing delays mock America's respect for those who ''play by the rules''
and ''get in line.'' For millions who want to work but have no one to sponsor
them and no specialized skills, there is no line to get into: no realistic hope
of a visa and no functioning guest-worker program. As for the others who have
gone the route of patience and paperwork, they are the ones whose expectations
Mr. Gonzalez raised and crushed.

President Bush must make sure that the agency does not waste the next several
months rudderless and drifting. The speedy processing of applications must
remain an urgent priority. States should make sure that their voter-registration
systems are ready for a rush of new applicants so that as many new citizens as
possible can cast ballots in November. Congress should change the law that
requires the citizenship agency to rely on fees, an unfair system that forces
immigrants to pay ever more dearly for bad service.

Mr. Gonzalez will soon have time to reflect on a dismal monument to his tenure:
the dreams of thousands of rule-following, line-waiting, would-be Americans,
signed, sealed in envelopes with large checks and money orders, delivered by
truckloads, waiting in shrink-wrapped pallets, unopened.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

An Agent, a Green Card, and a Demand for Sex

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Angelica Medaglia contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1851 words


No problems so far, the immigration agent told the American citizen and his
22-year-old Colombian wife at her green card interview in December. After he
stapled one of their wedding photos to her application for legal permanent
residency, he had just one more question: What was her cellphone number?

The calls from the agent started three days later. He hinted, she said, at his
power to derail her life and deport her relatives, alluding to a brush she had
with the law before her marriage. He summoned her to a private meeting. And at
noon on Dec. 21, in a parked car on Queens Boulevard, he named his price -- not
realizing that she was recording everything on the cellphone in her purse.

''I want sex,'' he said on the recording. ''One or two times. That's all. You
get your green card. You won't have to see me anymore.''

She reluctantly agreed to a future meeting. But when she tried to leave his car,
he demanded oral sex ''now,'' to ''know that you're serious.''  And despite her
protests, she said, he got his way.

The 16-minute recording, which the woman first took to The New York Times and
then to the Queens district attorney, suggests  the vast power of low-level
immigration law enforcers, and a  growing desperation on the part of immigrants
seeking legal status. The aftermath, which included the arrest of an immigration
agent last week, underscores the difficulty and danger of making a complaint,
even in the rare case when abuse of power may have been caught on tape.

No one knows how widespread sexual blackmail is, but the case echoes other
instances of sexual coercion that have surfaced in recent years, including
agents criminally charged in Atlanta, Miami and Santa Ana, Calif. And it raises
broader questions about the system's vulnerability to corruption at a time when
millions of noncitizens live in a kind of legal no-man's land, increasingly
fearful of seeking the law's protection.

The agent arrested last week, Isaac R. Baichu, 46, himself an immigrant from
Guyana, handled some 8,000 green card applications during his three years as an
adjudicator in the Garden City, N.Y., office of United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, part of the federal Department of Homeland Security. He
pleaded not guilty to felony and misdemeanor charges of coercing the young woman
to perform oral sex, and of promising to help her secure immigration papers in
exchange for further sexual favors. If convicted, he will face up to seven years
in prison.

His agency has suspended him with pay, and the inspector general of Homeland
Security is reviewing his other cases, a spokesman said Wednesday. Prosecutors,
who say they recorded a meeting between Mr. Baichu and the woman on March 11 at
which he made similar demands for sex, urge any other victims to come forward.

Money, not sex, is the more common currency of corruption in immigration,  but
according to Congressional testimony in 2006 by Michael Maxwell, former director
of the agency's internal investigations, more than 3,000 backlogged complaints
of employee misconduct had gone uninvestigated for lack of staff, including 528
involving criminal allegations.

The agency says it has tripled its investigative staff since then, and counts
only 165 serious complaints pending. But it stopped posting an e-mail address
and phone number for such complaints last year, said Jan Lane, chief of security
and integrity, because it lacks the staff to cull the thousands of mostly
irrelevant messages that resulted. Immigrants, she advised, should report
wrongdoing to any law enforcement agency they trust.

The young woman in Queens, whose name is being withheld because the authorities
consider her the victim of a sex crime, did not even tell her husband what had
happened. Two weeks after the meeting in the car, finding no way to make a
confidential complaint to the immigration agency and afraid to go to the police,
she and two older female relatives took the recording to The Times.

Reasons to Worry

A slim, shy woman who looks like a teenager, she said she had spent recent
months baby-sitting for relatives in Queens, crying over the deaths of her two
brothers back in Cali, Colombia, and longing for the right stamp in her passport
-- one that would let her return to the United States if she visited her family.

She came to the United States on a tourist visa in 2004 and overstayed. When she
married an American citizen a year ago, the law allowed her to apply to
''adjust'' her illegal status. But unless her green card application was
approved, she could not visit her parents or her brothers' graves and then
legally re-enter the United States. And if her application was denied, she would
face deportation.

She had another reason to be fearful, and not only for herself. About 15 months
ago, she said, an acquaintance hired her and two female relatives in New York to
carry $12,000 in cash to the bank. The three women, all living in the country
illegally, were arrested on the street by customs officers apparently acting on
a tip in a money-laundering investigation. After determining that the women had
no useful information, the officers released them.

But the closed investigation file had showed up in the computer when she applied
for a green card, Mr. Baichu told her in December; until he obtained the file
and dealt with it, her application would not be approved. If she defied him, she
feared, he could summon immigration enforcement agents to take her relatives to
detention.

So instead of calling the police, she turned on the video recorder in her
cellphone, put the phone in her purse and walked to meet the agent. Two family
members said they watched anxiously from their parked car as she disappeared
behind the tinted windows of his red Lexus.

''We were worried that the guy would take off, take her away and do something to
her,'' the woman's widowed sister-in-law said in Spanish.

As the recorder captured the agent's words and a lilting Guyanese accent, he
laid out his terms in an easy, almost paternal style. He would not ask too much,
he said: sex ''once or twice,'' visits to his home in the Bronx, perhaps a link
to other Colombians who needed his help with their immigration problems.

In shaky English, the woman expressed reluctance, and questioned how she could
be sure he would keep his word.

''If I do it, it's like very hard for me, because I have my husband, and I
really fall in love with him,'' she said.

The agent insisted that she had to trust him. ''I wouldn't ask you to do
something for me if I can't do something for you, right?'' he said, and
reasoned, ''Nobody going to help you for nothing,'' noting that she had no
money.

He described himself as the single father of a 10-year-old daughter, telling
her, ''I need love, too,'' and predicting, ''You will get to like me because I'm
a nice guy.''

Repeatedly, she responded ''O.K.,'' without conviction. At one point he thanked
her for showing up, saying, ''I know you feel very scared.''

Finally, she tried to leave. ''Let me go because I tell my husband I come
home,'' she said.

His reply, the recording shows, was a blunt demand for oral sex.

''Right now? No!'' she protested. ''No, no, right now I can't.''

He insisted, cajoled, even empathized. ''I came from a different country, too,''
he said. ''I got my green card just like you.''

Then, she said, he grabbed her. During the speechless minute that follows on the
recording, she said she yielded to his demand out of fear that he would use his
authority against her.

How Much Corruption?

The charges against Mr. Baichu, who became a United States citizen in 1991 and
earns roughly $50,000 a year, appear to be part of a larger pattern, according
to government records and interviews.

Mr. Maxwell, the immigration agency's former chief investigator, told Congress
in 2006 that internal corruption was ''rampant,'' and that employees faced
constant temptations to commit crime.

''It is only a small step from granting a discretionary waiver of an eligibility
rule to asking for a favor or taking a bribe in exchange for granting that
waiver,'' he contended. ''Once an employee learns he can get away with low-level
corruption and still advance up the ranks, he or she becomes more brazen.''

Mr. Maxwell's own deputy, Lloyd W. Miner, 49, of Hyattsville, Md., turned out to
be an example. He was sentenced March 7 to a year in prison for inducing a
21-year-old Mongolian woman to stay in the country illegally, and harboring her
in his house.

Other cases include that of a 60-year-old immigration adjudicator in Santa Ana,
Calif., who was charged with demanding sexual favors from a 29-year-old
Vietnamese woman in exchange for approving her citizenship application. The
agent, Eddie Romualdo Miranda, was acquitted of a felony sexual battery charge
last August, but pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery and was sentenced to
probation.

In Atlanta, another adjudicator, Kelvin R. Owens, was convicted in 2005 of
sexually assaulting a 45-year-old woman during her citizenship interview in the
federal building, and sentenced to weekends in jail for six months. And a Miami
agent of Immigration and Customs Enforcement responsible for transporting a
Haitian woman to detention is awaiting trial on charges that he took her to his
home and raped her.

''Despite our best efforts there are always people ready to use their position
for personal gain or personal pleasure,'' said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for
Citizenship and Immigration Services. ''Our responsibility is to ferret them
out.''

When the Queens woman came to The Times with her recording on Jan. 3, she was
afraid of retaliation from the agent, and uncertain about making a criminal
complaint, though she had an appointment the next day at the Queens district
attorney's office.

She followed through, however, and Carmencita Gutierrez, an assistant district
attorney, began monitoring phone calls between the agent and the young woman, a
spokesman said. When Mr. Baichu arranged to meet the woman on March 11 at the
Flagship Restaurant on Queens Boulevard, investigators were ready.

In the conversation recorded there, according to the criminal complaint, Mr.
Baichu told her he expected her to do ''just like the last time,'' and offered
to take her to a garage or the bathroom of a friend's real estate business so
she would be ''more comfortable doing it'' there.

Mr. Baichu was arrested as he emerged from the diner and headed to his car,
wearing much gold and diamond jewelry, prosecutors said. Later released on
$15,000 bail, Mr. Baichu referred calls for comment to his lawyer, Sally Attia,
who said he did not have authority to grant or deny green card petitions without
his supervisor's approval.

The young woman's ordeal is not over. Her husband overheard her speaking about
it to a cousin about a month ago, and she had to tell him the whole story, she
said.

''He was so mad at me, he left my house,'' she said, near tears. ''I don't know
if he's going to come back.''

The green card has not come through. ''I'm still hoping,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on March 21 about a case of sexual blackmail in which a
federal immigration agent on Long Island is accused of demanding sex from a
Colombian woman in exchange for a green card misidentified the device the woman
used to secretly record the agent's demand. It was a digital camera, not a
cellphone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Isaac R. Baichu, 46, left, an adjudicator for the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services, was arrested after he met with a green
card applicant at the Flagship Restaurant, a diner in Queens. He is charged with
coercing oral sex from her. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(pg.A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Foolish Immigration Purge

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 467 words


Leave it to the Bush administration to throw thousands of law-abiding American
workers and companies off a cliff in perilous economic times.

That would be the effect of its decision to press ahead with a bad idea: to
force businesses to fire employees whose names don't match the Social Security
database. The purge is part of a campaign -- along with scattershot workplace
raids and the partial border fence -- to make a show of tackling the broken
immigration system.

The plan rests on the assumption that people with Social Security glitches are
illegal immigrants using fake identities. Companies that receive ''no match''
letters warning of database discrepancies are given 90 days to clear them up.
After that, they must fire the affected workers or face stiff penalties.

A federal judge blocked the plan last year, warning that it would create havoc
in the economy and lead to serious due-process violations for victims of
clerical errors. The Social Security Administration's inspector general has
estimated that about 17.8 million of the agency's 435 million records contain
errors that could lead to a ''no match'' letter. Seventy percent of those 17.8
million records belong to native-born Americans.

The Department of Homeland Security responded to the judge's objections by
resubmitting its proposal last week essentially unchanged. Americans anxious
about keeping their jobs should raise a stink and hope that the court rebuffs
the agency again.

The Social Security Administration was set up to administer benefits, not to
enforce immigration laws. There are many illegal immigrants who use fake IDs,
but the sheer abundance of errors -- the result of name changes, misspellings
and other mix-ups -- preclude their use for an immigration crackdown.
Native-born workers will pay the price for these mistakes, but the foreign born
also will suffer, because they are especially at risk of errors from
inconsistent spellings, mistranslations and other language issues.

The plaintiffs in the lawsuit have warned, with good reason, that a Social
Security crackdown would lead to countless unjust firings and discrimination
against lawful immigrants by companies that cannot be bothered to help clear up
their bureaucratic entanglements.

The burden on law-abiding companies would be great: thousands of dollars to
comply with the rules, and thousands more to fire and replace workers. An honest
employer who does things by the book would face an excruciating choice -- to
keep good workers despite dubious ''no-match'' letters and face harsh fines, or
to fire them and face discrimination lawsuits.

All this churning, meanwhile, will be a boon for the unscrupulous businesses
that hire off the books and have no use for W-2s. It's a law-and-order strategy
that undermines law and order.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

304,000 Inmates Eligible for Deportation, Official Says

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 688 words


At least 304,000 immigrant criminals eligible for deportation are behind bars
nationwide, a top federal immigration official said Thursday.

That is the first official estimate of the total number of such convicts in
federal, state and local prisons and jails.

The head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Julie L. Myers, said the annual
number of deportable immigrant inmates was expected to vary from 300,000 to
455,000, or 10 percent of the overall inmate population, for the next few years.

Ms. Myers estimated that it would cost at least $2 billion a year to find all
those immigrants and deport them.

This week, Ms. Myers presented a plan to the House Appropriations Subcommittee
on Homeland Security intended to speed the deportation of  immigrants convicted
of the most serious crimes by linking state prisons and county jails into
federal databases that combine F.B.I. fingerprint files with immigration, border
and antiterrorism records of the Homeland Security Department.

In an interview on Thursday, Ms. Myers said the plan would bring ''a fundamental
change'' by streamlining deportations of foreign-born criminals.

Representative David E. Price, Democrat of North Carolina and chairman of the
subcommittee, wrote a five-page letter on Thursday saying that the agency's plan
did ''not meet the legal requirements'' of the 2008 appropriation that gave the
agency $200 million to deport criminals.

Mr. Price said the plan failed to focus mainly on illegal immigrants who
committed crimes, did not provide for any coordination with immigration courts
and justice officials and included huge unexplained cost increases.

Based on the schedule in the plan, Mr. Price said, he did not see evidence that
the agency ''shares my sense of urgency about removing criminals from our
country before they victimize Americans again.''

In the intensely contentious debate over immigration, one point that generally
draws broad agreement is that federal authorities should deport illegal
immigrant criminals as swiftly as possible. But considerable confusion prevails
about how fast that might be. Immigrants convicted of crimes -- including
illegal immigrants and those who had legal immigration status at the time of the
crime -- must serve their sentences before they can be deported. Many immigrant
convicts are naturalized United States citizens who are not subject to
deportation.

Ms. Myers said her agency, known as ICE, was seeking to expand operations to
identify jailed immigrant criminals. The agency is working in all federal and
state prisons, but reaches just 300 of 3,100 local jails, an official said.

The agency plans a major effort to use new technology and databases at local
jails so law enforcement officers can determine at booking whether immigrants
have previously committed serious crimes or immigration violations.

ICE officers bring charges while immigrants are serving their sentences so they
can be deported as soon as they complete their terms without being released from
custody.

''We will identify individuals who pose the greatest risk as quickly as
possible,'' Ms. Myers said, including in jails that the agency cannot visit
regularly.

Surprised by Mr. Price's letter, she rejected his criticism of the plan's
legality. She was supported by Representative Harold Rogers of Kentucky, senior
Republican on the appropriations subcommittee, who said the plan could be
refined.

In fiscal 2007, 164,000 immigrant inmates were charged with immigration
violations to prepare the way for deportation, and 95,000 immigrants with
criminal histories were deported, according to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement figures.

Immigration lawyers warned that unless local law enforcement officers were
trained in immigration law, the ICE plan could focus on many immigrants who
committed minor violations that did not make them deportable.

''Immigration law is confusing and convoluted and not user friendly,'' said
David Leopold, a vice president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
''To turn that over to local law enforcement without training is asking for
trouble.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

An Abuse of Power in the Immigration Service

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

Re ''An Agent, a Green Card, and a Demand for Sex'' (front page, March 21):

Sadly, this latest story of abuse of power by an agent in the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services comes as little surprise. When the dust
settles, the Department of Homeland Security will likely try to call this
incident an example of a bad apple in an otherwise healthy bunch.

But as your article so capably pointed out, this case is just one example of the
failings of a poorly managed agency that operates under a statutory and
regulatory scheme that fosters impunity; and places noncitizens in a position of
being acutely vulnerable to abuse.

I hope that this article will serve as a wake-up call, both to the agency that
has failed to investigate numerous legitimate complaints of employee misconduct,
and to Congress, which has been asleep at the wheel.

Monique Beadle Refugee Project Director Human Rights USA Washington, March 21,
2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

In Transcripts, Tough Talk by Terror Suspects, and Informant

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words


While on a trip to the Poconos early last year with his friends, a young
immigrant named Agron Abdullahu talked about building bombs using nitroglycerin
or pipes, and buying a rifle with a powerful scope, the authorities have said.
He spoke disparagingly about the American soldiers he had encountered as a
teenager when he spent five weeks in a Macedonian refugee camp.

Here in the United States, he told his friends, his Muslim name earned him
stares.

But during those conversations in Pennsylvania, after one man prodded him to
explain his intentions, Mr. Abdullahu's bravado and anger vanished. ''I don't
plan on doing anything,'' he said. ''I would never hurt nobody.''

The man was a government informant, and federal agents were listening.

In May, Mr. Abdullahu and five other men were arrested in what the authorities
have said was a plot to kill soldiers at Fort Dix, an Army base in New Jersey.

In October, Mr. Abdullahu pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of providing
firearms to illegal aliens.  On Monday, he is to be sentenced by Judge Robert B.
Kugler of Federal District Court in Camden, N.J.

Five other suspects in the case -- Mohamad Shnewer, Serdar Tatar and three Duka
brothers, Eljvir, Shain and Dritan -- face charges including conspiracy to kill
military personnel. If convicted, they could be sentenced to life in prison.

In a case that raised fears of domestic terrorism, Mr. Abdullahu's sentence
could stand as an early gauge of the strength of the government's case.

The prosecution relies in part on recorded conversations between the suspects.
Transcripts were released by prosecutors last week as part of a sentencing brief
to Judge Kugler, asking for ''a two-level enhancement'' of Mr. Abdullahu's
sentence and an ''upward departure'' from the sentencing guidelines, which call
for 10 to 16 months for the crime to which Mr. Abdullahu pleaded guilty.

The 77 pages of transcripts -- peppered with profanities, politics, and talk of
violence, including the best way to kill American soldiers -- cover just a few
of the hundreds of conversations the authorities said they had recorded.

In their brief, the prosecutors also cited graffiti Mr. Abdullahu had etched on
the door of his cell, including a gun firing at the initials ''F.B.I.,'' and
said the transcripts proved that Mr. Abdullahu knew he was providing firearms to
dangerous men.

''Abdullahu's crime of placing lethal weapons in the hands of self-proclaimed
admirers of jihad 'significantly endangered ... national security' because the
Dukas spoke openly of attacking American soldiers fighting in Iraq and
Afghanistan,'' read the brief.

The transcripts also begin to illustrate the role of one of the government's
informants in the case, called CW-2 in the transcripts. Defense lawyers have
said they will focus on the roles the informants might have played in coaxing
their clients toward more alarming conversations.

In interviews, some of the lawyers said they were taken aback by the release of
the transcripts, saying that it seemed excessive since prosecutors had already
agreed to the guilty plea. Michael Riley, a lawyer for Shain Duka, said:
''Public perception is an issue. This poisons the well for us.''

He added: ''The tone may not be there. The words are devastating.''

A spokesman for the United States attorney's office for New Jersey, J. Gregory
Reinert, said it was not unusual for his office to argue for longer sentences
after a guilty plea. He dismissed the claim that prosecutors were trying to
influence future jurors.

The conversations in the transcripts released last week took place in February
2007, after Mr. Abdullahu and his brothers -- who are not suspects -- along with
the Duka brothers and the cooperating witness, traveled to the Poconos. In a
conversation singled out by prosecutors, the men talk about the range of a
certain gun.

''Would you hit the American soldiers in Iraq?'' Eljvir Duka asked, according to
one of the transcripts.

''From a mile away,'' his brother Dritan replied.

Mr. Abdullahu corrected them: ''Not quite a mile, it shoots about three-quarters
of a mile.''

Later in the same conversation, the Dukas discuss a sniper's tactics in a
10-hour gun battle on Baghdad's Haifa Street, and the killing of an American
soldier. According to the transcript, Mr. Abdullahu said, ''You don't want to
see nobody's brain blow up.''

Richard Coughlin, Mr. Abdullahu's lawyer, said the transcripts did not hint at
the complex relationships between the suspects. He spoke of his client's
''familiarity with the Duka brothers, his experience with them, and why he
wouldn't view it as anything more than, in some instances, than joking around.''

According to prosecutors, the suspects acquired weapons with Mr. Abdullahu's
help, including a 9-millimeter pistol and a shotgun. But some of their
conversations as they went gun-shopping, which were in both Albanian and
English, sound more Abbott and Costello than jihadi. Here are excerpts from one.

''We are left without guns,'' the confidential informant said.

''I ate,'' Eljvir Duka replied. ''You didn't eat? I took care of that.''

''What are you saying? We are left without guns, not eat,'' the informant said.

''Oh,'' Mr. Duka replied. ''Without gas.''

''We are left without guns, guns,'' the informant said.

''Oh, guns?'' Mr. Duka said.

''Yeah.''

''When you mix Albanian and English -- -- '' Mr. Duka began.

The informant laughed.

Other conversations sound darker.

In one, Eljvir and Dritan Duka said the American news media deliberately
under-reported American casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The trial of the other suspects is to begin in September. Defense lawyers said
they had not finished transcribing the recordings. But Rocco C. Cipparone Jr.,
one of the lawyers, said that throughout the recordings, informants can be heard
''trying to move things along to action.''

No matter whether that is the case, the informant seemed to be an active
participant in conversations whose transcripts were released. In a conversation
from Feb. 6, 2007, about making bombs and rockets, he told the group he was
having problems with ''some people in New York.''

''I have some bad, bad, bad thing with them, we don't get along,'' the informant
said, asking someone -- perhaps Mr. Abdullahu or Shain Duka -- to ''blow the
house or whatever, something,'' to rid him of his problem.

Shain Duka told the informant that he did not kill children.

Mr. Abdullahu, an ethnic Albanian who was born in Kosovo, teeters in the
transcripts between an apparent fascination with the tools of violence and an
aversion to their consequences.

''Knowledge is power,'' he said. ''But I don't want to use it for wrong
reasons.''

A minute later, though, he noted that he could make a bomb in ''a light bulb.''
The two spoke again. ''You said if I'm in trouble you can come for me right,''
said the informant. ''Not come and drink coffee, come and kill someone.''

Again, Mr. Abdullahu slowed the conversation down. ''You gotta define that
trouble,'' he said. ''If you are the reason why that's happening, I will not
help you. I will not kill nobody.'' But he added that if ''you are right and
they are wrong, I will die for you.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Monday about the release of transcripts of secretly
recorded conversations in advance of the sentencing of Agron Abdullahu, one of
six men arrested after the authorities uncovered  what they said was a plot to
kill soldiers at the Fort Dix Army base in New Jersey, referred incompletely to
the government's case against him. As the article noted, he pleaded guilty last
October to a charge of conspiring to provide firearms and ammunition to illegal
aliens. That was a lesser charge than the initial charge he faced: aiding and
abetting the illegal possession of firearms by illegal aliens.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prosecutors cited graffiti they say a defendant, Agron
Abdullahu, etched on his cell door.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Issues End a Grower's Season

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 975 words

DATELINE: CLARKS SUMMIT, Pa.


As in politics, timing is everything in tomatoes.

Finding and keeping the field hands who can pick 10,000 tomatoes a day during
the hot months of August and September is no less a test of organizational
traction than any get-out-the-vote drive.

For 35 years, Keith Eckel, 61, one of the largest tomato growers in the
Northeast, had the workers and the timing down to a T: seven weeks, 120 men, 125
trailer loads of tomatoes picked, packed and shipped.

This year, however, the new politics of immigration -- very much on the mind of
many of Pennsylvania's voters, even if overlooked by the presidential candidates
campaigning in this state and around the nation -- has put him out of business.

State, local and federal crackdowns on illegal immigration have broken his
supply chain of laborers. Most of those were Hispanic men who had come every
year for decades, and whose immigration status Mr. Eckel recorded with the
documents they provided to him. He kept them all in the file cabinets at his
neat farm office -- the Migrant Seasonal Farm Worker Protection Act forms, the
Labor Department's I-9 forms, the H-2A agricultural visa privilege forms --
though he knew that, for the most part, it was a charade.

''It's a ludicrous system,'' he said the other day, sitting behind his desk in a
light brown windbreaker that  matched the fallow hillside beyond his office
window here, 10 miles north of Scranton. ''If the national statistics are
correct, 70 percent of the documents in those cabinets are fraudulent.''

For years Mr. Eckel went along. ''But in the current political climate,'' he
said, ''I just can't take the risk of planting two million tomato plants and
watching them rot in the field.''

This is the crux of a tense, if largely unspoken, conflict between politics and
reality in a state with 40,000 commercial farms. On many of those farms, crops
requiring hand-picking are either not being put in this year, or are being
planted by farmers who cannot be sure they will have the workers to harvest
them, farm experts say.

Yet, in more than a half dozen state legislative races, getting tough on illegal
immigration has become the premier issue in this state, as it has in many
others.

In the 10th Congressional District, where Mr. Eckel's 700-acre farm is located,
the incumbent Democrat, Representative Christopher Carney, has made the
enforcement of strong penalties for illegal immigrants and their employers a
signature issue in a tough re-election campaign; Mr. Carney is one of two dozen
incumbent Democrats singled out for defeat by the Republican Congressional
Campaign Committee.

''Over the last couple of growing seasons, farmers have been feeling a
tremendous amount of stress over the way this issue has been playing out,'' said
Gary Swann, governmental relations director for the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau.
''And if people think all we have to do is raise wages and hire local workers,
they are simply mistaken.''

Local workers will not do the job, Mr. Swann said.

It is a claim hard to verify, farm experts say, because harvesting ''specialty
crops,'' as the federal government refers to anything that is picked by hand --
in other words, not wheat, corn or other crops harvested by giant machines --
has been the domain of migrant workers since the turn of the last century.

A temporary federal guest worker program, which briefly made hiring migrant farm
workers easier, was not renewed by Congress last year in the rancorous debate
over border security.

In Pennsylvania, as in many other states, lawmakers have instead busily penned a
cascade of bills penalizing those who employ illegal immigrants and making it
easier for the police to check their status and turn them over to federal agents
for deportation.

Deportations are part of Mr. Eckel's labor problem.

His labor contractor, Ray Vega, told him recently that he could only raise about
75 of the 120 men who have been harvesting his tomatoes. Some had been coming
for decades, living in the simple cinder block dormitories at the edge of the
Eckel property during the two-month season.

Since last year, however, some have been deported. Others have become too afraid
to travel, Mr. Vega told Mr. Eckel.

''Guys are scared,'' Mr. Vega said by telephone from his home outside Albany,
Ga. ''They could end up in jail.''

Neither the two Democratic presidential candidates nor the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee have spotlighted the pressure brought on farmers
around the country by the newly energized political consensus against illegal
immigration.

After newspapers and television stations in the Scranton area publicized Mr.
Eckel's decision to forgo planting tomatoes, he received a phone call from
Senator Barack Obama's agriculture adviser, Marshall Matz, who arranged a
meeting for later this month.

But firestorms of protest have greeted nearly every proposal to regularize and
temporarily legalize the supply of workers, like the immigrants who harvested
Mr. Eckel's crops. He said he did not expect anything to change until there was
a broad new consensus about immigrant labor, which might never happen.

''I'm going to wait until February to decide whether I've planted my last tomato
crop,'' he said. By then, there will be a new president and a new Congress. But
the tractors and seeding equipment in his warehouse will not wait forever. Their
resale value is good for another year at most.

''This is all about economics,'' added Mr. Eckel, who served as president of the
state farm bureau for more than a decade until the mid-1990s, and whose office
walls are decorated with photos of himself shaking hands with Ronald Reagan and
the two presidents Bush. ''I'm not trying to make some political statement.''

If one were to want to, though, three weeks before a state presidential primary
would be good timing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Last year's fields, which produced thousands of tomatoes a day
 Keith Eckel of Clarks Summit, Pa., will not grow tomatoes this year because of
the decline of immigrant workers willing to come. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RAMIREZ
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Faster Background Checks Are Pledged

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BREIFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
21

LENGTH: 88 words


The federal Citizenship and Immigration Services agency announced an agreement
with the F.B.I. to speed up security background checks of immigrants applying to
become permanent residents and United States citizens. The agencies said they
would finish by May all background checks that have been backlogged for more
than three years and by July for all cases waiting more than two years. The
agencies said they planned to expand staff and streamline procedures. Currently,
about 66,000 cases have been waiting longer than six months.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tenement Museum Leadership Changes

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 168 words


After 20 years as the founding president of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum,
Ruth J. Abram is stepping down on June 1. She will be replaced by Morris Vogel,
a history professor at Temple University, where he has been on the faculty since
1973, serving as department chairman and acting dean of the College of Liberal
Arts. From 2004 to 2006 he was an official at the Rockefeller Foundation. Under
Ms. Abram the museum, which opened in 1988, has grown to about 80 staff members,
130,000 visitors a year and an annual budget of $4.5 million from 23 volunteer
staff members and a budget of $75,000. The museum interprets the history of
immigrant families who lived at 97 Orchard Street on the Lower East Side of
Manhattan, using their stories to encourage discussion of contemporary
immigration. Mr. Vogel is a first-generation American, born in Kazakhstan to a
German-Jewish family who escaped during World War II. After living in a
displaced-persons camp in Poland, his family immigrated to the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2008 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Scare Tactics

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 173 words


To the Editor:

Re ''New Jersey's Immigration Crackdown'' (editorial, April 16):

There is no question that those who commit crimes should be punished to the
fullest extent of the law. But allowing local police authorities to act as
quasi-immigration enforcement wades into dangerous territory.

The actions against immigrants seen lately in towns and cities across New Jersey
should give all of us pause. Rounding up the people who clean New Jersey's
offices and homes, take care of the sick and elderly, and do a host of other
jobs important to our economy is not the solution to the our nation's
immigration problem.

Divisive enforcement-only measures misuse taxpayer dollars and spread fear in
our communities. They also scare immigrants, making them less likely to report
real crimes.

These measures haven't worked in other places, and they won't work in New
Jersey.

Hector Figueroa New York, April 17, 2008

The writer is the secretary treasurer for Local 32BJ S.E.I.U., one of the
biggest private-sector unions in the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Speaking Up for Immigrants, Pontiff Touches a Flash Point

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN and JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words


Even as he was flying to the United States, Pope Benedict XVI spoke of
protecting immigrant families, not dividing them.

He raised the issue again in a meeting on Wednesday with President Bush, and
later that day spoke in Spanish to the church's ''many immigrant children.'' And
when he ends his visit to New York on Sunday, he will be sent off by a throng of
the faithful, showing off the ethnic diversity of American Catholicism.

The choreography underscores the importance to the church here of its growing
diversity -- especially its increasing Hispanic membership.

Of the nation's 65 million Roman Catholics, 18 million are Latino, according to
the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, and they account for more than
two-thirds of the new Catholics in the country since 1960.

Millions of other recent arrivals come from Asia and Africa. More and more
parishes depend on priests brought from abroad to serve the flock.

Benedict has calibrated his immigration stance with care, stating the need to
protect family unity and immigrants' human rights, but pointedly avoiding any
specifics of the American immigration debate, like the issue of whether to grant
legal status to illegal immigrants. Yet last week his visit quickly stirred the
crosscurrents of the debate.

His comments drew a rebuke from Representative Tom Tancredo, a Republican from
Colorado who has been a leading opponent of illegal immigration.

Accusing the pope of ''faith-based marketing,'' Mr. Tancredo said Benedict's
comments welcoming immigrants ''may have less to do with spreading the Gospel
than they do about recruiting new members of the Church.'' Mr. Tancredo, a
former Catholic who now attends an evangelical Christian church, said it was not
in the pope's ''job description to engage in American politics.''

On the other side of the issue, some members of the Catholic hierarchy said they
were shocked that on the same day that Benedict and President Bush affirmed in a
joint statement the need for a policy that treats immigrants humanely and
protects their families, federal agents were conducting raids at five chicken
plants. They arrested more than 300 immigrants accused of being illegal workers.

The timing was coincidental, immigration officials said, and it was not clear
whether the pope had known about the arrests when he met with Mr. Bush.

But the raids surprised some American Catholic leaders, who are often on the
forefront of advocacy for immigrant rights.

''I was stunned,'' said Cardinal Roger Mahony, the archbishop of Los Angeles,
the nation's largest Roman Catholic diocese and one with many Hispanics. ''I
just feel these raids are totally negative. I thought it was very inappropriate
to do it in such a blatant way when the pope was coming, when he has been so
outspoken in defending the rights of immigrants.''

The American bishops have been consistently outspoken in favor of legislation to
give legal status to illegal immigrants and expand legal avenues for immigrants
to bring their family members from abroad.

They and other Catholic activists were among the most visible supporters of a
broad bill, supported by Mr. Bush but not enacted by Congress last year, which
included a path to legal status for 12 million illegal immigrants.

They took Benedict's statements last week as affirmation of their work. For
while the immigration theme has been overshadowed during Benedict's trip by his
denunciations of the sexual abuse scandal in the church, it was the second issue
after the abuse cases that he addressed on the plane from Rome, when he
responded to reporters' questions that were submitted in advance and picked by
the Vatican.

The separation of families ''is truly dangerous for the social, moral and human
fabric'' of Latin and Central American families, the pope told reporters aboard
his plane. ''The fundamental solution is that there should no longer be a need
to emigrate, that there are enough jobs in the homeland, a sufficient social
fabric,'' he said. Short of that, families should be protected, not destroyed,
he said. ''As much as it can be done it should be done,'' the pontiff said.

The pope did not just send a message to the president and the public, he spoke
to the bishops. In his private meeting with them on Wednesday evening, he
emphasized that recent newcomers to the United States are ''people of faith, and
we are here to welcome them,'' Cardinal Mahony said.

The pope also dwelled on the negative impact of family separation. Several
bishops took that as a direct reference to the impact of previous immigration
raids and deportations, in which illegal immigrant parents were separated from
spouses and children who were United States citizens or legal immigrants.

''Obviously the Holy Father is not encouraging people to do anything illegal,''
Cardinal Mahony said. But the raids ''do not serve as a deterrent,'' he said,
adding, ''They simply create fear and uncertainty in our communities.''

Bishop John Wester of Salt Lake City said the pope was ''not going to get into
the specific points that our country has to hash out.'' Bishop Wester, who is
chairman of the Committee on Migration of the United States Conference of
Catholic Bishops, said the pontiff had told the bishops ''very clearly that we
need to attend to the basic human rights immigrants have.''

Bishop Wester also criticized the immigration raids, which took place at plants
in five states belonging to Pilgrim's Pride, a major poultry processing company.
Immigration officials said they did not consider the pope's visit when planning
the operations, which they said came after a yearlong investigation.

But Bishop Wester said: ''It did strike me as inappropriate. The pope comes as a
man of peace, a man of good will, the leader of a major religion. Many of the
persons arrested were Catholic.''

As recently as mid-March, he said, his committee met with Julie L. Myers, the
head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that carried out the
raids. The bishops asked Ms. Myers not to conduct raids in churches and to
ensure legal representation for immigrants, Bishop Wester said.

The pope returned to the theme several times over the course of his visit, which
ends Sunday. About 4,000 church members from the Diocese of Brooklyn, which
includes Queens, will hold a prayer service in 29 languages at Kennedy Airport.
About half will be immigrants, said Msgr. Ronald T. Marino, the Brooklyn
Diocese's vicar for migration. Many will wear the costumes of their homelands.
The pope will not attend, but the crowd will bid him farewell.

''Not a word has to be spoken,'' the monsignor said. ''What you will see says it
all.''

In Washington, Benedict encouraged the American bishops and their communities
''to continue to welcome immigrants who join your ranks today, to share their
joys and hopes, to support them in their sorrows and trials, and to help them
flourish in their new home.'' That, he said, was the American tradition. And in
a meeting with Catholic educators, he emphasized the importance of keeping
Catholic schools open, especially to serve immigrants and the underprivileged.

Catholic leaders say such words have bolstered their work, yet the pope's
emphasis is no surprise in a country where much of the church's growth and
vitality comes from the influx of immigrant Catholics.

Following the polyglot practice of his predecessor, John Paul II, Benedict used
Spanish to directly address the Latino portion of his flock during the homily at
his Mass at Nationals Park in Washington on Thursday.

The Church has grown thanks to their vitality, he said, and God calls on them to
keep contributing.

Priests and bishops who lobby elected officials and minister directly to
immigrants can be more explicit.

Monsignor Marino, for example, who also heads the Brooklyn Diocese's Catholic
Migration Office, said, ''In my judgment, immigrants are heroes.''

He applauded the pope's words. ''The simple pointing to it as one of his
priorities, something coming out of his mouth, is real important,'' Monsignor
Marino said. ''For him to say one sentence means he knows the rest.''

Thomas G. Wenski, the bishop of Orlando, Fla., and a former head of the bishops'
Migration Committee who remains a consultant to it, said he hoped the pope's
visit would have a practical effect.

''The pope's visit will unleash some good will here so that Congress might live
up to its responsibility and deal with the issue,'' Bishop Wenski said.

In a letter in December, Cardinal Mahony chastised all the presidential
candidates for campaigns that he said had ''inflamed anti-immigrant sentiment in
the country.'' Since then the three remaining candidates, Senators John McCain
of Arizona, Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois,
have lowered the volume on the immigration issue.

Secular advocates for immigrants also welcomed the pope's words. ''That's big
news,'' said Teresa Gutierrez, a coordinator for the May 1st Coalition for
Immigrant and Workers Rights. ''Any decent comment about the reality of what's
really happening to immigration in the United States coming from such a
prestigious person as the pope is extremely helpful.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hands up, smiles wide, a crowd awaited Pope Benedict XVI at St.
Patrick's Cathedral on Saturday before he celebrated Mass.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG
W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Pope Benedict XVI riding up Fifth Avenue in the Popemobile on Saturday. He has
urged that immigrants be welcomed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(pg. 36)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arkansas: Deportation for Workers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 161 words


Eighteen illegal immigrants arrested at a poultry plant in Batesville will be
processed for deportation, but will not serve any jail time for using fake
Social Security numbers and state identification cards, federal judges ruled.
Magistrate Judge Beth Deere and Judge James Moody of Federal District Court
accepted guilty pleas from 17 of those arrested last week at the Pilgrim's Pride
plant. Federal prosecutors dismissed the misdemeanor charges against one man,
but said they planned to ask Immigration and Customs Enforcement to begin
deportation proceedings against him. The guilty pleas will give the 17 people
criminal records, which will allow prosecutors to pursue tougher penalties if
they illegally return to the United States. They had faced up to up to two years
in prison and $205,000 in fines. Jane Duke, a United States attorney, said her
office had no interest in seeing those arrested serve jail time, as they were
''otherwise law-abiding citizens.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe Tries To Attract Migrants It Prefers

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 24


The European Union introduced a ''blue card'' plan on Tuesday aimed at
attracting highly skilled immigrants like  doctors, nurses and engineers, even
as policy makers across the bloc grappled with how to keep out unskilled
migrants.

Similar to the green card program for  foreign workers in the United States, the
European plan seeks to draw an additional 20 million workers from Asia, Africa
and Latin America  in the next two decades. Officials said they hoped that the
proposal would reverse a trend in which skilled migrants from developing
countries were choosing the United States over Europe.

''To maintain and improve economic growth in the E.U.,  it is essential for
Europe to become a magnet for the highly skilled,'' said Franco Frattini, the
union's justice and home affairs commissioner. ''Qualified and highly qualified
migrants prefer the U.S.A., Canada and Australia.''

He pointed to statistics showing that high-skilled foreign workers accounted for
0.9 percent of all workers in the  European Union, compared with 9.9 percent in
Australia, 7.3 percent in Canada and 3.5 percent in the United States.

The European Commission, the union's day-to-day executive arm, said skilled
migrants were needed to help fill holes in the job market, in particular in
information technology and science.

Analysts said European countries were behind in attracting foreign talent, in
part because salaries in fields like information and technology were dwarfed by
those in the United States. But they also said that this had been offset by
tougher American restrictions on special visas since the attacks of Sept. 11,
2001.

The Europeans' new immigrant-friendly proposal, which requires the approval of
member governments, comes as anti-immigrant sentiment pervades  national debates
about foreign migration. European officials said the proposal was likely to face
resistance in countries like Germany that are already struggling with
unemployment and integrating their own sizable numbers of immigrants.

Several members, including Belgium, Britain, Italy and France, already have
programs for companies seeking to employ skilled migrants, but these are often
limited to specific fields or involve the transfer of senior executives within
multinational corporations.

European officials warned that the stigmatizing of immigrants threatened to keep
away even  skilled ones. Figures recently released by the European Commission
showed that 85 percent of unskilled laborers from developing countries went to
the European Union and only 5 percent to the United States, whereas 55 percent
of skilled workers  went to the United States and only 5 percent to Europe.

If the blue card project is approved, it would grant high-skilled workers a
renewable right to work and live anywhere in the European bloc, with permanent
residence given automatically after five consecutive years. The proposal would
also offer candidates a fast-track procedure to get work permits and make it
easier for members of their families to join them.

To assuage labor unions' concerns that the proposal could result in an influx of
lower-wage workers, applicants would be required to show that they were taking
up posts that could not be filled by European workers. They would also need a
job contract of at least one year guaranteeing a salary of at least three times
the minimum wage in the country concerned, plus health insurance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker checking a part at a plant in Grimma, Germany. The
company, MWL, is short of engineers and other skilled workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HANNIBAL HANSCHKE/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shame of Imported Labor In Kurdish North of Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAMBER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1556 words

DATELINE: SULAIMANIYA, Iraq


The tiny Filipino woman's hands trembled. She was in hiding, fearing capture at
any moment.

She and a friend had come to Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish north as guest
workers six months earlier. Now they worried they would be forcibly returned to
Erbil, where they had been locked in a house for a month and made to work for
free, they said, after their passports, cellphones and plane tickets were taken
away.

The two had escaped by begging their captor to let them attend church, then
making contact with other Filipino workers, who spirited them away.

Thousands of foreign workers have come to the Kurdish districts in the last
three years, a huge turnaround for a place that had hardly any before, making it
one of the fastest growing Middle Eastern destinations for the world's
impoverished. They come from Ethiopia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Bangladesh
and Somalia, supporting an economic boom here that is transforming Kurdish
society.

But nearly all foreign workers interviewed over a two-week period here said they
had been deceived by unscrupulous agents who arrange the journeys. Unable to
communicate, some arrive not knowing what country they are in. Once here, their
passports are seized by their employment agencies, and they are unable to go
home.

Some are satisfied with their decision to come here, but agents' fees are high,
often as much as two years' wages. To come up with the money, many borrow at
high interest rates and find that their wages are equal only to the interest. In
essence, they say, they end up working for free.

While war rages to the south, mile after mile of new buildings are rising here,
and wages for Kurds have risen sevenfold since 2003. Billions of dollars in
investment are flowing in from Turkey and the United States, and large-scale oil
exploration has just begun.

For the Kurds -- guest workers themselves in Europe for generations -- the newly
arrived Asians and Africans are met with ambivalence. There are too few Kurds to
take all the low-paying menial jobs, and many are uncomfortable hiring local
Arabs, given the longstanding animosity between the groups.

Foreign women are integral to another transformation. As in some wealthy Persian
Gulf states, the traditional Kurdish lifestyle is adopting some European ways:
the rich and powerful want live-in maids, nightclubs need non-Muslim women to
serve alcohol and men want intimate relationships before marriage -- all roles
largely forbidden for Kurdish women.

Importing such workers relies on a far-reaching network of recruiters in poor
countries, and for most of the 150 Bangladeshis cleaning the streets here, the
journey to Kurdistan began at 5 Bonany Road in Dhaka, Bangladesh, the
headquarters of the Travel Mix agency.

''They said at the agency that I would make $300 a month and work as a waiter in
a restaurant,'' said Tufazil Hussan. He said that he took out a $3,000 loan with
monthly interest of $150 to pay the agency, but that upon his arrival his
passport was taken and he was put to work sweeping the streets seven days a week
for $155 a month.

Optimistic, Mr. Hussan, 30, thinks he will soon get a better-paying job; other
Bangladeshis say he will probably sweep the streets until the end of his
three-year contract, then go home with little or nothing.

His supervisor, Abdul Khadar, is not much better off. A farmer from Tangai,
Bangladesh, he makes $185 a month. Mr. Khadar said he borrowed $4,000 to pay
Travel Mix. He estimates that for his first two years in Kurdistan, he will work
only to pay off his loan.

For the city, the guest workers fill a manpower shortage while saving money.
''We need 1,500 cleaners; we have 350,'' said Razgar Ahmed Hussein,
Sulaimaniya's director of cleaning operations. ''I never wanted to bring foreign
workers to this city, but we had no other option. Kurds do not want the jobs.''

The city pays the local Lion Gate agency $325 per month for each cleaner. ''The
company takes more than half of that,'' Mr. Hussein said. ''It's not a fair
arrangement. Groups of Bangladeshis have tried to run away to Turkey. If you pay
them what they need, they won't run away. Three months ago the situation was so
bad, they were living in a garage, their food was so little. They were begging
for money in the street.''

Lion Gate officials said conditions had never been bad and were getting better.
''We pay for the workers' housing, food, electricity and plane tickets,'' said
Nizar Mustafa Chawjwan, director of the company's Sulaimaniya office. ''We take
care of the workers' health,  and we have brought a cook from Bangladesh for
them.''

As for allegations that Lion Gate business partners in Bangladesh cheated
workers, Mr. Chawjwan said, ''If Bangladeshi agents take money from them, we
don't know anything about the deals they make over there.''

Nisha Varia, an investigator with Human Rights Watch, said the combination of
unscrupulous brokers in the workers' home countries and labor practices in
Kurdistan left the workers with few options.

''Each side denies that it knows what other is doing,'' she said. ''In reality,
they are much more interconnected than that. They are dong business together,
and that leads to these recruiting fees and debts, and puts the workers at risk
of forced labor.''

Mr. Chawjwan argued that the wages workers got were higher than those in the
Persian Gulf, and that his company had good reason to hold the workers'
passports. ''We keep the passports to stop them from running away to Turkey,''
he said. ''We spend a lot of money to bring each one here.''

But Ms. Varia rejected that argument. ''It is a violation of international law
to take someone's passport,'' she said. ''You don't own a person because they
signed a contract.''

Guest workers are a new phenomenon here, and government workers acknowledge that
there is no agency to monitor their labor conditions.

An agent who has brought in hundreds of Asian and African women in their teens
and early 20s said that some had complained of unwanted sexual advances. She
told of one client who expressed interest in an exceptionally beautiful young
Ethiopian woman, offering extra money for her. He disappeared with the woman for
several months, then inexplicably sent her home at his own expense. ''I suspect
he got her pregnant,'' the agency manager said, insisting on anonymity.

Another Filipino, who gave her name only as Kikay for fear of retribution from
her employer, said she and other young women came expecting $600 a month to work
in restaurants in Kurdistan, which they were told was near Greece.

''In the Philippines, they said we get the contract in Dubai, then in Dubai the
agent said the contract is at the airport,'' she said. ''At the airport, they
grab our luggage and push it through the X-ray machine, then they start shouting
at us, 'Go, go, your contract in Kurdistan.' We are confused. We don't know what
to do.''

In Sulaimaniya, Kikay said, an agent from the Qadamkher employment agency met
them at the airport. He was carrying a gun and was friendly with the police and
immigration officials.

''They took our passports and then drove us to a house,'' she said. ''We
couldn't understand what they were saying. We were very scared.'' Once there,
Kikay said, the women were presented with a contract paying them $200 a month to
work in a hotel.

If the women wanted to leave, they say now, they had to pay $2,000 to get their
passports back. Cold and hungry, clad only in T-shirts in the winter chill, they
signed the contract. As with the Bangladeshis, Kikay says, her wages are about
equal to the interest on the loans she took out to come to the region, which she
was surprised to learn is part of Iraq.

The local Qadamkher agency rejected allegations that workers were brought here
without their knowledge or consent. But several of their contracts specified
that foreign workers must pay $100 to $350 for every month left on the contracts
if they break them. Most contracts run two or three years.

Sana Muhammad, a Qadamkher employee, said business was growing rapidly. The
agency collects a one-time fee of $2,500 from Kurdish families for each domestic
worker.

''We have requests for 10 Indonesian girls right now that we're trying to
fill,'' she added. ''We have Ethiopian girls available but clients don't want
them. They say their faces are ugly -- the black skin is unfamiliar.''
(Similarly, the city cleaning supervisor said the Bangladeshi cleaners had to be
moved away from the market because they were being racially harassed.)

Eva Enju is one of the Indonesian women in demand here. This fall, shortly after
her 18th birthday, she arrived here believing she had landed in Turkey. She
makes $150 a month and has had the good luck to be placed as a maid with Latifah
Noori, a kind and funny 75-year-old who is partly paralyzed.

''I came here so that I could save money to buy a house,'' Ms. Enju explained.

Ms. Noori says Ms. Enju has been a godsend, working around the clock without
complaint. ''Enju has no one here,'' she said. ''She has just me to serve.''

But Kikay's situation is less amicable. ''My manager has my passport and
identification,'' she said. ''Do you think they will let me leave at the airport
without it?'' If not, she said, ''then I am trapped, and there is no future for
me here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM ETHIOPIA: Yobdar Abu, 23, arrived in the Kurdish region in
October via Dubai, having been told she was headed for Turkey.
FROM INDONESIA Eva Enju, left, is among the more fortunate workers, having been
assigned to Latifah Noori, 75, who is kindly.
 FROM BANGLADESH Tufazil Hussan, a street sweeper, shares a workers' dormitory
with 50 men. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: IN
SULAIMANIYA Workers say their passports were taken.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gates Tells Congress What Is Needed for Better Work Force

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More investment in math and science education and a more liberal policy toward
skilled foreign workers are crucial if America is to avoid losing its
competitive edge, a founder of Microsoft, Bill Gates, told Congress on
Wednesday.

The shortage of scientists and engineers is so acute, Mr. Gates said, that ''we
must do both: reform our education system and our immigration policies.''

''If we don't, American companies simply will not have the talent to innovate
and compete,'' he said in testimony to the House Committee on Science and
Technology.

Mr. Gates outlined four goals he said the country must pursue: improving
educational opportunities in science and technology, revamping the visa system
for highly skilled workers, increasing federal financing for basic scientific
research and providing incentives for private-sector research and development.

The toughest sell was the position of Mr. Gates, and others in high-tech
industries, that Congress raise the current cap of 65,000 H-1B visas,
nonimmigrant visas that allow employers to hire foreigners with specific skills.
The program  allows  20,000 visas for foreigners receiving master's or doctoral
degrees from American universities.

Current limits, he said, have led to a ''serious disruption'' in the flow of
science, technology, and engineering graduates to American companies. Mr. Gates
said companies had been forced to put employees  in countries more open to
foreign workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Of Human Bondage

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 563 words


According to the State Department, human traffickers are believed to smuggle as
many as 18,000 people into this country every year, mostly for the sex industry,
and nearly all of them women and children. The victims in that shadow work force
obviously operate beyond the oversight and protection of government. So, too, do
domestic workers.

A report on domestic workers by Human Rights Watch, available at hrw.org, said
that about half of the estimated 200 million migrants worldwide were women, and
that evidence of abuses was widespread.

But standard labor protections frequently do not apply to domestic workers, and
agencies that recruit workers unscrupulously, luring them into servitude with
steep debt and false promises, often do so with impunity.

The suburbs of Manhattan are not immune to this epidemic -- withness the
heartbreaking stories told in a pair of trials in federal courtrooms in Lower
Manhattan and Central Islip, on Long Island. At the first trial, witnesses told
of abuses they suffered in what federal agents say was an international
prostitution ring, a sophisticated enterprise that smuggled Asian women into the
country and forced them to work at massage parlors and spas up and down the East
Coast.

The other trial involved accusations on a much smaller scale -- behind the walls
of a private home on Long Island, where a pair of domestic servants from
Indonesia say they were treated as slaves and subjected to horrific punishments
by the wealthy couple who employed them.

Closing arguments in the prostitution trial ended last week, the same week that
federal prosecutors got to the heart of the Long Island case against Varsha
Sabhnani and her husband, Mahender Sabhnani -- hours of testimony from a
51-year-old woman who said she had been repeatedly and viciously attacked by
Mrs. Sabhnani. She said she was beaten, starved, scalded, cut with a knife and
fingernails, and forced to eat chili peppers and vomit.

The defendants in each trial deny wrongdoing. The Sabhnanis say their accusers
have concocted elaborate stories to avoid being sent home. The trials have no
direct connection, and a jury will decide the outcome in both. But each concerns
what law-enforcement officials and advocacy groups say is a worldwide problem:
the wholesale trafficking and abuse of an immense, silenced population of women.
The crisis is hidden behind the walls of brothels and of private homes, they
say, with its victims too frightened and helpless to escape or to speak up for
themselves. Uprooted by poverty and economic turmoil, largely unprotected by
their governments, these women depend on the mercy of the merciless.

New York State finally passed an antitrafficking law this year that turned these
modern forms of slavery into felonies and offered victims emergency housing and
health care and other services.

But more needs to be done to remove the most difficult obstacles to unearthing
and prosecuting these crimes. The authorities need to find ways to unwrap the
shroud of silence and ignorance, the fear and shame that keep abused immigrant
women from seeking protection. The Long Island case arose not through a
law-enforcement investigation, after all, but when one of the women --
frightened, half-naked, multiply scarred and speaking no English -- appeared
outside a Dunkin' Donuts and was aided by the alert kindness of a store manager.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Improvements at Land Border Push Smugglers West, to the Pacific

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Three Mexican men were charged Friday with smuggling people into the United
States  after an ill-fated effort to ferry a dozen people to San Diego by boat
from an island off Tijuana, Mexico, ended with the vessel adrift for nearly two
days.

For years, smugglers have sought to bring people into the United States on boats
in the Pacific Ocean, usually hiding among the bountiful pleasure craft off San
Diego in the summer. People have also been caught trying to surf, use jet skis
and swim in.

But the arrests this week, the authorities said, point to a troubling turn to
the prospect of year-round smuggling; some 20 boats have been intercepted or
found washed ashore on the San Diego County coast since August. Twenty-six
people have been apprehended in those cases, but several more probably made it
to their destinations: some have been observed by homeowners coming ashore and
leaving their boats behind.

''We have never seen an increase like this in the off- or winter season,'' said
Michael Unzueta, the agent in charge of the San Diego office of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

Mr. Unzueta said that more elaborate security on the land border, rife with
cameras, sensors and steel fences, was pushing smugglers east into remote
terrain and west into the ocean. But it is also possible, he said, that the
spike is the result of a newer organization long on ambition but short on marine
skills.

Many of the boats, including the one found Wednesday 12 miles off the Point Loma
area of San Diego, are old and barely seaworthy, Mr. Unzueta said. Unlike in
previous maritime smuggling cases, he said, these latest boats have been left
behind, probably bought cheaply and meant to be used only once with maintenance
a low priority.

Based on accounts from the people being smuggled Wednesday, Mr. Unzueta said it
appeared the smugglers' plan was essentially to steer north as fast as possible.
Little or no food or water were on board, and the boat, a 24-foot fishing vessel
built in 1978, lacked safety and emergency equipment.

The authorities said the group began its journey on Monday by traveling on
another boat to the Coronado Islands off Tijuana. There they crammed into the
24-foot boat, but the engine quit some 30 minutes into the trip.

They drifted for nearly two days until the crew of a pleasure boat spotted
people waving and called a private towing company, which headed for the scene
and alerted the authorities.

Customs and Border Protection agents found the boat on Wednesday morning and
took all 15 people, 4 women and 11 men, into custody. All were Mexicans except
for one Salvadoran woman. The group, ranging in age from 19 to 40, was thirsty,
hungry and sunburned but not seriously harmed, officials said.

The migrants had agreed to pay up to $4,500 each to be smuggled, at least double
the going rate by land. Upset because of their perilous journey, they quickly
identified their smugglers, investigators said.

Octavio Ruiz-Gomez, Jorge Enrique Acuna-Betancourt and Jorge Leonardo Ames-Barr,
all from Mexico, were arraigned Friday and charged with smuggling people for
financial gain. They are being held in a federal jail in San Diego.  Three of
the migrants will remain in the United States as material witnesses for the
prosecution.

Mr. Ames-Barr said that about 10 months ago a man offered him $500 to work as a
co-pilot in a boat smuggling operation, according to the government's complaint.
He said he had smuggled six people on his two previous trips but on this one he
was a passenger being smuggled, the complaint said.

The other two also claimed to be passengers, the complaint said, but others in
the group disagreed.

The Mexican government uses television and radio to warn people about the
dangers of crossing through the Southwestern deserts, which regularly claim
lives of migrants. But it does not warn of the ocean, a spokesman for the
Mexican Consulate said.

Officials worry that the rickety boats filled beyond their capacity will lead to
disasters.

''Obviously, this case could have had a real disastrous outcome if they were not
spotted and found and rescued,'' Mr. Unzueta said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Immigration officials confiscated a fishing boat, above, saying
it had been  used to smuggle people from Mexico to San Diego. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DENIS POROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 215 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Last Plea In Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 145 words


The last of 14 people indicted in the nation's deadliest human smuggling attempt
pleaded guilty, federal prosecutors in Houston said. The defendant, Octavio
Torres-Ortega, 42, was accused of leading one of the subordinate rings involved
in the smuggling attempt that led to the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants packed
in a sweltering tractor-trailer five years ago. He pleaded guilty to conspiring
to harbor and transport immigrants illegally in the United States resulting in
death and serious bodily injury, the United States attorney's office said. More
than 70 immigrants were being transported to Houston from Harlingen in South
Texas when the truck driver abandoned the trailer at a truck stop near Victoria,
about 100 miles southwest of Houston, in 2003. The victims died of dehydration,
overheating and suffocation. Mr. Torres-Ortega faces a term of life in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
